Hi everyone, I'm Dr. Eve Glazier and welcome back to Medically Speaking. Today we're diving into a topic that hits close to home for so many of us, especially if you spend weekends on the sidelines, shuttling between practices, or if you're just killing it at the gym yourself, youth sports and sports medicine. We're going to talk about how to keep healthy, prevent injuries, and know when it's time to see a specialist. Joining me today is someone whose work spans from our local local health clinics to major league dugouts, Dr. Marissa Vasquez. She's a board-certified family and sports medicine physician and our UCLA health head team physician for the Los Angeles Dodgers. Yes, you heard that right. Marissa, thank you so much for being here. Thank you so much for having me. So, let's just start with the basics. What exactly is sports medicine? So, sports medicine is a specialty and it kind of has two branches. It can be medical or it can be surgical. So I am on the medical side. So we take care of athletes or individuals that are just physically active and the main goal is to prevent injury um but also to take care of injuries by diagnosis and treatment and rehabilitation. Excellent. So you know you mentioned preventing injuries is is one of the cornerstone of your practices. So let's just jump right into kids and you know in their sports. We hear so much about overuse injuries these days especially in kids. I guess my first question is why are young athletes so much more vulnerable to overuse injuries? Yeah, that's a great question and I think one of the things that's really important to keep in mind is kids are growing. So every day their body's just a little bit different and sometimes they're going so fast that they just can't keep up with the physical activity that they're engaging in. So usually around school age, that's when kids start getting involved in team sports and oftentimes they start joining other team sports and then all of a sudden they're involved in team sport of the same sport year round and so their body is changing, they're growing but the sport is the same. It's repetitive over and over and over. So what's what's an example I guess of of one of the more common injuries you see in children's and teens um in let's just by age or sport? Yeah. So if I think about like gymnastics for example, so kids start at a very young age um and oftentimes there is a lot of back injuries because there's a lot of hyperextension. So they're really stretching back to do those back handsp springs. So we see a lot of back injuries in those um individual sports. So injuries and then I guess my question would then be because I'm an adult adult primary care doctor. What are you then seeing later? What are you worried about when you see a back injury let's say in an 11-year-old? Yeah. So we're worried about them developing a stress fracture. So bony injury which can affect their growth. It could also affect just down the line development of arthritis at a very early age. >> Wow. And I'm guessing so I mean so what are we doing to prevent those? What are you telling to coaches, patients, their families? Yeah. So whenever we start worrying about overuse, we really want kids to mix it up and do other sports um do other activities and to ensure that they have a full day of rest each week. >> One day of rest. Okay. But you mentioned that so many sports now are year round. What are your thoughts about that? >> Yeah. So that's really a lot of coaching and also counseling parents to ensure that the kids are getting um active in other things as well especially during offseason. So instead of doing the same sport year round try to get them involved in other sports so that way they can develop other skills as well. >> Are are are you finding that um kids and their parents are receptive to this advice? It >> it varies actually. I think there's this thought that if kids start to specialize very early they're going to become very elite athletes. Whereas when we take a look at the literature and the research, that's not really pointing at that. It really points at um kids that are doing multiple sports actually become better athletes later on in life and then they can specialize when they're skeletally mature and they're not growing anymore. I mean, that is such an incentive. I just I I'm a parent as well and um you know, it just seems like there's so much pressure to excel and to perform at such a high level. Again, these the these year round sports. Um I think that the information, you know, to me that's an incentive like yes, but if you mix it up, if you recover, you know, that actually will make you a better athlete or healthier body, you know, that it's an investment in recovery. Exactly. Exactly. So getting kids to learn to do other sports and other physical activities. So for example, if you're a swimmer, also learning to do land exercises is going to make you a stronger swimmer if that's something that you want to build on later on in life. But instead of swimming year round, yeah, maybe do some cross country during the springtime when you're not swimming. >> I mean, I would think that coaches, I'm guessing most of them being athletes themselves, would embrace this and then also espouse it and perpetuate it. Is am I wrong about that? Or do you feel like coaches are also, you know? >> Yeah, I think there's some education on the coach's side is reminding the coaches um that it is helpful to do other sports and conditioning as well, not just the single sport. Sometimes the blinders come on and so that makes it a little bit difficult for coaches. Well, also for recovery. So tell me, so I think you said you advise at least one full day of recovery a week. Correct. So I'm just curious just really how does that work? Like it seems to me like kids are in, you know, they're in their practices every day. Tournament Saturday and Sunday. Yeah, that's the problem. So they have to have some kind of rest anytime during the week because a lot of the sports, you're right, they're Yeah. on the weekend. So not necessarily during the weekend. It's going to be during the week oftent times. um maybe a day that they don't have PE, that they don't have any other practices. That's kind of a good way to do it. So, what exactly constitutes recovery? I'm not an athlete, which is why I'm asking these detailed questions. >> Yeah. So, uh recovery oftentimes um can look lots of different ways. It can look as maybe doing stretching and and strengthening exercises or simply engaging in other physical activity like walking that is not um a throwing sport. For example, if they're they're in a throwing sport um doing an activity where they're not throwing. So, they're really resting their arm that day. Um, are you able to demonstrate to parents that some of the injuries that you're seeing are due to overuse? Yes, unfortunately, um, there are times where I see patients that it's clear that they have an overuse injury. Um, so I in the office like to use X-rays and imaging and any kind of hands-on models to really kind of explain what's happening, especially with kids when they're growing. areas of growth are are oftentimes going to be susceptible to it. So, how um how are you what are some other kind of just common overuse injuries? You mentioned gymnastics, but and you mentioned throwing like throwing sports. So, what what else are you seeing just as an example? >> Yeah. So, other examples would be for example in basketball there's a lot of jumping and running and kind of these ballistic activities that are uncontrolled, right? And so when that happens a lot of times they start getting front of the knee pain. Um and that's an area of growth, the front of the knee where the patellar tendon attaches. So that's what we call runner's knee or jumper's knee. And often times it what it is, it's growing pains from too much of something. And so those patients, we have to advise them and recommend that they do other sports where they're not jumping and they're not doing as much high impact activity to make sure that they're having rest. So there's there's the growing pains, right, but being compounded by the jumping. >> Correct. Exactly. >> I see. So does that then kind of um does that then inform how you talk to parents who are already and the kids who are already in sports saying like listen you are this age you are growing and so does that affect recommendations then you make about training yes absolutely so I always remind patients like this patient if they're growing their bones aren't done they are microscopically every day changing they're not the same way that you throw a basketball the way that you jump that doesn't necessarily change because your body is changing So, you have to adapt over time to allow your body to catch up to the activity that you're doing. Uh, I mean, that makes a lot of um sense to me. And again, I just want to go back to because I just think there's so much debate about sport specialization. And again, I'm mentioning, by the way, like I'm talking about just sort of like elementary, middle school, high school, you know, specialization. And again, there's this incentive to be an elite athlete, right? And then you know great you know now colleges you know now colleges right are going to be you know paying their athletes which is to me a huge incentive right to gosh specialize and be amazing. So, how can we balance that? I think from you know that that medical perspective around um you know mix mixing it up with other sports, right? And maybe even you know acknowledging that you know the that you can have that eye on the prize but to get there might you know take a a wider path. Yeah. So there's lots of research that's looking at sports specialization which basically means you're doing the same sport at least eight months out of the year and often times it's the full year round. Right. And the issue with that is that you aren't developing any other skills. You are refining and perfecting the skills of that sport, which that's where the argument and where the debate comes in. But the issue is that there's other skills that other sports can give you to make you a better athlete in your primary sport. So kind of the the flip of that would be if you are predominantly a soccer player, there is some benefits to being a swimmer, there is some benefits to playing tennis, to doing other sports that help you develop some of the fine motor control that you don't get from soccer. >> Right. So even like expand your athleticism. >> Correct. >> Right. And improve. >> Exactly. So are people doing this? Are are >> Yeah. doing this. parents. >> I think there's there's definitely a a move to have kids do multiple sports, especially in the younger ages, um to try different sports because some kids simply like a sport better than another. And if they're not exposed to it, how do they know if they're going to like it, right? And so I think definitely in younger kids, this is um a lot more popular with bringing in some of the the youth sports um year round, baseball, soccer, swim in the community. I think that's a way to bring that in so that when they're older in high school, if they do have a love or a passion for a certain sport, then that's a good time for them to kind of specialize at that point cuz most of them are going to be skeletally mature or at least approaching skeletal maturity or finishing growing. And I mean, I know we're talking about um you know, kids, you know, mostly, but I mean, in terms of over are you also seeing overuse injuries in your adult patients? And actually, maybe we could um scoot back for a second because you you you're a family medicine practitioner and um uh maybe you could just take a moment because you you you defined sports medicine, but maybe just talk about what family practices and all the different patients you see. >> Yeah. So, family medicine is a primary care specialty and we see everyone from the newborn to the mature adult and everything in between. So, um pretty much all of the specialties are part of our training. So medicine, obguine, pediatric, surgery, dermatology, cardiology, all of it. It's kind of the jack of all trades. >> Yeah, it's awesome. >> So So in your adults or I guess even just you know um young adult athletes, are you also seeing these overuse injuries? >> Yeah. So, in in some of our I I see it a lot in our running athletes or >> um adult athletes that are training for marathons, for example, um often times they decide, I'm going to train for a marathon and they start running and they're only running and they're running very high mileage and that's when we start getting into overuse injuries. And overuse injuries can include soft tissue injuries like muscle, joints, ligaments, but it can also in include bony injuries such as stress fractures. any advice for them that you give them? I mean, do you say don't run marathons or do you just say do it in a certain way? Yeah, so I usually recommend for patients that are first-time runners um that are learning or training to train for a marathon um to train with a group. Number one, so train with other experienced runners. Number one. Yeah. Yes. The second thing that I recommend oftent times to a new runner is to make sure that they're crossraining. So even the most elite highlevel runners don't run a marathon for practice. That's not what they do. They run two short runs and a long run, for example, and they're doing cross trainining the whole time between that. They're not running. They're not putting the mileage. They're saving that for the marathon. And so for someone that's new to marathon runner, that's a lot of times what I recommend is, you know, think about >> other things that you can do to kind of increase your cardiac um and in increase kind of your strength so that way you're not putting all these unnecessary miles before marathon time. Well, it sounds like that. And then cross trainining is sort of an analogy then to the you know the not specializing too much in one sport as well. So again it's sort of exercising and challenging all these different parts of your body but also then incorporating rest and recovery. >> Rest and recovery. Rest and recovery it's a key. Um I mean I was going to ask you I mean with your professional athletes as well as rest and recovery. Oh yes absolutely. And I'm AI'm a baseball team physician. There's a lot of games in baseball, but we do have off days. And you might see when you watch TV and you watch them play. It's not always the same players that are playing in certain positions. We don't have the same pitcher pitch every single night. Why is that? Because they need to rest. They they can't pitch every night. >> Are are professional athletes though going out there and advocating for rest and recovery? >> Oh, that's a good question. Um, it just seems like that would help so much, right? No, I mean, write a messaging, right? I mean like >> absolutely I I think there is definitely some of that that's being put out there because for themselves as professional athletes they are not um doing the same professional activities every single day. They do have planned rest days. They do have recovery days. They do have lighter days versus harder days. And they're not practicing the same thing every day. So they do practice different skills on specific days of their training as well. >> See I'm loving this inside baseball info. literally. Um, and I would be remiss. Um, my my Dodger blue team would would be furious with me if I didn't ask you a little bit about being the the the Dodger, you know, team doctor. I just want to also say you're doing an excellent job caring for one of the top teams in the world. Go Blue. Um, but, you know, so you were commenting a little bit about the rest and recovery even for these elite, you know, professional athletes. Anything else different about treating, you know, or advising professional athletes versus, you know, your younger? Yeah, I mean I I think one of the things I always remind myself is that professional athletes, they have the same injuries that our general population has. They might have it at a higher rate oftent times because their job is to be an athlete. Um that's that's what they do for a living. Um but a lot of the medicine is the same. So they get coughs and cold just like the rest of us. Um they get ear infections just like the rest of us. And the treatment's not very different. I always like to say the medicine is the medicine. I love that. And also again, you know, you're a family medicine, you know, provider, which is you also primary care. So, in caring for an athlete, it sounds like what you're also advocating is like they still have to think of themselves as a whole person and caring for the rest of their body, right? Are there um I'm so interested in the rest and recovery so I appreciate your patience but um are there certain kind of traits or you know habits that help proathletes recover faster or overcome injury? Yeah, I mean I think they really dedicate a lot of cross trainining and strength and conditioning when they're not performing their usual required duties to either the position they play or if they're a pitcher starter or um relieving pitcher. So there's a lot put into their strength and conditioning in between all of that. >> And when you say um strength and conditioning, what does that entail? Um, so cardiac work, uh, weights, resistance, stretching, rehabilitation, that's all part of the strength and conditioning part of it. So it's like a hu I mean it truly is like a big investment. >> Exactly. I love it. Um, what are some of kind of the are you seeing I this is actually an an important question I think for everyone which is are you seeing the same pressures that you're seeing in your younger athletes also in your pro athletes? Yeah, there's I think there's pre there's social pressures definitely that come with sports. Um especially playing at higher levels. If you're a good team and you're moving towards championships, there's more social pressures that go there to perform. Uh there's more pressures to uh practice a certain skill that you might not be as strong at. And those those are similar at the professional level. It's it's it's not only at the elementary or school age or high school. It it's across the board. There's definitely some social pressure to perform. Um I was sitting on the sideline um of a volleyball game for my daughter and the opposing team. I just like could hear the parents just like go do this, do that, get it over. That is a social pressure right that these athletes are enduring. And we do it right when we watch a professional um match on TV. it it there is a social pressure and everybody handles that a little bit differently. >> Yeah. I was reading about um sports psychologists and how they train their athletes like just even walking out into a stadium in the field just to how to sort of you know tune out the booing right or the cheers. >> Yep. Just navigating everything outside. I mean speaking of just sort of you know you know mental health um and I I don't want to just you know concentrate just on like physical injuries or like the you know the mental health challenges. So, let's just start with like the great parts of like what's the great part of being an athlete at any age? What are the mental health benefits? >> Yeah, I think there's so many benefits to being an athlete. Number one, it's creating that camaraderie if you're part of a team. If you are in an individual sport, it's almost like building up your own self-confidence at the skill that you are training for. Um, there's certainly a zillion health benefits to it as well, just being physically active. um the mental clarity that you know the endorphins that you get from exercising all of that are benefits to health not just in the short term but also in the long term. >> Yeah. So great to hear. And so what are some of the maybe kind of mental health challenges that you see in athletes? Yeah, I think performance is probably one of the biggest one. Um if you have a day that you perform really well, there's challenges with that. Um because then you're expected to perform just as well every single time. But if you're having an off day, you may not be performing as well. And then there's questions about that and that creates a lot of kind of performance anxiety sometimes for some athletes especially if you're in a very visible role on your team that can create lots of pressures not only from um teammates but coaches um family friends and other people involved in your participation in sports. >> And I mean you um we talked about the physical kind of side of um of recovery right and recommendation strength and conditioning. I mean I'm guessing there's a mental correlary to that. What are what do you how do you help your patients manage I guess the mental yeah aspects. I think one of the important things and in particular with kids that parents need to ask their kids is you know really are you enjoying this? You know what do you love about your sport? kind of asking those open-ended questions because if you're not asking those questions, you may not be looking for um you know, a child that maybe isn't interested in doing that particular sports anymore because they're burnt out, they're um just overworked or they're just not having fun anymore. So, it's important for us as parents and also as clinicians to really ask our patients, is this something you enjoy? Um tell me what you enjoy about it. >> Right? And so I guess I'd ask like the same way that we have this super specialization, >> you know, leading to overuse injuries, does the super specialization also lead to burnout? >> It can. It definitely can because you're doing the same thing over and over again and you're trying to really perfect your craft and that can be really overwhelming. It can definitely um create some burnout in individuals as well too. So you're asking I'm guessing um patients, right? Your kids, your athletes, parents. Um, so you just kind of frankly ask them like, "Are you burned out? Are you having fun still?" >> Yeah. I I oftentimes will ask, "Are you having fun? Are you enjoying this? What do you like about it?" Because sometimes it's I just like the camaraderie, >> which is amazing, right? And so and so worthwhile, I guess, as long as it doesn't come at the expense, right? Exactly. Your body hurting, falling apart, or And I guess it's a constant conversation, right? Because constant conversation, it ranges. Um, kids go through different development de developmental stages. And I definitely see that a lot even just in, you know, my kids and their peers. You know, what's working this one year, you know, the next might be too much or not enough. Yep. Right. Exactly. Um, you know, I think these are some questions I have just in terms of just everyday sports physical activity. What is the difference though just between having like a sore muscle, right? You know, or I feel feel like I strain something and and something more concerning. Yeah. So, usually if in particular if you're doing a new exercise or you did a little bit more than what you were expecting, you could expect to be sore because that's just the lactic acid building up in the muscles um after you did vigorous exercise. Usually, that's going to resolve within about a day or so. Within 24 hours and almost immediately after stopping the activity, things are going to recover and go back to normal again. If you're having prolonged symptoms where every day you wake up and the symptoms are not gone, that's more concerning there. Why do you have this persistent soreness or aches and pains that just never went away from the activity that you did? And that usually will involve some kind of evaluation or at least um a check-in, >> right? Or if it wakes you up in the middle of the night. Yes. >> Yeah. >> And you mentioned knee pain, right? So I mean, you know, sometimes we say a growing pain, which >> is great if it's a growing pain. I think sometimes things get dismissed as growing pains. So, when is kind of the right time to come see you? Yeah. So, in particular, kids that are growing um that are having pain that is at rest, that's a red flag right there. If they're having pain at night, that's waking them up. That's another red flag right there. If they just seem seem to not be interested in doing a particular activity because it hurts, okay, that is a red flag right there. And so, those are those are kind of the three questions I will ask patients. they have night pain, they have peanut rest. Are they not participating in activity that they normally would be participating in? >> Okay, that's super helpful. So, and I think that also answers the question too like when is it okay to monitor at home, right? Versus when should you, you know, be seen by a specialist. And I think, you know, for our listeners, I think we can make the distinction, you know, between a specialist like you can always start with your primary care doctor. Absolutely. and your primary care doctor again whether you're an internist, family medicine, um OB/GYN can help triage and say listen you know like you said you can get imaging in the office you know do I now need you to see an orthopedic surgeon you know do I now need you to um you know do a treatment >> do a treatment exactly okay but starting with the primary your primary care do your pediatrician your family medicine doctor your internist is the way to go right and I mean I really worry about my patients I'm sure as a primary care doctor I do not want people worrying at home please air on the side of coming in. Right. Right. Talk about it together. Yes. >> And and and evaluate it. Yes. Absolutely. So, I always say, you know, if there's any concern that you feel like not comfortable with, come in. Let's just check it out and figure out what's going on. It may be nothing, and that's okay, but at least we figured it out together, >> right? And I mean I think uh the I don't know if this is generational or not and again I think this is where I'm I'm curious how coaches can reinforce you know and parents can reinforce you know I think especially what you're saying is that when there is an injury right it's very unclear sometimes and pressure by the way there's pressure from peers your coaches etc you know should you just walk it off should you ice it should you rub some dirt in it are these recommendations helpful Yes. Yeah. I mean, I think as parents, um, we have to be observant and see how someone is responding. Um, if kids are not wanting to participate or they're limping or they're hobbling or they just seem to be not themselves, that's always a red flag that we need to keep an eye on this. Um, it may not need you need to go to the ER or to your primary doctor immediately. Um but definitely is something that you want to be a little bit more vigilant about. If it's not resolving um or or their symptoms are certainly getting worse, then that definitely warrants a further evaluation. And I think similarly with coaches, coaches need to um continue to be observant of their athletes. If their athletes are not performing well or they seem to be out of sports for some reason or aching, pain, complaining of something, um kind of trying to get to the root of it is was there an injury that happened and then also communicating with the parents too. Yes. So, I mean this begs the question, when should you go to the ER after, you know, an orthopedic or sports injury? Yeah. Um, probably one of the more common ones is an acute injury. So, someone has either a fall, a trauma, um, where they can't weightbear, for example, that often times does warrant further evaluation. Um, certainly someone who has an open wound um, from an injury that often times will require further evaluation as well too, um, depending on the injury that occurred. Um, the easiest one I could think about is an ankle sprain, right? So, not every ankle sprain has to go to the ER, but an ankle sprain that perhaps um the athlete is not able to weightbear on, they're not able to walk on it, that's probably something that's going to need an evaluation at least either in their primary care doctor office or in urgent care for that matter. Or if the pain just isn't controlled, right? Yes. If if pain is not well controlled, that's definitely something that would require further evaluation. >> Right. I I mean I tell a lot of my patients I'm like if you're at home and you can't fall asleep because it hurts so bad, you need to go get it evaluated. >> Exactly. Um super helpful. Um we're going to turn to our asking for a friend segment where we answer uh real questions from real parents. Um these um are in particular from our parent circles sourced from the incredible Riviera League Baseball parents. Um the first one is every spring um both of my kids get frequent bloody noses even though there hasn't been any injuries. Could this be weather related? Should I be concerned? Yes, it is weather related partially, especially in the springtime as the pollen increases depending what part of of the city that you're in or where you're at. Um, but pollen levels increase and so that increases allergic renitis often times or just chronic seasonal allergies. That dries up our nose and gives you a bloody nose. >> Yes. >> Um, so oftent times a recommendation for that is just hydration of the no of the nostrils. So you can use just a saline spray which is just salt water to hydrate the nose a little bit. You can also use a liquid based gel in the no in the nostrils as well just to hydrate. Um so that way the bloody noses come down. >> Perfect. Get back on the field. >> Yeah. >> Um if my child's ankle, we talked about ankle injuries, is swollen but not bruised, you know, can they play? Yeah, that's a great question because uh it's a great question for you. I'm like no. No, it's a great question because there's often times a lot of contusions, lumps and bumps that happen and not every lump and bump is uh flat out you cannot play. Uh again, kind of going back to um if the swelling is painful, it's painful swelling, they're not able to weightbear, that's something that you probably want to sit out on this one and get evaluated first. >> It seems like this is where um one can be a parent, a caregiver, can be a real advocate for the kid, right? Because again, I'm sure there's a lot of pressures, right? And often pressures to play or even pressures they put on themsel to be like, "Listen, you know, I can objectively see that you're not bearing weight, right? You're, you know, you don't have to even say this to them, right?" But and that you're in pain. You know, you're not playing. You're going to sit out. So, I think it's again, I just I want to >> uh encourage, you know, especially uh adults in the room to to advocate and to observe and to support. >> How much throwing is too much for my seven-year-olds? >> They're still growing. Okay. Yeah, they um so in little league usually there is counts that are taken. So they shouldn't be throwing um they shouldn't be throwing daily for sure. Okay. Um usually kids it they really need to rotate those activities because they are growing. Their bodies are changing every day. Um and they're certainly at risk for growth plate injuries. So So that's for pitching. This question also says, "Is there a safe limit for long toss?" Long toss. This is the first time those words have ever come out of my mouth. >> Long toss. >> Yeah. >> But I want to know. >> Yeah. Certain limits. It's it's quantity. >> It is quantity. >> So a certain quantity. >> Yeah. They need to really mix it up. >> Okay. Is there an actual number like like in the sports themselves or is it just common sense? >> It's age dependent actually. So yeah. >> So like these these numbers are out there. >> Okay. Um we're going to be spending a lot of time in the pool this summer. Um, are there any swim based activities or games that help strengthen kids bodies to avoid injuries during the season? Yeah, just walking in the pool, swimming in the pool, those are all great forms of kind of full body exercise. Um, yeah, just staying active in the water is great and really for everyone, right? I mean, this is part of that cross functionality of which you speak. Um, oh, this is a this one comes up a lot. If my child falls um but doesn't cry, does that mean that they're fine? um or should I worry about any hidden injuries? >> Yeah, so this depends on the age group of kids. So kids fall all the time. Um if they're falling and they are having repetitive injuries where they're constantly falling, that's sometimes a concern because there can be some congenital issues that are happening. There could be an occult injury that's also happening. So that is something that does require further evaluation. If it's happening repetitively, >> if it's a single episode that fell and kid is able to do all the activities without really any significant limitation, that's something that just can be observed. Can you talk a little bit about um uh pre um sports physicals? Like do we do those for all sports now? >> We do it for a number of sports. Yeah. So, so that's the pre-articipation physical exam or PPE is what it's called. And so for most organized sports, we do some kind of physical. So a lot of school age kids that are going to participate in sports. So what it is is it's kind of an extension of your wellness visit. It should not replace your wellness visit. It's an extension of it. And so it's just a time to check in and we ask questions about um cardiac history in the family. We ask about cardiac history in in the kids. Um we ask neurologic questions if they've ever had seizure. Um, and it's an assessment that's pretty thorough that goes through a series of questions and then the physical exam is a general medical exam and muscularkeeletal exam. So to participate in sport, heart, lungs, and muscles are the most important. And so those are the three major components of the physical exam. But as I mentioned, it's also a time to kind of check in and do almost like this like spot wellness exam to really kind of screen for other things that could be um putting the athlete at risk or would prevent them from being able to participate in sport safely. >> That just seems so important. Again, acknowledging that, right, the throwing arm is part of a whole body. Exactly. Um how do you feel about weight training for young people? >> Yeah, I think especially pre-puberty. Yeah. So, weight training, pub puberty is a little bit under debate still um because they're not skeletally mature. Um there can be some resistance training that's done with supervision and good form. That's probably the most important part is that they have good form and good technique so that they don't get injured. Um so, in general, I would recommend resistance training over weight training. As they get older, then we can add in weight training as well. >> Okay. And how do you know when you're skeletally mature? Asking for a friend. Yes. Yes. And that's um one of the things for for young ladies um it's 2 years after the onset of their periods. So once they have a period usually around 2 years. So most girls it's going to be around age 13 where they're skeletally mature. For boys it's much later. It's usually closer to 16 or 17. >> Okay. I know I've asked you a million questions, but is there anything that I haven't asked you that you want to share about, you know, your practice or sports medicine or just being an everyday athlete even? Yeah, I mean I think some of the common questions that I get is, you know, does this need an MRI? Yeah, that's a very common question I get or do I need advanced imaging for this injury? And a lot of injuries don't require advanced imaging as a firstline treatment. Um, we are very good in sports medicine at doing a clinical exam. We are masters of the msk exam and so just for our listeners, >> feel skeletal. Perfect. >> Yes. >> Yeah. So, we're very good at doing a clinical or physical exam, which is really cool. And a lot of times we can figure out things mostly from that plus the history um and give you kind of a working diagnosis. And that's not to say that not everybody needs imaging um but not everybody needs advanced imaging on the first visit. Um that is incredibly helpful to hear. It's also very cool. I mean, I think that, you know, this is where the expertise of providers like yourself, you know, being able to, you know, and by the way, this is, you know, this is why we want you to come in because you actually laying your eyes, right, on a limb, right, and um assessing it with your eyes, you know, your hands, assessing how how the injured part moves, right, that you can tell a tremendous amount from that and diagnose and that that informs how you treat. >> Right. Exactly. Um I think the second thing that I would say that uh a lot of folks don't realize that sports medicine physicians in the primary care realm we also take care of medical issues. Yeah. Um so you know it's not often it's not uncommon for me to take care of someone who has asthma on the sideline. Um that's a very common thing in sports. We take care of asthmatics. Um that's part of the primary care part of sports medicine is how to manage that in a competitive kind of um landscape. So, >> so is that the secret sauce why the Dodgers are doing so well? It's the it's the it's the primary care >> you could. Yeah, I you know, I think I think what it is is having a really strong medical home is really important for a team. So, a team that has a strong medical home is going to have a place to have everything well taken care of. >> Can you talk a little bit about what a medical home is? Absolutely. So a medical home, the way I think about it for the Dodgers, and this was kind of my goal as coming in as their team physician is to really have the care under one umbrella where we can take care of muscletal, we can take care of medical, we can take care of preventative care, we can do wellness, we can do kind of the general preventative medicine types of things all under one umbrella. and and that's that's the goal that I had coming in as a team physician to really be able to provide that um and things that I don't do as a primary care physician, my colleagues within within the health center can take care of those as well. It's an incredible vision and I think one that we you know want to really adopt for kind of all of our absolute all of our all of our patients but it's not just convenient right it also means the care is integrated right so it means that I'm guessing if you have your player and they might have an injury or they might have asthma but then right if you need to then send them to opthalmologist or cardiologist that then all the information is shared and they're looking at this player this person right as a whole person and so kind of what we call whole person care. >> Exactly. Um well, it's working, Marissa. I just want to say whatever you're doing is um working. Um I can't thank you enough for being here. I mean, your patients are so lucky to have you. So is your team. So is the city of Los Angeles. Um you know, really all of your insights from the clinic, the field, the the the dugout. Um I wanted to thank our listeners for joining us as as well. And um we look forward to having you and um continue the great season and thank you for doing what you do really every day. >> Thank Thank you.