 subjected to carotid subjected to carotid subjected to carotid subjected to carotid subjected to carotid subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected subjected habits that strengthen and protect your heart. Joining me today is my very good friend, brilliant colleague and the perfect guide for this conversation, Dr. Ravi Dave. Ravi is the Director of Interventional Cardiology at UCLA Health and I just can't thank you enough for being here. Thank you for having me, Eve. Let's just start with basics. What does a cardiologist do? So a cardiologist is an expert on the heart and the vascular system. So anything that is related to heart, whether it is cholesterol blockages in the heart, weakness of the heart muscle, any valve problems, all of that is under the realm of a cardiologist. Also anything to do with the vascular system like blood pressure issues, blockages in the peripheral arteries, all of those are treated by a cardiologist. And the vascular system veins, arteries? All of the above. I mean, full disclosure, I love the heart. I think that if I had gone into any specialty I would have wanted to be a cardiologist like you. Well, thank you. No, it does it all. I've actually been lucky enough to know a little bit about what drew you to cardiology. But would you mind sharing kind of the story of how you became interested in medicine and especially cardiology? So I'm a third generation physician so I didn't have much of a choice to become a doctor. But in one of my summer vacations I was asked to look after an uncle of mine who had a heart attack. And at that time the treatment was bed rest for about a month. So I was sitting there during my vacation for an entire month doing nothing except looking. How old are you? I was 21 at that time. Oh my gosh, okay. So it completely ruined my vacation and as I was thinking about it, I thought there has to be a better way to treat a heart attack. So many years later I got into the field and now instead of a one month long bed rest we send our patients home the next day. There's a lot of personal motivation. Right, like 21, you're like, I'm not doing this again. Exactly. There has to be a better way. I think before we kind of get into prevention it would be helpful if we kind of really defined what heart disease means. You know, especially for the purpose of this conversation, coronary artery disease. And I'm making that distinction because when we're talking about the heart, right, this beautiful muscle, full, which is a muscle, right, full of vessels and an electrical system, we're going to really just talk about the vessels today, the coronary arteries. But again, I'd like to appeal to your expertise in terms of really defining what heart disease is. So like you mentioned, there are valves, there's an electrical system, there's a muscle, but then the blood vessels of the heart pretty much determine the function of the heart. And if there is a problem with the circulation with the heart, then that can create a malfunction of the heart, weakness of the heart. An acute problem is like a heart attack. But we see patients who have congestive heart failure because over time the heart muscle is not getting enough blood and it's not working as well. In terms of the coronary arteries, one of the things that people talk about is a plaque formation. And essentially, anytime we ingest any food, there is cholesterol in our blood stream that tries to stick in the blood vessels and creates these little road bumps inside the blood vessels. And that can end up causing restriction of blood flow and as a result, all the problems that come with it. So like the cholesterol kind of coats the inside of the blood vessels or just kind of gets these little bumps? Yeah. So cholesterol is circulating. So the best way to explain the cholesterol in an analogy is that there are two kinds of cholesterol. There is a low-density lipoprotein which is called the bad cholesterol and the high-density lipoprotein which is called the good cholesterol. So imagine you're having a party at your house in your living room and you've done a lot of care to clean the floors, get all the cobwebs out of the walls and everything is nice and pristine. And here come your guests. There are some of your guests that are kind of messy. They leave food around, they drop an occasional glass of wine, they're creating a mess. These are your friends, Ravi. So that's the LDL particle. They come in and they create this mess inside the room and make the vasculature. If you use the room as an analogy for a blood vessel, they're creating all these issues inside the blood vessel. Now you have some other friends who are actually the helpers. They come in and they're like, well, I need to help you clean the room. So they're always picking up things and cleaning the room as the party goes on. That's the HDL particle, the good cholesterol. So there's an interplay of LDL and HDL. Now if you have too many of your guests that are messy, then you end up creating having a room that's very messy and that creates blockages in the heart. Now there's a new particle that a lot of your listeners will maybe hear about. It's called lipoprotein A. That's in use quite a bit. So the lipoprotein A is like an unwanted guest at your party. That's the messiest of them all. And when they come to your party, they create a significant amount of mess. And there's new treatment coming up for lipoprotein A, which is in development. But until we have the treatment, we really have to work with reducing the risk factors. This is really why I never have people over. While we're on this, how do we check for these guests, wanted or unwanted, I guess I would say then. So as we all know, I'm a primary care doctor. So once a year when my patients come in for their annual visits or annual physicals, I will get what's called a fasting lipid panel to check for cholesterol. And so I will check these different particles, cholesterol particles, LDL, HDL. And now, yes, to your point, I'm starting to check the lipoprotein particle. So anything else I should be checking for or patients should be asking their doctors to check for. So what you're doing is a standard way to check for to do prevention of heart disease in patients. Now, when your patients who are at much higher risk, there is some validity to ordering of advanced lipoprotein profile. That's where you're checking the sub fractions of all of these particles. For example, the LDL, the messy kind of guess, they are there is a small dense variety, which are the messiest of them all. So if you have a patient that has a normal LDL level, but you feel that the patient is at much higher risk, the sub fractions may help you determine if you need to treat them even more aggressively. And we're talking about cholesterol being part of, you know, this overall, what we say, cardiovascular risk. And again, cardiovascular being heart vessels. But what are other risks factors for cardiovascular or coronary artery disease? So when we look at risk factors, we divide them up by the ones that we can modify and the ones that we cannot modify. So the unmodifiable risk factors are things like age, your gender, your family history, which tends to be a big risk factor in certain populations. But the ones that you can modify are high blood pressure, cholesterol, as we talked about, diabetes, weight gain, lack of exercise, and stress, which is to some degree under your control. So I mean, I think that's just a really important point because, you know, we're talking about the fact that heart disease is this leading cause of death, right, for men and women in the United States. But correct me if I'm wrong, up to 80% of those are preventable with control or avoidance of these modifiable risk factors. Absolutely. There is a lot that can be done to control your risk factors. And I think it is very important for individuals to get those risk factors checked. I think that's the first thing that needs to be done. There is a problem in terms of delay in getting these risk factors checked with our patients. We do tend to see women if they're going through childbirth, and that's an opportunity for us to evaluate their risk factors or for primary care physicians to look at the risk factors. But the ones that are at higher risk, such as men, we don't actually see them until it's either quite late or once they have a child and then it's their spouse that may wants to make sure that they are in good health, and that's when they'll come and they'll see us. Why do you think there's that delay in getting evaluated or checked out? It's because men at that age, they think they're invincible. What's your message to them? My message to the bros, as we call them, is that they need to come and get themselves checked, especially if they're having difficulty with keeping their weight off, if they're having any symptoms, if they're having trouble with sleep, if they have increasing stress in their life, and if they have any family members who have had heart disease before the age of 60. This is excellent. We will enumerate this many times. This is a genuine question for me as well. When does someone need to see a cardiologist versus, let's say your average patient comes and sees me for their annual physical, when does someone need to see a cardiologist, that specialist of the heart? I feel that the primary care physicians have a huge role in terms of taking care of doing primary prevention. If patients have high blood pressure or high cholesterol or elevated blood sugars, the primary care physicians do a fantastic job at UCLA trying to control all of those risk factors. But if you feel that you're having difficulty managing blood pressure, or if your cholesterol is getting harder to control, that's when someone should see a cardiologist. If the patient is feeling chest pain or pressure or heaviness with exercise, if it is exertion related, it could be physical exertion or mental exertion. But if there is any exertion related symptoms, that's when someone should come and see, ask their primary care physician to come and see a cardiologist. I love referring to our cardiology group, of which you lead. I feel comfortable again as a primary care doc doing, let's say, first line, meaning I see your cholesterol is high. Let's start you on a medication called a statin, and then we'll check you every three months and see how it's doing. But medicine can be really complex. It really takes this ongoing dialogue. Sometimes someone might not tolerate a medication for cholesterol or have side effects that are troublesome. It's helpful to hear when it's the right time, but I never, I would say, air on referring. You mentioned signs and symptoms, right, or having chest pain. So I would like to pause and talk about the signs and symptoms because I truly think this can really save someone's life. So the signs and symptoms of a heart problem. I think that often we think of a heart attack looking like it does in the movies, right, like this classic dramatic chest pain, elephant on the chest, and we're taught this in medical school too, right, like clutching the left arm collapsing. But in real life and definitely in populations other than the 50-year-old male, the signs and symptoms can be different or more subtle. So I'd love to kind of hear from you what should people be watching for. Yeah, so I mean the TV heart attack, the one that you described with the elephant on the chest, does happen, and we do have patients come in with exactly, and these are people who have not really read the medical textbooks, but they still describe their symptoms as if there is an elephant sitting on the chest and how I cannot imagine how someone comes up with that example. But the ones that we worry about the most are women, because women don't have the typical symptoms of heart disease, especially when they're having a heart attack. A lot of women will have shortness of breath, they'll have sweating, they'll have fatigue, they'll have jaw pain, and those are some symptoms which can be easily overlooked as being signs of just being tired or indigestion. So those are the ones that we need to anytime a patient, especially a woman comes to us, we want to make sure that we don't overlook those symptoms. The elderly patients sometimes they have stuttering symptoms, so they feel that they started having symptoms suggestible for heart attack, but then it goes away, so they feel that, well, perhaps I'm okay. So that kind of does create some confusion. Some elderly individuals come in with passing out as one of their initial symptoms and we tend not to overlook that because that could be a sign of a heart attack. I should make this distinction too, I mean we're talking about, you know, a heart attack versus signs of heart disease, so maybe you could help us with that distinction, right? Of, you know, like you were saying, like someone might have intermittent chest pain that doesn't necessarily mean that it's a heart attack, so maybe we could define that. So the acute symptoms, the ones that need urgent evaluation, those are the ones where you have chest pain that doesn't go away, that causes shortness of breath for you to sweat, for you to pass out, in women causes you to have sudden sense of fatigue, jaw pain, back pain. This feeling that something's terribly wrong, something's wrong, like something's not going right for you for that particularly. Those are things that need urgent evaluation, but the ones that we also want patients to report to us are symptoms that have changed in the last three or six months. For example, they're getting more tired when they're doing their normal activity or they're having chest pain when they start some activity, but as soon as they take a little break, the chest pain goes away. The one symptom that patients develop is if they're walking up an incline, which is a little bit harder than walking on flat ground, they may start having some chest pain, but then as they relax or rest, then it goes away. So it's a very, when you listen to a patient who's having chest pain because of blocked arteries, the symptoms are very on spot and very predictable. And when we ask questions such as what happens when you rest, almost always they say that the pain goes away and then they can restart their activity. So those are some symptoms we worry about. Obviously, some other symptoms that do occur are swelling of your ankles, weight gain, which is out of proportion, difficulty sleeping at night, having to use one or two pillows to prop up your head while you're sleeping at night. What's the concern? What's that usually indicating possibly? So that tells us that the heart problem has now caused to have some fluid retention. I see. So it's not pumping out enough. Enough blood. And then when they lay flat, the lungs get flooded, but if they prop themselves up, then they can breathe a little easier. This is so helpful. And I want to kind of go back to, you know, just like, do I need to go to the ER? I mean, if you're having this new, severe worsening chest pain, right, and it's not getting better, I really just want to encourage people like, right, go to the emergency room, call 911. Right. I think that's great advice. The one thing I would add is that if you're having chest pain that lasts a few seconds, then it's unlikely to be a heart attack. If you have chest pain that you can press on that particular part of your body, chest, and you can reproduce it, it may be because you just did some excessively tough workout or you lifted something. To remind people that we have a lot of like muscles and soft tissue between the ribs. So if you can press on it, it's likely superficial, right? Exactly. Or what we call intercostal or between the rib inflammation. Yes. So those are less likely to be heart attack, but I also don't want your viewers to feel that they can self-diagnose. Yes. No, that's very, very important. If you have any concern, might just go to the emergency room and the emergency room is used to seeing patients that don't have a heart attack and then you get a good reassurance that you're okay and then you feel better. Right. I mean, we really, really don't want people to wait. I think either people feel like they're overreacting or they're turned off by, you know, feeling like they're going to go to the emergency room and wait six hours. I mean, I think Ravi and I can both tell you, we take, emergency rooms take chest pain extremely seriously. And what's the worst thing that happens? You go and they say you didn't have a heart attack. That's the best we've ever. The best, the best ever, right? False alarm. Fantastic. Go home. You actually don't have a heart attack. So do not delay in getting checked and take chest pain very seriously. And then in terms of these other kind of groups, if people, you know, for women, I think especially, you know, we have a cardiovascular center for women at UCLA Health as well. But I think in general too, this is an important message for women. I think we normalize pain a lot when people are like, it's just cramps or it's like just indigestion. None of it is normal. Pain isn't normal. And this is where I think that the cardiac pain can be a little bit more insidious, right? Less of that like lightning bolts, you know, elephant. Yes. And I think those need to be taken seriously. It's great. It's really, really helpful. One thing I want to ask, kind of going back to prevention is why do you think prevention is such a game changer? I mean, like, you know, I love hearing about you kind of like sitting there and babysitting your uncle for a month. But what about prevention? I mean, is this, is that kind of the cornerstone of, of almost in a way preventing heart disease and everything that comes with it? Absolutely. So, you know, as you know, one of the things that I do is I take care of patients that are very advanced blockages and I'm fixing them. And while I'm fixing those blockages, I'm almost thinking that at what point where we could we have changed something for the patient so that they would not be in this situation. So we're always trying to look for answers. And one of the things that we have found through research done at UCLA is that if you put patients on medications or some lifestyle modification, you know, take, you know, approach, then you can stabilize this cholesterol problem and you can also reverse it. So I generally tell my patients who have blocked arteries is that my first goal, I tell them think of a fast moving train that's moving forward. My first goal is to stop the train where we stabilize the plaque and then put the train in reverse so we regress or take the, make the plaque smaller. So that can be done now with powerful medications. And if you do that, then you can make immediate changes in your cardiovascular risk and your risk of not having a heart attack. I mean, that's incredibly encouraging because I, you know, I think when sometimes people are also diagnosed with other chronic conditions like diabetes or, but I have to say every time I start a patient on a blood pressure medication or cholesterol medication, they ask, am I going to have to be on this for life? Yes. So there are some people who have exceedingly high risk that need medications for life. And that's one time when you're struggling with a patient that is resisting taking medications. In the past, we would try to give them the possible poor outcomes that could happen to them. But now we have this test, the CT scan, which you use quite often. The CT scan pretty much checks to see how much calcium deposits you have in your coronary arteries. Now, once you have cholesterol that is accumulated in your blood vessels of the heart, your coronary arteries over time, it has this change and it shows up like calcium on a CT scan. So if I have a patient who's resisting to take a medication or to make lifestyle modifications, I order a CT scan and on the CT scan, if their heart lights up like a Christmas tree, then it's a very easy way for me to tell the patient to make these changes. Right. So you're saying, here's really this visual evidence. I mean, it's a really good point and it's hard, right? I mean, a lot of these things that I think that are inside of our bodies, let alone the entire medical field, are really abstract for people who aren't, you know, physicians. That's why, again, it's so helpful for you coming on the podcast because, you know, I, what are the conversations can we be having with people, right? So we don't have to wait until you light up like a Christmas tree, right? For that to then, you know, motivate you to change your lifestyle. So I mean, let's, this again is part of this prevention conversation. I mean, there's different kind of levels of prevention. So there's the prevention of, listen, you've had a cardiac event, right? Or you're already having symptoms of heart disease. How can we prevent another event from happening? Event meaning a heart attack, so sciencey, or, you know, developing into, you know, an event. But how can we, if we are backing up, going way upstream, as you're kind of thinking about as you're doing procedures, how can we present, how can we prevent these modifiable risk factors from ever developing in the first place? I think that's an excellent point, Eve. We have, you described, you know, somebody who's had a heart attack to prevent the next heart attack, we call it secondary prevention from somebody who has risk factors to develop their first heart attack. We call it primary prevention because we are trying to prevent the primary event from happening. But a lot of cardiologists are now starting to think about primordial prevention, that is to prevent these risk factors which is going to cause heart disease from developing in the first place. It's the first I've heard of this. I love it, the primordial prevention. And for that, we need to start addressing maybe some kids that are at high risk in their 20s, and adults, you know, in their 30s. So that's the area that we are now looking at, you know, when we see a family that has very high incidence of heart disease within multiple members, we start talking to their children and grandchildren to make sure we can prevent them from getting there. It takes a lot of work. I'm sure it does. And so you start like, let's say, screening earlier, right? So screening for cholesterol or screening for diabetes, or I'm guessing making sure that we're monitoring for excessive weight gain, you know, all of those things that can really impact that heart and stress reduction and sleep. And you know, the 20 year olds now that we see for primordial prevention, they went through this whole pandemic. So they have had a very hard time with, you know, mental health illness. And, you know, they're not exercising because they stop going out. They're on their social media quite a bit. So it takes a lot to to change their risk profile. But that's the group that we're worried about the most. In fact, there are the one thing that we are seeing in certain high risk populations is that before when the patients would come in with a heart attack, it was generally the son or daughter that would bring their parent. Now what we are seeing is that the parent is bringing their children with heart attacks. And that's the one thing that concerns us the most. I mean, that's incredibly sobering. Why is that happening? Because of just these lifestyle changes, risk factoring, lack of exercise, poor diet. But all these things are modifiable. I think that's such an important message. Yeah. But again, I mean, talk about abstract. I think that, you know, your average young person is really thinks of heart disease as an older person's problem. Yes. But what you're telling me is that no, younger people have heart issues all the time. Absolutely. Absolutely. And the biggest heart issues are same things, high cholesterol. That's really sobering. Yes. But then I think there are a few other risk factors that have come in. I think stress plays a big role. How does stress affect the heart? So stress, you know, when you have stress, it has some direct problems with the heart in terms of increasing all the flight and the fight response. That your blood pressure goes up, your heart rate goes up, you have more inflammation, you have more shearing forces inside your artery that make them vulnerable to blood clots formation and things like that. But an indirect thing that stress does is that you start doing stress eating. You stop doing exercise. Right. You gain weight, you drink more, you eat more, you know, people. Right. And all of these things have been the deleterious effects on. Right. So that's the one thing that concerns me the most. What do you recommend for kind of that stress reduction? I know it's different for every person. It's different for every person, but I think exercise is the number one thing, getting out. And I feel personally, I'm a big believer in not having your phone with you and have access to your screen time. I mean, while talking to you, I have my phone off and I'm feeling so relaxed just so that your phone or is it me? Yes. It is you, of course. Okay. Those are great. I just, because I know all of your, you know, so many of your talents, you know, so I can't, I would be remiss if I didn't mention your ways of reducing stress for yourself. I always sort of picture you going and like saving lives and doing your interventional courteology. And we'll talk to all the stents that you place in balloons and then you go home and then for our listeners, Ravi, I hope it's okay. I share that you're like this amazing, you know, culinary chef. Well, I try my, I'm an amateur baker and I feel I like baking because, you know, it reminds me of science because the proportions are pretty exact. I mean, you make very complex things like really exquisite macaroons. Like I make chocolate chip cookies, you're making like lavender infused macaroons. Like just for the record. Thank you. I mean, it does relax me. Yes. And eating in moderation, but the relaxing is important. It is important. Yeah. Okay. This is very, very helpful. You know, you're talking about high risk individuals. So who are the highest risk? I mean, I really want our listeners to know that like all of us are ostensibly at risk, right? And so there are things that we want you to be paying attention to. Have a primary care doctor, get your, you know, routine lab work, which includes cholesterol panels. We check your blood pressure when you come in for, you know, routine physical exam. We sure we check your weight. We ask about exercising and diet and nutrition. But who are the higher risk kind of patients that you're, that you're mentioning, especially in their younger years that we want to pay attention to? So there are certain subgroups that are at very high risk. For example, the South Asian population, they're at, they have four times higher risk than the general population. They developed their heart disease, high blood pressure, everything 10 years earlier. So now you can just imagine we're talking about primary and primordial prevention. The primordial prevention now shifts to the kids in their teenage years. In their teens, yes. Right? So, so that's something that's a very high risk population. I think anytime somebody has had a family member, either one of their parents who had a heart attack before the age of 60, you're at very high risk. It is a huge red flag for us. Now, unfortunately, all the calculators that are out there to assess and predict your risk over a 10 year period don't include the family history component. Oh, they don't? No, they don't. And the reason being that when you ask a patient about, did anybody from your family had any heart problems, they feel that having a pacemaker is same as somebody having a heart attack when we know that those are two separate things. So, that tends to get a little confused. For our listeners, we're breaking that distinction between the electrical system of the heart and the vessels. Right. So, that's why it's excluded. But that's a high risk person. Now, most men need to know that once you cross the age of 50, one out of two men have high blood pressure. So, you can ignore getting checked, but there's a good chance that you have high blood pressure. If you have gained weight, your risk has gone up. Your cholesterol is likely elevated. Smoking is a huge risk factor which we haven't really touched upon. Smoking just takes, imagine that there is cholesterol circulating in your bloodstream looking to stick on the walls. When you smoke, you're pretty much taking this cholesterol  subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected and heart disease. I know that you are leading really important work in understanding heart disease in the South Asian community and you established the center which I'd love to hear about. You mentioned 10 years earlier than the average person. Why? That's because the South Asians tend to have these risk factors which are much, much higher than the general population. Modifiable or is it like the smoking or something else? One of the risk factors which is just a theory is that the South Asians that came from the South Asian countries, when they tend to accumulate fat in a very different way compared to the other population, when somebody that's not South Asian tends to gain weight, the fat's all over distributed evenly across the body. South Asians tend to accumulate fat around their organs or in their belly area. We call them the skinny fat. They appear skinny but they have a lot of fat concentrated in their belly. That fat is just metabolically very active. Imagine that as if it's a volcano that's sitting in there that puts them at risk for diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure because it's releasing all these toxic chemicals that's there. The theory is that South Asians started to accumulate fat there because that was the one way to store fat because the South Asians were exposed to a lot of famines in the last 200 years or so under the colonial rule. Areas that were affected very highly with the famines. For example, people grew up in Bangladesh where there was the highest amount of famines. They have four times the risk of heart disease compared to the other South Asian countries. That is so fascinating. Obviously begs the question about other countries in other places who have endured multiple famines as well. I'm guessing there's going to be a lot more research. There has been research done to look at other populations such as places in Africa within the United States, the Native American population that has been exposed to famines. As you know that there is a high incidence of diabetes and heart disease in the Native Americans as well. That's something that people are putting these hypotheses together. It's so important to identify. This is so actionable. To say knowing the risk factors, whether they are ones that you have inherited through family, through places of origin, all of those are good reasons to go and get checked out and monitored. One of the things that we are trying to do with the South Asian population, people who are at risk of this belly fat, is instead of checking the BMI, which is a measure of obesity, we are checking their waste circumference because they could have a normal BMI and they would slip from under our radar. When we check their waste circumference, we catch that they are at risk for heart disease. BMI is the body mass index. It's really helpful to talk about prevention. Although did I miss anything, any other tools of prevention that you like to mention or emphasize? I think exercise, waste to lower stress, trying to get some activity going. I think one of the things that a lot of people have picked up is pickleball because tennis is a little harder to play, but pickleball is manageable. I think that's amazing. You're like, I play tennis, but you can play pickleball. While we're on it though, exercise though, you mean what we call cardiovascular exercise. Yes. A lot of people confuse exercise with fat burn and things of that nature. I think if you have a regular walking program, 7,500 to 10,000 steps a day, I think that does the job to keep your weight in check. What about nutrition like diet? The three diets that are recommended by cardiologists, and there are so many diets, like the South Beach diet and Keto and this and that, but the three diets are the Mediterranean diet because that's a good portion of protein, grains and fruits. Then there is the dash diet to lower your blood pressure. What is dashed in for? Oh, I can't remember. It's like low salt, right? Low salt diet. Yes. That helps you with cutting down your salt intake so that your blood pressure is better controlled. Then the last diet we feel that makes a big impact is the plant-based diet. That's a little harder to enforce, especially if you're not used to having primarily plant-based or vegetarian food, but that definitely has shown to cut down the risk of heart disease. Things like then, your diet, your nutrition and exercise, those are primordial, primary and secondary prevention. Yes. That hits all of them. It hits all of them. No smoking. No smoking, absolutely. The worst gas of all. Yes. Okay, excellent. What if you do have heart disease? I think it's so great to talk about the prevention. Hearing the word heart disease feels very overwhelming for patients, irrespective of where you're on, the prevention scale. If you're diagnosed with coronary artery disease, tell me what the main treatment options are today. The main goal with somebody who has coronary artery disease is to bring the low-density lipoprotein, the LDL, to as low as possible. Now, you can do that with lifestyle modifications, diet, nutrition, but statins do the best job. Statins not only lower the LDL, but they reduce the inflammation in the vessels. It does a lot of different things, and it helps you lower the risk of having worsening heart disease. And statins are the most common anti-cholesterol or cholesterol-lowering drug. Yes. Get rid of those bumps. Get rid of the trash. Get rid of the trash makes your vessels nice and squeaky clean. Now, there's a lot of... It's so effective. Very effective. Now, there's a lot of publicity against the statins, and unfortunately statins is one medication that has been shown to have the maximum impact in reducing heart disease. 20 to 30 percent, sometimes even more, to reduce your risk of heart attacks, strokes, death, things like that. Amazing. So those are amazing. People often talk about their side effect profile, but those happen very rarely. Yes. And most doctors, if you ask them, how many patients have you seen who had a very bad side effect of statin? People can generally count them on their patients. So few. So few. They're exceptionally well tolerated, and they make such a difference in lowering your cardiovascular risk profile. Exactly. Any other medications? I know Aspirin comes up a little bit. Aspirin comes up quite a bit, and if you have established heart disease, they do help. Going back to cholesterol, we have the PCSK9 inhibitors. Those are new injectables. It's a class of medication. Yeah. New class of medications, injectables. There's some oral medications coming out as well. They are very effective in lowering LDL. There is another group of medication that is currently being used. They're called the C-Tep inhibitors. Those are medications that lower the LDL, the bad cholesterol, increase the HDL, the good cholesterol, and lower the lipoproteinase. It does everything. So that may be a great medication. There are some vaccines that are being developed against the PCSK9. That's incredible. So that will be very effective. Is the idea, why a vaccine? Is there an idea that there's a microbe? Oh, like your microbiome, sort of leveraged your microbiome? Biomes and have your body kind of fight it. And then there are some medications that are coming out. There will be a one-time shot in your life that's going to cure your cholesterol issue forever. Oh my gosh. So really then targeting that primordial prevention, right? Those very high-risk patients. They will be key for that population. And I also just want to, maybe we could make this point together, if you agree, that if you're put on these medications, they're not a substitute for lifestyle modifications. Yes, that's the mainstay. Now, a lot of cardiologists feel that as soon as someone's diagnosed with heart disease, you start putting them on medications. Yes, it is in a very effective strategy. But my strategy is that I have the patient go through a three to six-month process of lifestyle modification so that they feel they have some control over their heart disease as well. And that's where a few other things need to be evaluated. How about things like meditation or yoga? Can that make an impact? We need to do some more research to find that out. Well, I mean, it certainly sounds like, especially if stress and overreactivity are contributing factors to the fight or flight. So, okay, that's great to hear. Any other kind of treatments, you know, kind of medical treatments, meaning medications? So, there are, so when you look at the coronary artery disease, you know, the mainstays are statins, aspirin. There are some other antiplatelet agents which prevent the platelet blood clot formation that are used in patients who have heart disease. But controlling your blood pressure by any of the medications, controlling your diabetes. Yes. By any of the medications. With weight gain, you know, we have great therapies for weight loss now. Fantastic. Yeah. With the GLP-1. Right. Now I just need a shot of cholesterol and a shot of my GLP and I'm like set. Yes. Right? That could be the future for patients who are at very high risk. Right. Which is fantastic. Yeah. Who just need a little bit of a push to get going the right direction. Yeah. And I mean, it's reminding me as much as I'm, I personally am emphasizing that, you know, you're in control of these lifestyle modifications. The point also isn't to sort of, you know, blame, right? Or make anyone feel guilty for, you know, having some of these risk factors. But there's a nice balance between feeling like you have autonomy and you've control and we want you to talk to your doctor and partner together on the best. And there's so many treatments, you know, and modalities and also balancing that, yeah, you also might have a predisposition that you can't control. But it's a complex but, you know, you know, very, I think, encouraging conversation. Yeah, I think there are so many new therapies that are out there that really give our patients an option and hope. Yes. I think which was missing for many years because we would just keep telling them lose weight and they would come back with weight gain and we would always get on their case. Right. Have a heart attack. Don't move for a month. Right. Right. And then we're going to yell at you for gaining weight. I'm glad we are. Before the don't move for a month, we were putting leeches on patients. So we've come along with. Yeah, we really have. Some people end up needing a procedure for heart disease. And I was wondering if you could just walk us through some of those techniques, I guess. Yeah, so if you have symptoms for heart disease, a stress test is a common way to find out. A CT scan is another way of stress test means like getting on the treadmill with and getting some imaging. Right. So while you stress your heart, I'm just going to back up while we stress your heart with exercise, for example, or sometimes we give you a medication that stresses your heart. Yeah, we get a picture of it and we can see if there's blockages of lockage. So we provoke the heart to go through some kind of effort to see how it responds to, you know, to the exercise component and see if it can keep up or if there are some issues. So those are some clues. A CT scan with an x-ray dye injection can give us like a virtual angiogram. It gives us an idea if there are any blockages, how much is the calcium count. So a lot of tools. Yeah, a lot of tools. It gives us a little roadmap of what could be happening inside the body. But eventually we would, if things are pointing towards a lot of blockages, you then go with an invasive angiogram. Generally, those are primarily done through the wrist, through the radial artery, and we put a catheter in which is like a little tube, like a little tube. It almost looks like an uncooked spaghetti and we go up to the heart, we inject some x-ray dye through that, visualize the arteries, and if there are blockages, we go ahead and decide whether this is something that needs medications. A lot of times we find blockages, but they don't necessarily need a stent. So we treat them with medications, high dose of statins and things like that. What's a stent if someone needs a stent? So a stent is like a metal mesh tube that is compressed on a balloon, and then once the balloon goes through this uncooked spaghetti, we expand it and then the stent kind of takes its holes open the sides and pushes the blockage into the walls of the arteries and provides good blood flow through it. It's amazing. Is it so gratifying to be there in what we call the cath lab? It is a lot of fun. It is good to see patients who come in with a lot of symptoms and go out smiling. Right? I mean, that's amazing. What do you notice with your patients that do have to have a procedure versus what we call medical management? I mean, is it a real wake-up call? Again, not everyone has modifiable risk factors, but what do you notice in people when they go through an event like a heart attack or a scary bout of a heart disease sign? So it is a true wake-up call for patients, but personally, I use it as my best opportunity to make a change in that person's life lifelong. So what I do is you kind of do a little bit of a theater. We have the patient there, bring the entire family there, and you walk in and you're like, okay, this is really bad, but we did something to help you. Wow. But now moving forward, we need to make all these changes, get the involvement of every family member. So you really engage everyone. You're like exhibit A, we have the blocked artery up here, six feet tall, and then you're like, and now, but I love the theater. So that makes the biggest impact. That's what most people remember, and that kind of helps, especially the children, to then focus on their parent that we can't eat this or we can't do this. And then they internalize it themselves. Exactly. And they follow that. Yeah, no, I mean, it's a really big deal. But it's so doable, I think, taking care of the heart. And like you're saying, the outcomes are so much better today than 10 to 20 years. Absolutely. I think our numbers keep on looking better and better and better. We have reduced the risk of bad things like death and repeat heart attacks. So we've done a great job. That's incredible. Well, thanks to you and your colleagues. What are the kind of biggest advancements that you're excited about? I mean, you mentioned some, you know, all the different cholesterol medications, but anything else that it kind of really excites you? So that, you know, the cholesterol has a lot of advancements in terms of congestive heart failure. We have a lot of new medications. You know, there is one condition called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. It happens in sometimes young adults and when they're doing exercise, sports, they have cardiac arrest and everybody's kind of heard of. Yeah, it's terrifying, right? Like a young athlete just collapses. Yeah, it's terrifying. So there are new medications that help with, you know, the thickness of the heart muscle. So that's been a big game changer for us. I think... Can I ask you a question about that? I mean, I think as a mom, it's very scary to think about, you know, obviously your child just suddenly collapsing, especially if they've never had symptoms, which I think happens in these cases. What is your, I guess, sort of advice or recommendation? I mean, should like all our kids get screened or we screen people before activity? Absolutely. There are some sports that really have a higher chance of having a problem with that particular hypertrophic cardiomyopathy condition, you know, things such as, you know, running and, you know, swimming and soccer and, you know, basketball. Anything that requires a lot of start and stop, you know. Oh, start and stop, okay. So we are always screening younger athletes and as well as, you know, major league, you know, professional athletes as well for that. Right. I mean, right. Everyone gets kind of that cardiovascular screening. Okay, that's helpful. We talked a little bit about, you know, kind of screening in general for people. So I mean, again, for someone seeing their primary care doctor like me, I check your blood pressure again to just want to remind everyone about their cardiovascular risk factors, right? I'm going to ask you about smoking. Hopefully convince you to stop if you do. I'm going to check your blood pressure, which was one of our vital signs for your routine blood work. I check a lipid panel, which is checking all those particles for those guests, the HDL, LDL. And then I also check something called a hemoglobin A1c and all my patients know this, but this is what's screening for diabetes. You know, we'll talk about your diet and your nutrition and, you know, health, healthy weight. Anything else? I mean, actually, you know, one thing that, you know, and thanks to this podcast and being educated by Dr. Ravi Esola about sleep, you know, I also ask a lot about sleep and it seems sleep apnea is very, very underdiagnosed in sleep apneas, you know, for our listeners when the airway collapse or gets obstructed and then, you know, someone wakes up, you know, many, many hundreds of times a night because they're they're brain is saying, wake up. You're not, you know, you're not breathing. And you've actually mentioned sleep and I'm sure there's a correlation with stress. But what about sleep apnea and heart disease? There's a direct correlation between sleep apnea and heart disease. Because when you have these episodes of not breathing, you're raising the carbon dioxide in your body that does a lot of negative things with your heart. It makes your heart, you know, the right side of your heart. Sometimes having to function a little bit harder. There are issues with irregular heartbeat with sleep apnea. And we've also found that some of our younger patients, when they have high blood pressure that's difficult to treat, it's because of sleep apnea, the correlation. And once you treat sleep apnea, you have actually cured their blood pressure issue, which is amazing, right? It is amazing. But it reminds me that, right, I mean, we're not just treating organs, right? We're like really have to treat our whole person. Right? Because otherwise, if you don't ask, you're not going to know that. And if you're not screening for sleep as part of the overall health, then that's going to go undiagnosed. Right. So it's a whole balance in the entire body. Yeah. It's so interesting. So I'm hoping that, you know, our listeners are hearing, you know, your very wise words, they want to do better. What would you advise them to do just realistically kind of starting today to really take care of their heart? I think the one key thing is exercise has to be done. It has to be done at least five times a week. I always feel that when you kind of try to do it five times a week, you end up doing much less. So your goal should be to exercise every day. Yeah, that's a good idea. And, you know, lately there has been a lot of talk about exercising right after your dinner, you know, it will lower your spikes in your sugar and your insulin level and things like that. That's a good time. You know, in Southern California with the weather it is, we have absolutely no reason to find an excuse for not, whether it's not an issue at all. Right. So exercise is key. I think portion control of your diet, it's very hard to become a vegan or to change your dietary habits of what you've done over the years. But portion control, I think, is a good way. That's just like it too. We want you to enjoy your life, but just smaller portions often is all you need. Exactly. And sleep is very important. And, you know, when I talk to my patients who are over the age of 100, I'm always very interested to find out what is it that got them to that level. And they always talk about portion control, exercise and sleep. And pickleball. And pickleball. Right. Yes. Do you have a lot of patients over 100? I do, yes. That's amazing. They are the most amazing patients because when I see them, I'm learning from them. Sure. And you're mentioning that they're patients, right? So they might have even had some heart disease. But they're still going... Right. But it's controllable and treatable for the long run. Yes. That's incredible. Yeah. And, you know, we talked about this, but I mean, because you've been doing interventional cardiology for gosh, more than 20 years at UCLA, I want everyone to know, I mean, you really train our residents and our fellows, you know, our future cardiologists as well. Have you seen the practice evolve over time? I mean, even despite just sort of the bed rest and the new treatments, but any other sort of kind of general approaches that you've kind of really noted? Yeah, we are doing a lot more advanced procedures now. For example, valve related issues before the only treatment would be open heart surgery. Now that's pretty much done through your groin. You know, you don't have to have your chest. A vessel in the groin, yeah. That's incredible. Yeah. So that's completely revolutionized our field. In terms of blocked arteries, we're sending less and less patients to bypass because we feel comfortable treating a lot more areas of... Bypassing like open heart surgery. Open heart surgery. Yeah. Right. So we can do so much more with medications and lifestyle. Okay. I have some asking for a friend questions. If someone feels totally healthy, do they still need screening? It depends on your risk factors. Like I said, if you have family history of heart disease, then you should get screen. If your physical shows that you have high blood pressure, elevated A1c, suggestive of diabetes or high cholesterol, you should get screen. Okay. Panic attack versus heart attack. How do you tell the difference? It is very difficult because there are certain conditions with the heart. For example, when your heart rate is really fast that can lead to a heart attack because you have gone into an abnormal heart rhythm, most patients experience it like a panic attack. Sure. And when they come in and instead of giving them a brown paper back to breathe in, we're injecting medications to slow down their heart rate. So if you feel that your heart's beating fast along with your panic attack kind of symptoms, it's best to get checked out. Come on in. Come on in. Especially if you feel dizzy, lightheaded. Sure. Which often happens with panic attacks too. As well. But we'll figure it out for you. Yeah. And then with panic attacks, what happens is as you're coming to the hospital to get checked, if it just goes away, then you know it was a panic attack. Right. Exactly. If you roll down the window and you're feeling better by the time, great. Yeah. Come on in. We'll reassure you. Acid reflux versus heart attack. That's a little difficult. Yes. The one thing I tell my patients of acid reflux is that if the acid reflux is associated with certain kinds of foods, you know, the high citric kind of foods, then it could be just, you know, acid reflux. If you have acid reflux that is treated with one of the over-the-counter medications, then it is likely acid reflux. The ones that we worry about is that it happens at any given time of the day. Right. Irrespective of whether you're eating or not. And if you've taken the medications and the medications are not working, then it is likely associated with the heart. And if you have the acid reflux like symptoms with exertional activity, then it's likely to be your heart. Okay. That one comes up a lot. And it's hard. And I guess I would say to our listeners, it's hard to discern often for us as medical providers. Exactly. So come in because, you know, when you come in, we actually do an EKG and we do other testing and we can really determine. Very easy to sort out. Very easy to sort out. Why are women's symptoms different? The heart disease, you know, is different in women. Most men have, when you look at their coronary arteries, their blockages of the pinpoint area. You know, eccentric, like one side of the blood vessel. But you generally see like a pinch in the artery. When it comes to women, they have more diffuse blockages. The entire length of the artery is blocked. And that results in different kind of symptoms. A different kind of symptom. And do we know why? I mean, but it distributes differently. Oh my gosh, I think we need more research for women. There you go. Okay. I'm looking forward to that. Here's one. Can emotional heartbreak really affect the heart? Yes. And it's, there is a condition called, you know, stress cardiomyopathy or the broken heart syndrome. We do see it quite often. And surprisingly, we see it when one of the spouses passes away. And then a few weeks later, a patient comes in with chest pain. And there's a portion of the heart that goes through unusual amount of stress that makes it kind of a little bit weaker and cause all these symptoms. Thankfully, you know, most of them go back to normal. But in some rare cases, the damage is permanent. Wait, so it's really actually one portion of the heart that we see repeatedly? Yes. The tip of the heart becomes weaker. Yeah. I feel like that's a whole other conversation. Is it true that heart attacks happen more on Mondays? Yes. Because there tends to be higher, you know, your stress level is higher, you're relaxed over the weekend, and now you're to suddenly go up and perform for the week. Well, it really makes the play for the reduction of stress. Absolutely. As a doctor who's, you know, deeply invested in intervention and prevention, what keeps you really hopeful about the future of heart disease care? I think that we have a lot of treatments available. Once somebody has heart disease, but I'm very excited about the prevention of heart disease. Yes. Because as much as we can treat these patients and fix these blockages, you'd be great to not have the blockages in the first place. Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, I think, you know, we have this incredible social drivers of health program here, led by Nikki Miller. And it reminds me too that I'm guessing, right, like your environment, right, genetics are included, your education, your access to transportation, you know, adverse events when you're a child, all of these things that are so upstream, right, from being the 55-year-old, you know, man with a heart attack, all of those things are aspects to target and monitor for so upstream of an event, you know, same with, you know, these risk factors. Absolutely. This has, of course, been so informative and empowering. Is there anything I didn't ask you, though, that you wanted to kind of share with me or our listeners? No, I think we covered pretty much everything about heart disease. I mean, it's just, it really blows my mind how preventable heart disease is and just that these kind of small, consistent choices can really create such long-term protection. And I think the one thing that I would like to leave with your viewers is that heart disease is preventable in some form at any given stage. You don't have to, if you feel that you missed that primary prevention, you've already had a heart attack, you can still prevent your second heart attack and, you know, life can be beautiful. That's a fabulous message. I can't thank you enough for being here, sharing your expertise with us today. You're just amazing. So I really hope that everyone shares this episode with someone that you love. I think it really can nudge someone to protect their future health. And you're just the best guest ever, obviously. For our listeners, you can find more resources and past episodes at uclahealth.org forward slash medically speaking. Ravi, thank you so much for being here. And for our listeners, stay curious and healthy. We'll see you next time on Medically Speaking. Thank you for having me. Thank you.