You mentioned sub concussions, and I think that's a that's important to delineate for everybody is that certainly concussions are bad, but when um we're talking about CTE and its relation to repetitive head injuries, I think we're more so speaking about the exposure to sub concussions. Well, actually we're we're not using sub concussive anymore unless we're specifically talking about really mild hits. We use non concussive. Sure. There's some really interesting studies using sensors out there that I think will help make CT make more sense to people, which is the idea that concussions, you know, happen on a spectrum, right? Some people take really small hits and they cause concussion. Some people will take explosive hits and it's the hardest hit they took all season, but some studies suggest the average concussions happening about the 90th percentile of the hits you took over a season. So, if you imagine that a football player over two seasons takes 2,000 hits to the head, has one diagnosed concussion, the data would suggest they took 200 hits that were harder than that concussion. If you think about it that way, CT makes a ton of sense. If we think concussions are bad for you cuz they cause a physical brain injury, what about those other 200 hits that probably caused the same microscopic brain injury, but just not in places that you would feel or notice or be able to measure or you know, so I think I think that's why non concussive hits would be the more logical cause of CT than diagnosed concussions. So, just as severe, just not exacerbating symptoms from the actual head injury. Right. Well, just Well, no, it's it's basically the idea that we're causing silent traumatic brain injuries. Right? Like I think that's widely accepted in the neurological community at this point. I was just uh to have a conversation with one of the top people on it. It's so, you know, cuz it's sort of naive to think like, okay, 86 billion neurons, trillions of connections, I take a hit, and I'm going to feel one of those neurons die? Like, no, of course not. So, if you accept that you aren't going to feel every brain injury, then I think it's safe to say we have a ton of brain injuries we don't feel, we have a ton of brain injuries we do feel and never tell anybody, and then we have these really rare times when we show enough signs that someone stops us or we actually volunteer information. Do you think the number of concussions with symptoms is a proxy for the number of non concussive head impacts that someone might have had over a time period? No. No. I don't I don't think there's been shown to be much of a correlation. I mean, in theory, like in a football player, like in general, yes, but there's plenty people get a lot of concussions with way fewer hits. And there's some people in our brain bank who are shown to basically be unconcussable during their career. You know, like some people are you know, genetically We hear about it with boxers that got a, you know, strong jaw. They can take all sorts of hits, and they'll never be knocked out or they'll never complain of a symptom. Those people are probably the most at risk. Yeah. Right? Some people would argue the glass brain, you know, people who actually get concussed easier are in some ways protected because they don't make it as many rounds, they may not have as long of a career. Right. Or uh especially when you see older fighters and they develop a glass jaw, is that a protective mechanism to stop the sort of non concussive I I I wish it was protective. I think it's desperation. Really? You don't You don't think it's like a protective mechanism potentially going on? You think it's just the the brain the burden of the burden of injury? Too many brain injuries your brain can't overcome it. Yeah. Yeah. Um but do you have anything to add regarding these non concussive versus concussive uh injuries and how they relate to CTE? Well, I do think these are two different animals and should be treated differently, at least as we as far as we understand the literature. You know, concussions don't have a one-to-one correlation with a lot of things. Number of concussions or age of concussions, things like that, don't correlate to long-term prospective outcomes and um only loosely in some cases correlate to a little bit earlier onset of a diagnosis of Alzheimer's, but not necessarily of um of CTE and so on. So, I think that concussions are really important to consider, especially a concussive injury that one requires accurate diagnosis and good rehabilitation so that symptoms don't linger cuz that can be really debilitating, but it's a completely different thing than CTE. And so, I think if I can just take one tangent, the Tua case really brings up this important thing for the community as a whole, the players, coaches, and everybody watching, as well as community physicians. Concussions and post concussive syndrome is not CTE. That's something completely different. And so, when you conflate the two, um it it can cause a lot of fear and and mismanagement. Whereas the non concussive injuries, the accumulation over time, the thousands of hits over the course of a season or a military tour, um that is an another thing, and that's hard to quantify and looking at the clinical manifestations of that and the long-term risk of any dementia, let alone CTE on autopsy. Uh it's a different line of research that requires different methods, and it has, you know, challenges because of the long-term that you need to follow somebody. Um so, I think those two things are different. Once we start talking about concussions, we can keep it in that bucket and talk about recovery in the immediate sense, and not long-term progressive neurodegenerative conditions cuz we we actually That's a leap, and we don't really know. Whereas the sub concussive or non concussive injuries, um that's another conversation we should have it. Yeah, that's an excellent point.