Hi, I'm Dr. Aria Fallah here at UCLA Mattel Children's Hospital and a pediatric neurosurgeon. I specialize in surgical treatments for epilepsy in children, and thank you for joining us today. And today our topic is going to be about the surgical treatment of focal cortical dysplasia for children with epilepsy. I'm briefly going to talk about the different classifications of focal cortical dysplasia, talk about some of the challenges in treating focal cortical dysplasia surgically, talk about some of the innovations and technologies that we have to optimize treatment, and lastly, we talk about some of the very exciting research opportunities that we have here at UCLA, specifically targeted to children that are undergoing epilepsy surgery for focal cortical dysplasia. I have no relevant disclosures. So, first thing, let's talk about the classification of focal cortical dysplasia. What focal cortical dysplasia really is is an abnormal architecture of the way the brain was just developed, so it's something that a child is born with. It's not something that you acquire later in life, and the classification has three categories. Category 1 really has to do with just abnormal architecture of the way the cells are within the cortex of the brain. Category 2 has to do with not only having abnormal architecture, but also the cells looking abnormal. In category 3, the type III focal cortical dysplasia really just means that focal cortical dysplasia is found with some other brain anomaly that can be related to epilepsy. Focal cortical dysplasia belongs to a larger family of disorders known as malformations of cortical development. Some of them are listed here, and you can see that we're starting to understand a little bit more about some of the genetic links to some of these disorders, although they're not fully understood. So for the majority of patients, we don't know why they develop this disorder. Now, focal cortical dysplasia, which is what we're focusing on today, is the number one reason why children undergo epilepsy surgery. So that's why it's so important to focus on that today. A few facts about focal cortical dysplasia. As I said, it's the most commonly encountered malformation that leads to epilepsy surgery for children. However, most, but not all, children with focal cortical dysplasia will have seizures. There's a small minority that may go through their life without having seizures. Unfortunately, the method--the response to medical therapy for focal cortical dysplasia is actually quite poor. Sometimes, unfortunately, there can be significant delays from the onset of seizures until the child is considered for surgery, and this delay in treatment can be problematic. Now, the most important factor for us to be able to achieve seizure freedom with surgical management of focal cortical dysplasia is a full resection of the abnormality, and in general, the larger the area of brain that's resected, the more likely it is that the child will be seizure-free after surgery. However, if the resection is too large, we may also create a deficit that it may not be necessary. So, we can discuss this a little bit further on. Now, all the children that I'm talking about that are considered for epilepsy surgery are those that we think of as having medically intractable epilepsy, which means that despite at least two medications-- anti-seizure medications--these children continue to have seizures. Why do we think of 2 anti-epileptic drugs being failed in order to label a child as having drug-resistant epilepsy? The reason why is that when we've looked at these large studies from all comers with everyone with epilepsy, if you start a single anti-seizure medication, about 47% of them will achieve seizure freedom. If you start a second anti-seizure medication, another 13% of them will achieve seizure freedom. But by the time you're on to the third medication, the fourth medication, the numbers get smaller and smaller. Here, only 4% chance of seizure freedom. So very quickly, after the second failed medication, we can tell this child is likely going to fail more and more medications, and also as importantly, when there's an abnormal finding on the brain MRI, which often is with focal cortical dysplasia, we know that the likelihood of seizure freedom with medications alone is much lower. So it's really important that a child is referred for epilepsy surgery evaluation as soon as possible. The longer the seizures go on, the more deleterious the effects of the epilepsy on on that child long-term. It's a very important topic that we don't discuss enough, is mortality related to epilepsy. There is a condition called SUDEP, sudden unexpected death as a result of epilepsy, and it is really important, you know, epilepsy is just more than seizures by themselves, and we know that uncontrolled epilepsy can lead to higher rates of mortality than those children that are actually well-controlled in terms of their epilepsy, and those numbers are actually 2 to 5 times more, particularly patients that have tonic-clonic seizures, which involves the entire brain. What are some of the special considerations when we think about a child to undergo epilepsy surgery? First, we have to also consider the potential harmful effects of medications by themselves. These medications often have significant side effects. We think about preventing developmental and cognitive delay, so the sooner that we can treat this, the greater outcome we can achieve in each child. We also want to take advantage of something called neuroplasticity, which means this is the brain's innate ability to rewire itself after surgery. So the younger the child is, the greater their potential to recover after epilepsy surgery, and we know that the effects of seizures are much more harmful in children than adults, so--children still have to develop, they have to pick up motor skills, language skills, social skills, and epilepsy can affect all those in adults. Some of those functions have already been gained prior to them developing drug-resistant epilepsy, so really important that surgery is actually not the treatment of last resort when it comes to children with focal cortical dysplasia and epilepsy. What is the goal of surgery? The goal of surgery is not just stopping the seizures as soon as possible, but it's also preventing the cognitive dysfunction that happens as a result of uncontrolled epilepsy. So you may ask, "Is my child a candidate for epilepsy surgery?" So to answer this question, we really have to think about two important questions, the first one being, "Can we adequately identify where in the brain these seizures are coming from?" And I'll show you some strategies for which we may do that, and second, "Is it safe to remove that area of the brain?" In other words, "Does removing that area of the brain result in any permanent neurological deficit for my child?" Now, I can talk to you a little bit later on about some of the technologies we have in situations where the focal cortical dysplasia or the abnormality is in a critical brain region and how we can treat those as well these days. So, what the surgical evaluation consists of--and I'll talk about what happened specifically at UCLA. Many different hospitals have their own strategies, but in general, every child initially meets a neurologist. It's a history, physical examination, it's a video EEG, this is when a child is brought into hospital and the EEG electrodes are put on the child's head and we try to capture some of these seizures, we get a special MRI scan, a special PET scan, and if the child is of enough age to be able to do a neuropsychological evaluation, we do that as well. Once we have all this information, we present it at our epilepsy conference, which is a multidisciplinary conference. Following that, we may decide to get additional testing, such as functional MRIs, MEG scan, SPECT scan, or WADA scan, and after that, we'll rediscuss this child, and there's really three possible scenarios. One is that the child may not be a surgical candidate. Those are situations where we cannot confidently determine where the seizures may be coming from, or there's multiple spots in the brain where the seizures are coming from. In those cases, there's still other options. You can try more medications. You can try things like CBD oil. You can try--there's corpus callosotomies, vagal nerve stimulators, deep brain stimulators, which we recently started doing here at UCLA, there's other surgical options, but in general, it's thought of as reducing the seizure burden as opposed to stopping the seizures completely. There's still a lot of benefit to be able to reduce the seizures as much as we can. Or, once everything is discussed at this conference, we may determine that your child is an excellent candidate for epilepsy surgery, and that is a situation where we are confident we can figure out where the seizures are coming from, and it's also an area of the brain that does not have a lot of function. If we were to remove that area, there would be no neurological deficits, or the neurological deficits would be very minor and acceptable. So those are situations where we may go on to a resection, which is removing a part of the brain, laser treatment, which would be damaging a specific part of the brain where the seizures are coming from, a disconnection of one part of the brain to another, or responsive neurostimulator, which I'll talk about in a little bit as well. The third scenario is that we're somewhere in the middle, that we think we know where the seizures are coming from, but we're not sure we want to prove it, or where the seizures coming from are close to a really important part of the brain, and we want to understand in much more detail the relationship between where the abnormality is and where the critical functions of the brain are. In those situations, we consider a child to undergo a diagnostic surgery. This is a surgery where electrodes are implanted on the brain to better understand where the seizures are coming from. This is a picture of the human brain. As you can tell, there's a lot of blood supply here, and I put this slide up for a reason, to show you that in epilepsy, you actually cannot visibly see the abnormality, and in surgery, that makes it very challenging. How do you, you know, as opposed to a tumor or other brain problems where the surgeon can go in and fully see where the abnormality is and fully remove the abnormality, with epilepsy and specifically focal cortical dysplasia, the brain actually all looks the same, so--and as a surgeon, you need to determine where the boundaries of your resection are. There's a few concepts that I'd like to discuss as well with epilepsy surgery. One is that we have conceptual zones where we--this is how we think about epilepsy. We think about where that structural lesion, where the abnormality is, the FCD, which we may be able to see, the brain around it that we call the irritative zone-- so this is brain that is irritable and may or may not have its own ability to generate seizures-- we think about the network, where the regions of the brain are that may be generating the seizures, we think about the seizure onset zone, and obviously we need to study all of this to be able to finally make a recommendation of the area of the brain which we want to treat. We also think about the interplay in how the diseased brain, or the focal cortical dysplastic brain, relates to normal brain functions, whether it's nearby or further away, and lastly, in terms of our surgical strategies, we have resections where we actually physically remove that portion of the brain or disconnect or prevent seizures in that area to go elsewhere in the brain, and in each situation it's highly individualized, and each one of our testing, whether it's MRI, EEG, MEG, SPECT, PET scan, any of these, actually, it's really important to think about, that it only tells you part of the story, so we don't have a single modality to image epilepsy perfectly. So in the absence of that, we have to use all this information, put it together, to come up with a surgical treatment plan. We have many of these tests, and this is to show you that the number of tests available to us in epilepsy surgery--and not all patients requires all these tests, but we have to think carefully about these tests and what each one can add to our hypothesis of where the seizures are coming from, and these tests arranged in some that assess function, some that assess the electrical abnormality in the brain, the structural abnormality, the metabolic abnormality, and they go from being very non-invasive to ones that actually require surgery to obtain, and ultimately, the success of surgery depends on our ability to bring all this information into the operating room. So we have a neuro navigation system here, where it incorporates all the testing that we have done and brings this into a GPS system in the operating room and actually one that we can see under the surgical microscope for us to be able to fully determine the right boundaries of surgical resection, because if we're not able to do this, then that hinders our ability to achieve the seizure freedom rates that we can. It's really important to think about the brain as it having different compartments and areas that have different function. So when we think about focal cortical dysplasia and the brain regions that it involves, we also think about the function of that brain and determine whether or not it would be safe to remove that part of the brain. For example, if focal cortical dysplasia is in the region of the speech centers, where it's a is a critical part of the brain to be able to understand and speak, we generally don't suggest surgery or resection in that area because the deficit associated with it would be too great. However, for example, if the focal cortical dysplasia may be in the sensory region, let's say a sensation to one shoulder, it may be worth it to that patient or to that family to consider removing that area, even though it's going to give that patient a deficit of some numbness on their shoulder in order to achieve seizure freedom. When we think about situations where we want to implant the EEG electrodes on the surface of the brain through surgery, there's two general strategies. One is a subdural grid, where we place on top of the brain here, and the other one is with depth electrodes that go deep into the brain, and when do we do this, we do this when there is no obvious abnormality on the MRI, we do this when =there are multiple MRI abnormalities, and we're trying to figure out which one the seizures are coming from, we also do this when the abnormality may be very close to an important function, let's say the motor area of the brain, or lastly, sometimes we do this when all the pre-surgical testing data don't point towards the same area of the brain, and we need to figure out with greater certainty where the seizures are coming from. It's important to to think about subdural grid electrodes and depth electrodes, even though the surgeries are very different, that they give you very complimentary information, and it's not that, you know, one strategy is better than the other. We need to think about what is the right EEG implantation strategy for each specific patient, and sometimes we actually combine grids and depth electrodes together to get us not only a greater 3D understanding where the seizures are coming from, but also give us a great ability to map motor, sensory, speech functions in the brain. Conceptually, I wanted to talk about, you know, ultimately, what we're trying to get at in children with focal cortical dysplasia is where this epileptogenic zone is. An epileptogenic zone is defined as the minimum amount of brain that needs to be removed to achieve seizure freedom. Now, this is conceptual. There's no way for us to know with great certainty, with absolute certainty before the resection, where this region is, but if we think about it from a conceptual standpoint, we have a seizure onset zone, and we have a potential seizure onset zone, and if we were to do a resection where we partially remove this area, the seizures will persist. Now, in a different scenario, let's say we only remove the seizure onset zone, this child may have some period of seizure freedom, but the seizures will eventually persist because this potential seizure onset zone may pick up its own ability to generate seizures. So ultimately, what we're looking to achieve is a complete surgical resection of both the seizure onset zone and potential seizure onset zone. This will render a child seizure-free. Is surgery safe? Yes, absolutely. Surgery's actually been around for over 110 years, and at places that do epilepsy surgery quite often, such as here at UCLA, our surgical complication rates are really low, on the order of probably less than 2%, so--and one of the things that epilepsy surgery is, that not only it's been around for a long time, most of what we actually know about brain function is as a result of seizures and epilepsy surgery by itself. So, what are the challenges and some of the controversies in the surgical treatment of focal cortical dysplasia? I mentioned earlier there's no single imaging modality that can show you all the abnormality when it comes to focal cortical dysplasia. MRI may actually be normal. Sometimes when MRI is abnormal, it may not show you the full extent of the abnormality. The scalp EEG does not have the spatial resolution to tell you with high certainty where the abnormality is coming from, and if you do a surgery to place invasive EEG electrodes, even though that can give you higher spatial resolution, the challenge is you can only sample small portions of the brain. If you look at the interactive spike, so these are the spikes on the EEG, when a child is not having seizures, that may show you an area that's much broader than what needs to be treated, and extremely precise mapping of these EEG abnormalities may give you misleading information as well. And lastly, it may not actually be the lesion itself that's causing the seizures, and sometimes the region surrounding that abnormality, the FCD that you see on the MRI may actually be more problematic than the lesion itself. Well, what do we know about epilepsy surgery for focal cortical dysplasia? We know that incomplete resections of the abnormality are associated with a higher likelihood of seizure occurrence. We also know that complete resections can be challenging because the demarcation of the lesion is actually frequently quite poor, and brain abnormalities tend to be much more extensive than is apparent initially on MRI. Now, really the best strategy to define the full extent of the focal cortical dysplasia is using a combination of multiple modalities, not only the EEG, the MRI, the PET scan, the invasive EEG when it's indicated, really putting all this data together and looking at it before determining the boundaries of surgical resection. In general, children that have epilepsy in the temporal lobe, which is this lobe right behind the eye, above the ear, do much better than children that have seizures coming from areas outside the temporal lobe. We also know that one of the greatest predictors of a good outcome is being able to see the abnormality on an MRI. This is an example of a 7-Tesla MRI. It's a highly, highly detailed MRI, and it goes to show you that neuroradiology expertise is just as critical to anything else that we do when it comes to treating epilepsy. If you can't really see the lesion on MRI, it may be worth to get multiple opinions, to get other radiologists to also look at it to determine whether this is truly a negative. In general, children with larger resections are more likely to be seizure-free. This makes sense. With a larger resection, you can generally be more confident that you got all the abnormality. Now, this may not always be an option, depending on where the surgery is. And invasive EEGs-- this is the surgical implant where we place the EEG on the surface or inside the brain--are not necessarily associated with a higher chance of seizure freedom. One of the very important EEG markers that we're finding, I'm going to talk to you briefly about in terms of the research that we're doing here at UCLA, is whether there are certain EEG biomarkers, certain markers that we look at on the EEG that can actually be really helpful in telling us where the seizures are, rise from, and there's a lot of data now saying that ripples and fast ripples may be associated to the seizure onset zone and may improve the probability of seizure freedom. But really, when you put all this data together, really the message that I'd like to send home is that the more concordant the preoperative testing is, the more all the tests point to the same region on the brain, the more likely it is to achieve seizure freedom with full removal of that area. I'll show a few case examples. This is a child, the first one, that had a focal cortical dysplasia that we identified on MRI. It's in the left frontal region of the brain, and we look at it. This is our virtual reality image of the brain, and it's mapped to this light blue color in the front of the brain. Now, the green area is where the motor function is, and in this left frontal region, there's actually not a lot of function, so we're able to achieve seizure freedom for this child with resection, with removing this abnormality in the brain, and we were well away from the motor area. So that's an example of a case that would be ideal for resection. Now I want to talk to you a little bit about responsive neural stimulation, and this is a treatment strategy that is newer to children. We've been one of the leading centers when it come to this, and it really is designed for treating epilepsy and focal cortical dysplasia in regions of the brain that cannot be removed because that area of the brain has important function and the neurological deficit that would result from removing that area of the brain would not be acceptable. So in those regions, we think about implanting a device called responsive neurostimulator. What this device is, is that it's a 24/7 EEG, and it is a smart device where it can figure out what the specific EEG patterns are that are the start of a person's seizure, and we can train this device to stimulate that specific region of the brain as soon as it detects the earliest signs of seizures and try to prevent that seizure from occurring in the first place, or at least limit its duration if it were to begin. So this is an opportunity, it's not as efficacious as receptive brain surgery where you remove the abnormality and it being able to achieve seizure freedom, but in a situation where you cannot afford to remove that part of the brain, this is an excellent option. The seizure reduction data shows that there's about a 70% reduction of seizures at seven years follow-up. So for example, this is a a young girl that had seizures arising from her left hand area, and this is an area that was very important for her, and she did not want to lose any function related to her left hand as we tried to treat her epilepsy. So, what we did is we placed the subdural grid electrode, and we identified--where the stars are is exactly where the seizures are coming from, and this exactly corresponded to her left hand region. So instead of doing a surgery to remove that area, we placed the RNS implant, which is electrodes directly on that area, and we connected it, and now we have the ability to pick up her seizures right at the start of them and stop and abort them faster than would have we would have been able to. Another piece of technology is called laser interstitial treatment. This, in general, is not as effective as resection in order to treat epilepsy, but it's very helpful and useful in situations where the focal cortical dysplasia is small, particularly, and deep in the brain because this allows us, using a minimally invasive approach, to place a laser fiber that creates heat energy. That sends heat energy directly to where the abnormality is and allows you to cook that abnormality from the inside out, and that generally stops the seizures. There's 2 main platforms--one's called Visualased, the other one's called Monteris-- that can be used, and like I said before, the seizure freedom rates are slightly lower than that of traditional surgery, but in certain situations, this may be the best approach. Here's an example. This is a child that had left insular seizure. So this part of the MRI is abnormal-- I don't know if you can see that white signal abnormality there-- but that's a part of the brain that's actually very very difficult to access. It's deep in the brain, and there's some really, really important blood vessels on top of it. So a traditional open approach to open the brain and work between these major arteries of the brain would be too risky and dangerous and associated with a higher morbidity, so here we were able to pass--we trimmed a small part of area of hair here, tiny skin incision, less than 5 millimeters--we passed a laser fiber directly into the abnormality and were able to destroy this area of the brain where the seizures were coming from, and this child was seizure-free and actually has zero recovery time, went home the next day and completely normal life after that. I want us to talk to you a little bit about what leads to failed epilepsy surgery when it comes to focal cortical dysplasia. There's 2 of 3 options. One is that the localization's correct, so you're in the right area, but you haven't removed enough, so it's incomplete resection. The second potential is that you're in the right area and you've removed enough tissue, but then the seizures--the epilepsy progresses, where a new part of the brain starts to generate its own ability to develop seizures. And lastly--and this is really uncommon--is if you're completely off in determining where the seizures are coming from. In those situations, usually there's zero benefit from epilepsy surgery. That concludes the clinical part of my presentation, but I wanted to talk to you about some of the really, really exciting research that we're doing at UCLA and clinical trials that are available to any of you considering epilepsy surgery for your child. So, the first one is a surgical trial. This is a randomized, blinded clinical trial where we're looking at the use of high-frequency oscillations to guide epilepsy surgery. So, in general, one of the key steps of epilepsy surgery for focal cortical dysplasia is that we do a surface EEG directly on the brain during surgery. It's called ECOG, and traditionally, we're looking at markers such as spikes, slow waves, and other abnormalities that may guide where the full extent of the abnormality is. Now, there's emerging data saying that use of HFO may be very-- identifying areas of HFO, which is a biomarker, something that we see on the EEG--may be even more helpful than those traditional markers that we've been looking at. So, we have a randomized clinical trial where, if a child is eligible for the study, they can be randomized to either the standard of care arm, which is what I described earlier, or into the standard of care + HFO arm, where we would look, analyze, and potentially treat the areas associated with HFO as well to see if we can achieve even greater seizure freedom rates than what is standardly reported. Another exciting area that we're--this is an observational study, so we're not making any treatment decisions based on it, but one of the key observations with any epilepsy surgeon who's been doing this operation for a long time is they can certainly tell that areas of the brain affected with focal cortical dysplasia feel more stiff and more rubbery than compared to normal brain, and usually we do our best to try to remove this area. Now, the challenge with that approach is I can only tell you what areas that are abnormal after I've decided to actually cut into the brain. So, we're looking at a tool where, by placing it gently on the surface of the brain, I'd be able to tell whether that part of the brain is affected by focal cortical dysplasia before I remove it. Now, again, this is not an interventional trial, so this is not something that we are making treatment decisions based off of yet because the initial data, although it's really exciting, we have to test it on more and more patients before we can determine this would be, you know, an approach that we can use clinically. And lastly, the Epilepsy Tissue BioBank. So, one of the most important things that we've done here at UCLA over the course of several decades is been able to-- not only treating kids with epilepsy, but after we remove that part of the tissue and after we send it to the pathology to make a diagnosis, instead of throwing that tissue away once we're done, we like to store it and study it, so we can come up with better treatments, better cures, better understanding of epilepsy surgery in general-- of this epileptic tissue, rather, in general, and it's really important for our ability to be able to find novel treatments. So here at UCLA, for all our children that are undergoing epilepsy surgery, they have the opportunity to donate that resected brain tissue towards research so we can find better treatments and better cures. So, in conclusion, I wanted to emphasize that treatment decisions, when it comes to focal cortical dysplasia and epilepsy surgery, are highly individualized and best made in a team setting. The most successful surgeries rely on the ability of the team to identify and fully resect the abnormality. The pre-surgical workup and treatment may vary between centers, and always consider a second opinion prior to surgery and especially after previous failed epilepsy surgery. These are the people that I work with and I'd like to acknowledge. Thank you for your time and joining us today. I now understand we have a few questions that I'd like to take a few moments to address. Thank you. So, question one. "Do you take into consideration the dominant hemisphere when you're planning surgery?" Absolutely. The dominant hemisphere is really critical for us to know beforehand. I'll briefly describe what we mean by the dominant hemisphere. So, in most individuals, there's one half of the brain that's particularly Involved in language, which is both our ability to understand and speak. So, in most people, this is on the left side of the brain, but we definitely want to establish just before surgery because what we may recommend will be different if it's in the dominant versus the non-dominant hemisphere of the brain. "Is FCD progressive?" So, generally, focal cortical dysplasia is not thought of as a progressive disorder. It is a developmental disorder, so it's a condition that a child is born with. Now, the seizures by themselves can be progressive. The more time a child's brain is exposed to seizures, the more their ability to-- that--those seizures can spread to other parts of the brain as well. "Do you need intraoperative neural monitoring when you operate?" Yes, absolutely. So, intraoperative neural monitoring is a strategy in which we are monitoring the function of the brain during surgery, whether it is the sensory pathways, the motor pathways, direct recordings of EEG of the brain, and sometimes--now, not commonly in children-- but sometimes we even do awake surgery. Awake surgery gives us our ability to get direct, real-time feedback. And now, if a child is old enough and tolerant enough of an awake surgery, generally in the older teenage populations, they may be able to be awake during the critical part of the operation where we can test their language prior to determine what part of the brain to remove. And lastly, "Can FCD be cured?" So, there is no cure for FCD. Now, the only problem that FCD causes in the brain is epilepsy, so if we're talking about treatments for epilepsy, yes, there are strategies where we can stop seizures. We don't generally think of it as cures, but certainly there are many children that can achieve long-term seizure freedom, and some of these children with no medications at all in the future. Thank you for your time.