Hi there, Michael Yay here from UCLA Health Endocrine Surgery and today I'm going to talk about taking calcium after thyroid surgery. If you're watching this video, it probably means you had a total thyroidctomy. One of the risks of a total thyroidctomy is low blood calcium levels. This happens because the surgery affects all four parathyroid glands. These are the tiny little glands that are attached to the surface of the thyroid that control calcium levels in the body. Remember, there are two on each side for a total of four parathyroid glands. These glands can be become briefly stunned, usually just for a few weeks after surgery. During this time, we can support your calcium levels with supplements. The amount of calcium you'll need to take after surgery is dependent on your parathyroid hormone level, also known as the PTH level. This is measured with a blood test about 1 hour after your surgery. If your PTH levels are good, the calcium dosage is 1,000 mg by mouth twice a day in the form of regular strength Tums, also known as calcium carbonate. And each Tums tablet, regular strength, has 500 mg of calcium carbonate per tablet. How to take it? Two tablets in the morning and two at night. Most patients on this low-level calcium supplementation plan will no longer need supplements by the time of their 2 week post-operative follow-up. If your PTH level is slightly low, you will need some more calcium. Specifically, calcium carbonate 2,000 mg twice a day. That is four Tums tablets twice a day. Then we're going to add a second medication called calcetrial. Once again, calcitrial. That's a prescription form of vitamin D at a small dose 0.25 micrograms twice a day of course by mouth. Calcatrial is a small oval pill that helps your body absorb calcium more effectively. Now if your PTH is quite low after total thyroidctomy then we're going to use a higher dose of calcium and calcatrial. Let's go through the details. Calcium carbonate will then be 2,000 mg three times a day. In other words, four Tums tablets three times a day. And we're going to use a little bit more calcitrial, 0.25 micrograms three times per day. If you're on a high dose regimen of calcium and calcatrial, it means your parathyroid glands are more asleep than usual after surgery. Do not worry. This is usually temporary. What's the process of weaning off calcium and calcatitrial? If you're either on the medium or high dose, we will tell you at your twoe follow-up appointment how to gradually taper off the calcium and calcatrial. It will take about 6 weeks as your parathyroid glands recover. It's important for us to cover symptoms of low blood calcium levels. When you're taking calcium after a total thyroidctomy, it's important to remember that the first sign of low blood calcium levels is a tingly pins and needles feeling around your mouth, lower face, fingers, and sometimes the toes. Very low calcium levels can cause muscle spasms in your hands or your legs or even cramping. If you have any of these sensations, please take four Tums tablets immediately and call our office for advice. Once again, I'm Dr. Michael Y from UCLA Health Endocrine Surgery. Thank you for watching.