So, I was going to feel bad about keeping you inside a dark auditorium talking about the paths we can all be wandering outside from our earlier speaker, but then it's it's the wrong time to be outside anyway. So, it's a good thing you're in here. I'm glad that you're here and hope to have some new interesting technology to tell you about. I'm going to start broadly just by talking about the application of some new brain stimulation technologies in depression and then how we've started applying it in sexual dysfunctions especially that are problems for women but also uh concern some men. So in considering someone who has a diagnosis of depression their brain responds a little bit differently to things in the environment than people who don't have this diagnosis. So if you think about this person kind of walking through their space during their day, they might encounter a number of different types of stimula we would say or different cues and these could be of a variety of different emotional contexts. So in this case we see minion I love the minions that have some uh you know they may be consuming delicious foods and that could make you feel good. Uh they may be doing an athletic activity uh dancing in this case. Uh that could provoke positive emotions. Uh you could see puppies running around. Usually that makes people feel very good. But then there's a negative Nancy out there. Someone who's panic, stressed out. Uh that has the potential of uh causing us to also experience some of those negative emotions. So someone who is depressed, their brain responds a little bit differently to these types of cues than people who don't have that diagnosis in at least a couple of ways. So one of those ways is if we think about the attention that they can pay to these different types of cues is when they're searching, scanning the environment and taking in information, they do it a little bit differently by, for example, attending to these emotional negative cues quite strongly. They'll also look and they'll notice some of the other pleasant. It's not that they don't see them, but they tend to go to those both first. So, you see the attention goes to the negative part of that scene first and then they also tend to continue to focus on it. And what occurs when they continue to focus on it is we can see evidence in the brain in areas that are associated with processing emotional cues that that part of the brain stays more active in people who have depression when they're seeing something that's negative. So, not only are they biased to observe it, to kind of attend more to it, but their brain also seems to be really elaborating on those negative aspects of scenes, but there's also a positivity bias in depression that doesn't work. It's not quite just the reverse. There's a little bit of a nuance in the positivity bias. And so, in this case, what happens if we limit what they're exposed to when you just show someone who has a depression diagnosis something pleasant? So maybe we show them images of puppies in this case. To take more of a real life example, say you know you get a good piece of news. Maybe your sister had her baby. You know, you wake up in the morning, this is kind of the first piece of news you hear. So uh someone who is struggling with depression, uh in the case of these uh puppies that we show them, they do see the puppies. It it gets in. We can show neural evidence that they actually are observing it and taking it in. Um, but what's quite unique about them is even after they have this information is there is an area of the brain that appears to be actively dampening their response to it. So essentially what comes out the other side is yeah the puppies are cute but you know my dog got hit and you know I have this terrible memory uh of what what that used to be like. And in the case of getting the good news, you know, normally if we're not depressed and we get the news that someone's had a baby, we say, "That's wonderful." You might rush to call them. Someone who's depressed might say, "Gosh, you know, I hope the baby's okay. I've heard so many bad things. So many things could still happen." You know, rather than kind of enjoying the positive experience, they tend to dampen it very quickly. So, there are of course a number of different approaches we can take to try and help someone who has depression. many many many treatments are available. There are certainly many pharmacological so different types of pills that you can take to try and treat depression problems. Uh there are also a number of different randomly controlled trials that include uh meeting with a therapist individually or meeting in groups. And there also increasingly some efforts to use meditation. So that's something where you may or may not initially get instruction, but you're doing the therapy more on your own. So when you have all of these different types of approaches and uh people often will go from one to the other or do them kind of in combination trying to find something that helps them. Sometimes we can combi just bombard people with all these different options and still at the other side they're still having suicidal thoughts. They're still having a lot of negativity and struggling with depression and we have some new options. So brain stimulation may be a way of helping some people who have uh resistant who who have treatment resistant depression. That is they've tried other options. Those traditional options haven't really been effective for them. But if you think of brain stimulation, chances are the first thing that probably comes to mind is electrocombulsive therapy or ECT. So this is an older image of it. Uh ECT is still used and it tends to be pretty effective in helping people with treatment resistant depression. So why don't we use it more? Well, there are a number of limitations to it. So, uh the main one perhaps from a science perspective is we're not sure why it works. So, we're pumping in a lot of uh electricity into someone's head. We're not really sure where it's going. We're not really sure what about that electricity is causing them to have and report improvements. And that worries us. There's also memory loss that's associated with electroconvulsive therapy. Although there's some debate about the extent of that loss, like what exactly there is being lost and how long, you know, whether the loss is really permanent or semi-permanent, it goes on for at least a while. Of course, that's concerning. And then there are variety of other side effects that can occur. So when we uh started having some new patents come out recently, this was very exciting for depression in part when we had transcranial magnetic stimulation or TMS start to be applied in this domain. TMS is quite different from electrocomvulsive therapy. So I'm going to try and show this brief video and after it goes through I'll point out some features of it and then play it again so you'll get the second chance. Just raise your hands like this and raise your hands now. Okay. So, what we saw in that image um was in the brain mapping center at UCLA and this was our uh technician Troy Delick and a number of undergrad research assistants and they're using a TMS device. So again, transcranial magnetic stimulation or TMS device. And usually the first thing you do when you start to use this device on someone is everyone's skull and their uh the thickness of the covering of their brain. It varies a little bit. We're not all the same. So you have to always start out uh by figuring out how intense you have to set the TMS device. So what they were demonstrating is exactly that process. One way to and figure out how intense it should be is to figure out how strong you have to crank it to hit someone's motor cortex. So they were positioning the device holding it over an area of her head uh that is responsible for uh movement. It becomes active when people are moving around. And if you uh put energy in, I'll talk a little bit more about how that's done. Then you provoke a motor response. So you were seeing her hand twitch. She didn't do that. the brain sim did it. So on the second uh pass, listen for the clicks. That's the TMS device. And kind of watch her response. Raise your hands like this. Raise your hands now. So we had two motor stimulations there. And you can see just in case it wasn't clear, that first utterance was a giggle. Um that was not uh pain. So generally speaking, the actual stimulations themselves uh should not be painful, especially at this initial um process of kind of setting the threshold that is setting how strong it should be for the individual person. And it turns out that this TMS approach works really well in treatment resistant depression. So if you can see some of the highlights in this summary, uh it just came out a couple of years ago. They're seeing, you know, 35 to 40% of the patients are reaching remission. So, not just improvement, but they're saying they're remitted. Their depression is gone. These are people who have failed with all the other treat with however many other treatment options they may have attempted. And that three months out, they still have 50% remission. I don't know how that sounds from an outside perspective, but from the inside, that's very exciting. Those are very, very strong gains. So with TMS treating for depression, we're usually stimulating an area of the brain called the dorsal prefrontal cortex. It's not really the area we necessarily want to stimulate. If you remember when I mentioned before, that is the um part of the problem in depression is that positivity bias. So they take in positive information but uh the actual experience of it is dampened very rapidly. that actually appears to be occurring more in the vententral medial or VMPFC. But what you'll notice in this plot is that area is kind of hidden away down underneath the brain. And TMS doesn't go very deep. We would say it's cortical. It only gets kind of outside of the brain. So it's hard to reach with TMS. So instead, people tend to stimulate the DLPFC or dorsateral prefrontal cortex. And that's shown in the this person's um figure. So basically this uh the energy uh we have electricity that's pumped through two metal coils and it creates pulses that alter the energy of the neurons that are under the area being stimulated. However, we don't know that the effects from this type of treatment are really at the particular place that we're placing the uh stimulation device. So lots of people are looking at the networks that are then connected to that and trying to understand if you remember from ect we didn't really know where the energy went and that was part of what was scary about using it and maybe what was contributing to some of the side effects now we want to know we want to be able to enhance the effects and also reduce the risks of side effects. So, one of the areas that it that appear to be strongly affected are some of the brain areas that are involved in processing pleasant things and rewards, especially sexual rewards. So, one of the slides I love to show is when you have someone who had a problem with depression and has remitted, so they've gone through some treatment, one of the strongest, clearest places they have improvements in terms of the types of stimula that they can take in or are observing in their environment. The biggest shift occurs with these pink bars. Anyone want to guess what those are? Okay. So, I sexual stimula. Some of you might say porn, but uh we prefer sex stimula. If you've ever heard of the ME Commission on Pornography or people that have concerns about that, um we're concerned somewhat about the potential for biased language there. So, we say sex stimula. I kind of keep it neutral. Um when people uh have improvements in depression, one of the main areas that seems to come back to them is this observing of uh and more deep processing of pleasant things, especially including sex stimula. Now, what's especially nice about that is we've had a handful of studies now looking at brain reactivity in people who have hypoactive sexual desire disorder, which is a mouthful to say low libido. And some of the same areas that are affected in depression are also affected in people who have low drive in terms of their brain response. Now I'm going to go back for a sec because I want to ask a little minor uh participation here. So we've got all these options to treat depression. If you think about low libido and what we have available to treat low libido, what would you guess in terms of therapies, group therapies, how many randomized controlled trials do you think we have to treat low sex drive? Throw out numbers. Terrifying. We have one. It was a trial that was done in France and so far as I know has never been translated. How many medications do you think, and we're going to open this up a little bit, how many pharmaceuticals do you think we have to treat any form of female sexual dysfunction? We have none. So, some people might use this to argue, well, right? Who cares? It's not that big of a deal. To which we would argue, well, the number one reason people quit antidepressant medications is the sexual side effects. Infidelity remains the number one reason people site at least for divorce. So I think it's still a pressing issue even outside of just someone wanting to have a higher libido. It has significant social issues uh involved that we should be able to help people with. So seeing the commonalities between what was happening in depression and that TMS had been useful in depression, we've also tried to apply it to the sexual domain. And now we're going to go high-tech. So uh we conducted a trial where we had people uh participating in brain stimulation and much like if you get a an MRI done or magnetic resonance imaging uh you can't have metal in your head some of these other things have to be ruled out in addition you can't have a family history of seizure disorder it's quite strong or your own of course uh that is a risk of TMS that is it can cause seizures if you're disposed We had both men and women in this initial trial and these were non-patients. We did have more guys come in than women even though the calls were uh initially pretty well balanced. We actually uh put this ad. People often say, "Who does this? Who volunteers for these studies?" Uh we had our ad up for about 30 minutes on Craigslist and had 240 calls and emails. Okay? So don't ever let people tell you people won't do this stuff. We had to turn people away. Recruitment has never been a problem. So we had them participate in two different types of brain stimulation. We use a particular form called beta burst stimulation which is just higher frequency TMS. And one is excitatory that is it increases the likelihood that the neurons are going to fire in the area you stimulate. The other is inhibitory. That means it decreases the neurons in the area that it is that you're going to stimulate. and of course we assume probably has some of those downstream effects as well just like we've seen in some of the depression research. Then we set them up in our lab. Uh so we use a wireless Bluetooth electronography system. So if you've ever heard of EEG, you've probably seen these images with people have this kind of swim cap on all these wires shooting off their head. Uh I used to use those but now there are wireless versions available and so we use those for uh as a part of our study. Uh people were observing these while they were semi-nude. Let me tell you why. They were watching a computer screen where they were told, "You could win something if when the square comes on the screen, you press the button fast enough, you're going to get a little reward." And that reward was seconds of stimulation to their genitals. So, how how to do that? Okay. So, same procedure. I'm g describe what you just saw played for you again. So, what you saw was uh an egg vibrator, which is not ultimately the one we used, but I was so excited when it was working I just took the video right away. So, um we actually use a more intense vibrator now. But uh we use Arduino boards which are pre-fabricated uh that do some basic functions and then you can kind of wire them up to do what you need to do. Connect it to your computer and get your own software to kind of run them and interact with them. Then there were some wire strippers up at top because like I said I was so excited I didn't even clean up. I just like grabbed it right away. It's running. It's running. So, this is a great way to study people's sensitivity to a sexual stimulus. Usually, we use sex films, but of course, there are problems with that. Not everyone's going to like the sex films we picked out, and it means we can't use anyone who doesn't have an orientation to the opposite sex, probably. You know, we can't pick films for every orientation. So, vibrators give us a lot of benefit. These are actually really commonly used in Europe. We're the only lab in the US using them. And then after they participated in this on a Thursday or Friday, we called them up on Monday and said, "Would you tell us how many sex partners you had and how many orgasms you had last weekend and how many drugs you did?" And they were very kind. Everyone filled out the questionnaire afterwards. The $50 probably didn't hurt. So I'm going to tell you just very briefly about uh the types of brain changes that we saw and uh specifically I'm going to talk about an alpha response which is something you can get from electronography or that EEG headset they had on and the reason you should care is because if I just looked at this alpha response from what when they were in the laboratory saw how strongly they responded to that vibrator I could predict 78% of the number of orgasms they were going to have in the weekend. We don't get numbers like this. So, we were extremely excited. Um the relationship between how well you responded to the vibrator in the lab and how many orgasms you had that weekend are quite tightly coupled. And so, this is a primary result. um briefly the form of brain stimulation that increased the activity in the dorsal prefrontal cortex and we assume probably other things downstream strongly increased people's engagement with the vibrator so their brain was like I like this I enjoy this we stimulate their brain and now it's I really like this I enjoy this quite a lot so we were able to really increase their engagement and I think importantly not just when the vibrator was on but we could also look in the anticipation. So, they knew they'd press the button fast enough and it wasn't on just yet. We got great alpha expression there, too. Which means even just anticipating like it's coming, it's coming. Sorry. You know, it's really hard not to make sex jokes, you know. So, um where to go with this? So, um we had to delay putting this information out, um going through a patent process. So hopefully in the next couple of months uh you should be able to hear and read more about the exact details although you will be the only ones who have seen the vibrator in action. Um we start with uncontrolled trials. So because this device is already available on the market we can try this new application and see. Incidentally TMS is being used very widely. They're trying it for applications in chronic pain management. They're trying it for obsessivempulsive disorder and trying to see just how far we can push this, you know, how like if it's likely to be useful in other problems as well. So, we don't control it first just to make sure that the effects are in the right direction. That is hopefully that people are increasing their sexual response over time. There are ways we can start to make it available early, but it will depend on the results of some of those early uncontrolled trials. And of course, the ultimate goal is to have something that's actually going to be useful for people. Low sex drive continues to be the number one complaint that women have in sexual health clinics. To not have any options is absurd. Now the other direction we could go with this is from a study uh we had come out last year where uh for the first time linked people's sexual response in the laboratory. So in this case their brain's response to sexy pictures. Uh we found that people who had more sex partners in their lifetime or no last three months, excuse me, more sex partners in the last three months um responded to all sex cues very strongly kind of regardless of how explicit they were. People who had fewer cues were more discriminating. So they would say yes. Yeah, I I respond to I see that sex cue. But if it's more explicit, I'll respond more. So it just looked like a threshold, right? Like you have a if you have a lot of sex partners, you may have a very low threshold for kind of getting getting excited. Makes sense. So, we're applying it to the low end first, but we could apply it to the high end, right? So, what does that raise? Questions about treatment for pedophilia, someone asked. And I've been asked about treatment for homosexuality. No, let me tell you why. Uh those two things won't work. Uh so, this is something that TMS should help manage drive. It does not help manage the target of that drive. So, the fact that someone is attracted to a same-sex person or that they're attracted to children is something we can't really do anything about and that this treatment does not address. Now, as you've heard me mention several times in here, this is a troubled field. We get in all kinds of uh squables and have challenges getting our work done in the United States especially. So, I just wanted to be sure I thank my intrepid investigators who were willing to go on this trip with me and um happy to talk to people in the salon afterwards. Should be fun.