 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to organ donation in a very human and accessible way. I mentioned that your medical specialty is nephrology. Let's just break that down for our listeners. What's nephrology? So nephrology is just a fancy word for specialty in kidneys. And just want to point out that it's part of medicine, not surgery, because a lot of people confuse us with surgeons that do the transplant. So this is a medical aspect. And we take care of all aspects of kidney disease and kidney health from prevention to transplant. Which brings me to, tell us about the kidneys. I would love to. So as you mentioned, they are a fist-sized organ in the back and under the ribs. And they work 24-7. They act as filters. And their prime job is to purify the blood and get rid of the waste products. But they do a lot more than that. They get rid of excess of water or preserved water. If you are dehydrated, they will try to conserve it. Acid-based electrolytes, which we've got potassium, sodium, calcium, phosphorus, the acid load in your body, that's really about the kidneys. But it has a lot more functions than that. Hormonal functions. The vitamin D that you ingest or get from the sunlight is not active till it goes to the kidneys. So if you have kidney disease, then you become vitamin D deficient, even if you're taking vitamin D. So family history is very important. Know your family history. Well, because once you know your family history, I think sometimes I think people feel overwhelmed by genetics because they're like, well, what am I supposed to do with that information? But I'm guessing then, even if you know, you tell me, but if you know you have a genetic predisposition or a heightened risk factor, tell me what you can do with that information. So the two things. One is what we call the monogenic. That is a single gene. And for example, polycystic kidney disease. It's a single gene mutation. You go in and you get tested. So there is a broad panel testing now. So the future of medicine, not just nephrology, is three things, in my opinion. Three big pillars. Number one is AI, artificial intelligence. The second is immunology. And the third is genetics. And genetics could be monogenic. That means a single gene. And you can get tested for that. You go in, you ask your doctor saying that, hey, I have kidney disease. It runs in my family. Can you test me for any genetic cause? The other is what we call polygenic. That means multiple genes. And that is example type two diabetes. So you really can't test. I mean, you can, but for most of them you can't test. But it runs in your family. Everybody in your family, from one side or the other, is diabetic. There's a pretty good chance you'll be. And it doesn't how you look or what you are at very high risk of getting diabetic. And I have to ask, how much water am I supposed to be drinking every day? Yeah. So that also depends upon if you're working out, if you're sweating, if you're in Arizona, where it's very hot. So one thing I would say, if you don't drink enough water, that's really bad for the kidneys. Because kidneys are the most vascular organ in your body. 25% of what your heart pumps goes to the kidneys. So when you say vascular blood flow, like veins and arteries. So 25% of the blood that your heart pumps, 25, goes to the kidneys. Because they purify the blood. It makes sense. So the kidneys do like to be hydrated. And that's why we have this water drink. But Anjay, how do I know? Do I have to pee clear? Do I have to drink enough water to pee clear? That's for sure. Yes. I do? Yes. Or is that the question? Oh. No. But then you might be taking multivitamins that might make your urine pee. So I think it is. I would say if you're not excessively sweating or losing, I would say about a liter and a half, basically a body size. If you're Shaquille O'Neal, it's very different. So general guideline though. Episode 14, your voice, your care, the power of planning ahead. Our guests are Dr. Neil Wenger, Dr. Annie Walling, and Shawnee Smith. This was a beautiful example of how hard conversations make life actually easier. Talking about advanced care planning isn't morbid. It's loving and empowering. And I was so impressed by how thoughtful this conversation was about this often unavoidable and difficult topic. In your own words, what is advanced care planning? I think the simplest way to think about advanced care planning is communication. So I think the most, and you give such a good example, just at the beginning of the intro to this podcast, really talking to your health care team and to your family about what's most important to you and how that might relate to various health care decisions. I love the emphasis on communication because I think for a lot of people, their minds are instantly going to go to documents. So I love that really why it matters most and what does it really mean is about communication. I don't know if you have any other thoughts, Shawnee or Neil. I would add that it's communication about what's important to a person. So just as your dad was communicating with you about things that would be important to him in the future, that's what advanced care planning is all about. I do think that a lot of our patients, my friends, my family have the necessary myths, but maybe some misconceptions, I think, that would be helpful to clear up a little bit. And I'd love to know like, Shawnee, what do you say to someone who says, I'm hearing you, you're talking to me about an advanced directive, but I think of that as giving up. No, absolutely not. It's just beginning a conversation of, in the event if something happened, what would you want? Like just making sure we're honoring your wishes, making sure that we're not taking on the hospitals, not giving measures that maybe you want or do not want, making sure you have a voice if you are unable to speak. I would imagine that this process would also just invite everyday reflection, right? So even in this process, I hear that you want all these decisions made, but actually step back and reflect like, what matters to you, right? So it's not just like what matters to you in the future, but am I imagining that that just maybe it also invites people to sort of say, actually no, actually let me think about how I do define my quality of life or what do I love about being alive? And yeah, absolutely. I think it's a continuum. Yes, because I think if we're always constantly thinking about what matters most, we can make choices to make our quality of life every day the best it can be. And so I think it's basically just thinking about that now and for the future. Right, and in fact, it's a way of making explicit that what we're aiming for is shared decision making. Now this is a special kind of shared decision making, looking toward the future. But if in fact, in that doctor-patient relationship, the expectation is the patient is gonna be fully informed and make decisions that are real, that are real possibilities with their clinician, with the support of their family, that's really what advanced care planning is aiming at. Episode 15, a doctor, her best friend, in stage four cancer, life interrupted. Early onset colon cancer, Julie's story, I guess was Julie Clower. This episode was deeply personal. Julie is my childhood best friend and she shared her diagnosis and what it means in her life, her identity and for her family. And I am so grateful for her courage and her advocacy and her friendship. So I thought maybe we could start, and just for context for everyone, to take us back to March, 2018. Could you tell us a little bit about where you were in life and work at that time? Yeah, so I just had a baby, my first baby, then I was so excited to be a new mom. She was seven months old. I was consulting, doing marketing consulting at the time. I just kind of had finished up a contract for the week. And that day, there was a day where I was having some rectal bleeding and the first thing I did was call you to say, what do I do? I was at dinner with a friend and I'm outside drostanolone, I remember it so clearly talking to you saying, what do I do? This was actually on a Thursday. You said you need to go in and see a primary care doctor because you were in Los Angeles. I was in Chicago at the time. And so I didn't have a primary care doctor at the time because I had moved to Chicago and then I had my OB and she was really my doctor that I went to for everything. So I thought, so I found a doctor, made an appointment, went in on Friday. And he said, I'm your little anemic, you've had this bleeding, so I want you to do a colonoscopy. But don't worry, it's not cancer or anything. I think you might have like IBS or something like that. And so I went down the path of searching who should do a colonoscopy because I'm a complete researcher and not, and I'm like, well, I want to make sure I have the best person for me to do a colonoscopy. And it was about a five week wait to get a colonoscopy. And then that weekend, so this was on a Friday, I finished up the consulting project I was doing. And then that weekend, I started having horrible cramping. And of course, I was like, speed that with you the whole time. And then went to the ER on Monday morning and was in the ER, wondering what it was. It really felt like I was having contractions, like baby contractions, it was that kind of pain. And they did a CAT scan and about a couple hours later. So I'm in the ER and a couple hours later, they said the doctor came in, he was very kind, but I had no idea who he was. And he said, you have colon cancer and you have lesions in your liver. And I was like, first of all, of course, like so confused. So no idea what he was talking about. I had no history, no family history, nothing that would point to that. I was a relatively healthy person, just having had a baby. And that was my diagnosis. It really feels like, and actually I know this to be true, that you've partnered with your docs, one of them being the medical oncologist. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what that care team is. When we say care team, right? So there's a medical oncologist, but tell us about your care team. And I guess how you talk about all of this with them over time. Yes, so my medical oncologist is a huge part of my care team and his nurse practitioner is also a big part of my care team. And the two of them work very closely together, but they play different roles in terms of when I'm having, you know, a side effect or something that I need treated. I usually will talk to her sometimes over him, when I need like strategy on my treatment, I talk to him. And not that that's the case with every medical oncologist, it's just I know my team and what they are good at and how they kind of think and approach things. You play to their strengths. I play to their strengths. And I think, you know, so they're core to my cancer care team, but you are core to my team. I call you my PCPBFF, my primary care physician, best friend forever. Or we call you Dr. Petunia in my house because your Petunia is our nickname for you. So when I'm asking a doctor question, I'll say I'm like, edit that out. I need to talk to Dr. Petunia. But and it's interesting because I have a lot of friends who have cancer who don't have a primary care doctor anymore because their oncologist has become their primary person because pretty much most things are related. But what I realized is like when I had COVID, like I called you because that has nothing to do with my cancer necessarily. And you make sure that anything you tell me to do related to that, that if you think there's going to be an interaction or an issue to talk to my oncologist. So, you know, understanding what people's scope and lanes are and having them play that role as best as possible, everything is an urgent. And so, you know, you sit there and you're like, this cancer is inside of me. Like we have to do something right away. And yeah, you can't just let it go for months. And you know, depending on the aggressive, I had a pretty aggressive cancer. So it's not, you know, couldn't, it's not like I could go months. But a couple of weeks here, it's okay. Like you can take breaks from chemo if you need to, if you have an important vacation or something that you want to do, like it's not, everything isn't as urgent. And I think that is a rub when your first diagnosis, it's really hard because you call like a doctor's office and you know, you make an appointment. And they're like, yeah, we'll see you in three months. And you're like, no, but I'm dying today. You know, kind of thing. And you want to have a plan, right? You want to have a plan. And so getting to that plan, once you have the plan, it's a lot easier, but getting to that plan is tough. But I would just say that it may not seem as urgent and concerning to everybody else because like they've, the medical care team has been through this and they know, like it's okay if you wait three weeks for the surgery, but you don't know that. So asking those questions, I think is really important. Episode 16, a doctor, her best friend in stage four cancer, moving beyond survival, living with metastatic cancer. Our guest again was Julie Clower, more wisdom, more honesty. And some laughter even than you'd ever expect from a conversation about cancer. And for me, it was real reflection on friendship, medicine, and in a way, appreciating the complexity of being a doctor and friend to someone who's suffering. We talked about being an advocate for yourself, right? Even being in an exam room, stopping doctors when let's say they're not being as attentive or they're dismissing you or feeling rushed. I want to talk a little bit how you've been an advocate for yourself and how that's looked like in practice. So maybe we could even just talk about how you actually ended up choosing the right doctor for you. Right, so I went on a interview tour for oncologists and I knew the oncologist kind of becomes your core person. So you have a bunch of people on your care team, but the oncologist always kind of comes back to the oncologist, the medical oncologist in cancer care. So I knew it was gonna be a long term or hoping it was gonna be a long term because that meant I was surviving doctor. And when I went to these different oncologists who all were really, really smart, really, really good, I mean, I couldn't have made a bad choice in terms of experience and skill and perspective. But what I was really looking for is somebody that connected like decision making and communication style for me. And who ended up being my oncologist during that appointment, he said to me, is you're gonna go to these different oncologists and we're all probably gonna tell you the same thing. Cause at the time the treatment was very clear. The first treatment was very clear for my disease. And he said, we're all gonna tell you the same thing. Well, you know, he said, but there's an art to medicine, which again was the first time I'd ever even thought about that, right? Cause I think of it as such like a scientific black and white, you know, medical thing. And he said, let me ask you, have you ever had a Margarita? And I said, yes, I have. And he said, have you ever had two Margaritas? I said, yes. And he said, they all have the same ingredients, but did they taste the same? And I said, no. And he said, because it's different, who's mixing it? How, you know, it's different to bar your in everything. You know, it can change, it can change how that tastes. And so it's, so they, all the oncologists have the same tools, but how they apply them can be different. But I'm curious too, about the support systems in the community, right? So meaning outside the hospital, outside the clinics. And could you talk about maybe some that you have found especially helpful? Yeah. So I think it's very important to talk to other patients who have a similar disease as you may not be exactly the same cause we're all different, but as close as you can to your disease. So I found that very early on in a community called Cullen Town, which is from the name you can tell that I like it cause I had the sense of humor that comes with having a disease. Right, it's like made of Legos. Yeah, totally. And it's an amazing community of patients and caregivers who have all had the lived experience. And it also has a bunch of different subgroups, neighborhoods as we call them, that are for different pieces of the disease. So like when I had liver, Mets, which is tumors in my liver, the liver lovers lane, that was like my primary place I went was liver lovers lane because those people were dealing with a similar experience. Then when the disease went to my lungs and my bone, well there's Legos land for bone Mets and it's treated entirely different. It's the same disease, it's colon cancer, it's in my, but it's, but the treatment and the modalities and also the speed at which the tumor grows and all that. So having people that have had that lived experience is really powerful. And then also things that aren't even necessarily cancer related, there's a PTA, which for parents who, and so in there we talk about like how to talk to your kids about the disease. So finding people that you can connect on your disease, either specifically about the disease or specifically about living with the disease in your life and other things that you care about in your life is I think extremely valuable. Lots of different things that people that have a diagnosis need, just like anything in life, anybody that's going through any kind of trial. Earlier you had Dr. Richards, that her name, that talks about, yeah, talking about matrescence when you go into motherhood that your life changes. And there really is a corollary here that when you get that diagnosis, like you are learning to navigate the life in a totally different way and that means your relationships are gonna change too. So being a friend and a support to somebody with a diagnosis I think understanding that there'll be probably a change to your friendship, not maybe like in a very overt way, but embracing that because that's the hardest thing is feeling like you've lost friends. When really it's you haven't lost the friend, the friendship might have changed and morphed. And I think this diagnosis has brought you and I back closer together. Episode 17, who's really in charge here? A guide to navigating a hospital stay. Our guest was Dr. Ashley Bousetel. The response to this episode was immediate. It was put this on repeat in every waiting room. It demystified hospital care from admission to discharge and it was long overdue and really just showed the humanism of our amazing hospital providers. So Ashley, let's just start with the basics. Okay. What exactly is a hospitalist? So I do think your introduction was quite on point with referring to a hospitalist as your quarterback but inside the hospital as opposed to inside the clinic. Hospital medicine actually has been around for some time. It started back in the late 90s and even before then in a lot of health systems in Europe. But it's interesting to me that not a lot of people know the term. And what happened back in the 90s is healthcare costs were really skyrocketing. That was coming to the forefront of everybody's attention and hospitals realized that they really needed to make sure that the care of their patients while they were in the hospital was really efficient. And the old model was primary care doctors would wake up in the morning, they would go see whatever patients they had that happened to be hospitalized in the hospital. They would go to their clinic, they would stay in their clinic all day and then maybe they would go back to the hospital in the evening and see those patients. So it was not really 24 seven care for those that were the sickest in the hospital. And I think if you're a patient, you want your doctor to be available. So hospitals realized that they really wanted somebody on site there all the time being able to address the changes that patients were undergoing while they were there. And I think the second component is medical care has just frankly gotten more complex. There's so much innovation. There's so, it's just so much bigger than like when you and I trained. Exactly. You know, and I think about what you do in the clinic. It's such a different skill set. Such different medicine than what I do in the hospital for a patient who's there for a more acute illness. Any advice for how they can be advocates for themselves? I mean, again, I'm sensitive to the fact that they don't feel great usually, but for their families. It's hard to just keep track of all the information. How are they gonna feel reassured, I guess, for this critical handoff of being discharged, of leaving the hospital, transitioning out? I think it's important for people who are ill like that to recognize maybe some of their limitations when they need a family member or a friend to really help them. I mean, you know, I just think about it, like you're in the hospital. There's stuff going on through the night. You know, you might be left without eating because you have some procedure and you're not allowed to eat. Exactly. You're in potentially hospital, but you're not feeling your best, right? No. You're not at your primary decision-making place. Exactly, no, exactly. Very hard. So I think maybe having compassion for yourself and realizing when you need to ask for help, a partner to kind of hear the medical advice. Even you can say to your doctor, I need someone else to participate in this. Can you call my daughter? I think that's such an important reminder, whether you're in the hospital or out of the hospital. Patients, I mean, exactly, especially when they've had chronic illnesses or we can learn together. Yeah, I actually try to be very clear about that, not just in terms of, you know, admitting if I don't know something, I have no problem doing that at all. But being clear with patients, like this aspect of whatever it is, it's clear. We know what's going on here. Here's the plan with it. We're really trying to still work this out. We're not sure what's going on here because I think for a patient, it's important to understand that. In addition to, I think, you know, a little bit of reassurance to being like, oh, they're not pretending like they know everything. Like, you know. Episode 18, Leading with Heart. From public policy to personal struggle, our guest was Dr. Felicia Nall. This is a powerful story of loss, advocacy, global health leadership, and what it means to be your own champion. And one of the many things that stood out to me from this conversation is it really emphasized one of our favorite themes we have on the podcast, which is being your own advocate. Dr. Nall is an amazing ambassador for this message while sharing her very personal story of being a cancer survivor. I'd love to start today's episode talking about you and your background. And maybe we could start with your personal journey with breast cancer, of course. And thank you. So this year, well, very especially this year, my 18th year since my diagnosis, which was in October of 2007. And with no family history, no reason to suspect or worry about it in my first baseline mammogram at age 41. In a small clinic in Cuernavaca in Morelos in Mexico, I was diagnosed with an invasive breast cancer. Stage two, let's call it. Luckily, triple positive. So there was so much to be done with that cancer, which is a message that women need to understand, that now, today, some of the most aggressive form of breast cancer is the most treatable, in great part because of a discovery at UCLA Health, of Tristuzumab, of Herceptin. So I was diagnosed with this very invasive breast cancer, this very aggressive breast cancer. Again, age 41, my children were 11 and three. And with no reason to suspect, and it turns out that I do not have BRCA, even though Ashkenazi Jewish Heritage is mine. So we went into this kind of blind. I had never worked on that topic before. It was not my issue. I'd worked quite a bit on issues of children with cancer and access to education, but this was all new. This is why I also said you don't have a mastectomy for cosmetic reasons. Exactly, oh my gosh, exactly. So it's a series, it's for a different reason. But so going back to that. So first I think there's a lot we could do to prevent some of that. If not abandonment, to improve the way that your partner can support you. Whoever your partner is, by the way, male, female, or other gender. But the other thing that we're beginning to do a lot more work on is, and I have another Lancet commission on this, the level of violence against women and children is horrendous. We are speaking about one in three women globally, globally, everywhere in the world. And at least one in five children, girls and boys. And what we can reasonably hypothesize is that that kind of physical and emotional and mental trauma makes you much more susceptible to different diseases. It's been hard to prove, but I don't think it's without correlation that the trauma can affect the biology and the cellular level and make you much more likely to get many things. So that's one. But the other is that the whole survivorship part of a cancer journey, breast or otherwise, is tremendously affected when you have suffered violence or when you suffer violence like abandonment during that process. We should teach young men how to explore breasts. Because it's not that uncommon that it's actually a partner who finds the lump and not the woman herself. That is how it happened to a friend of mine. Yeah, absolutely. So if we coupled that with an idea of, okay, gentlemen, here's how you actually can effectively fondle a breast. They'll learn how to do that respectfully and think about all that it means to be a healthy breast. So I actually think we could combine it with all sorts of important health education and message about dignity and womanhood. But at the same time, think, well, five, 10 years down the line, they may actually be finding in their partner something. Right. That's like my hope that we could combine breast health with all sorts of other issues that we need to work on. When there's a moment when you see something beautiful and you feel well, it really strikes you. In other words, when we're healthy, we don't appreciate it the same way. Most of the moments in our day, we feel good. We feel okay and we go through our day. When most of your moments, you don't feel well and you have one that's special, it really stands out. And I talk about that in the book, moments with my daughters, moments when I looked at a flower and thought that is just stunningly beautiful. The awe. The awe, but it's a moment in time. And you don't get that unless you've lost it. And then you get it back. And now I miss that kind of awe. And I think, I've got to have that awe because I don't have to feel horrible most of the hours in the day to think about the awe of something beautiful in front of me. And so what I try to do, also in a lot of the work I do, is think, if you're living in a shantytown that is gray and cold and frightening and there's a lot of illness, you deserve to have flowers. And one of my great mentors, wrote one of the fours of the book, Paul Farmer, was always speaking about how to beautify and dignify the places that the poor live. So he would put koi koi into hospitals in remote poor areas of Haiti. He'd say, why? Because the poor also deserve to have flowers and fish and something beautiful to see. It makes a huge difference in life, to mark those moments and celebrate them and internalize them. And I think when we're healthy, we forget that. Episode 19, sleep science, why we sleep, what happens when we don't and how to fix it. Counting more than cheap, our guest was Dr. Ravi Asola. This was part one of our very popular episodes on sleep health. We did a deep dive about the science of sleep, including the stages, some rules that will lead to sleep success and tips to stop self-sabotage. While it was about sleep, it was also a very active and informative conversation. We deep dove into the biology of sleep, stages, hormones, rhythms, and self-sabotage. The tips in this episode changed people's sleep the week that it aired. Why don't we just start with basics? What exactly is sleep? Why do we even do it? So this is the question that always comes up first, right? And it's a question that pretty much we talk about almost at every conference and there's a lecture about it. Why do we sleep? Evolutionarily, all animals sleep. And it doesn't make a lot of sense. You're not reproducing, you're not feeding, and you're extremely vulnerable. So why is it conserved? And the short answer,  and alfalfa. So, what we give is the price you pay for having a complex brain. And if you want to have a nervous system and have a nervous system that's capable of doing all the things that our nervous system is capable of doing, it needs time to reorganize and rest. Simply put. So, that's why we sleep. I want to back up a little bit because you mentioned high blood pressure. So, I guess that's the question about maybe you could connect some of those dots for us, which is how does I guess chronically lousy sleep or suboptimal sleep, again, whether it's caused by frequent awakenings, breathing, how does that raise the risk for certain medical conditions? That's a very good question. And I think the most evidence we have in regards to this risk is related to sleep-related breathing problems. And just for a moment, I just want to pause for a second and say that right now, we treat really obvious problems. People who don't breathe right at sleep, when they're asleep and their oxygen levels drop, when we do sleep studies, it's not subtle. We see people's breathing disrupted. There's no airflow. Oxygen is dropping from 90s, sometimes down to the 80s, 70s, 60s, dangerous levels. When I give lectures to the trainees, the medical residents and students, I show them an example of what we see on a sleep study. And I say, if this person was awake, they'd be in an intensive care unit. But this is happening every night, 20, 30, 40 times an hour they're having disrupted sleep in a drop in oxygen. That's a really profound way to frame it. But I appreciate you saying that it's normal, meaning that not having a great night of sleep is normal. I'm going to say a little bit, tell me if you agree or don't, about feelings of anxiety and depression. It is normal to have feelings of anxiety and depression, to have to feel stressed out. But when it becomes debilitating, when it starts affecting your relationships, your mood, your memory, your work, that's when, let's go get some help. And I think this is helpful when we talk about insomnia. And you can tell me if I'm wrong, I'm guessing it's one of the most common sweet problems. When it becomes something to worry about. Yeah. I think you hit the nail on the head with the term when it becomes something to worry about. And as an ICU physician and a sleep doc, I often compare and contrast as people say, how do you, or how did you do both? In the ICU, your sickest patient takes up most of your time. Right. And ICU is intensive care, right? Intensive care unit. The most sick. Yes. And that's when you get to your time. In the sleep clinic, often our most sick patients are people who have heart issues and breathing problems. They're actually pretty straightforward if we treat the breathing problem. The patients that take the most time are the worried well, or those who have insomnia. And an example would be a person coming in saying, doc, I'm not sleeping well. And okay, we talk about what's going on in their life, things that may be stressing them out. And it's not uncommon for me to hear, no doc, I'm not stressed about anything. My life is great. My kids are fine. Finances are fine. Work is fine. I just can't sleep. And I was like, okay. So what is it that is stressing you out? The lack of sleep. If I could just get sleep, then everything would be okay. And that desire to achieve sleep, often which goes along with certain personality types were not comfortable tolerating discomfort and would rather fix it, are predisposed to that situation. So often the conversation I try to steer towards the understanding that sleep is not something that we have to try and do. Sleep is something that happens on its own when we remove the obstacles that are preventing it, whether that's behavioral or physiologic, meaning breathing problems. Episode 20, sleep science. Why we sleep? What happens when we don't and how to fix it? Sleep FAQs, our guest was Dr. Ravi Aswala. In part two of the sleep series, we continued our conversation on melatonin, snoring, breathwork and meditation. Pure gold for anyone who's tired of being tired. Let's just start with the first one. Do women need more sleep than men? No. While we're on that topic though, this comes up a lot because people have teenagers, myself included. Why do they sleep so late? Yes, this is a great question and I think something that has been a victory for sleep science in the sleep world is what we know is our circadian rhythm or our sleep and wake rhythm as it relates to how the sun revolves around the earth is not the same throughout the lifespan. The stereotype of the lazy teenager actually comes from physiology where the sleep phase shifts later. Teenagers have a tendency to want to stay awake later and wake up later. We call that the delayed sleep phase. That's normal. Based on research done by a number of individuals, including Judith Owens on the East Coast, have demonstrated that by changing school start times, having middle school and high school start a little bit later, that resulted in improvements in everything from car accident rates for these teen drivers as well as emotional health and performance. That is normal. Speaking of partners, I think we talked a little bit about sleep apnea in the last episode. Sometimes, what's the best, most sensitive way to talk to a partner about their snoring or their gasping? No shame, no blame. People get really sensitive. Yes, people do get very sensitive. I've seen a number of different strategies. Everything from the heavy handed I'm grabbing you and taking you to the doctor no matter what to the, okay, I'll just record you. Oh, okay. I like it. The recording is often pretty convincing when people hear that, what it sounds like when they're asleep. I will tell you some of the worst snores have no idea that they snore. Once they hear it and then they hear the, that occurs when they're waking up from it, that tends to move the needle a little bit more. I always have patients who are surprised that when they're grieving that their sleep cycles are, that they're not sleeping well. It's the first thing that gets disrupted when we're stressed and whether positive things that we're looking excited about something or deeply hurtful things. Dreams are fascinating, specifically in that I have not seen a good correlation between how much REM sleep someone has, which we're measuring during a sleep study, not routinely otherwise, and what they recall from their dreams. I've read sleep studies where I've seen a person get a whole bunch of REM sleep and I've asked them afterwards and they don't remember any of their dreams. Others get a sliver of it and they'll tell me a whole story about what's happened. Dreams are fascinating. My oversimplification in those terms is there's REM sleep, there's a lot of activity going on in the brain and that activity is coming into the centers in the brain that are normally used to getting input from other senses and during wakefulness. Those other systems aren't feeding in to the signals that are currently getting up into the brain. The brain has to make up a story and the story that it makes up for all these signals is based on what it knows. It's history, it's predispositions. Episode 21, Safe Sex, Why It Always Matters. Our guest was Dr. Raifi Landewitz. I loved this conversation with Raifi. We actually had so much fun talking about very serious infections. He's got a great way of explaining often difficult subjects with thoughtfulness, care, and a candidness that made our conversation flow very beautifully. It's really unfortunate that even in 2025, infectious diseases and sexually transmitted infectious diseases and even more specifically HIV are still so stigmatized. It complicates people being tested, people seeking care if they have one of these infections. Even there are these very powerful medicinal tools that we have now to prevent people from getting these sexually transmitted infections and people will not seek them out again because they are terrified of the stigma associated with even being considered in a category of person likely to encounter these infections. I've also remarked in preparing for our chat today how at least in the 80s when I took the health class 90s, whatever, that we used to say safe sex and I'm seeing now more people are using the term safer sex. Are you seeing that? Yeah, absolutely. I think because of the idea is you want to use the comparative adjective. I love it. Throwing myself back to 10th grade English. Right. What's safe in 2025? Crossing Wilshire Boulevard is not safe. Everything is relative. I like to think of it honestly when I talk to people about occupational hazards. If you're going to be sexually active and most of us are going to make that choice, you want to understand what the opportunities are to be exposed to various infections and then you have a conversation with your doctor or your provider. What's going to be an acceptable risk? Something like lubrication help enforce that barrier and lower that risk. It doesn't enforce the barrier but it does reduce the friction. Yes, it is helpful in reducing that risk because it is less likely not zero but less likely to disrupt that layer. The one thing you really need to be careful of with the lubricants is a lot of lubricants also have chemicals in them, particularly ones that are intended to prevent pregnancy in particular. Have chemicals, there's one called aninoxinol 9 in particular that actually can be more irritating to these sensitive, fragile tissues and when a tissue gets irritated then it's actually even more susceptible to an infection. Episode 22, safe sex part 2. Again, it still always matters. Part 2 of my conversation with Dr. Landewicz was just as wonderful and informative. The series was full of so much takeaways for our viewers and listeners. Can't wait to have him back on the pod again. Conorrhea, informally and colloquially known as the clav. It's been around for forever. It's a bacteria, again, genital contact, mucous membrane contact. It's of all of the sexually transmitted infections, it's the one that is the most and I'm going to use this word very carefully, purulent. They can cause a sore throat that can be very difficult to distinguish from strep throat. In the genital area there's often pus like discharge, not always. Pain with urination, vaginal discharge, pain with having a bowel movement, all are reasons to get checked out. Go see someone if you have any of these symptoms. Please. And to not be shy about it, you're mentioning pus and purulent, I can barely say that word. One of our producers might have a question about the green discharge, which is green discharge, pus, etc. I think people get really freaked out and then they get not only freaked out because you see that coming out of your own body, but then they're like, oh my God, I'm going to go show someone. I just want us both to remind our listeners, we do not get grossed out by pus or discharge. We've seen it all. It stinks, it could look gross to you. It does not bother us. I cannot emphasize that enough. Thank you for bringing that up, Eve. I think a lot of people get scandalized by pus, by pee, by poop, by vomit, blood. Here is the God's honest truth. Doctors literally are immune to being grossed out by that. Literally, this probably comes with what I do. I adore pus. So here's why. No, seriously, here's why. First of all. Do you have that on your license plate? I should. I should. Puss under pressure causes a tremendous amount of pain and problems in people's bodies. If you can get pus out of somebody's body. Your basic infected pimple. Well, don't pop pimples, please. It's a different story. But same idea. Spontaneously comes out. Same idea. Exactly. Yes. Puss always better outside than inside. You had hearts. You're a syphilis for a moment. I think for a lot of people it sounds like it is in another century. I was actually just reading about Paul Gauguin, the artist, and him, all the amazing artwork he did, even despite having syphilis. But is syphilis still a sexually transmitted infection we need to worry about? It is. It is. And as much as we would like for it to be gone, it's not. The other classic story is Henry VIII and his madness, which may have been caused by either the syphilis or the mercury treatment, full disclosure, spoiler alert. We don't use mercury anymore. But yes, syphilis is around. It's another bacteria. It's a kind of bacteria that's a little bit special. It's called a spirochete, which basically means it looks like a rotini under a microscope. Sorry, pasta fans. But yeah. So it also is sexually transmitted and little known fact, more than even gonorrhea and chlamydia, it loves oral sex. You can get any of those three greatest hits from oral sex. Syphilis for some reason, particularly likely to be transmitted through oral sex. Episode 23, Hope for Chronic Pain, Science Meets Compassion. Our guest was Dr. Tom Strauss. This was an amazing episode of how science does meet compassion and for anyone living with pain or loving someone who does, this episode brought a lot of validation and especially a lot of hope. Before we get into the science, I just want to acknowledge all the lingo that we use in medicine. This topic in particular, I think, is kind of full of a lot of terms and acronyms. So if we could just step back for a second. Can we just define the difference between acute and chronic pain? Yes. So I think we started to. Acute pain is usually in response to an identifiable provocation or event. It serves a purpose to the person experiencing it, which is to stop doing stuff. Or if you're recovering from an operation, not get up and run around the block into your stitches of healed, et cetera. And most clinicians and researchers in the field define chronic pain as pain that lasts for three months or longer. And again, in terms of a phenomenon that has really stopped making sense in the standpoint of providing an important warning or other information. And I know pain is hard. I mean, whether there's a latter approach, like, again, I'll just use back pain as an example. And I guess, unless you need surgery, often there's a staged approach of first rest or do gentle stretching or do some physical therapy, take some Advil. Is this the type of treatment for, let's just say for the neuropathic pain where a patient has already tried, let's say, oral medications? Typically yes. Okay. And that hasn't been enough. Yes. So if you're an occasional person who's resourceful and hates the idea of ever taking a medication, who finds us and if they're referring physician as supportive of this, maybe starts with what we offer, but that's the rarity. Most folks have kind of worked their way down those algorithms that you just described that I know are a big part of primary medical care practice and have sort of, their problem has declared itself to be not either adequately or at all responsive to standard treatment. If we can't see the pain, it isn't real. Yeah. Ask anybody with chronic pain if that's true. Right. Well, I think that speaks to, right, this sort of, if it's invisible, that it's not valid. My best friend was actually on the podcast a few weeks ago. She has metastatic colon cancer and she was saying something that's really hard is that sometimes she's doing immunotherapy right now and so right now, she has tons of gorgeous hair and people don't, people undermine how poorly she feels. You don't look sick, so you can't feel sick. And I think that's why pain is so difficult, but again, I just, again, really admire your work because I just think it's not, it acknowledges who we are as human beings, right? This confluence of physical, emotional, spiritual, electrical beings. Yes. Yes. And ultimately we're relying on somebody's self-report, not a blood test, not a imaging study, not a genetics. Episode 24, shared decision making, changing how medicine listens. Our guests were Dr. Chris Seigel and Laurie Smith. This episode came about because the concept of shared decision making has been a common theme in some capacity in almost every episode during our season. There's this terrific growing movement to bring patients to the center of their own medical choices with a more collaborative approach with their providers. And as a primary care physician myself, I really, really enjoyed breaking this down. So you both heard my very quick take on what shared decision making means, but I'm going to ask you both, how do you define it? And Chris, maybe I'll just start with you. Sure. Well, there's literally hundreds of definitions out there. The National Quality Forum, I was part of that effort to sort of to have a consensus definition. And really what it is, is a process of communication where clinicians and patients come together, use evidence to make optimal medical decisions for patients that aligns with their goals and preference. So that's really the standard way to look at it. It's a process of communication. But the informed consent, again, these are things I thought always kind of existed, but when did that kind of the informed consent come up, do you think? Is that 60s, 70s? Yeah, I think so too, which is fascinating. Yeah. Oh, it is fascinating. I mean, doctors really had carte blanche. And of course, they were all well intentioned. I mean, they were a medical culture. That was their role. But I think there's just in general, the relationship of people to experts has changed. Information has changed. So physicians have evolved over time as well. Right. Why do you think the relationship has changed, though, to doctors? Well, I think access to information is so much greater for patients. People can go and find whatever answer they want, whether it's right or wrong. And so I think that's part of it. And physicians are changing, and patients are changing at the same time. Even the demographics of physicians themselves. That's correct. Training is changing a little bit. You see programs like Narrative Medicine, Columbia, and so forth that are really about drawing the story out of the patient. So I think those things are all good and changing. I think the other piece of it, of course, is for better or for worse, pharmaceutical advertising. So you're having people see things on TV or hearing them on the radio and going in and asking about these things. You of course have chat GPT now, or any other platform, where you can ask your questions and something reasonably professional comes back. Again, whether it's right or wrong, there's a lot of information seeking already happening. If I'm the patient and I'm getting told I need a knee replacement or I have terrible arthritis in my knee that could be either go to PT or who has this conversation with me? What's the tool? So you guys are so beautifully scripting this, but do I have a script as a primary care doctor if my patient comes to me? How are these tools employed? Sure. Yeah, that's a conversation that could take a very long time in clinic. And as a primary care physician, you're probably dealing with an average of eight to 12 other issues given what the visit is. And so the best way to do this is to really give the patient the time and space to learn about what the options are, what the pros and cons are, and then reflect on their goals and values and how they relate to the decision. And so what if I can mention it? Yes, you can, of course. So our company that we have developed with underlying technology from Dr. Seigel here actually has an approach that engages patients in that educational process and in that self-reflection process. Episode 25, The Hidden Heroes, the essential work of a pharmacist. Our guest was Dr. Melissa D'Analpho. And this episode was a particularly fun one for me because I got to interview my very long-time friend who also happens to be on the forefront of women in the field of pharmaceutical science. I love taking a deep dive into the history of pharmacies and following the many steps in her journey and also the journey of how a pill gets from a doctor's prescription pad to your bedside. I mean, we're talking about just like prior authorizations, but what about like costs of medications and even just access to medications? Well that was the second argument of what we would do. So the way insurance companies sleep at night, do I believe they should? No not really, but I won't go any further. But they have what they term patient assistance. Now in oncology, remember the process I described, phase one, two and three? It can take hundreds of millions of dollars to get a drug from phase one into the world. So part of what pricing is about is recouping that because for every compound you get through there are dozens that didn't. So part of it is they can sleep at night because they're charging $24,000 for one bottle of this stuff that lasts for 28 days. Sorry, just lost my breath. I know. Is that they offer like copay cards and different things. Where the rubber hits the road is typically they don't offer those to the elderly. So our most vulnerable patients are Medicare and MediCal patients. The pharmaceutical companies don't have a venue for them typically. Now there are some that we have developed by dint of like threatening and cajoling and doing our part. But if you are a Medicare patient until very recently the donut hole would just chew your leg off. The idea that you could afford to pay $5,000 out of pocket every month for some kind of medication. So what the insurance companies do to save this part of the healthcare community that they've completely abandoned is they donate money to non-profits. And they say to themselves, well yeah we don't help the Medicare patients but they can apply to Lymphoma and Leukemia Society or they can apply to the Rare Drugs Foundation. There are all these different foundations that people have. Most patients don't have the wherewithal to do that. Of course not. But we do. Right. There are concerns. You know people are like I don't want to have to take a pill. So it's just interesting kind of from your kind of professional perspective. You know how do we get people to take what they need and if they need it. We had a prior conversation on shared decision making which was and I don't know if you employ kind of that approach. Yeah. How would you? Well so basically we get all this training. Yeah. All this kind of stuff which I've just basically been doing for my get. You've been doing exactly intuitively. Right. So I mean it's shared decision making but my goal is you do what I tell you to do. The Nebulin Dictator. Yeah. So because I'm in your corner and I know better. So let me help you. And you feel better. Usually if you're in the prescribing. Yeah. Let me get you there. Let me walk with you until you're comfortable. You show up to the emergency room. You show up to meet you know Dr. DeNolfo to talk about your chemotherapy regimen. You have to tell us everything that you're on. So whether you got it at a pharmacy or supplement it all it's so important to tell us because all of these medications interact. Yes they do. And they can also there are supplements that can cause bleeding. Yeah. Absolutely. There are supplements that can raise your blood sugar. So I'm not saying you can't have supplements. Right. I'm saying supplements are one piece of your treatment. I agree. And it's a piece that needs to be wielded by experts. And it's another place where the internet will get you in a heck of a lot of trouble. So be judicious. Be cautious. But don't throw the baby out with the bath water. Right. You know most of my patients need something that actually deters the cancer. If they want to take a supplement because it gives them more energy or helps them sleep at night. I have no objection to that. I knew that when I started this podcast that I wanted to showcase our amazing faculty, our staff, our providers at UCLA Health. And I knew that we would be doing a service to our community by sharing incredible information, demystifying complex topics, highlighting resources and presenting practical steps for people that they can apply to their everyday lives and to their loved ones health. What I didn't know is that I was going to have so much fun getting to know these dynamic human beings. I really didn't realize that in breaking down medical topics for our audience that it would allow me to look at them in a new light. I wouldn't have predicted I was going to laugh so much, reference so much Latin, and honestly cry so much. I hope you've enjoyed our rookie season as much as I did. We've had a blast bringing UCLA Health's medically speaking to you in 2025. We can't wait to double the content in 2026. Thanks so much for being a part of our conversations. I'm your host Dr. E. Glaser. Stay curious. Stay healthy. And I hope you have a really happy new year.