 subjected to subjected to These episodes have honestly changed the way I practice medicine, the way I think about health, and honestly the way I understand people. Please join me as I share some of my favorite moments from each episode and reflect on what I've been lucky enough to take away from these fantastic guests who are so gracious enough to visit with me for enlightening conversations that are designed to spread medical knowledge and awareness to you. What you're about to see isn't just the best of moments, it's wisdom, humanity, science, vulnerability, humor, and the kind of conversations that make you feel less alone on your health journey. As I always say, you shouldn't have to go to a medical school to know how your body works and how to take care of it. So let's start with. Episode 1, a conversation with Katie Kirk about colorectal cancer. Kicking things off with Katie was absolutely surreal and amazing. Every part of our conversation was riveting, but my favorite moment was when she quoted Ralph Waldo Emerson, a reminder that courage and prevention go hand in hand. My Roman Empire is when you aired your colonoscopy on The Today Show. I was awake and semi-lucid during my colonoscopy because I wanted to kind of watch and take our Today Show viewers through the process, but you are usually out like a light. You wake up and that's one less thing to worry about and that's a real gift. Stop whining, buck up, just deal with it, get screened. I think sometimes that Arthur Brooks and Laurie Santos and all these happiness experts, I think it really does come down to seeing outside of yourself and figuring out what can you contribute. I love this Ralph Waldo Emerson quote and it's kind of to me the key to living a happy, successful life. He wrote, to laugh often and much, to win the respect of the intelligent people and the affection of children, to earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends, to appreciate the beauty, to find the beauty in others, to leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch, or a redeemed social condition, to know that one life has breathed easier because you lived here. I think people don't understand that at least 70% and maybe even 75% of colon cancer cases have no family history and I always say no family history is no guarantee, but no family history is no guarantee. Similarly, I think something like 80% of breast cancer cases have no family history, so I always say your family history could start with you. Episode 2, Integrative Medicine 101 with Dr. Elizabeth Coe connecting the mind, body, and soul. This episode is still one people stopped me to talk about. It really showed how powerful it can be when we merge traditional and integrative tools and look at the whole human, not just a diagnosis. To quote our friend and colleague Diana Winston, mindfulness is the experience of paying attention to the present moment experience without judgment, with openness, with curiosity, and a willingness to be in that space. A guiding ethos that I tell my patients that I think really sums up what Integrative Medicine is about is this idea of I can give you a prescription or I can coach you to heal yourself. So it's the idea of patient as captain and us as coach and cheerleader to be able to really cultivate the sense of personal agency to engage and to activate and to empower. Episode 3, Through the Speculum with Dr. Maya Zapata, What Your Guy Know Knows. Dr. Maya Zapata has become a regular guest on Medically Speaking. It's so easy to understand why she's got this amazing way of explaining women's health with honesty, ease, and zero stigma. I think it should be required viewing for young adults, learning about their bodies, and how to advocate for them. I have patients that are in their 50s and post-menopausal and still sometimes are wondering, like, what exactly is the pap smear part? So a pap smear, which we don't even really do a smear, pap smear goes way, way back. It used to be an actual test where a gynecologist would look in the vagina of a female patient, see their cervix, scrape off cells from their cervix, smear it on a slide, and look for abnormal cells. So it really was a smear. Nowadays it's just we call it a pap test, and it's a cervical cancer screening test. So it's a way for us to get cells from the cervix, a place that your body could get cancer, and look to make sure that those cells are normal. Now we also test for HPV. So usually whenever someone says pap smear, it also really means HPV testing, because they go hand in hand as part of screening for cervical cancer. I want them to find an OBGYN that they have a relationship with, and go, even if you feel totally normal, boring visits are great. Just go have a boring visit. It's wonderful. Definitely get to know your body. Don't be afraid of your body, because it's yours, and they're all different, and you know your body the best, and so only you can tell someone that something's changed. You're like, it wasn't like that before. It doesn't mean there's anything bad, but you know, and you could have a dialogue about it, and then maybe they can reassure you that that change is normal. Oh, I did ask. I asked a patient today what I should share from a young patient, and she said that patients should not be afraid to talk to the doctor and actually show them the things that they're worried about. If there's something that feels not right, I might tell you it's totally normal, but then you can put your mind at rest. So worrying, worrying, worrying. Just ask. Just show us the thing that you're worried about, point it out to us, and I might say that's totally normal, and then you can be done. Episode four, Health Below the Belt, a guide for every man. Our guest was Dr. Christopher Seigel. This was my first deep dive into men's health, and wow, did I learn a lot? Hearing the trends, the bro science, the questions, and worries men share with their urologists was so eye-opening and really relatable. One of the things that is getting a lot of press now, which is great, and I think a lot of celebrities are using their platform, is to talk about menopause. And there's a word that I've heard about, and I don't think it's like a direct mirror, but the word's andropause, and I think, and I'll ask you whether that's referring to also hormonal shifts in men, but I wanted to ask you a little bit about that. Yeah, it's a big topic, and I think the word andropause, it's catchy, and I think it conveys the sense that there's a change that happens in men as they get older, so it's useful to sort of communicate that. It's not really analogous to menopause. I mean, in women, there's a relatively quick change in hormones that's quite dramatic over time, so you have the hot flashes that happen acutely, those are because of the changes, so acute. And men, a lot of studies show that year over year, there is a slow drop, like maybe 1% or 1.5% in testosterone levels and the male hormone level, and it isn't always consistent, and in fact, there are ways you can prevent that, but I'd say at a population level, it's widely observed. Whether that is for all men pathological or causing symptoms, this is a separate matter. Another of these things, there's a lot of mythology around it and a lot of bro science, I'd say, about what it does and doesn't do. For sure, it affects libido. So if a man's complaining of a low libido, maybe some ED, that's certainly a trigger to look for a low testosterone. And ED is a rectile dysfunction. Yeah, that's right. Got it. There's, actually, in medical conditions, anemia, osteoporosis, those are reasons to check it for the doctor. If a man might complain of things like feeling cognitively fuzzy, low energy, those are less consistently associated. There's been some studies on this, testosterone trials, looking to see if supplement testosterone changes those outcomes. Not quite as hard about that in terms of the effect, but libido is the biggest driver, and then some of those medical conditions I mentioned are also important. What are the risks of taking testosterone if you don't need it, and especially if you're getting a completely unregulated source? So one of the saddest things that we see, especially in younger men who are at the gym who get it from friends or people that are selling it at the gym, they don't realize it's going to take their fertility down. And so you go on injecting testosterone, your sperm count will go to zero pretty quickly. And if you're on it for years, what happens, your testicles begin to atrophy. They don't make enough of the sort of testosterone naturally, that loses their volume, and then when you go off of it, they can't catch up. So infertility in younger men is a big deal. Shrinking the testicles without the ability to get them back in size, you can have an increase in your red blood cell count, which if that's not caught, that is a risk factor for things like blood clots in your legs if you're on an airplane for too long. Acne, if your levels go too high, there's aroid rage that can happen, or sort of emotional disturbances. Number five, menopause 101, what to expect, when and what not to do or not to. I guess we're Dr. Rajita Patil and also Dr. Maya Zapata. This was part one of our menopause series. There is so much noise and misinformation out there, so we wanted facts, nuance and humor. We got all of that and we had a blast. Can you talk a little bit about what to expect during this perimenopausal period? You know, there's like 60 plus symptoms of perimenopause and so on for me earlier, and everyone just experiences this journey and this transition very differently. Right, and layered onto the fact that we're also getting older, right? There's often life stressors that are also happening at these periods as well. Okay, we're going to move to one of my favorite segments, asking for a friend. Sometimes I don't even see this question before. So here's one, which is, I hate my husband and I'm rethinking every choice I've made. Is this a midlife crisis and a waking perimenopause or all three? I mean, yeah, that's a loaded question right now. There's a lot there. I mean, I definitely think, look, I think we really have to understand, you know, there could be situations around that, right, that have nothing to do with maybe the hormonal changes that might be happening. But yes, there may be an element of hormone change that is happening because a lot of times it comes down to how they're responding and reacting, their mood and the stability of their mood. A lot of times in sort of their coping mechanisms that are no longer kind of the same. And that happens because the neurotransmitters in the brain are actually somewhat destabilized when these fluctuations of hormones are going on. So number one, it's like, okay, you know, making sure it's not other factors. But like, if that's the case, look, this is why it's happening. You're not feeling as stable because of this. The good thing is, this is a little blip. It's not going to be like this forever. It is going to go away. Your hormones are actually going to be stable in menopause later, you know, but during this timeframe, you don't have to suffer and that there's ways that we can kind of stabilize these neurotransmitters. Some of that could be through therapy. Some of it can be through medication. And honestly, just to know that there's something that they can do and that they're not going crazy and that like they're not having a midlife crisis. It is actually, there's the reason for why suddenly there's been a shift. I can talk a little bit about what to expect during this perimenopausal period. I think that the range of things is wide. Great. Some people, you can don't expect anything and have lots of symptoms and some people are anticipating that it's going to be smooth and easy and they notice lots of changes. So changes can range from changes in your body that you notice. Harder to lose weight in the ways that you did before and feeling like you have the exact same diet, lifestyle, exercise routine, stress levels and yet weight has gone up five or ten pounds and it's hard to lose it in the way that you could have before. Sleep might be changing. Maybe just, you feel like you slept but you wake up and you're just not as rested or waking up in the middle of the night and having a hard time going to sleep. It could be mood changes, feeling more irritable, feeling if you had mood symptoms before that they're worsened, whether that's ADHD worsening or anxiety or depression worsening. It could be skin changes, feeling like the quality of skin on different parts of your body feels different. In six we continued the series with the body in transition, reframing the evolution. Our guests were Dr. Erica Oberman, Dr. Rajidya Patil and Dr. Maya Zapata. This episode has a very special place in my heart because we focused on language and how words shape the narrative, how women feel about their bodies and how menopause isn't just a failure, it's an evolution and it certainly is a new chapter. I mean you're reminding me though that knowledge and good information are such a powerful currency and it sounds like again, because you guys are such phenomenal physicians but when you're able to have access to this and have these conversations, right, then great, it's a reframe and a pivot. Well there's not that many analogies in life where it's so big and just based on your own experience and what you're feeling. So many things that we have analogies for whether that's stuff in our life like cooking or a car, it's like you put this amount in, you fill to this level, there's a gauge, it tells you exactly when you're at the right temperature or the right amount of something and it feels counterintuitive to say well, but if you're going to give me this medicine, don't we have to check this level to make sure you've given me the right amount? And that is the piece that some of the gimmick and sometimes some doctors who are offices that provide some of these medications that are compounded or pellets, it feels reassuring to patients because that's something that makes sense. Okay, you gave me this thing, you check a level, you said the level's good and I am feeling better or you told me I'm feeling better so that feels immeasurable and I can concrete. I mean let's actually back up, yeah we've talked about language and perspective I think impacting a lot how we patients society feel about this transition and so even sometimes there hormone replacement versus hormone therapy, I don't know, do you feel like those are different words and it kind of- Absolutely. So we are trying to manage this highly symptomatic time, we're in this transition from perimenopause to menopause, we are not replacing hormones. In early menopause we are, that is the goal actually, we should think about it like we would thyroid replacement in somebody who had low thyroid hormone. But early menopause meaning like if someone was 35, I had an early menopause, right it's not normal and their body needs a high level of certain hormones that you would- You don't mean earlier in the menopause transition, I mean earlier in the early menopause, they are like endocrine, they are separate. So menopause hormone treatment is how we are trying to, if you see our nodes when you see our patients is we're really trying to change that from hormone replacement for these women who are perimenopausal and menopausal. And I want to point out what you were talking about, hot flashes, that's not something that people talk about that much about that inflammatory process and the association with heart attack disease and that's one of those reasons why sometimes if patients are feeling they have maybe some misconceptions about hormones or different treatments for treating hot flashes, it doesn't always have to be hormones, they're like well no but I just deal with them and I can just keep dealing with it. I've been dealing with it for several years so I'll just keep dealing with it and even though it's something that they can tolerate, if they're really significant it potentially is impacting their cardiac health. So that's another reason to try to treat that. Episode 7, sex, intimacy and identity, women's sexual health after 40. This was part 3 of our 3 part series on menopause, our guest were Dr. Rajita Patil, Dr. Maya Zapata. This episode was particularly candid, informative, wildly entertaining and if coconut oil means anything to you, enough said. Some of our more viral moments came from this episode and for a very good reason. There's no just men's sexuality matters, women's sexuality matters. Sorry I can't hear you. Right. Please, yes. And sex doesn't stop after like the transition to menopause. People can have really fulfilling, wonderful sex lives so it's just a matter of supporting their bodies, their life, reflecting and being able to let them continue to optimize how they want that part of their life to be. But even just starting then with the vagina, like you're saying, if there is dryness and especially I always say to my patients as well, it's often skin or a mucosal barrier. So if there are changes or thinning or that barrier isn't as strong, let's say, anymore, there's right there, it might be more likelihood of sensitivity or even inflammation or an infection. But again, I mean, we're talking about sexual health, dryness, lubrication, so not everyone might experience this. But if this is maybe one of the more common symptoms of these hormonal changes, that's a real, it seems like something that might be really related to how you feel about having sex. Yeah, if you had sex and it was uncomfortable and maybe you weren't really aware, but like, it was uncomfortable, it makes you not want to have sex again. So being able to, and if every time now it's like just things aren't working the way they did before, it makes self-doubt happen, it makes you wonder like is something wrong, am I not as aroused? Like this is whole cascade of things. It would be easier almost if your brain automatically went to, oh, I'm having perimenopausal symptoms and my vagina is changing. Or if your vagina had a brain. Yes, and it could tell you, it could give you the answer, but that's not what our brains do. So a person might have had a very normal sex life, arousal, lubrication, sexual experience, it might have been amazing. All of a sudden, it doesn't feel as good. It's even uncomfortable. Something feels different. They don't even want to now. And then the cascade of things our brain will do will make it negative. Maybe it's my partner, maybe it's me. They don't feel good about their body. My partner noticed that I'm not getting as lubricated as I usually did. They think I'm not into them. It's complex. So, and then just speaking of, I think going back to, because one of the first symptoms you mentioned was vaginal dryness, right? Or sensitivity. You mentioned some of the lubrications. Do you mind just going into a little bit of detail about kind of what kind of lubricants we recommend? Yeah, well, I think for, okay, so for lubricants, right? In general, water-based lubricants don't work as well. As sort of the, that's kind of the mainstay normally when there is estrogen around. But afterward, it's really oil-based or silicone-based lubricants. I think you have to read the label. Yeah, yeah. The label. You gotta read the label. The good work. But I do have like this funny thing that I tell everybody. And I don't, I think I've told you probably too, probably. But I tell people, look, you don't have to go pay for this really. Like you just can go, you probably have coconut oil in the home. Yeah, yeah, I tell people. I learned it from them. So coconut oil. Yeah. Make coconut balls in the fridge, right? They can, it can gel, oil can gels in the fridge. Make coconut balls. Put a bunch of balls in a freezer bag and stick it in the freezer. And then 10 minutes before you have any kind of penetration, just put it in it, put a ball in the vagina. It melts right away. Sure. Smells nice and it works. I find you can have it in case someone's not like misty in the kitchen. You can just play a little tiny melon baller. You can use that or a little scoop to take your A to C these sold on Etsy. Code 8, Sports Medicine 101. What every parent should know, our guest was Dr. Marissa Vasquez Machuca. We talked recovery, resilience and growing bodies with the two-time World Series winning LA Dodgers Doctor. This continues to be one of the most referenced episodes, been really, really helpful for parents and athletes alike. See, I'm loving this inside baseball info, literally. And I would be remiss. My DodgerBlu team would be furious with me if I didn't ask you a little bit about being the Dodger team doctor. I just want to also say you're doing an excellent job caring for one of the top teams in the world to go below. But you were commenting a little bit about the rest and recovery even for these elite professional athletes. Anything else different about treating or advising professional athletes versus your younger? Yeah. I think one of the things I always remind myself is that professional athletes, they have the same injuries that our general population has. They might have it at a higher rate, oftentimes because their job is to be an athlete. Yeah, that's what they do for a living. But a lot of the medicine is the same. So they get coughs and cold just like the rest of us. They get ear infections just like the rest of us and the treatment's not very different. I always like to say the medicine is the medicine. But you mentioned that so many sports now are year-round. What are your thoughts about that? Yeah, so that's really a lot of coaching and also counseling parents to ensure that the kids are getting active in other things as well, especially during off-season. So instead of doing the same sport year-round, trying to get them involved in other sports so that way they can develop other skills as well. Are you finding that kids and their parents are receptive to this advice? It varies, actually. I think there's this thought that if kids start to specialize very early, they're going to become very elite athletes. Whereas when we take a look at the literature and the research, that's not really pointing at that. It really points at kids that are doing multiple sports actually become better athletes later on in life. And then they can specialize when they're skeletally mature and they're not growing anymore. Are you seeing the same pressures that you're seeing in your younger athletes, also in your pro athletes? Yeah, I think there's social pressures that come with sports, especially playing at higher levels. You're a good team and you're moving towards championships. There's more social pressures that go there to perform. There's more pressures to practice a certain skill that you might not be as strong at. And those are similar at the professional level. It's not only at the elementary or school age or high school. It's across the board. There's definitely some social pressure to perform. I was sitting on the sideline of a volleyball game for my daughter and the posing team, I just could hear the parents just like, go do this, do that, get it over. That is a social pressure ranger that these athletes are enduring. And we do it right when we watch a professional match on TV. There is a social pressure and everybody handles that a little bit differently. So I mean this day is a question, when should you go to the ER after an orthopedic or sports injury? Probably one of the more common ones is an acute injury. So someone has either a fall or trauma where they can't wait-bear, for example, that oftentimes does warrant further evaluation. Certainly someone who has an open wound from an injury that oftentimes will require further evaluation as well too, depending on the injury that occurred. The easiest one I could think about is an ankle sprain, right? So not every ankle sprain has to go to the ER, but an ankle sprain that perhaps the athlete is not able to wait-bear on, they're not able to walk on it, that's probably something that's going to need an evaluation, at least either in their primary care doctor office or in urgent care for that matter. Or if the pain just isn't controlled, right? Okay. If pain is not well controlled, that's definitely something that would require further evaluation. Right. I mean I tell a lot of my patients, I'm like, if you're at home and you can't fall asleep because it hurts so bad, you need to go get it evaluated. Exactly. Episode 9, breast health 101. What everyone should know, our guest was Dr. Carly Thompson. We covered screenings, imaging, risk factors, and answers to the questions women quietly or sometimes not so quietly worry about. This is another episode, it should be required listening for women and anyone who knows women. So basically everyone. We say breast health. What really are we talking about? I think that breast health encompasses kind of a spectrum of concepts. I mean we're talking about, I think first and foremost, being aware and familiar with your body and your breasts and how they look and how they feel and how they're changing over your lifetime. So it's an awareness and a mindfulness of what your body is like. And then it's also an awareness of what you can do to optimize the health of that tissue over your lifetime and the things that you need to do to reduce the risk of developing problems in the tissue. So we're talking about things like, what can you do to optimize your breast health? So we know that average risk women, although please correct me if I'm incorrect, typically start mammograms at age 40. But that can shift depending on family history, genetics, or any risk factors. Can you talk about a little bit how we tailor screening based on any personal or family risk? Yes, great questions. So there has been some debate over the years, which anyone who's in the field for sure, but you don't even have to be paying that close of attention to have heard about the breast cancer screening, the mammogram, when you start mammograms, the whole debate. There are different guidelines that have set different guidelines. For the most part, the consensus is kind of narrowing down on that women should start, average risk women should start screening. Most of them should start screening at the age of 40, but you can probably go up to the age of 45 and still be OK. But there are definitely things that are going to influence those recommendations. So anything that is known to put a lot of effort into the process of mammogram screening, anything that is known to put an individual at higher risk of developing breast cancer might shift those guidelines a little bit. It might decrease the age at which we recommend starting mammograms. So for our highest risk women, we might even go all the way down to starting screening at the age of 25 for our genetic mutation carriers. Alternatively, maybe we'll still start at 40, but in addition to doing a mammogram, we're also going to add breast ultrasounds or we're going to add a breast MRI. So we're going to add some supplemental mammogram as the foundation, but we might supplement with some other types of imaging. And so risk known and kind of the most important risk factors that we think of come down to family history and genetics. So if an individual has a strong family history of breast cancer, then there might be a strong gene traveling through that family line that increases the family's risk of developing breast cancer. So you might not know your level of breast density until your first mammogram. Exactly. And that will then determine subsequently whether you need additional imaging, imaging modalities, meaning types of imaging at that time or just in the future. Or just in the future. And also very importantly, breast density is also a mild to moderate risk factor for breast cancer because the same kind of hormonal causes that cause a woman to have dense breast tissue also contributes to the formation of breast cancer cells. Now, it's not a strong risk factor. So I don't say this to scare all of the individuals out there who have dense breast tissue, but it is a risk factor. So it's something that's important for women to know, which is why you might see on your mammogram reports this kind of disclaimer that you have dense breast tissue. You should talk to your doctor about it. Women are like, wait, why are they telling me that? And what am I supposed to do about it? Right. And what doctor am I supposed to talk to? What doctor? Yeah. And so you're talking to your primary care doctor. For some women, their OBGYN acts as their primary care doctor and orders their mammogram. So you're talking to whomever ordered the mammogram for you and saying, okay, I saw on my report I have dense breast tissue. Do I need to do anything about that? And then it comes back to looking at all the risk factors, putting together the whole picture because breast density is just one puzzle piece. So it's putting together the whole puzzle and saying, should we be doing something more to more intensely screen this individual? We do have other measures that we can take to reduce a woman's risk of developing breast cancer. We're not usually employing those measures until a woman has a very elevated risk of developing breast cancer, things like medications that can be taken. And then even surgeries that can be done to remove all of the breast tissue if a woman is at high enough risk. Episode 10. Whole person, whole system where social care meets medicine. Our guests were John Jasper Kump and Nikki Miller. This episode is incredible. It's full of heart and hope. Nikki and Jasper reminded us that there are teams of people working behind the scenes to support our patients and who care.  and so on. So, thank you for joining us today. We'll be back with a new episode of Social Care. So, let's get right into the heart of today's episode. What does social care actually mean and how does that really just show up in real life? Yeah, I think we can vibe up. Yeah, let's do it. We should go first. You should go first. You should go first. Both. And, you know, this is something that Jasper and I really try to model, which is meeting our patients where they are, or meeting our community where they are. And so, when we talk about social care, it's this model where our health systems are responding to the social needs of our population. And I think you're all different, Jasper, to really talk about the heart of it, which is our social workers, our community health workers, and how we're modeling that. Social care has always been something that we've done as part of social work, and now community health workers have become such an important part of the work that we do. So, we've always been concerned about the things around a patient's health. Now we have a more formal way of doing it, and we take it like a vital sign, right? So we look at it as that. Like, it's something just like any other health indicator, this is also part of your health, and so we want to look at it that way. Gosh, I feel like our patients are so incredibly lucky, all of our teams, to have the two of you, your teams. But, yes, it does. I want to make sure that, you know, for those of our listeners who, let's say they're not even patients in any health system, right? To even have awareness about what social needs are, how it contributes to your overall needs and your overall well-being, right, and healthcare, it reminds me, because I really want to, you know, encourage everyone to advocate for themselves, right, in any space. What is, you know, is there any advice you would want to give anybody, you know, when they go to see a primary care doctor, if they go see their high school principal, you know, a guidance counselor, their therapist, or not therapist, or, you know, their pastor, their rabbi, what's, is there any recommendations about how to voice, give voice to, you know, these concerns, or how to advocate for themselves? Go ahead. I mean, I, yeah, I, I, the first thing is like, the biggest hurdle is that shame, is that, is that fear that we have. And the reality is, and I love that you use the word advocate, because the truth is that people who advocate for themselves or their loved ones get better care, period. It's just the way it works. It's part of why I became a social worker is in order to advocate for people, right, and so I always encourage people to advocate for, for what they need. And sometimes that's as simple as saying, hey, I think I could use some help, right. You might not even know what that help is, right, but just saying, hey, I think I could use some support here or some, some help here. Would you be willing to talk with me about it? I just want to be a nerd for a second, because I studied Latin for a long time, and the Latin roots of the word community are mean with gift. That's what that means, the, the comb and then the munis. Anyways, so it just always reminds me that just being part of a community is sharing of gifts. And I just can't think of two people who are more gift-giving. I know you were going to say something, but I had to know about for a second. I'm going to take that home with me for sure. That's, that's, I mean, well, I mean, as you asked the question, I started getting emotional because I started thinking about the, the community health workers and social workers that I work with every day. They give me such hope every day. I hear story after story about the things that they do, the lengths that they go to, the connections they build with patients. They're changing people's lives. The messages that we get from patients about, I never knew I could get this kind of support somewhere else before. It's just, it's just beautiful. And so that, that really literally is, that's where I get my hope from. Just everyday hope too. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. You never can hear enough of those stories. Episode 11, your health's home base. Why a PCP is your MVP? Our guests were Dr. William Carroll and Dr. Maria Hahn. While I head up the faculty practice group at UCLA Health, I'm still a very proud and engaged primary care provider with active patients. So I really wanted to do an episode highlighting primary care, what that means and why it's so important to utilize what we offer. And as a PCP myself, I love spotlighting what primary care really does, continuity, longitudinal relationships, prevention, coordination, and especially partnership. Let's get into it. And why don't we just start with the basics? Well, I'm going to ask you first, what is primary care? Of course. Yeah. I think, you know, it depends on the day and it depends on the person. It really can be anything, you know, that can be I have COVID, that can be I need my medications refilled. I think when I think about primary care, it's really the person's doctor, you know, your doctor that knows you the best, has probably seen you the most in your life, has kind of grown up with you, right? Like knows when someone's had a child knows when someone's kid has gone to school, someone that you know, you've been seeing over a long time. And, you know, I think when you think about the purpose of primary care, the purpose was that everyone has a doctor and someone that they can go to in times where nothing's wrong, right? Like a nice boring visit coming in for your physical, coming in to get some paperwork done, but also the person that you reach out to when something is going wrong, right? Like you have a new diagnosis and you're trying to learn how to navigate that. You caught a cold at a party last weekend and you need some medications just to get through that. I think that's that's how I imagine how primary care has evolved over time. That's great. I mean, I think what I'm hearing too is that it's comprehensive. It's everything. The person in your corner, your coach, your navigator, I guess to the comprehensive idea, anything else to add, Maria? Yeah, I think about having a primary care doctor is having a very medically savvy best friend. And it's someone who knows really well, ideally over a longitudinal period of time. They know your history. They know your family. They know your habits, your hobbies, all of these things. And they kind of take everything that they know about you that they've learned about you over the years. And they help you make good medical decisions for you and figure out how you can as an individual stay healthy and stay well and thrive. I mean, I think that all patients should deserve amazing primary care docs like the two of you. What would our advice be though? I mean, I love hearing what you're saying about primary care. I hope I'm a good primary care doc. But how do we instruct, I think, our community and prospective patients? Like, how do you choose the right primary care doctor for you? Yeah, I think there's so many factors that go into that. But I think ultimately you're talking about the power of primary care at the beginning. And I think the power of primary care is that relationship. And so you do want to find, I think, a primary care physician who you kind of vibe with. And when I say vibe, what I, the piece I'll highlight is someone who you can be honest with and be honest with. And who you feel comfortable bringing your concerns and your anxieties to. And who you also can feel reassured by. I think that's a big component of the therapeutic piece of a primary care relationship. Episode 12, Metresense, becoming a mother, guest Dr. Misty Richards, a beautiful, deeply validating conversation about how a woman transforms biologically, psychologically, and socially when she becomes a mother. Let's just get right into it. Let's just start with, what is Metresense? Yeah. So, Metresense is actually, you know, it was coined by a medical anthropologist in 1973 of all things. And it involves like this push and pull of becoming a mother. So we often don't talk about it, right? You become a mother, obviously when your child is born. But what we don't talk about is this identity formation, identity shift. And it doesn't just happen like this. This takes months, years, it's dynamic, it's ever moving, and it's hard. It's not pathology though. It's almost like this rite of passage to motherhood. So really when you think of the idea of what motherhood looks like to you, it's like a fingerprint. It's very specific to each one of us, depending on our childhood. And as a child psychiatrist, I come with that lens, right? I think it's so important that we think about how we were raised and what we're taking with us into motherhood. So from the time that you become pregnant, from the time that you conceive, you go through pregnancy, labor and delivery, and the baby is born. And oftentimes people are like, wow, you're a mom, nice job, here we go. And it's so hard from the time that you become pregnant, this idea of becoming the mother of your wildest dreams is planted. Goes in the nursery, so you ask someone, hey, what does motherhood mean to you? And they go back, talk back to how they were parented or mothered. Goes in the nursery is thinking about any types of experiences that you experience as traumatic or hard or overcame. And those are the ghosts. And if those ghosts are not addressed as you become mother, you can take those ghosts into your nursery as a mother. So ghosts of childhood taken into your nursery as you become mother. We've got more highlights coming in part two from kidney health, sleep science, end of life planning, sexual health, chronic pain and more. So stay with us.