Welcome back to Medically Speaking. I'm your host, Dr. Eve Glazier. This is part two in our series on the evolving female body. And today, we're getting into the heart of it, menopause 101, everything you need to know and more. Uh we already had a great conversation about pmenopause for part one of this series. Please go back and check it out if you haven't already. And then next in part three, we're going to be talking about later in life sexual health. But let's get into part two. Joining me today to talk menopause are returning experts, Dr. Maya Zapata and Dr. Regina Patel and a new guest, Dr. Erica Oberman. Uh Dr. Erica Oberman is a clinical professor of OBGYn, vice chair of education at UCLA Health, whose path from the Peace Corps to co-directing the comprehensive menopause program reflects a lifelong commitment to advancing women's health. Welcome. >> Thank you. >> Dr. Dr. Maya Zapata, board certified UCLA Health OBGYn dedicated to inclusive, patient- centered reproductive care with a focus on helping people navigate every stage of their health journey with clarity and compassion. Welcome as always. And Dr. Regina Patel, a certified menopause expert and the founding director of UCLA Health's comprehensive menopause program, driving national change through clinical innovation, research, and advoc advocacy in women's care. Maya, Vegeta, and Erica, welcome. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you. Thanks for having us. >> Let's jump into it. What is menopause really and how does it differ from pmenopause which we discussed in the first episode especially? >> Yeah. So um you know menopause really is something we define kind of after it's happened. So it's you know you have no period for a year and that's really the way to know when you're in menopause. And that is obviously assuming that you have periods every month and you can kind of gauge that based on that. Now, there are some people where we can't necessarily know that based on whether they're having periods or not. And so, people who've had hyctomies or who've had um an ablation of the uterine lining or on birth control or have an IUD in place, it's a little harder. But in general, it's uh it's when someone has had a period for a whole year. >> And that differs from pmenopause just by virtue of again not having a period for 12 months. As much as we can tell, >> yeah, it's it starts with irregularity of the period. Uh permenopause really starts with the irregularity of the period and um and then you can have skipped periods. But once you've skipped more than a year, then we are um pretty certain you're in menopause. >> And maybe let's talk about what what that means. When you have had no periods for a year and it's like stayed things have stayed quiet. What's actually happening is that your ovaries are quiet. Like they were still working before but working sometimes in an uncoordinated fashion. Your brain was continually pushing them to keep going. They had some juice left in them so they kept pumping out hormones. sometimes in irregular fashion, some months a lot, some months a little bit. And they were able to keep going and at some point the ovaries and their hormone production really stopped and they are done. They basically gave your body the message of like I am done with this now. And so they're not producing those really anymore despite the fact that your brain will continue to prompt them pretty much for the rest of our life. But the ovaries are >> mostly done with that um level of production >> with ovulation. Yeah, definitely. They're still producing hormones, but not enough to ovulate every month, which then would signify that you would have a period, >> right? We kind of talked about how um in the in our per menopause session about the irregularity, and with that irregularity and unpredictability comes, you know, a lot of symptoms. So, we moved on from the jazzy improvising ovaries to like a silent retreat. Um Erica, um maybe you could tell us like what's the timeline like when does this start, you know, around? So typically it starts around your mid-4s. Um that's generally the time that we would expect for people. We do start to see some women have some permenopausal symptoms maybe in their early 40s. Um it would be abnormal if it happened before their 40s and so we are always sort of keeping our ear out for that. Um so yeah definitely mid-40s. >> I think that's a really good point. You know, we talked about um a lot how pmenopause, the symptoms associated with pmenopause and symptoms of menopause are normal, but I do want to spend a moment on this. So, if it's kind of before the age of 40, when when should one seek medical care or know that this isn't, you know, probably totally normal, >> right? So, definitely before the age of 40, women are not having regularly space periods. So, they're not every 21 to 35 days apart. um and they're experiencing some symptoms of pmenopause. So the probably millions of symptoms that you guys already talked about, hot flashes, u mood symptoms, they should definitely seek out care. They can start with absolutely their primary care physician. Um and in general, what will happen is they'll do some lab evaluation for the patient at that time. Yeah, I think it's different from, you know, when we're talking about after 40 just because it is so early and there can be lots of other reasons for this kind of um early loss of ovarian activity. And so we want to really think about um genetic uh things that could cause this or autoimmune. Um and so we and it could be just other medical conditions going on in a person that could cause related notated at all the organs in your body could react enough or causing hormonal changes to make this happen. That's super important because if if that happens before 40, um it can, you know, not having that estrogen there for a longer period of time can definitely impact the bones and the heart and the brain. And so we are are definitely wanting to address that. >> Okay. >> In a different way. >> Yeah. No, that makes that makes complete sense. And so um and I think that's an important distinction, you know, and again, I think you said you can talk to your primary care doctor. I everyone I'm I am a PCP. Start with me and I'll refer to you with my friends. Um but so for in general for women after 40 right these signs and symptoms you know we talked about pmenopause leading up to menopause no period for around 12 months. I do want to quickly add ask you what if someone does have an IUD? >> Yeah that's a great question. So when there is this masking and you don't really know right uh we don't usually use labs. Um, I actually I I was going to say that is one of my biggest things that we want to deal in West is like get out of lab diagnosis usually. And we usually really use menstrual symptoms or menstrual changes, but also the symptoms that a person is experiencing to help guide our recommendations um and just inform therapy options. However, for someone who has an IUD or um is on birth control, that's not you can't use that. But sometimes people do have breakthrough symptoms. So that is one kind of clue where like oh I'm still having I'm started having hot flashes or I'm having this mood kind of change that wasn't there before. So that can be a clue and but other times there are no clues and sometimes we need to um we can we can kind of ask well number one is it's just a label right like we really need the label is the label important I think at some point when you're on like a birth control pill when you're 50 we might be thinking well maybe we should be talking about taking a break from that and seeing what happens because the risks might actually be higher being on a birth control pill but um you know I think it's so it's different for each person but I I would hate to just um check labs and do things just to be have a label. I think for symptoms and for maybe when they're like 50 thinking, oh well, we don't really need the birth control anymore at that point. Maybe we could take it off and see what happens. Um and then you can check labs. You can't check labs while you're while you're on hormones because it it actually is not really representing what's going on in the natural ovary, >> right? And the labs aren't why I'm going to treat you. the conversation that we have, what you're telling me about your symptoms, that's why I'm gonna treat your roots. Nothing else. >> That's what's going to inform Cano's choices and and and options. Let's just talk about lapse because I think this is so important. I think there's really good questions. I certainly would love to know what to tell my patients and my friends, which is how do we diagnose menopause? You know, do I need a labs? You know, you know, often I'll just say this is exactly the questions. I need to get my hormones checked right. Okay. That is like the number one thing we get. >> Yeah. static. I think the one thing is that I will tell people is if I line 10 of you up in a room and I check your labs and um I say okay like every single one of you has the same exact lab level, right? You all will not be feeling the same way. You will not be in the same part of this transition either. So no lab number tells me exactly where you are in this transition because the labs wildly fluctuate during this time and it goes every day to day hour to hour. So that's number one. But >> and there is no balance. >> And there is no balance. It is fluctuating. >> Well, patients always come in and want to check their levels to see if they are balanced. >> Oh, interesting. Like the word balance is telling them Instagram, Tik Tok that people >> That's what you should strive for. >> Yeah. That there is you should find out if they're balanced. So it's not because they're just making it up. They they've heard it. People have told them it made them feel like they're supposed to be in some kind of balance and then they come seeking that information. And it's really frustrating when you go to your doctor and say, "I want to find out if things are balanced. Can you check them?" And if we say no, they feel like we're uh it can feel like we're like withholding done. >> You have to explain it. You have to explain why the labs change all the time. That this is the nature of the transition, but that it doesn't dictate how we will inform inform the recommendations or the the the therapies or the treatments because it's about how you feel like what's going on with you. That's really what is going to help, >> which is really powerful. >> It's really in their own hands, right? >> Yeah. >> Um cuz I think you know the common phrase I'm sure you've heard is my hormones are out of whack. >> Okay. So there's no then perfect balance. So >> and there's no perfect level. >> There's no perfect level. Um so it sounds like what is important though is the conversation about how you're feeling. >> Yeah, that's right. Um I will tell you and which is that I think that there's a lot of and we you mentioned the media. There's a lot of media promotion of getting your levels checked. How are your patients responding though with with this education? Because again, this this message is going out. There's no hormonal balance. There is no lab test to confirm that you are menopausal. But there are so many other things, right, that we can do to address the symptoms that you're experiencing. >> Yeah. Most people take it pretty well, right? because you're actually sitting down and listening to them as opposed to just telling them, you know, check your saliva for levels and whatnot. And so most of them take it pretty well. There are a handful of patients who are like, "That was great. Thank you so much. I want to know what my FSH is right now." And I'm like, "Great. Okay, let's just do it." >> FSH being one of our ovarian hormones. Yeah. >> That's right. Right. And so, and I will tell them I'm like, "I don't know what the number is going to be, but I don't care and I'm not going to comment on it." >> Interesting. And so yeah, >> but I do I do agree with Erica that like actually when you really explain that your body is you're you are not resorted to just one lab at one time of the day. Yes. And that that is not going to help us manage what is happening to you right now or even after we start something how it's going to help us you know after 3 months of evaluation. It's really like how do you feel after we started management that's going to help me figure out dosing and what we're going to be doing. And so I really do feel like nine out of ten I would even say nine and one out of 10 patient are like, "Oh, I get it. I just But can you look at my labs?" Sure, I'll look at them. The problem is like I I'm frankly honest that I don't really know what to make of these labs. Um I I will look at them. I will put them in your chart, but I actually don't there's no science around this of like what are you supposed to do with these numbers, you know? And so I think what one one time I do look at labs is when people are on unsafe therapies like pellets. I'm going to just put it out there. Um, pellets are >> strange creams that they they're taking. Yeah, pellets are pellets are little uh they're like basically injectables that um they have a unregulated amount of release of the hormone and so we don't know >> placed under your skin on your butt and it's placed under your skin >> and it's not at all FDA approved or regulated and we don't and the problem with it is once it's in uh we can't take it out and then secondly there's this crazy release of hormone that's changed all the time and so we see super physiologic levels and >> doing more than your body is used about out of Yeah. >> Yeah. >> I mean, you you're reminding me though, right, that knowledge, right, and good information are such a powerful currency, right? And it sounds like again because you guys are such phenomenal physicians, but when you're able to have access to this and have these conversations, right? Then great. It's it's a reframe and a and a pivot. Well, there's not that many analogies in life where it's so vague and just based on your own experience and what you're feeling. So many things that we have analogies for, whether that's stuff in our lives like cooking or a car, it's like you put this amount in, you filter to this level, there's a gauge, it tells you exactly when you're at the right temperature or the right amount of something. And it feels counterintuitive to say, well, but if you're going to give me this medicine, don't we have to check this level to make sure you've given me the right amount? And that is the piece that some of the gimmick and sometimes some doctors who or offices that provide some of these medications that are compounded or pellets, it feels reassuring to patients cuz that's something that makes sense. Okay, you gave me this thing, you check a level, you said the level's good and I am feeling better or you told me I'm feeling better. So that feels measurable and I can it's concrete. >> Yeah. And I think to your point also is that a lot of medical pro other medical problems that um you know people go to PCPs for or something they they may involve checking levels right or like an endocrine disorder like you're tracking a level but this isn't the same thing and I think it's a little bit off the norm of what people are expecting when they go see a doctor too. It is I think often people I think that's such a good point because often even in a primary care practice sometimes I think there's an expectation that there's going to be a transaction and that will mean that it's fulfilling right I have a terrible sore throat you guys don't have to deal with this I have a terrible sore throat but if I just say like listen I think you have a virus you know you don't need an antibiotic sometimes there's you know a disappointment right that they're walking out without a prescription as opposed to actually the therapeutic interaction was was me seeing you us talking um the education and then I'm seeing you and then I'll see if he gets worse, come back and then I'll have like this baseline. But it's it is it's it's again this um unexplored I think area, right? And and you the three of you are also amazing at centering the individual, right? And personalizing um whatever actions or not actions, right? I mean, I think there's also sort of this pressure to do something and so I know we talk about, you know, therapies, but there's also like sometimes people you don't have to do anything, right? Right. >> Right. nothing if it's not something isn't bothering you. You might feel like your health is optimal and so then there's nothing that that person maybe needs to do. >> Yeah. Like I think a lot of patients do come in and say, "Well, I feel fine, but I just want to make sure I I don't need to use hormone therapy for protecting my bones and my brain and my heart, right?" They're like, "No, but I heard it. It's good for me, so like that's why I'm here." I think that's like another big one that we get, you know, in the sense that you don't we're not that's another conversation, but the idea that we're not using hormone therapy necessarily for long-term health. That's really we're focusing around symptom management. >> Okay. And that's actually really helpful to hear because I think we talked about um I mean, let's actually back up a second. We tal we've talked about language, right, and perspective I think impacting a lot how we patients, society feel about um this transition. Um, and so even sometimes they're, you know, hormone replacement versus hormone therapy. I don't know. Do you feel like those are different words and it kind of >> Absolutely. >> So we're we are trying to manage this highly symptomatic time. We're in this transition from pmenopause to menopause. We are not replacing hormones. In early menopause, we are. That is the goal. Actually, we should think about it like we would thyroid replacement. to somebody who had low thyroid hormone >> but early menopause meaning like if someone was 35 and they had an early menopause it's not normal and their body needs a high level of certain hormones that you would >> you don't mean earlier in the menopause transitions I mean early early separate >> right so menopause hormone treatment is what how we are trying to if you see our nodes when you see our patients is we're really trying to change that from hormone replacement for these women who are permenopausal and menopausal. >> Yeah. And we're not replacing, right? We're actually, if you think about it, we're actually kind of supplementing. We're kind of bringing that delta between the high and the lows. This wide fluctuation, we're just bringing that down a little bit. And by giving a little bit of hormone back. So, it's really not replacing it. We would need to give really, really high levels of hormone to replace, which would probably have their own risk. Yeah. You're reminding me though, I mean, you mentioned going to see your, you know, primary care doctor again like me. But I think a lot of I think a lot of patients are wondering, you know, when, you know, other doctors, right, like yourselves who specialize in menopause and when is the right time to see them if and when. Well, I I'll start just because I am a general OBGYn and I do care for patients who are going through menopause, permenopausal, and will start these conversations. So, a general OB/GYN should be able to start the conversation with you and help you understand where you're at and what options there are. And we've mentioned this before that not everyone had a great amount of training as a healthcare provider, a doctor, whether you're in internal medicine, family medicine, or OB/GYN. So, even an OB/GYN, it sounds crazy, but might not have learned that much about menopause. Uh, and so if the person that you're seeing, your general OBGYn doctor, isn't like engaging in that dialogue with you to help understand what's going on, then maybe you do need to see someone who is a certified menopause specialist. But I would hope and I think as we move forward that a general OB/GYN could start or even their primary care doctor could start a conversation about what's normal, what are things you can expect to be happening. Here's some of those options for you to think about, here's things that um we can start to do. And then depending on maybe how medically complex that patient is or how difficult their symptoms are to treat, they might get referred to someone who is a menopause specialist. >> I completely agree with that. But I think that you know and I we talked a little bit about demand supply mismatch in the first um episode and I think that uh it's a matter of time before our primary docs and our OBGans are all have that knowledge base where they can really be the front line to um to taking care of half the population right like everybody who's has an ovary. So we're not there yet but we're going to get there. It's just going to take time. Um, I think that the goal of a menopause provider, a person who specializes, would really be to see exactly that. Like the the ones that are really hard that is harder, they have a lot more symptom management that's not really adequately managed by a primary um kind of front a frontline provider um or a very complex patient medically or patients that have a lot of red flags, you know, and and around hormone therapy that we're trying to figure out better ways to manage their symptoms. Um, so I think that we would sort of be the complex that that that next level of um complexity. >> And of course you would seek out a specialist if you just aren't getting what you need. If you are trying to engage with your healthcare provider and if they're telling you, well, either you're crazy or this is this is all just normal and just deal with it. Those aren't answers that should feel satisfying. And so I think that that would be a time to seek someone else to maybe have a dialogue with. And I for me becoming a menopause provider, it has changed the way that I take care of women for just annual exams. I remember when my children were going through puberty and I would take them to their pediatrician at the end of the visit, you'd get this like sheet and it would be like in the next year this is what's going to happen to your body. I'm like why don't we do that for women? So starting at 40 when people come in for an annual exam. I'm like okay this is what's going to happen to you. Yes. And every year I sort of try to like build on that with them so it's not so blindsiding. >> Yeah. >> And this is another end a book end like there's it's another transition time. Puberty is this phase where your body's changing. It's growing. It's developing. It's changing shape. Hormones are raging. You might have acne. You might not have acne. You might have other physical symptoms. Periods might start. And so now on this other book end similarly skin change is happening. Your body might change shape. the sexual activity might change, stop, start, uh bleeding might stop. And so it's on the same spectrum and anticipatory guidance or expectations around it are helpful. And then just embracing it is one whole another part of the transition that is similar to something we already experienced. >> Right. Right. I can't I can't wait till we have the you know the the corollary to puberty with all the great books and juke studio bloom you know um uh the great sitcoms. Yes. Exactly. But I, you know, I also though I mean I think what I noticed because I do send patients to to to all of you is that you know it's it's the comprehensive approach to menopause that I'm like when I'm reading your notes I'm like this is amazing and then I'm like I'm the worst doctor in the world. But I mean so I mean what I see is and I'd love to to talk about it is you are really evaluating and commenting on each patients um again not just their vaginal and vulvver health, right? Did I say that right? Um, in the last episode I said organism instead of orgasm. So, uh, but also, um, let's I mean, I would love to just kind of explain this a little bit, um, about bone. Let's just start with bone health, but there's cardiovascular. you really go through, you know, here's what we're going to do for your bone health. Here's what we're going to do for your cardiovascular health, um, psychological health, um, brain health, you know, there's a you so, and it is true, you know, when you see your primary care doctor, and I think this is such an amazing opportunity to get more educated and start these conversations, right, with everyone, but it is true sometimes at the end of the visit, right, a patient might be like, oh, and I'm having these menopausal symptoms after we've gone through 20 other things. So, it's just such this incredible privilege, I think, that um and it should be the norm for us to then be talking about this at length and in this holistic comprehensive way. But maybe we could just talk a little bit about all these other different systems where there are estrogen receptors and how menopause affects those organism, you know, those organ um systems, but then and then if and what there's to do. And also just to scoot back a little bit, but this is happening during a time when women's health is changing. And so I think that's the whole idea behind the comprehensive menopause program is that, you know, when you're 20 and you're getting birth control pills, people are relatively healthy. You got to ask them a few questions just to make sure it's safe. But you're all your organs are changing. And so we need to make sure that you're a candidate despite what social media says that everybody should be on estrogen. it should be on the in the water. You we actually need to pay attention to your health and see what do we need to be aware of, what do we need to optimize um and what's okay. So >> yeah, I think like uh definitely before we go into like each system, I definitely think it's like this idea that you know there is this short ter there are these sudden changes that are causing symptoms but then there are these estrogen receptors in the entire body that we want to be thinking about all the organ the other organ systems that may not be affected right now but potentially can be affected by um in a later part of your life and by the lack of the estrogen being there like the bone and the heart and the brain. And so I think a lot of the a lot of what we do is data gather. So it's like gathering the information from the patient. >> Um which takes time. Yes. Um but I think that it is really important to get a lot of information about how are they feeling like we've talked about with their symptoms. But then also like what are the other health factors that we need to be thinking about in regards to how menopause the menopause journey um how are we going to optimize their longevity and sort of like how they live their life in this 40% of life that they have. And so it's really kind of intentionally looking at all the different organ systems with the gathering the correct information and to then assess risk and also discussion um around options for treatment of short-term symptoms and quality of life but then also like long-term health uh is looking at opportunity. It's an opportunity to really kind of um address things because we talked a lot at the last episode about um just being very intentional about how we live our life and how what we put in our food, what we're, you know, what we're um doing on a day-to-day basis with our sleep and our exercise and our social connectivity and all of those. Well, those things all lead to better um better organ health. And so, it's like putting another plug in for those things, you know? And so I think just knowing what what's going on with their organ systems now and what potentially they're at risk for in the future is this is an opportune time to do that. >> I think identifying the risk is such a big piece of what you all do in the comprehensive menopause care because if a organ system wasn't causing a problem yet where you're a busy person and you have a lot going on and there are symptoms that are bothering you. It's very easy to not pay attention to that part of your body because you haven't had to. Maybe you are not having a symptom that's bothering you. through identifying with that data is that are you having a significant increase in risk here? We can optimize this even though you don't have a symptom or nothing's bothering you. We still know that this is important and we're going to get you connected to this group of people who can make sure that you're taking care of your heart or your bones. >> I love that it's the cornerstone of primary care which is prevention, >> right? And people are listening. they coming in and they're really worried about this transition and they fill out this form and we get to look at their medical record and you know they they you can offer them support for what they're going through and then you're like and I also saw you have this family history of osteoporosis and it looks like you've been on this medication for a long time and I'm thinking this is the opportune time to start checking and then all of a sudden they're like oh my god you know like this is amazing and they listen and they go do the test and they want to want the follow-up. It's it's fantastic. Well, they care and then they're investing in this longevity and their health, too. >> I think it's an interesting moment in time when they come because they're not 30. They're actually at this, like I said, this like almost like a a rebirth, a re It's like a new opportunity. And so, this is part of that opportunity is like looking at the future self, right? Like thinking about intentionality >> and sort of taking control of like what is going on, what they can control. >> So, what is I guess the role of estrogen? Like, let's just start with bones then. Well, I think with the bones, the biggest thing is that you can lose a lot of your bone density in the first five years. So, you can lose up to 15% of your bone density in the first five years of menopause. So, there's a quite a quite a big drop of um and then after that you still lose bone, but it's much more gradual. So, it's very different from men where we they lose it actually starting earlier like I think even age 30, but it's much much more gradual throughout from that point onward. for for women it's it it can it's it's a kind of a a big big drop um initially. So it's a really important time to really talk about um calcium, vitamin D supplementation, but also just the type of exercise that they're doing. So really kind of focusing on weightbearing and and also supporting their skeleton structure in general muscle mass actually building a muscle mass not just not just like elliptical but actually making those muscles stronger and bigger. >> Yeah. And then like to your point like if they have you know family history or there's some other you know concerns for maybe their mom had a hip fracture and you know doing those early bone scans to kind of know where you're at because if you're already osteopenic then there may be a role for estrogen therapy or other therapy to kind of preserve bone so that 20 years down the road you don't have a fracture you know. So osteopenia just for our listeners, you know, that's low bone density versus osteoporosis, which is very low bone density, but just with an in increased risk of fracture of one of their bones. So we talked about, you know, we'll talk about calcium and vitamin D. Um, one of the kind of organ systems that I'd love to kind of talk to pick your brain about, so to speak, is the brain, right? So we actually didn't really get into this too deeply during um our pmenopause episode, but a lot of women complain about brain foggess, right? Right. And so I think we've established that there are estrogen receptors in the brain and things get jazzy. But then what happens then? Do things continue to get to be foggy once you're in menopause or >> Yeah. So one of the things I like to talk about with patients is what does brain fog mean to you? >> Because that's really important. Some people say I I don't know what you mean by that. And a lot of times it falls into very similar categories. So word finding difficulty is one of them. And then short-term memory loss is another. And I think people come in feeling like, "Oh my god, is this like early onset Alzheimer's dementia?" That's the number one question. >> Number one question we get to. >> Um and so we know that specifically in these domains that these are temporary cognitive issues. And so definitely get worse during pmenopause and menopause um can be helped with estrogen and progesterone or hormone therapy during pmenopause. Um, but we also see that it improves after the symptomatic phase of menopause. So, it it generally doesn't mean you have Alzheimer's or dementia. That would be incredibly rare at that age. Um, but it is hard because we're talking about women who generally are at the peak of their career and the peak of the organizational system of their family, right? Getting everybody out the door into camps, all that stuff. and they can't remember things or they they're trying to have a conversation or and they're in front of the board and they >> scary. It's so scary disruptive. >> Um and they're like this this obviously is you know Alzheimer's and you're like no this is normal and um let us let's let's figure out how we can help you and it could also be related to sleep. It could also be related to hot flashes. There are other things to be treating during that time too. >> Yeah. I always um I think number one is like let's think about the 70-year-olds, right? Do they all all so just if you have out of 10 people eight people experience brain fog or some sort of cognitive symptom during menopause transition but did that mean that eight of those people have Alzheimer's or dementia and the answer is no and very few of them do. Now there's a lot of science lacking in the space and um and it's really hard to identify which people have risk from having brain fog leading to cognitive impairment which then leads to dementia 20 years later. So really hard to know. we don't have we don't know um I think that there is this loss of neural connectivity that does happen and that's why people feel these symptoms um but the brain is a beautiful thing in the sense that it is going to recompens it's going to come up with other mechanisms to create those new neural connections but it takes time and it it's not like hot flashes where you give hormones and then all of a sudden you feel better really quickly that isn't the way that brain connectivity works it takes time and those things can get better without hormones. And actually there there isn't really great studies to show that hormones actually help brain fog. However, if they they're not good studies and so it's hard to study and even if they do it takes time and I think optimizing there's so many things we do have in our control. We know 40% of dementia is actually controllable by the way we live. So right the things get like our mood, our sleep, our diet, our exercise, our social connectivity, our brain use, right? all these where we live. I mean, we can't help that we live in a polluted city, but in general, there's a lot of factors that are within our own hands that actually determine a lot of whether we're going to get that disease. And all those things that you just mentioned help many of the symptoms of menopause as well as um just as we're we're aging, our bodies are aging, wellness, overall longevity. So, >> it's like a magic bullet. Let's get exercise, sleep well. I mean, and sleep is something that is underestimated in how valuable it is for us as adults. And many people, if you start that conversation with them, will say, "No, but I do really well. I sleep like four or five hours a night and I I did feel great. It was working for me before." But it probably wasn't. It's not. Your body does need more. And people have a variety of amounts of sleep that they function well on. But paying attention to enhancing the quality of the sleep, being really intentional about what you do before you go to sleep, making sure that the quality of your sleep for the time that you get is good. It impacts so many things. >> Everything that's a free thing that's not a medicine, something you can control and and it really does impact a lot of overall well-being, mood, cortisol levels, um metabolism, >> metabolism. It it it is it affects everything. And like there are sleep disorders that rise during this time. So, it's super important. Sleep is something we fixate on a lot in our in our in our appointments because it's so underrated and it is actually one of the essential you know elements that uh even cardiologists are focusing on now and because it really is your organs need rest. So if they don't rest, they're activated. There's more inflammation in the body over time that's going to lead to more chronic disease. So it's it's so important. Um, and unfortunately during this transition time, stress is a big thing that's already happening. And they're more sensitive to stressors. So those can wake people up. They can keep them ruminating when they wake up in the middle of the night. Hot flashes can disturb things waking. Yeah. Like there's so many disruptions. And then sleep disorders. >> Yeah. >> We um we are talking you talked a little bit about the heart also. Um can you talk a little bit about how the the heart is affected by this transition and menopause or heart health even? >> I mean I think well number one I mean the heart in general we know when we look at um in data in general looking at like heart disease right? Yes. And women are actually protected from heart disease more than men until we get to about menopause till about like 50 55 and then we start to see heart disease rise and that is because of we think we don't know for sure but most likely it's the protection of the estrogen that's not there anymore. And so we know estrogen is protected to the heart but I'm not saying giving back hormones does the same thing. We actually don't have that data and I wish it did but it's not. Um but we do know that's a huge factor. We also know that having hot flashes like a lot of hot flashes that signifies inflammation in the body and definitely is correlated with heart disease. So we we want to take heart hot flashes seriously. Um so that's another thing and we know that cholesterol changes during this time frame. We see a sudden change in the cholesterol and it goes up a lot. Yes. Yeah. These are all like small things but people like my cholesterol is fine all of a sudden it's not. I'm like you're doing the same things in my LDL. That's right. Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. And again this is this is where we all work together on this. Right? Because they'll often come to me first, right? And all of a sudden, their nothing else has changed, but their cholesterol is up, their diets haven't changed. It's really distressing because I think people want to feel like they have control, right? I mean, I've got to make this body work well. And all of a sudden, now the same things aren't working anymore. The rules have changed. That's really frustrating. I don't understand. Please help me understand that. >> Their protection is kind of gone and some of their genetic predispositions come shining through, >> right? You know, it's not always what they're doing and a lot of it is not in their control. And I want to point out what you were talking about hot flashes. That's not something that people talk about that much about that inflammatory process and the association with the cardiac disease and directly that's one of those reasons why sometimes if patients are feeling they have maybe some misconceptions about hormones or different treatments for treating hot flashes. It doesn't always have to be hormones. Um they're like well no but I just I just deal with them and I can just keep dealing with it. Um I've been dealing with it for several years so I'll just keep dealing with it. And even though it's something that they can tolerate, if they're really significant, it potentially is impacting their cardiac health, too. So, there's another reason to try to treat that. >> And then, especially if they're affecting their sleep, that's like a double hit. Yeah. >> My gosh, it's toxic coping. >> Yes. Toxic coping. Women, you do that. Yeah. I have a lot of Yeah. No, it's sort of like dealing is like unhealthy. I mean, I'm sure this happened. I have a lot of patients, friends, all of us, I mean, I think who who come and say, "I've been eating the same thing. I'm exercising the same way and I'm gaining weight." But your body is changing. >> Yes. So are I mean I think that's the big thing. Um I you know your metabolism changes. Yes. You and typically we also what we are eating and what we are doing is not the same. Okay. We are all very busy. Some of us have families or family members that we're taking care of. We might be eating out more. We might be exercising less. And so really doing an honest audit of your food and exercise is important. >> Um, but your your body is changing. You even will notice some intolerances. Women become lactose intolerant at this time. Alcohol all of a sudden you I I could drink a couple bottles or sorry glasses. That's just me. Um, of red wine and now I can't think, you know, and and so it's definitely different. And then you notice this um recomposition of of fat. And so you see mostly in this visceral area >> and people are like this just silly. Yeah. Little belly. Little belly. >> And um this isn't this just isn't me. You know, this has to be usually it has to be an endocrine disorder. Like oh must be we are dying for it to be a thyroid. They're like please have my thyroid be out of work. Your body is is just doing different things. >> Yeah. Different things, right? Not broken. >> Sometimes it's nice to tell them why this might be happening, right? like there are a couple things that are happening that are causing this sort of shift in where the body fat is going and um and why they're gaining this whatever five to 10 lbs or so that usually this can say. Yeah. And I think one of the biggest things is that you know when we're just sitting here what's burning calories is really our muscle. And so uh when when menopause happens and we lose that estrogen estrogen is vital in sort of maintaining lean muscle mass. And so, um, that you really have to work even harder to kind of build that muscle back to keep your met metabolic rate higher. And so, I think that's like number one is that we're losing muscle mass. And so, we have to kind of activate, we have to change the way we're exercising. I think the second thing is insulin resistance increases. And so, that's why we see the the, you know, more visal fat, more re redistribution of the fat into the middle area. And we see pre-diabetes come out as well. And so, yeah, I love that audit situation because I'm like, you know, people people think that they're just because they're used to doing things in a certain way. They're like, "This has been working and then all of a sudden it doesn't work." But they think what they were doing was absolutely amazing and it was working. But if you really think about when you were 20 or 30, >> you were probably much more not as sedentary as you are now. I mean, I think I I yes, I go work out, but it's not the same thing as like I got to go take care of my little kids that are moving around everywhere, my three-year-old that's walking around. I mean, it's totally different from when now my kids are older and they just drive themselves around and I don't have to >> and human being we know our recall is bad. We know there's studies our recall of like really what happened isn't really that accurate. That's all of us. That's not that's doctors, non-docctors, all of us. And so when any of us reflect back on like what if has anything really changed? Most of the time we're like not really. It's really the same. And that exercise, that reflection on, and it doesn't have to be complicated, even if you're not ready to reflect on all of your life factors, even if it's just what do I put in my body for one week, a little food diary without judgment. And I tell people, this is not to be judgmental. This is just you're gathering some data. What goes in my mouth on a week? >> Pay attention to yourself. Pay attention. Let's run the audit. >> Let's just look at it. Let's like really is it what do I snack on? What kind of fluids? What's is it processed? Not processed. Like really, what am I snacking on? how much at what time it is really helpful and then sometime most of the time we're all surprised. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yes. Yeah. >> Right. And but then there's this element of acceptance. Yes. Right. >> Yeah. And even gratitude. >> Love the pooch. Love the love you. And maybe and maybe you ident are not talking about your dog. >> Maybe we identify opportunities or maybe you realize like I am doing pretty amazing and yeah it really sucks that this is still this way but I have actually done a fantastic job. So there's both directions. There's opportunity. Yeah. >> So we talked about heart, brain, um, and bone health. Am I missing anything in terms of other oral life? >> Important one. >> Yeah, >> it's an important one. >> I think I said a little bit in in the prior episode, but I do think that um the biggest thing is that there that the neurotransmitters are affected by estrogen. >> And Yeah. And so, um, you know, when there's a fluctuation of the hormone specifically, that can disrupt the serotonin in the brain and, um, the way that it's synthesized, the way that it's, um, recepted, you know, by in in the brain by the neurotransmitter. And so, um, we see kind of a disruption that occurs. And so, people who never have had any mental health issues may suddenly have severe symptoms. and others who've had a mental health history can see an exacerbation of their symptoms and it can be quite um severe. It can also be quite mild. It's all over the place. But um the good thing about this is it's just a transition time. It's not going to be like this forever. Yeah. Because actually once we become stably low with the hormone level in menopause, that mood situation is not there. It's really um but it can be a many years and so we don't need to suffer and so we have good options for treatment. We haven't touched really on this piece, but also if someone is doing treatments of any of those organ systems and we'll just we had mood here or hot flashes um and say they are using some treatments and they are on them for some amount of time and then we recommend maybe stopping them after five 10 years depending on that person's situation then what can they expect would they you've you've talked about their levels might be lower. Um I think that's something that patients I had surveyed a lot of the our co-workers and nurses and people I work with like what questions do you have and this was one of the prevalence question what's going to happen if I do I go back to the way I felt right especially if it made me feel better. >> Yeah. Do I am I going to feel terrible? Um is it going to magically all be different? And so that feels really anxietyprovoking. Like you've given me this awesome thing and then I've heard that that I'm not going to be able to be on it forever. What's that going to look like and what can I anticipate? Yeah. Especially because they took it when they were feeling pretty miserable and they take it and they feel great and so now it's like 10 years later and they're super scared of going off of it like sure did. I think part of it is giving this education like it's like like for example mood right like I said >> it's very unlikely that if we were to stop your or we or go off the medication slowly that um you're going to have a recurrence of suddenly having rage and mood symptoms. However, some other things I don't know for sure, right? So hot flashes we know can last seven to 10 years on average and 10% have it their whole life. So, we don't know for sure, but I would say to you, I never take people just take it off, right? You always want to try to go down a little bit and say, "Let's just see. We're just going to see how you do." Right? Nobody's saying you can't go back up. We're just going to try it because maybe we don't need so much. And, you know, it's really they're never they're they never say, "No, I don't want to do that." They're actually very responsive to that. And then you bring them back in 3 months and you're like, "How you doing?" "Okay, I feel great. I don't feel anything." "Oh, you want to go down a little bit more?" Right? And and I think it's they get they very quickly over a course of a year they're like, "Oh, okay. Maybe I don't need to be on this." And sometimes we do. And then we're also talking about other options. We're like, "Let's see what's going on with your your health. Maybe we should talk about non hormonal options, too." Right. Because there are plenty of other options that can manage hot flashes now just as effectively. >> And just like puberty. >> Yes. >> Right. You all of us look back on that and we're like, "Oh, yeah. That was crazy." And we're different now. And when you talk to women who were treated or not treated outside of that highly symptomatic phase, they're like, "Oh, yeah, that it's different now." Um, one thing I wanted to talk about with mood too is to talk a little bit about ADHD too because for sure I think at least my bias is that when we say mood, I think anxiety, depression, but we do see exacerbations in ADHD and we see a lot of that come into our office and people um and and specifically for women who are not diagnosed as as commonly as males. Um, I think it's a good thing to just kind of keep in mind um for women who may have self-medicated or figured out the um the task that they needed to do or organization that they needed to do to make themselves successful in life and then are seeing this exacerbation now. So sometimes we'll do some neurosych testing. Um we'll send them to go do that if they um want to or if they had a previous diagnosis. Just sort of think about coming back to medication if it's helpful. Um doing the the hormone treatment, seeing if that helps too. >> Yeah, because hormones can help with mood stab stability, but so can other stabilizers, mood stabilizers, like neurotransmitter stabilizers. I always I will tell you with mood I do I feel like we spend a little bit more time talking about stigma around use of um non hormonal options also because you know it's like oh I'll take the hormone but I don't want to take the SSRI or the anti-anxiety. So it's really like just talking about it at again the neurotransmitter level being like look there are many ways to stabilize the neurotransmitter right it's not we can stabilize it with hormones we can stabilize it with other medications and these medications like poxel pros like people worry so much in their head oh my god I'm on this well actually what is it it's just stabilizing the same exact thing it's so interesting I mean I mean it's worries me right I mean that the stigma aspects right because often right people would rather there something wrong with their thyroid, right? What do we then actually say like actually I'm having feelings of anxiety, feelings of depression, or my ADHD is worsening. So, I love that you can break it down into science. Whatever makes someone feel more, you know, you know, accepting, but it's um it's too bad. I mean, I I I appreciate you you saying that. >> Yeah. I think that um I oftentimes use that analogy like, oh, if someone told you your liver was sick, would you like question taking that medication? >> The same thing. Hang on. You have di if you had diabetes, were you not going to take insulin? Right. Exactly. If you had type 1 diabetes, >> that's this is all part of that journey of changing how healthcare interacts to patients, the messaging we have and what it feels like to be in the world and have bodies that have needs and change over time. >> Yeah. And you I listen to the three of you and just, you know, the words of evolution and journey and change. I mean, I just feel, you know, again, there's if there's things aren't feeling right, we can make you feel better, but there's just so many options and conversations and just paths for self-realization which are, I think, so promising. >> And we didn't even talk about this session really much about other holistic ways to to approach. >> No, let me find, you know, they are our team works really closely with integrative medicine and using optimizing. Maybe someone is optimizing the hormones that they're using, but there's still other things that might be bothering them and using things like acupuncture and and movement and >> behavioral. It's not either or. There's a whole toolkit to really any sort of, you know, symptom condition >> and a lot of synergy, right? >> So much synergy. >> Synergy. I feel like there's synergy between all these different approaches and it's not it's better to use them all, you know, rather than I mean lifestyle is one of those pieces. Um, but I think like for we use cognitive behavioral therapy so much for sleep, you know, because I feel like if I feel like that is if you really take a deep dive into into sleep and you spend time talking to your patients about it, it's so interesting, right? Because I'm always like, okay, so when you wake up, what do you what's happening? Sometimes it's just like, I'm having panic attack or I'm having like whatever. Or a lot of times we'll be like, I'm just thinking about all the things I have to do. Well, what what happens on the weekend when you don't have those stressors or when you go on vacation? What's your sleep like? It really tells you, right? if they're like, "Oh, I sleep so much better, but I'm still woken up by hot flashes or whatever, whatever." You're dealing with those, but then you get a sense of CBT is going to work because cognitive behavioral therapy really does work on sort of this idea of pattern recognition between the mind and the body and sort of how do we change it um with active work, but it's much more powerful than a medication. And so, it's proven through studies. There's data, there's studies that show that it works so well, but it does require some effort as I talked about before. It does require a little bit of effort and as do many of these things, but it is effective and it's something that it can be within your control. >> Do you feel like a little bit of a rock star when you help people to sleep? >> Yeah, you do. Oh, yes. Like cuz that affects your cognition that affects like your general well-being, right? >> Maybe your libby. Yeah. But you know, I have to say that cogn behavioral therapy, there's a whole manual for menopause and it works for hot flashes, for sleep, and for mood. And where does find this manual? >> I know. Well, we need we actually like just it would be wonderful to have like CBT for menopause like providers, you know. >> Yes, that's what we really need. >> Okay. All these things are coming uh for us to work on. >> Yes, it's for you don't have to work on this every day. Do you have effort into your health is going to get better? >> Wait, but there is a there is a book there's a book if anyone wants to look it up. There's AI don't remember the name of the book, but there is a book for selfguided CBT for medical. >> Yes, great. So, so, so much more to come. Um, can I ask you guys a few asking for a friend gosh and I'll let you guys go. Um, well, we talked about the estrogen receptors all over the body. That was a big question actually that came up. So, thank you for for answering that. Um, I love this one which is because I have this question all the time. Can you still get pregnant during pmenopause? >> Oh, yeah. It's definitely a question that's really keeping me up. >> It's less likely because the ovarian o capacity and ability to ovulate and have eggs that will fertilize is lower, but it's not impossible. So a person has to decide how much that would be upsetting to them or the the risk benefit for themselves. Uh well under 1% but it's still small. >> That's why the discussion regarding hormone therapy at that time is different. So that's why we sometimes talk about birth control pills versus hormone therapy because we need to know how how much it would disrupt someone's life if they did get pregnant. Right? And >> even though it's a low risk, still a possibility, >> right? Sometimes patients are thrown a little off guard when we start talking about hormone therapy. I mean, uh, birth control pills. And they're like, "No, no, no, no. I came for the other thing." They're like, "Okay, but we >> Yeah, it's got to break it down." But like, what is birth control? The same thing. It's estrogen and progesterone, you know? >> Um, and I mean, I think we're so lucky, right? Because I think we're opening up and just promoting this narrative around menopause. But I will have to say like this this next question rings true, too. My mom never talked about menopause. And is it weird that I'm a struggling with it? um and and a more emotionally than physically. >> Yeah. Just because your mom didn't talk about it doesn't mean that she weren't suffering or going through some changes. Um there was no probably like space potentially to talk about it and this is only a recent phenomenon in this country that we're starting to really talk about it and people are starting to feel comfortable and that's amazing for the for this generation as well as future generations. But you know our the other generations haven't had that opportunity. It's an opportunity for dialogue and for connection. It is surprising when you ask a person, what was it like for you? People have something to say and it actually promotes some discussion and connection and sometimes patients or friends will come back and be like, I asked my aunt. I asked my mom. I learned so much and no one had ever asked them or they didn't think anyone wanted to listen. So, it's a great hour of the story. It's the power of the story, right? >> Yeah. >> And it's so interconnected with aging which is not something that we're all like happy. I mean, we're all talking about it very freely here, but it's hard to think about my body changing. Things aren't going to be working as well or differently or whatever it is. And so, that's why you struggle with this change. >> But I also think it's because we equate it with aging, which I again goes back to this idea that like it's a completely different process, you know, like it's it's somewhat there's some connection, but not really. I mean, it's the ovary that's stopping to produce hormone, but like the actual aging process occurs in both sexes and it happens gradually. And I think what's the most upsetting and hard part about this this what we go through as being a person with an ovary is that there's a sudden shift that occurs because of the ovary, you know, and I think that um but it does get it does affect the whole body. So I understand why that that has been the way it has been kind of presented in society but I think that we have to change that narrative you know >> gives us tremendous blast to >> help and alleviate you three are amazing for everything that you're doing and the legacy by the way like the next generation is not going to be like oh nobody talked to me about thanks to the three of you. Um quick takeaways just from each of you if you don't mind just um regarding menopause any kind of >> I think my takeaway was what uh Maya said was if you're not getting the answers from the doctors you're talking to then move on second opinion we uh there are plenty of people who want to talk to you about what you're going through right now. >> Yes. >> Yeah. I think that uh remembering that even though things are normal, they don't they might not be pleasant or tolerable to you. And so it can be both normal and something that you want to maybe improve or change. Um and so finding a healthcare team that will help you do that I think is important. >> I think mine is the power of sort of just um sharing and talking with people around you. And that means like even calling it out as what it is. Like if you're at work and you're having a moment and just saying, "Yeah, I'm I'm having a brain fog moment because I'm in parmenopause or I'm menopen." And I know that might sound very like ooh, but actually the more we do that, the more accepted it's going to be in society. And we need to like really just share and talk and not hide behind a secret. >> It's not a secret. >> Yeah. And normalizing Italy, I think, is quite liberating. >> It's very liberating. Yeah. >> Um, the three of you, I cannot thank you enough for being here. All right, for our listeners, um, please go out and check out, um, go back and check out part one where we talked about pmenopause, rethinking and reframing the narrative. And, um, join us for part three where we talk about later in life sexual health. Regina, Maya, Erica, thank you so, so much. I can't wait to have you back. We have a million more things to talk about clearly. Thank you so much. >> Thank you.