This podcast might contain mature themes and may not be suitable for all audiences. Listener and viewer discretion is advised. Welcome everybody to another episode of UCLA Health's podcast, Medically Speaking with Dr. Eve Glazier. It's me. Um, joining us today is Dr. Maya Zapata, a boardcertified obstitrician gynecologist, also known as OBGYn. It's the reason why I did not become an obstitrician because I'd have to pause and say it like that. Um Maya Zapata has been here at UCLA Health with over 10 years of experience in women's health. Um gosh, you are so passionate about educating patients, but I have to make a note. You're you're passionate about educating your colleagues like myself. Um and you're a champion for equity um and justice and reproductive health, which I can't really wait to get into. And today, thank you for being here. you're here to break down everything that we need to know about papsmears, cervical cancer screenings, HPV, and really why routine gynecologic exams matter. So, first of all, welcome to the show. I have a million questions for you. So, let's get started. Um, why don't we just talk to just start with the basics. What exactly is a papsmear? And this question is coming from every daughter of mine. I have three at my dining room table. What is a papsmear and why is it so important? Well, it's a great question and it doesn't just come from your daughter. I have patients that are in their 50s and post-menopausal and still sometimes are wondering like what exactly is the papsmear part? So, um, a papsmear, which we don't even really do a smear. Paps smear goes way way back. Um, it used to be an actual test where a gynecologist would look in the vagina of of a female patient, see their cervix, scrape off cells from their cervix, smear it on a slide, and look for abnormal cells. So, it really was a smear. Um nowadays it's just we call it a pap test and it's a cervical cancer screening test. So it's a way for us to get cells from the cervix, a place that your body could get cancer and look to make sure that those cells are normal. Now we also test for HPV. So usually whenever someone says papsmear it also really means HPV testing because they go hand inand as part of screening for cervical cancer. I mean scrape and smear sounds so awful. Um, so thank you for clarifying that. Um, right. So it's a pap test. Okay. Number one learnings. Um, I mean, let's break down a little bit. I think HPV. Actually, let's actually back up because I think a lot of people use vagina and vulva interchangeably. So, let's actually describe for people if that's okay, like the vagina versus the vulva. So, when we're taking a sampling, right, or testing the cells really where that is. Great idea. We'll actually zoom way out. Yes. Let's start from the like in order to yeah vis way way out. In order to actually test the cervix or visualize the cervix, someone has to first as part of your exam look at your vulva or external genitalia. So that's the labia majora labia minora the different parts of the vulva your urethra where your pee comes out and then the actual vaginal opening. So usually as part of an exam before you even get to the papsmear I'm looking to make sure do all those things look normal? You can get weird moles down there that a person can't really visualize. It's a pretty hard area to check out on your own even with mirrors. And believe me, patients send me lots of photos in our electronic medical record and be like, "I saw this. Is that not?" It's really hard to see and assess what's happening down there. So, we look at that. Um, and then we have to look inside the vagina, which is the canal that leads from the outside of your body to the cervix and the other reproductive organs. And to do that, we use this what seems barbaric instrument called a speculum. It's really just two little um flat, we call them blades, but they're not really not sharp. They're just two little flat surfaces that open like this in the vagina. So, I can see the cervix. And then now we don't really scrape. We just brush. We have these little gentle brushes that kind of collect cells rather than scrape sounds. Gentle brushing. Gentle brushing. Yes. Gentle brushing. brushing to collect some of those cells from the external part of the cervix. The cervix looks like a donut. Yes. With a little pinpoint and so we brush those and we brush inside the canal of the cervix and then we send that off. We can also often test for other infections like gorrhea, chlamyia, tchamonus, those are things that are other sexually transmitted infections and then make sure that the vaginal walls look normal. People can develop abnormalities in the discharge in the skin of the walls of the vagina. people can grow things on the cer. So, we're really looking and assessing all of that and collecting that little pat test. I think whenever we're talking about the speculum, it occurs to me when you're like this. I think people literally think that we like go in and we like open it up this much. So, I am going to ask you like we're not doing that because I also perform papmears on my patients. And so, when we insert the speculum, we're not looking like a foot in, you know, it's it's right. Yes. Would you say it's really about, you know, four to 5 in at most, but everyone's body is different. So you don't even have to insert it that far. Exactly. And we have, at least at UCLA, we use some very gentle speculums that are like temperature neutral so they don't feel so cold. There are sometimes when you might have to have a metal one for different reasons, but we most of us use the smallest one possible to make it as comfortable as possible for the patient or least uncomfortable for the patient. Um, and then ours have a little light in them so that we can see and that makes the patient be able to be in a more comfortable position so that we don't need an external light. you know, shining in from way back here, right? Yeah. There's not a spotlight. No spotlight. I mean, unless you want one. Um, I mean, I think this is really important because I do think that there's a lot of anxiety about like what happens like I walk into a room, I'm here for my first pap smear. Um, I will tell you, right, and you know, correct me if I'm wrong, right? But usually someone hands you a gown or a sheet to wrap around you and you leaves the room while you undress. You sit up on a table. I think there's a lot of sort of um fear about what are stirrups. I don't know if you maybe want to go into that. I hate the word stirrup because it makes me think of a like a horse and so I just call them foot rests, but not everyone um pays attention to the words that they use as much. So people do call them sts. They're really just foot rest. Yes. And they're footrests for you to put your heels in so that you can scoot your bottom down to the edge of the table. Yes. Which is hard to do. So most people, I would say, feel awkward. It all feels awkward. It's weird. You're naked and you have a sheet. Um, so we're trying to make the person feel as comfortable as they can. So I will usually talk them through all of the things and call out, "It's weird to be there naked on the table and I'll help you get into the right position so that we can do this exam, put their feet in the footrest, shimmy down on the table." Um, it's everyone's instinct to like scoot up the table, of course. Get get away. It's weird. Yeah. Um, and I usually frame it that way for people, too, that it's all kind of weird. That doesn't mean it's bad or painful, but if we can acknowledge that it's a little weird, then we can just talk about what the sensations are around it. Gentle brushing, foot rush, foot, right? We're not horses and we're not getting scraped. Um, but I I think this is honestly so important because I think all these things have to be so demestified and also just, you know, destigmatized, you know, these words, right? And that's why, thank you for clarifying, you know, vagina, vulva, great. Let's just, you know, let's say these words out. I think it's empowering to know the words the right words of how to describe our body. Um, how I mean this is I think a question that comes up which is and the guidelines have changed. So even for me as a primary care doc I appreciate the education. How often does someone need a papsmear? Also a fantastic question a question that most of the patients have as well. Um generally every 3 to 5 years depending on your age. So and this has changed multiple times over the last decade. And so of course it's hard for patients to keep up. When our mothers and grandmothers were getting cervical cancer screening, it was every year. Every year if you don't go to the doctor every year for your papsmear, like some alarm's going to go off or you're going to go to jail. Like it was very like you have to go. I mean 100%. And now people think I'm negligent. I'm like, "No, you don't need one this year." So true. Um there are some people who need it every year depending on what their past result was. And you don't actually need to start your papsmear screening, cervical cancer screening until age 21. Also a big change. So it used to be as soon as you were sexually active, they used to say that you're supposedly takes the blood out and takes the cells out. So even if someone is bleeding, we can still do your test. I mean, and I think that's just so important to know because we're all working on healthcare and getting better access. Please don't miss your appointment, right? Because your period of your bleeding. Yeah. Or you're bleeding or get waxed or we want to see youactly. Just come. Exactly. Um come as you are. Come as you are. We're ready. I think that's a very very important message. um uh you you you alluded to this um when we were talking about you know what age to start papsmears and I think one of the questions that comes up is if I'm not sexually active you know do I still need a papsmear and so that brings up to me because I think again even when I was in medical school we had a pretty heteronormative definition of what's sexually active right and even when patients come in and we're like are you sexually active so in in a scientific way in so far as how it informs screening for cervical cancer. What do we need to know about or what constitutes being sexually active? Well, sexually active can mean doing things with your sexual organs if I'm the person that has the vagina and it could mean fingers in the vagina. Um, HPV can. So, even though a penis is not going into a vagina, we've talked about penises being the vector of transmitting HPV to vaginas, HPV can live and and be transmitted from skin-to-skin contact. So, someone may have never had a penis in their vagina, but maybe had a finger in their vagina or a touching in that area or toys. And so, there's all kinds of different ways where there could be still transmission from one person to the other. Um, so we still recommend screening at age 21. However, again, we recommend make the recommendations and the patient makes the choices. Yes. So, if a person says, "I have never been sexually active. I don't want an exam." then I would respect that we talk about risks and benefits and maybe say well maybe at this point or in this many years there are other ways to collect pap tests patients can self-colct so it doesn't have to be me putting a speculum in the vagina that gives us other pelvic health information and so I'd still recommend it right but I have patients that are sometimes 30 or 40 who have never had an exam and then we just I'm building trust with them to try to figure out what do you need how concerned am I Do I need to look? Um, what things can we gather? What information can we get to reassure ourselves? So, a patient could self-colct, meaning you put this little brush in your vagina to collect some cells. It's not quite as good, but it's still pretty good. We have evidence that it's still good for cervical cancer screening, and that might make it so that person can be reassured, know that they don't have um any precancer cells on their cervix, that they don't have HPV, and still be getting good healthcare. But that would we do it together. We'd figure out what's the barrier. Exactly. You don't want to pack test cuz you don't want me to put something in your vagina. Maybe you could put something in your vagina. Absolutely. But then at least have the expert and compassionate conversation with you. I think that's a really important point because I think lots of times, you know, it's it's not just the result of the test. It's the overall conversation and again empowering you with information and also making a connection with you so that if there's other questions or something comes up, they know who to call. Yes. And maybe the first time we meet that person says, "I don't want to do an exam this year." Okay, well then maybe we'll check in next year or your circumstance is different. Is anything bothering you? Maybe since we've built a little bit of trust, they might be ready to have an exam next year. And this is I'm talking about patients of all ages. Sometimes it's younger patients, sometimes it's older patients. It just sort of depends on what they need. And sometimes people have had traumatic experiences. Yes. And that doesn't always mean trauma with a capital T. Sometimes it can be traumatic, like it just was really uncomfortable or scary, something that happened to them, an injury. Sometimes people have even just had something uncomfortable that happened down here cuz they had a bladder infection and they associated with healthcare and so doing anything down there feels extra scary. So those are things we can talk about and say, "Okay, let's What were your experiences in the past? What would you need to be able to make this exam acceptable for you?" I I I really love and appreciate how much emphasis you put on each patient feeling safe, right? And that does mean the conversations about what they're worried about, their experiences in the past, you know, as you build toward, you know, better health together. Are there any um things that drive you crazy though as an OB/GYN? Like are there any sort of myths that you constantly feel like you have to debunk? Well, sometimes the myths that pops are the like all-encompassing test for everything test. Okay. Okay. So, some of the underlying motivation of people wanting their cervical cancer screening every year is the idea that a papsmear might detect anything that's abnormal in their genital tract. So, people are very worried about things that they'll hear about. Ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer. Those are scary sounding cancers. Cervical cancer still can be a really serious cancer, but can be if detected early is something that can be treated in most cases. These other cancers are not detected by a papsmear usually. And so being able to understand what that test is actually testing for, I think is really helpful. And that other parts of the pelvic exam or other parts of the history are really important for those other things. So understanding what the pap does, but also what it doesn't do. What it doesn't do. So not feeling falsely reassured like, well, my pap is normal. That means that means everything must be normal. That doesn't necessarily mean that, right? You know, I think um you know, and maybe I'd love for you to just emphasize this for everyone because I think it always bears repeating. Screening a screening test, right, is looking for something in the absence of symptoms, right? So, if we're screening for cervical cancer, it's not because you're having abnormal bleeding or abnormal discharge, right? It's looking for something that actually you might not be having symptoms for. And that's why it's so useful. It's such a good screening test because it detects really, really early changes, right? that might still go away. So sometimes people feel a little nervous like I don't want to find out that something's abnormal, right? Um but in finding early abnormalities, they can be either treated. They can be monitored and up to 80% of the time changes from HPV might just go away on their own, right? And so you don't have to do anything. It does mean some more exams so that we can be certain, but it's something where we can just watch, wait, have conversations. Things that are important for taking care of your general health is your immune system. So people often one of the most common things well how do I get rid of that HPV I had this abnormal test my papsmear was abnormal how do I get rid of it well time yes and taking care of your body not smoking cigarettes cigarettes are a risk factor for cervical cancer and HPV related cervical cancer and then your immune system taking care of your body stress affects your immune system sleeping well so that's what I'll recommend to patients like those are things you can take care of your body right very important right you need viously, not just your vagina. Yes. Um I um you know, I love I love some of the interesting factoids about you. I love finding out that you were a figure skater. Um I mean, I really think of you as truly one of the most accomplished people I know and every patient is so lucky to have you as a physician. I certainly feel so lucky to have you as a colleague. I'm I mean, I am curious because I don't think I've ever asked you this. What made you pursue uh you know the OBGYn specialty? Because women are great. I on medical school I did not want to go in and my mom teases me because I had said out loud very intentionally like obgine is the last thing that I would do. My gosh, it's brutal. It's brutal when you're a medical student rotating. I was like that was the last thing I would do and I wanted to do internal medicine or family medicine and all of those things. And even as I realized I really like surgery and procedures, I was like, "Oh, general surgery." Women were such great patients that doing OB/GYN men, I could do surgery. I could take care of young people, teenagers, um people at all stages of their life. You get longitudinal relationships. I get to take care of people when they're in high school and then take care of them when they're starting their family. That's really nice. It is. I I I mean, honestly, it's one of the things I love most about being a physician is the longitudinal relationship, just knowing people for a long time and then they know me for a long time. Um you know, they've watched your kids, they've watched me be pregnant, they've watched, you know, whatever everything that we we go through as well. Has there any has there been anything that's surprised you about your medical journey? Um I I I'd say the surprising thing is just like how long the journey it just keeps evolving. I know it just keeps evolving. There is no end. It's just we're all evol. We're evolving as humans. Healthcare evolves and you're always learning something. Every you would imagine that like you'd get to a place where you're like I know so much but in fact you just feel more and more like there's so much I don't know. And so the way that when you're a student and I I remember feeling that way as like a high school student where you feel like, "Oh, I'm going to get to some place where I feel like I know a lot." But you always feel like there's so much I still have to I know. But I'm so glad. Right. Yeah. It's wonderful. There's there's no dull moments. There's always something new to learn. Patients teach me a lot. So much. Um is there, you know, you mentioned some of these already, you know, in terms of things that you would never do as an OBGYn, but if you don't mind repeating, you wouldn't smoke. I wouldn't smoke tobacco. Well, yeah. to tobacco products like they it's bad for everything. It increases risk of every kind of cancer, ovarian, breast, if you're thinking about female genitalia for everything. Um, absolutely. Cervical cancer. It it doesn't help anything. Great. So, that's that's an absolute. Um, I would not be afraid to ask a doctor for more information. you know, don't just do something going on down here in this part of my body or I've had this this feels uneven from this side. Is that normal? I'm my periods are terrible. So, you might still meet with a gynecologist and that doesn't mean that you have to get undressed. I might be able to talk to the patient and get a lot of information and then I might tell them, you know, I'll see you back next year to see how those cramps are going and we'll do your past year when you're 21. and I might only look if there's something to look at if they have a question or a concern and then I would check into them. I think that's so important. I mean, you said so many perfect things. I mean, just first of all, you're in control of your body. I think the fact that establishing a relationship with you, maybe even before, right, what we call a sensive exam like a papsmear, um, I think is key. I think there's so many areas in medicine where I really encourage people to not make a decision in a crisis or be scrambling looking for a gynecologist because all of a sudden you're having bleeding. I I want to back up and I realized I forgot to make a distinction because we we were just talking about papsmears and pelvic exams. So is it okay? Can we go back and maybe kind of talk about the difference between papsmear, the gentle brushing um and a pelvic exam? Yes. Yes. So pelvic exam is really just an exam of your female genital organs. And so that can be as simple as looking on the outside like I had started talking about just making sure the labia majora the labia manora your urethra the skin around your anus or where your poop comes out making sure that's all normal and then looking inside the vagina. So that might be with a speculum that might be with a finger to make sure say a person can't tolerate the speculum or there's something we need to like do their organs feel normal. There might be a finger in the vagina and then one on top of their belly to be able to kind of feel those organs through your belly wall. That's a pelvic exam. So we're looking for abnormal things in a pelvic exam. skin that looks abnormal, moles that look weird or abnormal, discharge that might look abnormal, lumps or bumps that are in places they're not supposed to be, on your vagina walls, on your cervix. And I can feel with my hands, I mean, I don't have extra vision in my fingers, but I have a sense of like this is a normal feeling uterus. These are normal feeling ovaries. And so if someone has a big tumor or a mass or a cyst, I might feel that and say, "Hey, something feels a little not normal. Let's get more information and maybe order an exam." So that's just a pelvic exam. That's not doing the gentle brushing test. Gentle brushing. Um, but that's looking at the rest of their organs. And so I I'm really glad you asked that because often patients think when they come to me for their annual visit that an exam equals pap smear. Yes. Or pap test. Exactly. And it doesn't. That's one tiny tiny portion of your cervical cancer screening, but the rest of it is where I'm getting the information about are your organs normal? Is your body working right? Does everything seem appropriate based on what you told me? Pelvic health. Pelvic health. And that you might still go every year even though you don't need a pap test. You might still check in with your gynecologist every year even if it's boring. I love boring healthcare. I love boring healthcare. There's nothing to report. There's nothing to report. And I tell them nothing to report. Totally normal. Everything is boring. It's I love being boring in medicine. Yes. Especially this part of your body. Normal. Normal. Um No, I mean um 100%. I think you know when I'm thinking back on again kind of placing your feet in the footrest. The foot rest. Um you know it is you you put your foot in the foot rest, you scooch forward. Um and it's going to be a very natural inclination to like tighten up. Speaking of the, you know, the pelvis, is there anything, you know, we can kind of give tips to our audience for for just relaxing those pelvic muscles or your honestly your like lower abdomen because, you know, just to make things really truly more comfortable in addition to the fabulous communication and explanations that you're providing. I think that a way to frame it is there's you said more comfortable, but I sometimes will just frame it as less uncomfortable because it let's normalize it. It's it's a strange exam, right? And so we're just trying to make it as acceptable as possible and make it not be more uncomfortable. And it's okay for someone to and pretty normal to feel a little apprehensive, nervous, and to not like it. And so patients sometimes will apologize. They're like, I, you know, I've been 50 or I'm 45 or I'm 30 or I'm 28 and I just can't get used to this. And my response is, that's cuz you're normal, right? It's a weird exam to have. And so it is normal to feel like it's a weird exam. And so we can acknowledge that. And things that you can do to help that part of your body soften uh is to breathe. And your provider should tell you what they're doing on every step. So that's the thing is that we don't humans, we don't like surprises. When you're surprised, you tighten up and you feel more nervous and things startle you. And that has a whole cascade of responses that our body naturally does to protect us. Yep. So, if you were going to have a pelvic exam and someone didn't tell you, I'm starting now, or you're going to feel something really cold, and you're like, whoa, that's really cold and weird, right? Your body would naturally tense up. So, asking for communication from a provider. All providers have different styles. Um, our UCLA providers are all amazing, my colleagues, and communicate very well, but some people might need extra communication. They might need time to rest. So, being able to communicate with your doctor saying, "I'm really nervous. please let me know, you know, each step before you do it so that I have time to get prepared. Just saying that can be helpful so that they can be really intentional about using words and like every little thing, not taking it for granted. The patient themselves can breathe. So if you take a breath in, as you take a big breath in, and as you blow it out, let let all that tension go. So you have you're on a table, the foot rests are weird, but letting your body soften. Often people will like hold grip their legs in a particular spot. In fact, letting your knees open and just letting them kind of fall to the sides. The more you tense up those muscles, the more it tenses up your belly muscles and then tenses up your pelvic floor muscles. We didn't talk about the pelvic floor, but we will. But we will. The pelvic floor are all these muscles that are like the the base of your whole body. They hold all your organs inside. They work very hard. They're very strong and they hold your pee and your poop in and they support your entire insides. They're genius muscles. They're genius muscles, but they're also very protective. So, if you're scared about something going in your vagina, they tense up, clench and they clench and they actually can make your exam much more uncomfortable. So, the speculum exam when it goes into the vagina, if those muscles are squeezing around it, you notice and you sense that exam even more intensely. Right. So, if you can do a little selft talk, I'm safe. Yes, you know, I'm safe right here with this doctor. And take some cleansing breaths before the exam starts. Big breath in. As you exhale, kind of let your body fall like let your bottom butt, everyone clenches their butt muscles. Let those butt muscles relax. Take a breath in. And then if the as the doctor lets you know you're going to feel some cold, take that breath in. It really helps to exhale as the speculum is going in. So, I will usually coach people, but maybe that's not that person's style. But you might tell them, "Let me know as you're inserting the speculum so I can really exhale." When you exhale, it's a little easier sometimes to kind of soften those muscles, right? Something that always helps me, you know, with any new exam or, you know, awkward exam is to to remind myself, Dr. Zapata does this every single day. Yes. Right. And you know if I'm especially if I'm feeling shy about my body and so you know I always get the question from my patients and this is definitely an asking for a friend which is you know do I need to like shave or wax before I have like come in for like my you know gyn appointment. I mean people ask me that all the time. Yes. Oh all the time. And all I do is look at vaginas all day. That's all day. Vaginas to me are just I they come all color like a me and here it doesn't really I'm not like oh my gosh you have bodies are perfect as they are. Yes, they are asymmetric. They come in every shape and size. There's no apologies needed first of all to your doctor, right? You do not need to groom ahead of time. There are no prerequisites. There's no judgment about that cuz bodies just their bodies have hair. You might choose to take your hair off. Great. Yeah. Up to you. It doesn't matter to me. It's your body. Do what you want. Also along those lines is bleeding. People feel so nervous when they come to the doctor and maybe they've scheduled this a year in advance because sometimes that's how long it takes to get your appointment. The health that's the state of healthcare. I apologize for healthcare. You don't have to apologize either. Thank you. Thank you. Healthcare is a little broken, but that's okay. We are trying to make it better. That's what we're here doing. That's right. That's what we're here doing. Um, so you get to this appointment that you booked a year in advance and now your period started. And patients will email and call feeling so distressed like, "Oh my gosh, should I not come? Can I get my papsmear? Can I get my exam?" I don't care if you're bleeding. I can do your exam while you're bleeding. Blood, vaginas. Yeah. Doesn't bother me. It's where that's what we look at all the time. So patients will feel self-conscious, but you don't have to. Good. If you're bleeding during your exam, a gynecologist doesn't care. And the actual pap test can be done. So people will have been told by their moms, their grandmas or aunts, you cannot go when you're on your period. That is 100% true. You cannot. You're going to have to reschedule it. And some offices even like office staff in the past would tell patients that and we had to re-educate them. The the pap smear, the oldfashioned one, real scraping slide oldfashioned test. We're not smearing anymore. We're not smearing. you really did need to be not bleeding because the blood would have would like cover up the cells and you couldn't do the test. Nowadays, we're real fancy. A machine spins out all the little cells that we brush off, but it's not necessary because young people's bodies and immune systems are way different than people who are a little bit older and most of them have some element of something abnormal and it goes away. So part of that decision to start at age 21 was because patients bodies um fix themselves and when we look when they're younger we end up doing more things to their bodies that are potentially harmful. So waiting until age 21 not really anything bad's going to happen with cervical cancer screening particularly before then. So people don't actually need that pap test until 21 or older. Mhm. And once they start at 21, if it's normal, the pap and the HPV tests are normal, they don't need another one for 3 years. Once someone's over the age of 30, then we could screen even farther apart every 5 years, depending on their preference. Um, if someone had a abnormal papmear that had a HPV that was positive, we might tell them, you know, come back in another year. Uh, some other people that might need it more frequently are patients who have other medical conditions. So, if someone's taking something that affects their immune system, steroid medications, like if someone has an autoimmune condition, um those are patients that actually need to come in every year. And so, we might have that conversation with them saying, "Yes, many people we spread out the screening, but for you, the safest is to come in every year." And um this question from our senior citizens, what um I mean, how long do you need to be get papsmears and get screened for HPV until what year? Have those guidelines changed at all? Those guidelines did. They brought the age down to age 65. And so if pe a patient has had normal papsmears, negative HPVs for a long time and they currently have negative HPV and a normal papsmear, they can stop their cervical cancer screening at age 65. Now that doesn't mean you have to because the way I frame it to patients and to people, there's guidelines. Yes. Um guidelines are not the law. I make the recommendations, but patients make the choices. Yes. So I will tell them the guidelines say that you can stop now. Um so we don't have to do cervical cancer screening for you for maybe a patient who's 70 and they look at me like I won't be able to sleep at night if you don't continue to do my screening. Then we can make an informed choice together and I might still do their papsmear. Um but I don't it's not a law and it's a guideline and I might help them understand why. And sometimes patients come to it on their own after a few years where they say, "Oh, well, I did look into that." Like, "Maybe it's okay. I won't have you do it this year." Okay. But I mean, first of all, I love that you engage in this shared decision-m with your patient because I think again, this is like one of the reasons why we're having this podcast and discussion is to empower people with information so that they can have decisions, right, with their providers and make these decisions together, right? But I guess my question is is um why why what what is the reasoning or I guess or the science behind not needing the pap as you get older? Is there an assumption about sexual activity or HPV or the growth of cervical cancer cells? It's all of those things. And so we do make assumptions sometimes in our culture about sexual activity of patients as people get older. But even if a person was continuing to be sexually active and maybe with different partners even HPV is a virus that causes cervical cancer which is the whole reason behind we didn't quite say that but I think it's important like this test is for cervical cancer screening looking at the abnormal cells and looking for HPV HPV is the main cause of most cervical cancer so if HPV is present we know someone has higher risk of cervical cancer which is why we then change how often they get their tests how we monitor them. And if someone is, for example, 65 years old and they've had totally normal papsmears their whole life, their HPV is negative, the chance of even if they have new partners, the chance of them getting HPV, not clearing it, because a lot of the time, 80% of the time, HPV gets cleared on its own over the course of several years. Your body's magical immune system just gets rid of it. And even if their body didn't clear it, the chance of them developing cervical cancer that would cause them some impact on their health and kill them is low. So which begs the question, yeah, can HPV be prevented? It can. So there's a there's a vaccine there's a vaccine. There's this amazing vaccine, the Gardil 9 vaccine that has um grown over the years in how many strains of HPV it covers cuz HPV is one name but covers many many strains that are different like cousins that can cause cervical cancer. There's some strains of HPV that we don't worry about. Um there's some strains of HPV that may cause warts or genital warts. Um nobody wants those either but not cancer. They're not cancer. Um they're annoying but they're not cancer. you're not going to die from them. Good. And so this vaccine helps to educate your body so that it can clear those strains if they're exposed to them. So, and we offer HPV to young people, all young people though, all genders, boys and girls. And the way HPV works is that the male anatomy is the vector, meaning the male anatomy spreads it to the women and then it gets spread that way. So men or male anatomy does not usually have signs of those high-risisk HPV strains. Male bodies can get warts, but like we said, those are generally not the types of HPV strains that cause cervical cancer. So they may see warts. Um, but many of the people who might carry that HPV strain, the high-risisk one, they might not see anything. So there's no test. The most common thing people ask is, "Well, can I get my partner tested? Is there a test for them?" There is not a test for the partner. Okay? But we can vaccinate young people, male and female bodies, against this HPV virus to help decrease it over time. I mean, it's incredible. I mean, we're we're going to be talking about, you know, cancer later on this podcast in in other episodes. But the fact that there's a vaccine to prevent cancer, I think we take it for granted a little bit and, you know, as a parent, we go and in and into the doctor's office and we make our kids get vaccinated. But, I mean, that's tremendous. You know, it's amazing. Will we talk? I mean there's trust me we have colleagues who are working on vaccines for brain cancer but this one actually exists and prevents cancer and so I mean really it's we want our daughters to get vaccinated and we want our sons to get vaccinated. Yes. Both of them and it feels uncomfortable for families for people to talk about a vaccine for a thing that's related to sex. So, I think it makes a lot of families, parents, patients feel uncomfortable. And so, when it gets brought up, they're like, well, you know, we don't need that yet because they're they're like 12 or 11. They're not having sex. So, they sort of feel defensive about it. But that's the whole point. This vaccine works best when it's given before someone has ever been sexually active and before they've ever been exposed to the HPV virus, whether they are male or female. So, that's the intent behind it and that's what the evidence showed that it works best. Now, if a person is hearing this and they're like, "I had HPV or I'm still worried about HPV and I never got that vaccine." You can get it later on as well. So, people who get the vaccine later in life may still get benefit from it and we recommend it. Um, it covers nine different strains. So someone may have already had a positive HPV test on one of their papsmears, but according to all the research when they created this vaccine and they looked at thousands of people who had HPV, most people had never been exposed to all of them. So even if you've had HPV already, sometimes patients will feel like, well, what's the point? Like I already had it. But you may still be protecting yourself from eight other strains, right? So it's still something that people we recommend at different ages and even if they've already had an abnormal pepsin, right? and other strains of HPV are associated with other kinds of cancer, which will be a separate topic, but good to know. Um, okay, that's incredible. Um, I have to tell you, there's a lot of asking for a friend questions, which are just more questions. Um, we we on this show we're calling it asking for our medically speaking friends. Um, but this is a really common one, and this comes from again my daughters, our friends. Um, but a really common question and it kind of goes to what to expect when you're kind of showing up for your exam is, "I'm really nervous about having to come in for an exam and stripping down, you know, you know, under the under the waist. Is there anything I can do to feel more ease or ask for anything?" Absolutely. So, the patient still directs your visit. You you are in charge of your body and you're in charge of the visit. You can talk to your doctor, especially if it's the first time you've met them. You don't have to be undressed to talk to them. You could say, "I would like to get undressed after I've met doctor whoever and I get to talk to them first and then after you've talked with each other, the doctor's gotten your information and answered questions. Make sure knows what your concerns are. Then they can step out, you can get undressed, and then you're not sitting there naked for 30 minutes waiting for the doctor to come in." Cuz that's how healthc care is sometimes. I want to be on time for my patients, but sometimes it's a little while before I get in the room. And so if it's your first time for a pelvic exam and a meeting this doctor, you might just ask to a lot of offices do that already, but not always. And so you just might ask, can I keep my clothes on till I meet Dr. So and so and we talk and then when it's time for your exam, you can get undressed. I would start with that. And then know that not every person who's having their first exam with a gynecologist needs a papsmear. We said you don't have to start till age 21. Mhm. But it is still a good idea to have a gynecologic exam just to establish a relationship with someone. Even if you're 15, you might have questions about what's even though you feel really scared because the doctor said you had to. Don't be afraid. You might still need to do it. But don't be afraid to just ask for more information like help. I'm really nervous about this thing. Help me understand why it's going to help me. Um why why does it have to be this way? And sometimes you might be able to find an alternative plan or something that's going to be more acceptable to you. You may still need to do the thing, but don't be afraid to ask why and get more information. I that reminds me that if you can, not that this should be any patient's job, but remember that sometimes like we were saying like we're rushed, we're busy, and sometimes like but we're humble, right? And I mean, we need to be reminded like slow down. I need you to communicate every step to me. Yes. You know, and I think you'll notice I've definitely had to say that with physicians who take care of me. and then remind them and then they kind of refocus. Um any any what are your top three you know kind of takeaways that you want you know our our audience and our listeners to really remember? I want them to find an OBGYn that they have a relationship with and go even if you feel totally normal. Boring visits are great. Boring. Just go have a boring visit. It's wonderful. And um definitely get to know your body. Like don't be afraid of your body because it's yours and they're all different and you know your body the best and so only you can tell someone that something's changed like it wasn't like that before. Doesn't mean there's anything bad but you know and you could have a dialogue about it and then maybe they can reassure you that that change is normal. So get to know your body. Perfect. And I would also say h I think it's really important to not compare your body. Don't compare your body. So just accept it. So the do is like just accept your body as it is. It's perfect and beautiful and you know our brains always are like I wish it was this, I wish it was that. But you don't comparing them to someone else's body. Comparing your parts unhelpful, right? No, it's your body's perfect. Your body's perfect as it is. And they do a lot of work for us, our bodies, and really grateful. So just acceptance. Yeah. And they're so resilient. Yeah. Um is there anything I didn't ask you though that you wanted to share? I've tried to ask you everything I can think of for this particular topic. Well, oh, I did ask I asked a patient today what I should share um a young patient and she said that patients should not be afraid to talk to the doctor and like actually show them the things that they're worried about. Um if there's something that feels not right, I might tell you it's totally normal, but then you can put your mind at rest. So worrying, worrying, worrying, just ask, just show us the thing that you're worried about. Point out to us and I might say that's totally normal. and then you can be done. So don't be afraid to show the doctor what that thing is or ask them about it. It feels so good to be reassured. It's so good to be reassured. Then you can have this like weight lifted. Otherwise, it occupies all this energy in your brain like is that okay? Do I have cancer? Is that abnormal? Am I going to die from that? It's so exhausting. No. And then you can ask your friends like we I just love that at least what I see with my daughters is they talk about this a lot more than my generation and they talk about their bodies and we're like use use the real words like empower yourself with language and like you said women are awesome. Women are awesome. Our bodies are amazing. Women are really tough and like you said resilient that what they can do is amazing. So they make their best patients and I have the pleasure of taking care of them. I mean everyone is so lucky and I can't feel more lucky that you came on today. Thank you so much for sharing not only what you do but who you are with all of us. You know that you're be you're going to be coming on a million more times. But um I just can't thank you enough. And um that's it for today of of medically speaking. And until next time, I like to remind everyone to stay curious, ask questions, um keep healthy, and yeah, love your body. Yeah, love your body. It's it's a great body. Thank it. Thank it sometimes. Yeah. And thank your body. I feel very thankful. Well, thank you. This is wonderful. Thank you, Maya. Thanks so much.