Hi, this is James Woo at the Endocrine Center. Today I want to talk to you about what to expect on the day of a thyroid radio frequency ablation procedure, also known as an RFA. I'm going to talk about in three parts. What to expect right before the procedure, what it's like during the procedure, and some tips on afterare. So, let's get into it. for before the procedure. These things are scheduled just like regular clinic visits that are held for about hour and a half to two hours long. Depending on patient preference, some patients prefer a mild sedation. So, we'll have them come 20 to 30 minutes ahead of time and prescribe them one tablet of Xanax or Valium and have them take that while they're waiting in the waiting room for the procedure to start. Uh for those who prefer not to have any kind of sedation on board, that is fine. uh and they can come at the scheduled time for what happens during the procedure. You get brought into the procedure room which is just a large clinic room. Uh we expose the area of the neck and we clean it with a cleaning solution. Keep the area sterile. We put on sterile drapes to only leave the neck exposed. Everything else is clean. And we make sure that you have plenty of space to look out to the side from the drape. We ask you what kind of music you want to listen to because it is a while to just lay there while we're doing the procedure. And when we're about to start, we'll start with just one numbing solution. And that injection will have a little pin prick. But after that, the skin should go numb. Once the skin is numb, when we put the needle that is used for the ablation procedure, uh patients typically don't feel that. Once the needle is inside the thyroid, some patients feel a feeling that is not painful, but just a little abnormal, a feeling of maybe some tugging deep down the neck, a tugging at the ear. For many patients, it's actually uh very manageable. We've had some patients fall asleep. And uh while it's heating up, you may hear some buzzing from the machine. Some people can feel or hear a pop of the thyroid tissue as it heats up because it's generating some air bubbles. And we just go bit by bit, burning each part of the thyroid and moving the needle around. As we do that, the whole thing will last about 40 minutes. Once we're done, we take out the needle. Uh, all there is is no cuts, just a little needle hole. We put a band-aid on and put an ice pack. And that after the procedure, we just recommend that patients take a little bit of Tylenol if they need for soreness for one or two days. Uh, it's fine to eat whatever you'd like. Uh we do ask patients not to drive if they can't turn their heads side to side comfortably, but if they feel fine, it's okay to drive. We've had a lot of patients tell us that after the procedure, they felt great starting from the next day onward with some others saying that it's a little bit sore from day two or so, but not much longer than that. Afterwards, we should expect some tissue swelling and the neck will be a little swollen for about a week. And with more and more time that swelling will subside and the thyroid nodule will then become visibly smaller. But it does take a total of 6 months to get to its final size. So between 1 and 6 months it's getting smaller and smaller. So that's what to expect on the day of a thyroid radio frequency ablation procedure. If you'd like to come in and speak with us, uh if you'd like to check out our website, there's more information there, too. And this is James with Endocrine Center. Thanks for watching.