Hi everybody. My name is Dr. Masha Livitz. This is Dr. Michael Yay. We are endocrine surgeons at UCLA and we'll be talking to you today about thyroid nodules and thyroid cancer, what you need to know. So, please ask questions on Twitter using the hashtag UCLAMD chat. So for my part of the talk, I'll be talking first about how common are thyroid nodules, how do you work up a new thyroid nodule, what are the new advances and diagnosis. Specifically, I'll mention molecular testing. Um I'll be reviewing some a little bit about the new guidelines and recommendations from the American Thyroid Association and then talking about the initial treatment of thyroid cancer. Dr. Yay will then talk about surviving and treatment of recurrent thyroid cancer and then we'll ask uh we'll have time for questions at the end. So to start with, let's talk about how common are thyroid nodules in the population. So as it turns out, thyroid nodules are actually very common. If we were to ultrasound everybody, up to half of six-year-olds would have a thyroid nodule. And on the illustration there, you can see the pink portion there. Let's see if I go like this. Not really showing up, but so this part is your thyroid. You can see some follicles here. This is your airway or your trachea and your spine back there. So that's where your thyroid is, right here in the front of your neck. Risk factors for thyroid nodules are increasing age, females, having a radiation exposure, um, or being in an iodine deficient part of the country. Thyroid nodules are also more common in women. Um, and we need to differentiate whether the nodule is identified on physical exam or by an ultrasound. So here you can see this is a patient who has a thyroid nodule that you could feel and you could see. Um, so that's a palpable thyroid nodule and about 6% of women and 1.5% of men would have a palpable nodule. But if you were to ultrasound everybody, then the majority of women, 75% of women and about 40% of men would have a thyroid nodule seen on ultrasound. And thyroid nodules are more common as patients get older. So you can see in the graph, this is the age. And again, if you ultrasound everybody, by the time you're age 80 or 90, most patients would have a small thyroid nodule seen on the ultrasound. But most of these will not be palpable, meaning you can't actually feel it in your neck. Now the next very important point is that most thyroid nodules are not cancer. So the first time when a patient is told that they have a thyroid nodule, they immediately think, you know, is this cancerous? And the good news is that it's unlikely to be cancer. The overall malignancy rate is only about 5%. But it is a higher malignancy rate if you're a child or if you're older. So the next question is how do we work up a new thyroid nodule? So the important point is that as I said most thyroid nodules um are benign. So we need to separate the benign nodules from the suspicious nodules that require further workup and potentially treatment. So as physicians we always start with a history by talking to the patient and this focuses first on could this nodule be producing excess thyroid hormone. So usually those patients will have weight loss, trouble sleeping, anxiety, heart palpitations, things like that. It's also important to note whether there's a family history of thyroid cancer or any endocrine disorders in the patient or in the family that might suggest a genetic predisposition. Um the next important point is radiation exposure. Um so that doesn't include CAT scans or dental exams or X-rays. That's really, you know, if you live next to nuclear power plants or if you had radiation treatment for something like lymphoma as a child. Um, now most thyroid cancers are painless and most thyroid nodules are also painless. So pain is not usually a symptom of thyroid nodules. Sometimes if a nodule is very large, it can cause compression. So that's usually a nodule that's over about 4 cm in size and then the patient may have trouble swallowing. The next step would be a physical exam. So we'll feel the neck, we'll feel what the nodule feels like, if we can feel it, and also feel for any lymph nodes. And then we'll also check the labs, specifically what the thyroid function tests are. However, the history and the physical exam alone are not very accurate in differentiating between a benign and a cancerous thyroid nodule. What is really a key is the thyroid ultrasound and the biopsy. The ultrasound is highly accurate for thyroid nodules. It's noninvasive. There's no radiation exposure. Most patients don't require any other imaging. So most patients do not need a CT scan or a PET scan or anything like that. Um there's a lot of benefit to the surgeon performed ultrasound. So if a patient does end up needing surgery, it's really helpful for the surgeon themselves to do the ultrasound. You can see exactly what the nodule looks like, other nodules, and the lymph nodes. That's really helpful. And there is an example here of an ultrasound. And this is the thyroid nodule over here. So these are some features that are associated with a nodule that's more suspicious for cancer. So hypoc means that it looks darker or blacker compared to the surrounding thyroid tissue. You can see it's a little more white. You can see some calcifications. Those are the bright white spots here. You can see that the margins here get a little bit irregular. So all of those findings would be a little bit more suspicious um for a malignancy in the thyroid. Um, we also look back to see if there's any previous ultrasounds to see if the nodule has grown and what the lymph nodes look like. Um, so there are, as I mentioned, some new guidelines. They came out from the American Thyroid Association just a few months ago. Um, and they help us with suggesting how to work up and treat thyroid nodules and well differentiated thyroid cancer. Um, now these are just guidelines. So ultimately the treatment decision is up to the patient and the physician working together. So do all thyroid nodules need a biopsy? And the answer is no. It depends on how big the nodule is and how suspicious it may look on the ultrasound. So this is based on these new American Thyroid Association guidelines. They recommend no biopsy for most nodules smaller than 1 cm in size. Now there are rare exceptions. For example, if the nodule looks very very suspicious on the ultrasound, if there's a strong family history or a known genetic condition, things like that. Um, but for most patients, if you have a nodule less than a centimeter, they recommend not biopsying and just continuing to watch it with serial ultrasounds. Nodules that are purely cystic. So, this would be an example. You can see how it's completely black inside. So, it's filled with fluid. Those nodules are almost always benign and usually don't require a biopsy. Now, they do recommend biopsy if a nodule is greater than 1 cm in size and looks very suspicious on the ultrasound. So this one looks sort of like the previous one where you can see that there's some white spots or calcifications, some irregular margins. However, if a nodule does not look suspicious, they recommend waiting until it's over a centimeter and a half in size to biopsy. And the whole rationale behind this is to avoid overt treatment. Um, so this is an example of what the biopsy looks like. It's performed under ultrasound guidance. So you can see that the operator is holding the ultrasound probe. This is the needle going in to do the biopsy. This is done after the skin is uh locally numbed up. So, it's an office procedure. It's a little bit uncomfortable, but has pretty small risks associated with it. Um, before we were able to biopsy patients, if you had a thyroid nodule, the only way we could tell if it's cancerous or not was to remove it. Now, with biopsying, we can screen out a lot of patients who have benign nodules and not operate on them. So, it's decreased the number of patients having surgery by half. These are the main categories of what your biopsy results may be. Um the first one is non-diagnostic. We'd rather not see this. It means that they just didn't get enough cells during the biopsy. So usually those patients require a rebiopsy. The next category would be benign. That's most results. And if it's benign, then there's a very high chance over 90% that it truly is benign. So those patients usually don't need any surgery and can just be observed. Now, I'll talk a little bit more about this indeterminate category. This means that there are some suspicious cells, but you can't tell that it's cancerous. Um, and this can be a little bit frustrating. So, we'll talk about that one. The next two categories are basically that it's cancerous or most likely cancerous. And we usually treat that with surgery. So, this is an example what the cells would look like from a fine aspiration biopsy. You can tell that they're all small, uniform in size, nothing suspicious about them. Okay. So what do we do with an indeterminate biopsy? This means that the risk of cancer is between about 5 to 30% depending on the wording of the biopsy. Traditionally, most of those patients would have a repeat biopsy and then have a surgical excision because there's no other way that they could tell whether it was cancerous or not. Um, and you might ask why? Why can't we tell on this biopsy if it's cancerous or not? Um, so sometimes what you need to determine that it's cancer is to see those cells coming outside of the capsule of the nodule. You can't tell that with just a biopsy a lot of times. So this is where the role of molecular testing has come in and has really improved the care I believe in these patients. Um, so our whole goal is to avoid unnecessary surgery for indeterminate thyroid nodules. Meaning if your nodule is benign and not causing any compressive symptoms, we'd like to leave it alone and not operate on it. So if you look at a nodule that has an indeterminate biopsy result, the risk of cancer about 20%. So if you have surgery and it ends up being cancerous, then that was good. That was the right thing to do. Um and then you may need further surgery to remove the rest of your thyroid depending on the results. However, most patients will be here. They will not have had a malignancy in their thyroid. And in that case, you've done the surgery. They may require some thyroid hormone. They, you know, unlikely, but may have had a surgical complication or a difficult recovery. So we'd like to minimize this arm basically. So there are some molecular markers um that have been developed over the past several years and they rely on the fact that cancer cells have a different gene expression profile compared to benign cells. So our protocol at UCLA is that whenever a patient is having a biopsy of their thyroid nodule, we reserve an extra little sample for the molecular testing. That way if the results of the biopsy are indeterminate, we can just reflexively send off the molecular testing. the patient does not need to come back for another biopsy and then it'll give us some more information. That's how we do it. Um and there are several different tests that are out there. Two of the sort of um best validated ones and the ones that we have at UCLA available are this affirma veracite GEC and thyroid um version two. And the way the results are are either benign or suspicious. If it's benign then there's about a 95% chance that it's truly benign. It's almost like getting a benign biopsy in the first place. and most of those patients are observed unless they have a very large nodule or something else. If it's suspicious, it doesn't mean it's cancer for sure, but it bumps up the chance of cancer to about 50 to 80%. So most of those patients will have surgery. So let's talk now about the initial treatment of well- differentiated thyroid cancer. So um a very important point to mention here is that most patients do not die from thyroid cancer because most thyroid cancers are not as aggressive as some other cancers you know pancreas cancer for example. So the mortality is only about one out of every 200,000 patients and this has been stable for a long time. So these are the types of thyroid cancer papillary and follicular they make up the majority. These are the well differentiated ones that I'm talking about and you can see the 10ear survival is very good. Medelary thyroid cancer occurs in about 5% of patients, sometimes with a genetic predisposition, also a good 10-year survival. Um, this unfortunate patient did have what's called anoplastic thyroid cancer. That's the very very aggressive kind. Um, it often presents with a rapidly growing mass, very hard, um, often already metastatic at presentation. Those patients do have a median survival of six months. Um, but thankfully that is very rare. Um so let's talk about the different treatment options for thyroid cancer. Usually the thyroid comes out in halves. So it's either half of a thyroid removed which is a lowctomy or the whole thyroid removed which is a total thyroidctomy. So this also comes from the new guidelines. Um and you can see so this is your thyroid here. So if we're doing a lobectomy that means we're removing this half and you still have this half of the thyroid. So the new guidelines suggest that a lobectomy alone is sufficient for many patients who have a tumor less than a centimeter and this is well differentiated um where the tumor is not growing beyond the thyroid into the muscle or the trachea. There's no clinical spread to lymph nodes. So there actually could be a couple of lymph nodes that have a little microscopic tumor cells in there as long as they're not large. Um and then no high-risisk features in the family or in the patient like radiation exposure. Um the guidelines do recommend doing a total thyroidctomy if the tumor is over four centimeters in size extending into nearby structures. Um if there's bulky large lymph nodes and they specify about two centimeters. So that's a pretty big lymph node. Um and or if you have distant metastases and you can see that's the whole thyroid being removed there. Can you go back one slide? Yes. Just wanted to comment. So you've got tumors less than one but actually there's some data to suggest I don't know if that's a typo but it could be up to four. Yeah. So that was going to be Yeah. Oh, sorry. Sorry. Perfect. So, um, anywhere in between 1 to four centimeters, you know, all of this is a little bit controversial since these this is all sort of evolving in clinical practice. Um, but their suggestion is that between 1 to four centimeters, consider lobectomy alone. Yeah, that's something new from the 2015 guidelines is probably an overall movement toward a little bit less aggressive treatment. In other words, that's sort of acknowledging that maybe we were overtreating some thyroid cancers before. Exactly. Right. So this is all very individualized um because you have to be able to do a good ultrasound to see what the lymph nodes look like. You have to have a good pathologist to really look at the cells. Is there any extension beyond the thyroid, things like that. Um but it's great because it gives us the ability to do less surgery if we feel like that's indicative for the patient. Um and why would we want to consider lobectomy in low-risisk patients? It's because more surgery does not improve the prognosis. That's and we want to avoid patients being on hormone replacement. So if you just remove half of the thyroid then about 85% of patients don't require any thyroid hormone. That's great. Um and then you know especially if it's a lower volume surgeon you can potentially decrease surgical complications by doing less surgery. So why should we consider removing the whole thyroid in high-risisk patients. Um first that there often will be little microscopic tumors in the other half. Um the other thing is that it enables treatment with radioactive iodine ablation. I'll touch on that in a minute. And the last thing is that how do we follow patients after they have had thyroid cancer surgery? I think you'll talk about that a little bit more, but one of the ways is with a tumor marker called thyrolobuline. Um, you can only check that if the whole thyroid has been removed because normal thyroid also produces the same tumor marker. So it improves our ability to have surveillance in high-risisk patients. So um in terms of the role of radioactive iodine ablation following surgery, there's also a movement just like there's a movement to less surgery, there's a movement to less radioactive iodine following surgery. Um so again some points from the new guidelines. It is not routinely recommended for low-risk patients and there used to be a time when everybody would get radioactive iodine ablation following surgery. Um now it's definitely not routinely recommended. um it should be considered in patients who have a tumor over four centimeters, some spread beyond the thyroid or metastases to the central or lateral lymph nodes. And their only strong recommendation in the literature is if you have distant metastases in the lungs for example or if it's really grossly spreading beyond the thyroid. I would say in clinical practice probably a lot of these patients would get radioactive iodine and certainly all of these patients would. Um but you know if you have a tumor that's a centimeter or a couple centimeters in size um that don't have doesn't have any high-risisk features um then there's really a movement towards not giving radioactive iodine. Right now at UCLA we're using it in about 35% of our patients. That's down considerably from even a couple years ago when we used it sometimes in almost all of them five years ago. Um so I think this is my last slide. The risk of recurrence is really based on initial extended disease. So I said that the overall long-term survival is excellent but that doesn't mean that patients can't have morbidity associated with thyroid cancer can really affect their life um cause problems in the quality of life and some of that comes from a local recurrence potential need for a reoperation that has higher risks associated with that. So the overall recurrence rate about 15% and the real high-risisk features are if you had a really invasive tumor initially that was growing into surrounding structures, if you had incomplete tumor resection the first time and certainly if you have distant metastatic disease I'll turn it over to you. Thanks. Um do we have we might have a couple questions that came in already. Uh maybe you could help us and if you want to take one or two before we move on. Sorry we were a little late by the way. Okay, first one. Go for it. Do you recommend sucking on sour candies during radioactive therapy to protect the salivary glands? I actually think that's a good idea. I've heard a lot of our endocrinologists recommending that. Um I also recommend drinking a lot of water. It can help with um sort of the radioactivity washing out sooner so that you're safe to be around your children quicker. Yeah, basically anything to keep up the salivary flow. Uh once again, the question is about uh what to do after you've gotten a dose of radioactive iodine. Typically, our patients are isolated for a few days then and uh I guess sucking on sour candies not only helps the sour salivary flow but also helps pass the time when you're locked up in that room. Okay, here's another good question. So, um I have a 4cm nodule on my left no uh some smaller ones on my right thyroid. The big one has been biopsied. It'S4 centimeters. Biopsy is benign. I don't want to have surgery, but I'm worried it might be cancer. What's the recommendation? That's a tough one. You want to take a stab at that? Sure. So traditionally four centimeters has been a little bit of the cut off. The concern being that the biopsy is a little bit less reliable. Then if you imagine a pretty big nodule, if you biopsy one portion of it, it's benign. That's great. But what if there's another portion that you didn't biopsy? So the bigger the nodule, the higher the false positive rate is. Um having said that, it's still pretty low. So if the ben if the biopsy is benign, it really most likely is not cancer. um you have to think about whether it's causing any compressive symptoms because at that size it does often cause little trouble swallowing. Um and so 4 centimeters is often our our cut off to recommend surgery. Um but most likely it would be benign. So I think there's really some room for patient decision- making here. Yeah, I agree. You know, a lot of patients about 85% of patients when they have a 4cm nodule or something something like that are going to have some discomfort when swallowing or sometimes some difficulty breathing. A lot of our patients with nodules that size or greater do end up having surgery, you know, and something that we'd want to assess in a patient like this is a man or a woman, are they young or old? What are the risk factors for surgery? So, if it's a young woman, that's probably going to keep growing o over time. And also, and a young patient, surgery is very safe. So, we we'd probably be inclined to do an operation in that patient. Yeah. So, maybe I'll show a few slides and and we'll uh then we'll take some more questions at the end. Thanks for sticking with us. We know that um you know any given part of this presentation is not going to help everyone but we're just hoping to cover some of the most popular uh categories that people have questions about. I'm going to talk a little bit about thyroid cancer survivorship. Uh and I want to thank the thyroid cancer survivors organization for uh helping us get the word out about this today. Now I I call this talk the fundamentals and I fully realize that there are a lot of emotional and social aspects that the people in the audience are more expert about than I am. So I'm just going to talk about the clinical aspects and at the end we'll we'll take on a few questions. I have a couple disclosures. I do serve as a consultant to these two companies. Uh the objectives for the next 105 minutes or so to is to talk about the prognosis of papillary thyroid carcinoma. So papillary I'm going to stick to the most common one about 90% of thyroid cancers are papillary uh in their variety. We'll talk about both survival and recurrence. These are the two clinical endpoints that we really care about. uh how doctor how am I along how long am I going to live and do I have to be concerned that this is going to come back and harm my health in the future um we'll talk about surveillance how do we keep track of the uh by that I mean scans and then last I'll touch a little bit about dealing with recurrent thyroid cancer and some of the people in our audience have probably already dealt with this um and uh I know many people are concerned about this possibility so it's important that we address this um just an overview about the scope of the problem you know if you have differentiated thyroid cancer Most people 90% will be adequately treated with a single operation that forms the base of this pyramid. And we're going to come back to this pyramid a bit later on. Some people I would say around 9% require two operations. Oftentimes a second operation will be to address a lymph node or a set of lymph nodes that may have not have been fully addressed at the first time or it's possible that it was a true recurrence that it grew back later. And just the very tip of this pyramid are a small number of people with more aggressive thyroid cancer. Thankfully, that's the minority and they may need more than two operations. Um, the reason we know about this here at UCLA is because we spend a lot of time doing these repeat operations. We reserve one full day a week to deal with people who have recurrent thyroid cancer and it's one of our our passions is to help people like that. So, busy slide just looking at survival and recurrence in papillary thyroid carcinoma. You see here on this top graph that uh based on the size the people with smaller tumors have excellent survival. You know in other cancers we talk about things like for colon cancer or for pancreas cancer we talk about fiveyear survival 10 year survival because those diseases are so aggressive you'd rather not have one of those but in thyroid cancer people we talk about overall survival 10 year 20ear survival we have the luxury of thinking about this because in general it's a slow growing tumor so even if you have a very large tumor four even eight centimeters even the lowest number here in terms of survival at 10 years is 80%. So thyroid cancer patients do really well. Having said that, on this side, you notice that the larger the tumor is, the more likely it is to recur or come back sometime in the next 10 years. So I'm going to emphasize this point more than once. The recurrence rate for thyroid cancer will range from 5% to 35% based on a number of factors. Now, I don't mean to scare you, but you're going to want to know where you are in that risk profile, which we'll which we'll go over. Okay. um when do these recurrences happen or who is more likely to have a thyroid cancer recurrence. So this is work from Ohio State from Dr. Matsaferi who who passed away two years ago looking at the age at which somebody got thyroid cancer here and how likely was it that they had a recurrence. Okay, so here you see this classic U-shaped curve. And I like to say that if you're going to get thyroid cancer, you may as well be a 35-year-old woman because those people have the best prognosis. they have a very low rate of recurrence and a very low rate of cancer related death. So the people that get recurrent disease often a thyroid cancer growing back in the lymph node or in the lungs more commonly in the lymph node are either going to be very young teenagers or people over 50. Um what you see here cancer death is this black line. So even though we have teenagers UCLA students people in their teens coming in with thyroid cancer sometimes in the lymph nodes they seem to live forever. So they have to deal with the cancer sometimes have more than one operation sometimes have to deal with lymph nom metastases but they don't die from thyroid cancer mortality from thyroid cancer uh is really occurs in a small group of older tend to be older patients with more aggressive varants of thyroid cancer now you may fairly ask here well doc when should I if if I have to prepare myself for the possibility of recurrence when could that happen and what you see here is most of the recurrences are detected early on within the first 5 to 10 years after surgery surgery. All right. So, that's when our int our surveillance is probably the most intense. Uh, and what I'll reveal later is a lot of these recurrences maybe could be avoided if the first operation is done really really well. And that that's a key point for the second half of the talk. All right. So, just a couple of slides here showing uh recurrence after initial treatment for thyroid cancer. And I'm just going to show on this graph from one institution shows the recurrence rate ranges from 20 to 45% depending on how patients are treated. And this graph, if you just pay attention to the white line here, shows the recurrence rate is 10 to 15%. So once again, how come we have two different studies showing recurrence rates that are so different? This one is double this one. How can that be? Right? So there are biologic factors which have to do with the differences in the tumor. Also there are surgeon factors and it's people uh experts who have looked at both of these articles have posulated that the surgeons in this organization which I I shouldn't name are really focused complete their their livelihoods on thyroid cancer and have lower recurrence rates than this institution which had many different surgeons doing a small number of thyroid cancer operations. So the quality of the initial operation really matters. Okay to s uh to to recap survival from papillary thyroid cancer is excellent. Recurrence takes place in 10 to 35% and recurrence is a function the likelihood of recurrence as a function of tumor biology and the quality of initial surgery. In some ways I think these numbers are why tha the thyroid cancer survivor organization exists because people are happily living a long time. There are a lot of survivors who live 10 20 30 years and uh and they do think about recurrences and what's their quality of life. And so we we're happy to be here to to address the the needs of this patient population. All right. So what are the fundamentals of how we perform surveillance for thyroid cancer? Uh meaning how do we stay vigilant that if something were to grow back that we could identify it early that we could treat it early before it became a real problem for the patient. We use blood tumor markers most importantly the thyrolobuline level. And Dr. Livis mentioned earlier that thyrolylobulin is a pro hormone. It's the hormone that's made into thyroid hormone. It's made by normal thyroid cells as well as differentiated thyroid thyroid cancer cells. So that's why you need to have had a total thyroidctomy in order for that to be a valid tumor marker. We do use a lot of ultrasound. So you're seeing this again. Ultrasound doesn't sound that high-tech, but remember the neck is a a surface structure. It's shallow and if you have a put your probe on the surface, you have an experienced practitioner, it is really the best test. We we use ultrasound for about 95% of our imaging needs. um functional imaging with radioactive iodine scanning and PET scanning is I I think it's it's used less and less in the surveillance of thyroid cancer. We're really using biochemistry and ultrasound. Okay, busy slide and and we wanted to give you the most updated information. So Dr. Livitz already alluded to the 2015 American Thyroid Association guidelines and these are available the guidelines themselves. It's a bit of a lengthy document but it is available at thyroid.org which is the American Thyroid Association website. It's also available at thikica.org, the thyroid cancer survivors association. I'm just going to touch on this concept that's really been introduced. I I have to credit Mike Tuttle from Sloan Ketering, but many of you probably know of him who who talks about um dynamic risk stratification. Now, that's a big long word, but all it means is that as time goes on, we learn more about the patient. We learn more about the tumor. And therefore, our concept, our ability to provide the the patient with a careful or accurate prognosis, like look into the crystal ball of their future, that gets clearer with time. All right. Now, we meet a if we meet a new patient tomorrow, they just had a biopsy that's that's uh concerning for thyroid cancer. They want to know, doc, how am I going to do? Doc, how am I going to do? Yeah, we can tell them something on that day, but three months later, we have more information. One year later, we know even more. Okay, so that's all this means. A lot of people have excellent response, meaning after initial treatment, surgery with or without radioactive iodine. Then you can't see they they have an ultrasound at a year that's totally blank. There's no evidence of disease regrowth on the ultrasound. And they have a fibrobulin that's undetectable. I mean, sure, everybody wants to be uh in that boat where they have no evidence of disease. Not not everybody can be in that boat, but I just want to make sure that most people out there know that a lot of people have what we call biochemical incomplete response, which means we can't see anything on ultrasound, but they have a little bit of thyrolobuline floating around in their bloodstream. And if there's one message I have for the sur survivors audience is that please do not worry too much about that because most people with thyroid cancer many people with thyroid cancer live long healthy full lives with a little bit of thyrolobuline in their bloodstream and die of natural causes when they're 80 or 90. Um but I but I am aware you know I'm sensitive to the fact that it does cause some anxiety. So we're going to address that. Now a small number of people have what we call a structural incomplete response which means even after initial surgery there is tumor that we can see uh on imaging usually in ultrasound or CT or even at the end of surgery sometimes the surgeon will say I wasn't able to remove all the tumor and those are the patients who were were quite a bit more concerned about okay so once again we'll go back to this pyramid and the base of the pyramid again excellent response or biochemical incomplete response that resolves Many people with initially a biochemical incomplete response, have some detectable thyrolobuline. If you leave them alone or sometimes need additional treatments, some people would have a second dose of radioactive iodine, which which we tend not to use. Um they will eventually uh prove themselves to have an excellent prognosis. That's the base of the pyramid, the blue part. And the top part really this top one at most 10% those are the people with structural disease recurrence, something we can see, a target we can see on an ultrasound. And those people are the ones who need a little bit more treatment, a little more help. Uh we tend to see a disproportionate number of people like that at UCLA. Uh because we um we're passionate about treat treating people with that sort of complex level of disease. I'm talk going to talk to you about a little bit of our about our surveillance protocol, what we do here at UCLA. We see everybody at three months after surgery and we have some questions for them. We want to know did you have radioactive iodine or not? Again, there's a trend toward using less radioactive iodine. And you know, we did talk about the ATA guidelines, but I want to advise, it's very important for the patients in the audience to know that these are very newly published and the degree of acceptance of these new guidelines is going to vary from endocrinologist to endocrinologist. And uh something you should be aware of if you approach your physician with some of these new data. Um at one year after surgery, we we have a surgeon performed ultrasound. So I personally do the ultrasound and all of my patients with thyroid cancer. Dr. libids will do the same. We have an advantage. We've been in there. We know what we did. Uh we have detailed notes and so if there's a recurrence, we would be the most likely to see that early. Uh and then we we measure by then we usually have several thyrolobuline levels and we obtain a stimulated thyrolylobulin level on virtually everyone at one year. And and for those of you who are new to this topic, a stimulated thyrolobuline is something you get when the patient's uh TSH is high. All right? So TSH is a tumor as a hormone made by the pituitary. Uh and it's basically a more sensitive way of looking at thyrolylobulin. There are two ways to achieve that. Either by stopping thyroid hormone for a while and letting the TSH know naturally rise or you can give injections a recominant uh human TSH. Now after one year I'm going to show you that most of our patients are disease-free. Um and we follow that quantitatively here at UCLA with our uh quality dashboards. And so there are some patients at that point we will return them to the surveillance of their endocrinologist and others who we might think have a higher likelihood of having a recurrence. We'll we'll keep them a little closer to us. So if there's any uh hint of a recurrence, we'll be on top of that. Okay, real quick. This is a slide. Um this is Mike Tuttle's slide talking about dynamic risk stratification. and he and I were sitting in the back of a cab a few months ago and we started to talk about this concept that as the time goes on uh the patient's prognosis becomes closer uh it comes closer and closer into focus uh sort of like a photograph and he ruthlessly stole my idea and ruthlessly showed it at a national meeting so I am ruthlessly stealing his slide I feel right in doing that uh but essentially as time goes on as as we get to the three-month mark and a year mark we have a much clearer picture of to the patient's long-term future. If you have a negative ultrasound and an undetectable thyoglobulin at one year, the likelihood that you're going to have a significant clinical disease recurrence falls to less than 1%. Uh and so we love to give patients that sort of uh um get out of jail free card, you know, just go live your life. It's it's not going to be a problem again. That's that's often a very happy day that that one year mark. So, a couple scenarios. Um so scenario the first scenario complete resection negative nodes or microscopically positive nodes just a few little specks of tumor that's that's about the same you know microscopically positive nodes is not we can't we haven't been able to prove that it's worse than negative nodes on oneear surveillance we have an undetectable thyrolobul and an ultrasound negative everybody wants to be in that boat it has the best prognosis okay so a lot of you may be fortunate are to be in that scenario here's another scenario just slightly different complete recepttor ction negative nodes or microscopically positive nodes. This is a lowrisk patient and at one year the ultrasound is negative but we have a little bit of thyrolobuline that's detectable. Okay, lots of people are in this boat. Lots and oftentimes there's a lot of anxiety of a little bit of thyrolylobulin lurking around. Remember thyrolobuline is not harmful. It doesn't hurt the patient in any way. And a lot of these people these people have an excellent prognosis. They're going to go on and live long and healthy lives. We're going to have some ongoing surveillance of them, but the likelihood of those people needing a reoperation is actually quite low. Different scenario, complete resection with macroscopically positive nodes or you can say what's of an invasive tumor. You about a T3 and T4 invasive tumors or nodes that are that are visibly abnormal or visibly abnormal on ultrasound. At one year, a lot of these people have negative ultrasound assuming that the first operation was done to clear all those nodes that were abnormal. And a lot of them will have a thyrolyoglobulin that's detectable. For instance, a lot of our patients who present present with lateral neck disease who need lateral neck dissection, a lot of them, majority of them are going to have some detectable, a small amount of thyrolobuline. Again, these people still have a very good prognosis and they have a small chance at reoperation. Um, do you want to comment on this group of folks? Yeah, I would agree with exactly that. I think at, you know, at some point if there's a couple of it's often about the biology of the actual tumor. or if it's already sort of clinically spread to those lateral lymph nodes is kind of telling you a little bit about his biology and at some point there might be a little bit of tumor that decides to grow back in a lymph node um still very unlikely to have distant metastatic disease which is what I think a lot of patients worry about. Yeah. So, so we like to say that if there is some lymph node in the neck we can manage that. We can do operations to fix that. Sometimes when thyroid cancer gets outside of the neck into the bones and lungs it's that becomes a little harder to treat. Uh here's another scenario. A complete resection with macroscopically positive nodes or an invasive tumor and at one year if we can find some thyrolobul. And what's different about this scenario is that the ultrasound is positive. So we see something on the ultrasound. And if that's the case, this patient will likely need a reoperation. So once again, I want you to um conceptually separate structural positive disease or a structural incomplete response. Those people need a little bit more work. Uh same goes for this scenario where you have an if you have an incomplete surgical resection those people you know we try to um give them additional therapies like radioactive iodine sometimes targeted therapies and these are the patients we're going to have very close to our chest to make sure that we manage them carefully. I should mention scenario D. Some of you are probably in this boat. People with positive anti- fibrobulin antibodies. So these are antibodies made by the immune system present in somewhere between 10 and 20% of people with differentiated thyroid cancer. Now normally we use the thyrolylobulin that pro hormone level as a tumor marker. However, some people have an autoimmune response against thyrolobuline and that makes it so we cannot use that test as a valid marker of the presence of tumor. Okay, let me say that another way. So if you if you're like 90% of people and you have no antibodies that would interfere with the assay, if that thyoglobin level level is zero, you have confidence that that is act that is accurately measuring that you have little or no tumor in your body. However, if the antibodies are there, they cause some confusion and therefore that thyrolobuline indicator is not as helpful. In the real world, the way to think of it is we become highly dependent on imaging in this group, right? So then we only have one of our two tools. There is a literature looking at thyrolobuline antibbody levels and measuring those as what we call a surrogate marker of disease. So if you can't use the thyrolylobulin, does the antibbody level going down mean a good thing? So as a surrogate marker. Now the literature on this topic goes back and forth. And the best I can tell you is if the anti if you have antibodies, if you're in that 10 to 15% who have antibodies and the antibody level is going down, that's probably a good sign. probably though not as reliable as the thyoglobulin itself and if that level is staying the same or going up it may indicate the presence of additional tumor but once again the data is really not that crystal clear. Okay, so this is a question I often get uh from patients, thyroid cancer survivor patients. So I thought we would discuss it. What is the path that leads to reoperation? So some of you may be at home be worried that if there's some thyrolulent around is that mean I'm going to need another neck operation. So let's talk about that and how you get there. Um a little bit of a complex flowchart but often times the way we start is the first thing we see is the elevated thyrolylobulin. And the way to remember this is the thyrolobuline is so very sensitive. It's like a fire alarm that can pick up a guy smoking a cigarette two doors down. It's a very very sensitive assay. So once there's a blip or a rise or an unacceptable level in the fibroglobulin that in of itself won't make us do anything. Remember we have to have a target. All right. So we need something structural on the usually on an ultrasound to be visible. And then we go through this process that I call we ask the question of identity which means okay you have a thyrolobuline of eight and you have a 1 cm abnorm structural abnormality on ultrasound. Do I believe they're one and the same? Do I believe that area of tum tumor recurrence explains the thyrolobuline? Because if a patient if there's another patient in whom I can I can see a little lymph node but the thyrolobuline is 500. It doesn't match. Does that make sense? It doesn't it doesn't match. That patient is going to have disease outside of that lymph node. Um so we have to ask whether or not and what's our goal? We want to take that thing out have the patient be free of disease and have the thyrolylobulin fall. That that in our dream scenario that's what we want. We don't always achieve that but that's our goal. So if we think we have identity, sometimes we'll do an FNA, put a needle needle in that little bit of tumor to prove that it's that that we have living tumor cells in there. And then there's a discussion between the patient and the surgeon. If we're going to do a reoperation in the neck, we don't rush into these operations. We have to think about what's the risk and the benefit. As surgeons, I think maybe that's our most important job. Uh is it worth it? Because if we do an operation, there's going to be risk. That's for sure. What benefit do we hope to get out of it? Are we length are we prolonging the patient's life? Are we improving the quality of life? And if and only if we can prove that there's some tangible benefit that's worth worth the risk, then and only then can we reoperate. So, and sometimes we we decide that that's the risk benefit ratio is acceptable and sometimes we decide it's not acceptable and we go back and we resume surveillance and we do have patients in whom we know they have a small amount of cancer. It's not hurting them and we continue to watch them year after year and it doesn't grow. Sometimes in these patients if it grows a little bit we'll decide to to operate but thankfully most of these thyroid cancers are pretty slow growing so we have the luxury to think about this decision and the message I have to you is don't rush don't rush into any reoperation. Do you want to comment? I agree completely with that. Yeah. Do you want to mention the role of uh PET scanning or anything in there because I think a lot of people Oh, some questions about PET scanning. We don't often use PET scanning. Um it's a functional scan. Pet scanning looks at the amount of glucose consumption by the tumor. And thankfully, because most thyroid cancers are slow growing, they usually don't take up the PET isotope. A subset that do tend to be more metabolically active. They're using a lot of energy and so they may be more aggressive. But I would say at most only two or 3% of our patients ever get a PET scan. Yeah. And a caution of getting a PET scan too early from a prior surgery. There can be a lot of reactive lymph nodes. Even an ultrasound also if it's too soon from the time of prior surgery have a lot of false positive reactive lymphos. So just a caution there. Oh that's a great point. Yeah. So after surgery you know surgery is an injury body has to heal and those tissues are going to consume glucose. So you can get a lot of false positive scans. So after any operation we wait at least six months to let the neck settle down and heal. Um because before then it's hard to see much of anything. It looks like a swirl of healing tissues. So, a message you're probably getting from my slides is when it comes to thyroid cancer surgery, that first operation is the best chance for cure. Every day we're seeing patients who who had an incomplete initial operation and then it's hard to play catch-up after that. We would rather the patient have an initial operation that was just perfect. And and we like what we like to tell our residents and students is that this is a is a pivotal day in the patient's life. you know, um I just confess as a surgeon, we we come into work and it's it's Tuesday, you know, or Wednesday. It's it's a day at work and and it's our job to remember that for the patient whose thyroid cancer operations that day, this is the day for them. This is the big day and and we have to forget about all those other things that are going on our lives and really dedicate ourselves to make sure that we do the best operation and that could set that person free. You could literally cure more than 90% of patients if you just do a great job that day. We have to hold ourselves to that standard. Yep. Uh so we are reliant on excellent pre-operative imaging, right? So we do all the ultrasounds ourselves. There are many operations we you know on patients who had failed operations um usually elsewhere where the imaging they didn't even have a correct map of what was going on. There were there were positive lymph nodes that were there that they missed. So if you the quality of operation is totally contingent upon the quality of your imaging and at UCLA and and and this is a trend across the country endocrine surgeons have really taken ownership of that imaging doing doing the surgeon doing that ultrasound themselves. You want you want to comment on that? I just think that that's so important. That's really important because if you have a radiologist who's doing the ultrasound and they may say there's a lymph node and you know left level three um here and and go after it and you can't do that ultrasound yourself, you can't feel that lymph node. I just think it's so much harder to really clear that compartment. So to be able to see that yourself, I think is really critical. Yeah. So we do ultrasound twice on everybody. We do it for all of our thyroid cancers on the day we meet them and then when they go to sleep for their operation, we do it again. um at least for me it allows me to create a three-dimensional image a fresh in my mind of what what that patient needs what's the road mapap to that patient's operation and for us I really think you know sometimes I I can't it's hard for me to imagine how I would do that operation well without the ultrasound I would feel like I was flying without like flying blind so it's we're really quite dependent on good ultrasound um so uh we perform methodical surgical clearance of all detectable disease compartment oriented surgery means When we take out a lymph node, we don't just take out the node. We take out an entire block of tissue. So, if there's a house on fire, we don't just address the house, we address the whole city block because if there's one that we saw that was abnormal, we have to assume that it's got little buddies there uh next to it that are also abnormal. Um, and I I want to say this, this alone, this operation alone, without anything else, is usually adequate treatment for most patients. And even Mike Tuttle, even though he's not a surgeon, he would admit that this is a surgical disease. And sometimes when I give lectures to other surgeons about this, that we talk about radioactive iodine, we talk about all those follow-up treatments, and I tell them, "Hey, there's no amount of radioactive iodine that's going to make up for your sloppy operation." I hate to say that, it just has to be a perfect operation. Um, I'll just uh wrap up by telling you about a case. I know we're running long on time, so thanks for sticking with us. This is a 55-y old woman I first met in 2009. Um, and uh, she had positive nodes. So, she came to see me and I saw on my ultrasound that she had positive lymph nodes in the central neck here in the middle and also she had positive nodes in the side, the lateral neck. Um, so she went to another institution for surgery and she got what they called a lymph node mapping. So, they looked at the lymph nodes there and she had an operation somewhere else had a total thyroidctomy and neck dissection and afterward her thyrolobuline was high. Okay. So she had macroscopically positive lymph nodes and she had a biochemical incomplete response and a couple years later she came back to see me and I'll tell you what I found. So when I saw her in 2009, here's her thyroid. She had a and she had this abnormal lymph node. Here's the corateed in the lateral neck. Okay, that's a macroscopically positive lymph node. So this lady is a high risk for recurrence, high risk for reoperation. And there you see it again. Very fat lymph node. It's got little chunks of calcium in it. was clearly abnormal. So she comes back in 2014 and I ultrasound her again and you know what that abnormal lymph node was still there. So they uh the other institution did not remove that lymph node. they did an incomplete operation and this thing continued to grow and continued to make thyrolobuline and then when you know it actually grows kind of slowly right four years it's only like I don't know 50% bigger but this just goes to show that if your imaging is not good and if the surgeon's not like doesn't have the mindset that they're going to own that imaging you're going to leave disease behind you know this was a clear example of disease left behind anyway so we went back and we cleared that and now she's disease Uh, and this just goes to show that I I think we're privileged as surgeons, you know, we get to do an ultrasound and then unwrap this mystery box and then see if we were right, you know, and then the next time we do an ultrasound, we could be better because we learn from the last case. And so we do this thousands and thousands of times and it makes us better at doing the scan. Yeah. That immediate feedback really helpful in that process. Yeah. So we're just like you guys, we're developing ourselves. We we want to be better every day. Um this is one of our quality dashboards. Um and what this means is a very small font but every quarter uh we have get a print out from our um uh uh information technology medical informatic service about all the thyroid cancer patients we operated on. How often did they get thyroid radioactive iodine? How often did we uh check a thyrolylobulin on the on them? How often were we doing it by the book? Uh and we also show our results here. And uh this was uh uh about a year's worth of data from 2013 to 2014 showing that of all the patients we operated on with thyroid cancer in that one-year period, only 1.9% of them needed another operation within a year. And that's, you know, you've got to measure your quality if you're going to really be serious about it. Um and so we're proud to offer this level of care. We're always scrutinizing our own outcomes and um and uh you know when we say we're going to offer it a certain level of quality, we want to back it up with the numbers to show it. Okay, just to summarize, most papillary thyroid cancer patients live long healthy lives thankfully and I know I haven't addressed the other cancer subtypes. We might reserve that for another day. Many of these patients have detectable thyoglobulin levels. Please don't let that keep you up at night. It's important to have good surveillance to catch those recurrences early and deal with them early. the pathway to reoperation. There are a lot of hurdles you got to get through. Okay? You have to have an elevated thyrolobuline. You have to have a target and then it has to be worth it in terms of the risk benefit uh discussion you're having with the surgeon. Good initial surgery for thyroid cancer is the best chance for cure. That really important day in the patient's life. And it's worth being fussy about ultrasound exams because everybody does them a little differently. Um and a lot of places you can't you can't always have a doctor do your ultrasound. Some places there are technicians who do them. We have a lot of very good technicians. But I just think so and when it comes to thyroid cancer, so much is riding on the quality of the ultrasound that I I just feel like I need to do it myself. I just can't accept it. Uh so uh uh that's what we have. Uh please feel free to uh tweet in your questions to UCLA MD chat. And I think we do have some more questions. So maybe we'll take a couple more. Thanks so much for paying attention to our uh broadcast. Uh let's see what are the biggest risk factors for developing thyroid cancer. So I'd say a couple would be radiation exposure um especially childhood radiation exposure like having a childhood cancer that required head and neck radiation um and then a family history um a family history of either well differentiated thyroid cancer or you know an MEN history that might predispose you to medularary thyroid cancer. Yeah, I agree. So the thyroid uh you know in children uh under the age of 15 the thyroid is susceptible uh to certain genetic changes brought about by radiation. So we do see survivors of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster uh here we have yet to see anybody from Fukushima um that uh the uh the Japanese nuclear power plant released much less radiation than Chernobyl thankfully. Uh and then here at UCLA we have a large group of children who were treated for lymphoma as kids and the radiation was part of their treatment and they sometimes develop thyroid cancer as a secondary effect is because they were treated and the treatment caused their new cancer. So I think radiation and family history and then we do have some people who grew up in iodine deficient areas. Yeah. Who migrate to Los Angeles. So here in Los Angeles we have large groups of Iranian and Armenian immigrants and those parts of the world are deficient in iodine. So if you have iodine deficiency in childhood, it can predispose to thyroid cancer later. Uh this is an interesting question. How easy is it to tell apart a parathyroid tumor from a thyroid tumor based on imaging? So that's a great question. So um I would say if you are and um we have another webinar about parathyroid disorders that I would also refer you to. But the first step in diagnosing a parathyroid disorder is the laboratory test. Um so a high calcium high parathyroid hormone level. If you don't have biochemical evidence of hyperarathyroidism or a parathyroid adenoma, then I would not be looking for anything on imaging because that imaging is very likely to be false positive in that case. Um so don't worry too much about that unless you actually have the laboratory test. Um the next step um in terms of the imaging is that usually a parathyroid adenoma is adjacent to the thyroid. So you see sort of a separation between the thyroid itself and the parathyroid. You see a little plane in between there. And we do have some additional imaging for parathyroid disorders. Sesame scan, 40 parathyroid CT scan. Um that can be helpful. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. So um just to re reiterate what Dr. Dr. Livid said, if you're looking for an abnormal parathyroid, it's less about the imaging and more about was your calcium high on the blood test before. Okay. So I hope that helps. So in endocrine surgery, we tend not to jump to imaging. we we tend to really scrutinize the history of the patient, what's going on with the blood tests, and then we sort of proceed me methodically down this path instead of jumping right into to to looking for structures and and things like that. Dr. Clark, my teacher, always said, remember, Michael, we don't treat X-rays, we treat patients. Uh so, uh we we rarely respond to an image alone. All right. So, you want to try this one? Okay. Oh, that's a good one. If thyroid nodules have such a low mortality rate, why should I pay to remove them? Uh, that's a good question. Um, so we would agree that we want to try not to operate whenever we can. Uh, you know, in in medicine, this sounds like a maybe an engineer or a business person emailing us, but in medicine, we don't deal with tests that give us a certain answer. we we deal with probabilities and we have to make decisions based on imperfect information. And what that means is in a way we're kind of gambling, right? So if we do a biopsy and it shows it's suspicious for cancer, we could not do anything and gamble that it's benign, but if we're wrong, maybe it's a pretty high stakes gamble, right? So a lot of times we take the safe gamble. We we do we do an operation that we know we can do safely and sometimes it ends up being benign or as the as uh the participant says um you know maybe it was so low mortality that we didn't need to do it. Maybe. However, what about that small chance that it isn't one of those low mortality rate cancers? It's really hard sometimes to predict which cancer is going to be the the the slow growing one and which one's going to be the real monster. Sometimes it's hard to know until you have that one year of information to see how they responded to initial therapy. So, it's a great question. Um, I'm not sure we'd have too many people volunteer to just do nothing about their thyroid cancers. So, this has been attempted. Yeah. In Japan, there was a study in Japan where they had some older people with known thyroid cancers and they just watched them and uh if some of these patients were like 70 or 80, you know what, they died of something else. They they they died of something other than thyroid cancer. But it turns out in younger people they tended to progress and give up meta give off metastases and start to act in a dangerous fashion. So we tend to be aggressive particularly in patients who are otherwise young and healthy. Sorry for a long answer. Go ahead. I'm curious what you want to say about that. Yeah. Um it's a philosophical question. It really is. Yeah. You know, I think there's a risk benefit ratio for every patient. And I would agree that if you have an 80-year-old patient with some heart disease who has a less than one centimeter thyroid cancer um and you want to get another an ultrasound in six months rather than operating on that patient. I think that there that that's a very valid um you know point to bring up and something that as a patient you could really consider. Um but more of our patients are young healthy patients. So the question is if you were to leave even that small little thyroid cancer that we are telling you is not in you know not going to kill you. Let's say if you leave it for a year and then you come back for your ultrasound and now you have you know multiple positive lymph nodes um and then you have to have a little more surgery. You have a higher risk of recurrence you know we don't want that to happen and I think um we're still as a community doing a lot of studies to see how far we can push this towards being less aggressive with the treatments. Um, but overall we're really concerned about your safety first, our individual patient that's in our clinic. Um, and we don't want to gamble um, and potentially have the patient, you know, risk having a worse prognosis by not having the treatment. Um, so that's that's the main reason. There's definitely a sweet spot here. I mean, we don't want to do too much surgery. We don't want to do too little surgery. We just want to do the right amount of surgery for the people who need it. There is a sweet spot there that we're after. Yeah. Go ahead. Yeah, it's a good question. It really is. Yeah. Um, let's see. Oh, okay. So, the thyro the thyroid makes hormones that regulate metabolism. And how can one live once the gland is removed? Excellent. Yeah, go for it. Yeah. Um, so the the great the great thing is that um we are have gotten really good at replacing thyroid hormone with thyroid medication called synthroidid. Um, now most patients once you remove the thyroid and are placed on thyroid hormone really do very well. Um, they have a normal quality of life. you know, not they don't have problems um with their weight, with getting pregnant, with all kinds of things. They really are just like any other normal patient. Most patients, I am aware that there are some patients who don't feel well on this thyroid hormone medication. I don't want to discount that. Um because there are some patients, even if the thyroid function is normal in the laboratory test, still don't feel well. And then there's some room to play around with different forms, T3 versus T4 replacements. I would say the most important uh point there is to have a really good relationship with your endocrinologist. You need an endocrinologist who will listen to how you're feeling. Um take into account your symptoms as well as the objective data from the laboratory test to make decisions with you on how to adjust the dosing. And there's some room for adjustment in those patients. And I recognize that that can be a little bit of a struggle for some patients. But most patients do very well and just have a normal quality of life with replacing thyroid hormone. Um, and there's really not any side effects as long as the dosage is the right dose for you. Yeah. So, I would echo that comment. It's good to have help. Good to have professional help. Have an endocrinologist who you have a long-term relationship with and and most people. So, thyroid hormone, the nice thing about thyroid hormone is it's one of these very slow acting hormones. It's a nice easy ride. Maybe you have a friend who's on insulin. insulin is the opposite where it has to be regulated minute to minute. It's very, very fussy. But you take a tablet of fibroid home, it lasts for a month. So it's almost like flying a hot air balloon. We make, you know, small adjustments and then we wait a month to see where the level uh reaches a steady state. And again, 90% of people have a normal quality of life, a normal metabolism. We ask patients if they're feeling tired, gaining or losing weight. A lot of people worried about gaining weight uh uh um if they're on thyroid hormone. Usually that's not a problem. What we tell most people is weight gain really has more to do with diet and exercise behaviors in most people. Um, so if people are good about taking their thyroid hormone regularly at the same time of day, have a have a routine for doing this, they do fine. I want to advise the audience that thyroid hormone is the second most commonly described prescribed drug in the country. There are millions of Americans on thyroid hormone out there living their lives, paying their taxes, and most of them do fine. And there are a small percentage that that need a little bit more attention. This is probably 5 to 10% of their overall population. Do you want to take one more? Um, let's see. Okay, so uh, how often should you follow up a nodule with ultrasound to make sure that it's not malignant? So, if um, I'm going to, um, sort of transform this question just a little bit to make it a little more generalizable to the population. So, let's say you have a thyroid nodule that's been biopsied that doesn't require any surgery. when should you get the next ultrasound to make sure that it's not cancerous? Um, I would say traditionally it's about once a year if you have a benign biopsy. About once a year. Sometimes if it really looks pretty suspicious or something like that, it's the first time we're seeing it. We may want to get a six-month ultrasound. But, you know, it's very rare for an ultra for a nodule to change within six months. Usually, one year's time is actually very safe. Um, and the new guidelines even suggest every couple of years depending on what exactly the nodule looks like. So I'd say roughly once a year. Yeah. So you know again in medicine we don't have any tests that are 100% accurate. Right. So a benign biopsy is one of the best tests we have in medicine. It's highly reassuring. It's a 95 96% chance that that nodule is going to be truly benign. Um that said there is that 4% that 4% false negative rate. So that's why we do uh you know want to follow at least with one more ultrasound in a year to make sure that we don't miss anything. And certainly if you're one of those people and you feel that your nodule is enlarging or something is new or it's bothering you or sometimes your voice is voices change, come back in. We we want to we want to uh be sensitive uh to uh the changing landscape of a patient's symptoms. So if anything changes, go back in and see your doctor. Uh you know, the internet's great. I love think about this all the time. Internet's great for these things and of course we want to help you, but you're out there. We haven't met you. We we haven't felt your neck. And so that's why you're always going to need a doctor. You're always going to need a doctor who knows you and uh and uh if there's any advice I would have for you is know the limitations of uh internet based medical information and and there's no substitute for a good doctor you trust. Um any any closing points? No, I mean I um I hope that what we've said is helpful. We really enjoy discussing the subject and and seeing patients. Um, I think one of the reasons that I really enjoy endocrine surgery and and thyroid, um, is that most patients really do very well and it really is very rewarding to be able to remove a thyroid tumor and to have patients just live the rest of their life with a a really good quality of life and, um, that's that's a really personally rewarding great part of the job. I agree. Um, so we're going to wrap up. We welcome your feedback. Um, please write in comments and questions and we'll use that to design the next webinar. Uh, if you can come up with your top questions. So, thank you again for your attention. Thank you. Bye.