Here is some helpful information to keep in mind as you prepare to breastfeed: Wear a firm, supportive bra. Expose your nipples to air whenever possible, especially after breastfeeding or pumping. Feed your baby on demand with no limits on the frequency or duration of feedings. Newborns need to feed 8 or more times in 24 hours. If you have concerns about your milk supply, call your doctor or a lactation consultant. In most cases, it is not necessary to use soap on your nipples. The smell or taste of soap can interfere with the baby's latch. Change your bra liners when they get wet and avoid using very tight plastic linings that trap moisture. Feeling full and tender in your breasts is normal. Breastfeeding your baby as often as possible will help relieve engorgement. Warm breasts tend to release milk faster. Apply warm, moist washcloths to your breasts briefly before breastfeeding, but be aware that too much or prolonged heat can also cause inflammation. If this happens, your breasts become full and swollen frequently. Use cool compresses afterward. Breastfeed for approximately 10 to 30 minutes. Cold reduces swelling. If your breasts are too full and your baby is having difficulty latching, manually express a little milk from your breasts before breastfeeding. If engorgement does not improve with these comfort measures, contact your doctor or a lactation consultant. To help prevent nipple pain, ensure your baby has a deep latch with their mouth wide open and both lips protruding when removing your baby from your breast. Break the baby's suction on your nipple as you would on your finger. If you have cracked and bleeding nipples after day 5, consult your lactation consultant as soon as possible. If you notice any discharge from your nipple other than milk, call your healthcare provider. Many new mothers find that within three weeks much of the initial pain disappears. During the first six months while breastfeeding, a woman of normal pre-pregnancy weight needs an additional 330 calories per day. For months 7 to 12, she needs an additional 400 calories per day. These timeframes vary depending on the stage of pregnancy.  When weaning your baby, be sure to drink plenty of fluids and eat foods from all five basic food groups. Continue taking multivitamins and supplements as recommended by your healthcare provider. If you are having trouble breastfeeding or if your baby is not gaining weight well, seek help early and often. Breastfeeding problems are more easily resolved the sooner they are addressed. Thank you so much for watching this video on how to breastfeed your baby. If you have any questions, please feel free to email or call us.