After pregnancy, the World Health Organization recommends a 24-month interval before your next pregnancy. Ask your healthcare provider about the right contraceptive method that matches your desired birth spacing, your health status, and your overall goals. Your menstrual period may start anywhere from 6 weeks to more than 6 months after delivery. Exclusive breastfeeding decreases the chances of getting pregnant, but pregnancy is still possible. There are many safe birth control options to use while breastfeeding. If you plan to have more children, spacing births allows you to give your current baby the attention they need. It also allows you to optimize your health to improve the health of your next baby. Continue taking your prenatal vitamins every day until you stop breastfeeding. You can continue taking stool softeners as needed or until you have finished all of your prescription. Stop taking them if your stools become loose, like diarrhea. Narcotics are not often prescribed, but if they are, do not take them while driving or with alcohol. They can cause drowsiness and may also cause  Constipation: Ibuprofen or similar medications can cause stomach irritation. Do not take them on an empty stomach. Do not take them if you have ulcers or a bleeding disorder. They can also cause some constipation. We hope you have committed to a smoke-free environment for your newborn. Children who live with smokers have a higher risk of ear infections, asthma, and pneumonia. If you need help quitting smoking, contact your primary care provider, who can help you find the right resources. The transition to motherhood can trigger a mix of powerful emotions, from excitement and joy to stress and anxiety. Many new mothers experience the postpartum blues after delivery. Symptoms may include sadness, irritability, feeling overwhelmed, crying, difficulty concentrating, fatigue, sleep disturbances, stress, anxiety, and mood swings. These emotions usually subside after about two weeks as both mother and baby adjust and hormones stabilize. Feeling depressed may be a sign that you need more rest. One way to combat the postpartum blues is to ask someone to look after your baby while you  Treat yourself to something that makes you feel good about yourself. You may just need a hot shower or sitz bath, to get out of the house for a walk alone, or to take a short trip to the store without interruption. Postpartum depression, a more severe form of emotional distress, affects 10 to 20 percent of new mothers. Symptoms may include depressed mood, intense irritability, anger, severe anxiety, loss of appetite, social withdrawal, marked changes in sleep such as insomnia or sleeping too much, feeling unable to care for yourself or your baby, severe loss of energy, feelings of worthlessness or hopelessness, and excessive worry or thoughts of harming yourself or your baby. Postpartum depression is not a character flaw or a weakness, and women who experience it are not alone. Highly effective treatments are readily available. If you think you might have postpartum depression, contact your healthcare provider. If you ever think of hurting yourself or your baby, contact your healthcare provider immediately or go to the emergency room. If during your hospitalization you received treatment for a pregnancy complicated by high blood pressure  Discharge: Follow these instructions when you return home: Keep all follow-up appointments with your healthcare provider; Take all medications as prescribed; Monitor your blood pressure if instructed by your healthcare provider; Call your healthcare provider if your blood pressure is higher than 160 systolic ( the top or first number) or higher than 110 diastolic (the bottom or second number); You have a severe headache or dizziness; You have blurred or double vision; Spotting or auras; You have serious difficulty catching your breath. With so many changes happening at once, this can be a confusing and sometimes anxious time. Most of these changes are completely normal and will pass in due course. You should not need to call your healthcare provider unless you have any of the following: Chills or a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit; Redness around the incision or drainage of pus from the incision; Pain or difficulty urinating; Frequent urination with only small amounts of urine each time; Bleeding Profuse bright red bleeding that soaks through more than two sanitary pads per hour for two hours at a time; fainting spells; redness or severe pain in the breast area; if you notice blood or pus coming from your nipples; pain, tenderness, redness, or swelling in your calves or thighs; if you need more pain medication over time or if you think you might have postpartum depression. Thank you so much for choosing Jucilei Health during this wonderful and life- changing time. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any further questions or concerns.