On behalf of the NICU, congratulations! Please take a few minutes to review this helpful information about caring for yourself and your baby. If you had a cesarean section, keep the incision clean and dry. It is fine to shower and dry off. Ventilate as much as possible. You can place a sanitary pad against your incision if needed. Avoid tight clothing that rubs against the incision. Remove the Steady Strips ( adhesive tape) from your incisions after 7 days. It is important to drink plenty of fluids. Drink 8 glasses of fluid a day, and 13 glasses a day if you are breastfeeding. Your urine should be pale yellow. Cramps can be common when the uterus contracts after delivery. Constipation after delivery is very common. Expect a normal bowel movement by the third or fourth day after delivery. To help you return to a normal bowel movement pattern, we recommend drinking plenty of water and including high-fiber foods in your diet, such as fruits and vegetables, prune juice, bran, and whole-grain breads and cereals. Do not take stool softeners or laxatives. As directed by your healthcare provider, if you have not had a bowel movement by the fourth day postpartum or begin to have concerns, contact your healthcare provider. Hemorrhoids are swollen blood vessels in the anal area. They are not uncommon in pregnancy. Symptoms may include itching, pain, and sometimes bleeding. Constipation or diarrhea can aggravate hemorrhoids. To lessen symptoms, try a high-fiber diet, use hemorrhoid cream, over-the-counter witch hazel medications or pads, or take a sitz bath. A sitz bath may be soothing. Clean the affected area after each bowel movement with medicated wipes or baby wipes. Ask your doctor about additional medications or suppositories if there is no relief from symptoms. As you transition back home, keep the following in mind: You need frequent periods of rest and should try to nap whenever possible. For the first 10 days, we recommend that you focus on your own physical needs and feeding your baby. Avoid lifting objects heavier than your baby for six weeks. Household chores and  Visits can wait if possible. Get help with daily tasks. Do not drive until you are pain-free and do not take any narcotic pain relievers. Vaginal dryness and pain during intercourse are common after childbirth. Lubricants may help. Schedule your postpartum visit within the first six weeks. Resume exercise slowly. Your provider will know what is safest for you. In most cases, light to moderate exercise is recommended. Start slowly and gradually increase your exercise program, taking into account your medical history and normal exercise routine. Having a newborn is an exciting time, but it is often overwhelming, especially for new parents. Be sure to lean on family, friends, caregivers, or community support groups. Most of the changes you will notice in your body are completely normal and will adjust in due time. But call your healthcare provider if you have any of the following: chills or a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit; redness around the incision or drainage of pus from the incision; difficulty or pain when urinating; frequent urination with only small amounts of urine each time; bleeding.  Profuse bright red bleeding that soaks through more than two sanitary pads per hour for two hours at a time; fainting spells; severe redness or pain in the breast area; if you notice blood or pus coming from your nipples; pain, tenderness, redness, or swelling in your calves or thighs; if you need more pain medication over time or if you think you might have postpartum depression. Thank you so much for choosing us. During this wonderful and life-changing time, please don't hesitate to contact us if you have any further questions or concerns.