On behalf of Jucilei Health, congratulations! Please take a few minutes to view this helpful information about caring for yourself and your baby. The perineum is the space between the rectum and the vulva. Perineum care is important after a vaginal birth, especially if you have stitches, to help prevent infection and increase comfort. Clean the perineal area from front to back each time you urinate or defecate. You can continue using the perianal hygiene bottle you used in the hospital. Apply a clean sanitary pad each time you go to the toilet. Apply anesthetic spray or cream to the perianal area as recommended by your healthcare professional. We do not recommend taking a traditional bath while you are healing. However, you can enjoy a warm sitz bath several times a day to feel more comfortable and heal. A sitz bath is a warm, shallow bath that soaks the perineum. If you have stitches, these will dissolve on their own after a few weeks postpartum. Your body will experience some significant changes. Here are some things to keep in mind when dealing with vaginal bleeding as well.  This is called lochia. The color may be dark red for the first 48 hours, followed by light bleeding that can last for several weeks after delivery. The flow will be heavy and intermittent. It is normal to see several small clots. If you have been lying down for several hours, you may experience a trickle of blood when you first stand up. This is normal and not a cause for alarm. You may notice heavier bleeding two to three weeks after delivery when the lining of the uterus is shed where it was attached to the placenta. It is normal to have vaginal bleeding or discharge for up to six to eight weeks after delivery. You may notice urine leakage when you laugh or sneeze. This is normal and usually temporary. It is important to drink plenty of fluids. Drink eight glasses of fluid a day, and thirteen glasses a day if you are breastfeeding. Your urine should be pale yellow. Cramps may be common when the uterus contracts after delivery. Constipation after delivery is very common. Expect a normal bowel movement on the third or fourth day after delivery. To help you return to a normal bowel movement pattern, we recommend drinking plenty of water and including whole foods in your diet.  Include fiber-rich foods in your diet, such as fruits and vegetables, prune juice, bran, and whole-grain breads and cereals. Take stool softeners or laxatives as directed by your healthcare provider. If you haven't had a bowel movement by the fourth day postpartum, or if you begin to have concerns, contact your healthcare support provider. Hemorrhoids are swollen blood vessels in the anal area. They are not uncommon in pregnancy. Symptoms may include itching, pain, and sometimes bleeding. Constipation or diarrhea can aggravate hemorrhoids. To lessen symptoms, eat a high-fiber diet, use hemorrhoid cream, over-the-counter medications, or witch hazel pads. A sitz bath may provide relief. Clean the affected area after each bowel movement with medicated wipes or baby wipes. Ask your doctor about additional medications or suppositories if there is no symptom relief. While transitioning home, keep the following in mind: You need frequent periods of rest and should try to take naps whenever possible during the first 10 days.  For the next few days, we recommend that you focus on your own physical needs and feeding your baby. Avoid lifting objects heavier than your baby for six weeks. Household chores and visits can wait if possible. Get help with daily tasks. Do not drive until you are pain-free and do not take any narcotic painkillers. Resume exercise slowly. Your provider will know what is safest for you. In most cases, light to moderate exercise is recommended. Pelvic rest is usually recommended for six weeks. Pelvic rest involves not having sexual intercourse, using tampons, or douching. Sexual intercourse is not recommended until you have physically recovered from childbirth. If vaginal bleeding has stopped and the perineum has healed, you may be ready to resume sexual intercourse if you wish. It is recommended that you wait until a healthcare professional has examined you to ensure that the vaginal area is healed. Vaginal dryness and pain are common after childbirth. Lubricants may be helpful. Schedule your postpartum visit within the first six weeks. Having a newborn is an exciting time, but it is often overwhelming, especially for new parents.  Parents, be sure to lean on family, friends, caregivers, or community support groups. Most of the changes you will notice in your body are completely normal and will adjust in due time. But call your healthcare provider if you have any of the following: chills or a fever over 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit; redness around the incision or pus draining from the incision; difficulty or pain when urinating; frequent urination with only small amounts of urine each time; heavy, bright red bleeding that soaks through more than two sanitary pads per hour for two hours at a time; fainting spells; severe redness or pain in the breast area; if you notice blood or pus draining from your nipples; pain, tenderness, redness, or swelling in your calves or thighs; if you need more pain medication over time; or if you think you might have postpartum depression. Thank you so much for choosing Jucilei Health during this wonderful and life-changing time. Please feel free to contact us if you have any further questions.  concerns