Hello, I am Dr. Juan José Andino, a urologist specializing in male fertility.  If you or your partner have been told there is no sperm in the semen, or if you have had a vasectomy and are considering assisted reproduction, this video is for you.  Today we will talk about sperm extraction.  This is the name given to several procedures we use to find and extract sperm directly from the testicles or nearby areas.  Sperm can be used for fertility treatments such as in vitro fertilization. In this video I will explain who may need a sperm extraction, the different methods we use, what to expect from each procedure, and the success rate of each. Sperm retrieval is used when a man has no sperm in his ejaculate, a condition called asospermia, or has undergone a vasectomy or reversal that has not worked. There are also cases where there is an obstruction or absence of the other duct, the tube that carries the sperm. And there are certain cases where a man cannot ejaculate, such as a spinal cord injury .  Even when the problem is low sperm production, we can often find sperm through microsurgery. There are several ways to extract sperm.  The right one depends on your health, your goals as a couple, and whether you require the use of in- vitro fertilization.  Let's look at the options. First, percutaneous epididymal sperm aspiration, which is called a "pesa" in English.  A needle is inserted into the epididymis to obtain sperm.  It is used when there is an obstruction or after a vasectomy.  It is quick and less invasive, but it may collect fewer sperm.   We also have the microepididymal sperm aspiration or mesa in English.  The sperm is extracted from the epididymis under a microscope.  The procedure is performed under general anesthesia. It provides more sperm than the weight and may be better if you plan to freeze sperm.  Next up is testicular sperm extraction, called a testis in English.  A small incision is made in the testicle to extract tissue.  The sperm are then separated from that tissue under a microscope, and the procedure can be performed with local anesthesia in the clinic and is used when there is an obstruction or problems with sperm quality. And finally we have the microsurgical extraction of testicular sperm, or in English, microtesi. This method is best for men with very low sperm production. A microscope helps us find the sperm-producing areas. This protects healthy tissue and increases the chances of finding sperm. It offers the best chance of obtaining sperm in difficult cases.   We usually perform these procedures the day before egg retrieval in in vitro fertilization or earlier if sperm freezing is planned. Success depends on the cause.  If there is an obstruction, success rates are over 90%. If there is low sperm production, the microthesis finds sperm in 30 to 50% of cases. Once we have sperm, we coordinate with female fertility specialists to proceed with assisted fertilization. Even a few sperm can result in a pregnancy with the right technology. If we can't find sperm, there are still other options such as using donor sperm or exploring other ways to expand a family. But many men are surprised by how often we find sperm, even when they've been told it's unlikely. The risks are low, but may include swelling or pain, bruising, and, in rare cases, infection or impact on testosterone production. These problems are usually mild and disappear with simple care. Even after the microtest, most men feel good with Tylenol and a prescribed anti-inflammatory .  Sperm retrieval can be a great option for men facing infertility. Whether you've had a vasectomy, have a blockage, or low sperm production, we have the tools to help you.  If you're thinking about it, come see me at UCLA, The Men's Clinic.   We will guide you through the evaluation, planning, and selection of the procedure that offers you the best success rates.  Thank you for watching.  If you found this helpful, please feel free to share it with someone who might need it.