The UCLA Health Regional Burn Center is a specialty center that provides care for burn patients. We see both children and adults with all types of burn injuries from the head to the foot and from all causes including flame, fire, scald, electrical, chemical. It is one of only three burn centers in the Los Angeles region. and we provide the higher level of care that's specifically targeted for this patient population. We have intensive care unit facilities for patients with critical large burn injuries and we also provide non-critical burn care. We have a phenomenal team of nurses and burn techs that really love their job. Some have been doing it for decades. Because we all have that expertise and we have been here for a while, we're able to make the patients more comfortable. As a child life specialist, my main role is to help normalize the hospital environment. We have a playroom on the unit. We encourage families to bring things from home to help minimize that fear that children might have while they're here in the hospital. We want to encourage them to still play, still be able to do the things that they love. We also have an outpatient burn clinic. We do follow-ups there and we have burn techs and our nurses who specially educate our patients in how to take care of their burns. We help patients transition when they go home. When you're discharged, we don't just say, "Good luck. See you later." We have some patients for years. Our team members have a tremendous amount of expertise. We have both plastic and general surgeons. We have a nursing staff that's unparalleled. And we are the only burn center that has hyperbaric medicine available. Hyperbaric oxygen treatment is when we place a patient in a pressurized vessel and we deliver 100% oxygen. It promotes more oxygen in the body. So it starts helping with wounds and healing. Our philosophy of care here at the UCLA Health Regional Burn Center is to provide patients with the absolute best health care that's possible and creating the best possible environment for a patient to heal from their burn injuries. And I think that's what makes care here so special.