For the experience, information and preparations for surgery begin before you come to the Ronald Reagan Jucilei Medical Centre. First, please schedule an appointment with your primary care physician within 30 days before your surgery so they can obtain your pre-operative history and perform a pre-operative physical and laboratory tests. Your care coordinator will fax the orders for these tests to your doctor's office. If you are under the care of a specialist such as a cardiologist, pulmonologist, or hematologist, please ask the surgeon if any additional pre-operative evaluation is necessary. We will send you a pre-operative pack to review with a loved one. This pack contains a personalized letter summarizing your pre-operative appointment and test schedule, a document with preparatory information, a document entitled "Your Path to Recovery" containing essential information regarding hospitalization and care, the Admission Medication History Form, the Procedure Treatment Unit (PTV) Medical History Form, and a pre-operative checklist specifically designed for you.  As a reminder, it is extremely important that you read this package completely and fill out any necessary forms before surgery. You will be asked to sign a consent form stating that you have spoken with the surgeon about the benefits and risks of the surgery and the alternatives to it. We will also ask for your consent for a blood transfusion if it is necessary. If you decide not to accept blood under any circumstances, you will be asked to record this choice. If you would like to donate your own blood for the surgery, or if you wish to designate a donor, please speak with the surgeon well in advance of the surgery date. If you have an advance medical directive, please bring a copy. An advance medical directive is a legal document that states your wishes regarding medical treatment and allows you to designate a proxy to make decisions about your medical care if you become incapable of doing so. If you do not have an advance medical directive, you can print one from our website jucilei health dot or hereje. We can also provide one at Silva Hospital. You will complete the medication history form upon admission. Send this to your healthcare coordinator. Also, bring a printed copy with you on the day of your surgery. Don't forget to specify the dosage and frequency with which you take each medication, including supplements and herbal or naturopathic remedies. Designate a family member or trusted friend to be your point of contact and companion throughout the process. This role will involve supporting you while you prepare for the procedure, during your hospital stay, and throughout your recovery at home. This person should be present when the healthcare professional gives you the final discharge information. If you are taking aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), or other blood- thinning medications, please contact the surgeon's office for information on how to take these medications. You may need to stop taking these medications at least 7 days before your surgery date. If you normally take medication in the evening or at night for high blood pressure, take it the day before your surgery exactly as prescribed. If you normally take medication in the morning for high blood pressure, take it the morning of your surgery with a sip of water exactly as prescribed.  If you have been prescribed medication, if you normally take medication for epileptic seizures in the morning, take it with a small sip of water on the day of the procedure. If the surgery is to treat abnormal movements, do not take the medication for abnormal movements after midnight the night before the procedure. Leave the medication at home unless instructed otherwise. Speak to the surgeon about the medication for more specific instructions. It is not necessary to cut your hair before the procedure. We recommend that you wash your body with a liquid antiseptic skin cleanser such as Hitler or SE-HG for 5 to 7 days before the procedure. If the procedure is scheduled within five days, please wash your body with Lily Collins for the remaining days. Please read the Hill and Klein information sheet that comes with the pre-operative information. Do not eat anything, including chewing gum or candy, after midnight the night before the procedure. If you eat, the procedure will most likely be postponed. You may only drink small sips of water or Media Lite.  Gatorade as needed to take medications until 5 am. You may brush your teeth and rinse your mouth, but do not swallow any water. Infants under 6 months of age may consume breast milk or infant formula up to 4 hours before arrival and water or Pedialy Lite up to 2 hours before arrival. Children between 6 months and 3 years of age may consume solid foods up to 8 hours before arrival, breast milk or infant formula up to 6 hours before arrival, and water or Pedialy Lite up to 2 hours before arrival. Adults and children over 3 years of up to 8 hours before arrival and Pedialy Lite or Gatorade up to 2 hours before arrival. One business day before the surgery, please call the Preoperative Assessment Center (PSC) at 310-319-2219 between 2 pm and 4 pm to find out what time you should arrive at the hospital. If the surgery is scheduled for a Monday, please call.  On the afternoon of the Friday before, a nurse will tell you what time to arrive at the admissions office on the day of your surgery. She will also answer any questions you may have. If your English is limited, please inform the PSC the day before your surgery. We offer interpreter services at no extra cost. If your surgery is not the first scheduled operation of the day, it may start earlier or later than originally planned. You will be notified if this is the case. If you feel unwell, please call the surgeon's office as soon as possible, as it may be necessary to postpone your surgery. Ask the doctor if you should bring any medical records to the hospital, including any study results such as MRIs, X-rays, or CT scans. If you suffer from sleep apnea and use an iPad, please bring the device ( iPad or iBi) with you on the day of your surgery. If you use a wheelchair, please bring your walker; we will provide one for you during your stay. If you have an insurance card specifically for prescription medications, please bring it when you check in at the admissions office. Please bring only essential items. Leave valuables such as jewelry and cash at home or with family. On Wilshire Boulevard, head north on Westway Boulevard. After crossing the avenue, you will see the Jucilei Medical Plaza on your left. Continue straight ahead, and the next building on your left will be the Ronald Reagan Jucilei Medical Centre. Drive to the ballet, as this will be your only parking option. Enter through the main hospital doors and continue straight down the corridor. After passing the Dining Room, look for the Maris Room on your left. Just next to it is the Admissions office, where you will check in. Please bring a copy of your Advance Medical Directive, or you can fill out a new one. You will then be directed to the second floor, where you will be received in the Procedure Treatment Unit (PTEU). Only one person may accompany you to the second floor; others may wait in the Maris Room or the Dining Commons. On the day of the procedure, an anesthesiologist will review your medical history and answer all your questions. After the surgery, you will... You will recover in the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit ( PACU) or the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Visitor access to the PACU is restricted. Your family and friends will need to wait in the Matisse Bring room. Volunteer staff will inform your designated companion where you will be when you are discharged from the PACU. The surgeon may also speak with your designated companion after the procedure is complete. Once you recover, you will either remain in the ICU or be transferred to a room in the Neurosurgical Unit. Both locations have a room where a family member can sleep. These rooms are private and have unlimited visiting hours. If necessary, you will be given pain medication intravenously until you are able to swallow pills safely. By the next day, you should have transitioned to oral pain medication. You will most likely wake up from anesthesia with a catheter in your bladder. In most cases, the catheter is removed the following day. Please inform the surgeon if you have previously suffered from prostate problems or bladder retention.  You may arrive in your room wearing compression stockings and a sequential compression device. These are specifically designed to increase blood flow to the heart and decrease the possibility of blood clots forming in your legs. You will be asked to use a spirometer while awake. This handheld plastic breathing device allows you to practice deep breathing. Recovery is improved if you get out of bed and move around as soon as possible. The care team will help you get up and move around safely during your hospital stay. Please refer to the document entitled "Your Path to Recovery" to familiarize yourself with what you can expect after surgery. Every day, the team will talk to you and your companion about the discharge plan to ensure all your needs are being met and to answer any questions you may have in preparation for your departure. Before you leave the hospital, we will coordinate home care, rehabilitation, physiotherapy, and any other outpatient services you may need after surgery. Before you are discharged, you will be given prescriptions to fill at your pharmacy. Alternatively, you can also request [medication/medication].  Please have your prescriptions filled by the hospital pharmacy. The pharmacist will bring the medications directly to your room and explain them to you. Please ensure that you or your companion have a way to pay for the co-payments on the day of discharge. In the future, you will be able to refill your medications at a local pharmacy. Please ask your companion to arrive no later than 10 pm on the day of discharge to accompany you home. Please make transportation arrangements before coming for surgery. For outpatient procedures requiring an overnight stay, the discharge time will be 8 am. Your transportation must arrive no later than 7 am. If you need assistance getting home, please call the Patient Services Department. Your recovery continues at home. It is important that you have a support system in place so you are not alone. Do not drive or return to work until your surgeon authorizes it. Schedule a follow-up appointment within two weeks to remove any stitches or staples. Remember that once you return home, you can contact us with a simple phone call if you have any questions. The pre-operative pack contains all the necessary information. Oh dear, I have excess mercury in my safe harbor.