As parents, you're nervous. It's your child. That's your life. There early on thought so-called normal baby and up to like four years old, some stuff started happening. One of the problems in child neurology is that um a lot of people don't understand neurology. A lot of people are afraid of neurology. And in in that sense, a lot of times we get patients late. People think are just, oh, there's just funny baby movements. Mom, she complained about her stomach or a little dizzy. And then from that point forward, until we actually got her diagnosed, we'd realized that she had epilepsy or seizure disorder. When I was little, they found out that I had like epilepsy and I'd have like seizures like more than once a day. So, it was really tough. I'd have like these feelings almost like I can sense it coming like my eyes would start to like almost get crosseyed in a sense. People um are scared when people have a seizure. They don't know what to do and there's a lot of bad misinformation out there. I didn't really understand or know what was happening when I have it cuz I would kind of just like blank out. Obviously, everyone's telling you that this something she's going to have to live with her whole life. She went through anywhere between seven or eight different type of medications, combination of medications, and nothing seemed to work. Eventually, you know, we were having conversation with the doctor and she said, "Maybe UCLA would be your best choice, but it's going to be extremely difficult to get in there because everybody in the world wants to go there. Did a PET scan, a CAT scan, and an active MRI. and they fused them all together, finding out that the reason why she's having all these seizures was a tumor. You know, it's difficult when uh when uh when when doc came out and smiling and at that point we knew, wow, this is going to be great. Although like it was kind of like a painful experience like like literally a day after I came home from the hospital at I didn't have a a seizure even one. It was a miracle. It truly you always hear miracles and stuff but this was a miracle not only be able to get there and pinpoint exactly what it was. It was causing you know our daughter not to have so-called normal life be able to do the things she love to do from soccer to softball to even in school everything was difficult for her. So because of Dr. learner. I feel like I have more like motivation in a sense to like strive to like push myself to the limits that I didn't think at once I could have like let alone like I'm graduating from high school. Most people didn't even think that could happen. So like I'm forever thankful for like the the technology and the abilities that the UCLA had. Definitely still still a lot more to do. A patient like Ashley who went from having, you know, frequent seizures to being completely cured of her seizures now graduating high school, getting ready to go to college. That's amazing. Each year, I think we're getting closer to that goal of of either curing epilepsy or or treating it to the point where uh these patients have the their lives back.