It was a day of fun for thousands of students and families at the Robert F. Kennedy Community Schools near downtown LA in the heart of Pico Union. But the real message here was fitness, preventive health, and wellness. UCLA's commitment to the community has been long and strong, committed to building family wellness at the community level. This is the first free health festival on the RFK school campus sponsored by UCLA Family Commons and Korea Town's Care Center. It's exciting because what we're doing right now is we are bringing together a concept of prevention to a very diverse community. We see in the back end as physicians that we see the diabetes, we see the hypertension, we see the high cholesterol, we see the heart disease. Uh 120 over 80 is ideal. International medical school graduates in training at UCLA to become doctors in the US provided families with a cultural connection. A lot of people uh they they come to the doctor, they get frustrated because they can't express what they really feel or or they they have like this big language barrier and so what we do is we make them feel at home. Good job. Well, actually it's my daughter. She goes to this school and she just um decided to come to the festival and we we know there's some screenings but we just well I guess we just decided to go with the flow. So free why not? What we're showing people today is that one pound of fat is equivalent to 10 donuts. So if you're eating this you're gaining this. We have international medical school graduates from family medicine. We have child psychiatrists and medical students from UCLA. 45 nursing students and about 120 volunteers. Throughout the day, UCLA volunteers offered participants a passport to good health, blood pressure readings, eye exams, free mammogs, vaccines, body mass index, blood sugar readings, and preventive health information. all on a fun-filled sunny autumn day in October that could change the rest of their lives. Preventive medicine is al is always about starting early, getting identifying problems early so you'll be able to so they don't become big problems later. Especially in the in the era of a deep economic recession. One family here today said they hadn't been to the doctor in 10 years. and to get to talk to a physician about diabetes. They don't know much about it. They know they're at risk, but to find out their status and what their family can do is critical.