Brooke was diagnosed with dilated cardiammyopathy when she was 2 months old. She basically had an enlarged heart. Her heart was three times the size of what a normal child her age would be. But at a year and a half, her health just completely started to fail. Her heart disease was acquired via a random virus. We went from the pediatrician to the cardiologist who did a EKG and when he turned off the machine, put his head in his hands and said, "If she makes it, she might need a heart transplant." That's when they checked us into UCLA and we lived there full-time while she was on the list waiting for that call. We immediately had like a kinship with the transplant team and at that point we knew that was the place where we really wanted to ensure that her health was going to be taken care of. Her situation was so severe that she had to be under constant care. So we were actually in the Piku the entire time. So we set up shop in a room. We moved in our own little teeny refrigerator. Became personal friends with all the nurses and the doctors and took turns. Sometimes I'm like, "Mom, what was it like when I was in the hospital?" And then I just am like, "Wow, I had a really hard time in the hospital." The nurses were so fabulous and we had our favorites that were Brook's favorites. That seriously was a game changer for us. And then we had the best best childlife gal that they actually let Sarah go into the operating room with Brooke. They put her in the bunny suit and let her sing the wiggles until Brooke went to sleep. That gave us such peace of mind cuz when you're handing over your child, knowing that they're the heart I gave her is about to be taken out. Obviously, it's about the scariest moment of your entire life. Handing her over was incredibly frightening. We walked her down the hallways of the the medical center. We got to the surgery center. We gave her a kiss and uh we looked at the surgeon and and said, "Take care of her." But we had confidence that we'd be seeing her the next morning. Of everything in my entire life ever, that will be the scariest moment was kissing her 100 times all over her little face. Just giving faith in UCLA, faith in the doctors, faith in the process that it was all going to work out. We're 5 years postrplant now. She had her 5-year anniversary on August 18th, which was just amazing. Brooke is a sassy, darling, sweet girl. It's funny to say, but she has the biggest heart. Brooke is kind to everyone. When there is a new student at school, she's the one sitting with them, pulling them by the hand. I feel really proud. I feel really proud of her. I feel good that I get to be her big brother. A transplanted heart usually lasts 10 to 12 years on average. So with Brooke, it's we're very uncertain. Whatever happens, it will be at UCLA. We fought long and hard and we have all of our faith in those doctors in that hospital. They clearly saved her life. It's a happy, bright hospital. UCLA I want to go to every day of my life cuz they're so sweet. It felt like I was basically at home with two families besides me. When I grow up, I really want to be a doctor at UCLA. Brooke being a kid captain at UCLA means so much to our family and to Brooke personally. Now I got this moment to be actually be kid captain and that feels so awesome.