We feel really uh privileged and honored to be one of the schools that's chosen to have this fitness center. We cannot measure the number of students, the number of people that will be impacted by this going forward. Not anybody can be a sound body sound mind school. And so the schools that are part of our foundation are really the ones who have a vested interest in their students. We really have a three-part program. First part of course is we drop off equipment at the school like we have here today at East Valley High School. The second part is we have a curriculum and the third part is we train with our staff the physical education teachers. What a beautiful room. What an incredible school. More importantly than the room and and the equipment are the kids. And the kids are going to come in here and we're going to see smiles like we've never seen. And we're going to with our curriculum get them so engaged in fitness that it'll become part of their life. I think we're really talking today about changing lives. I just want to be healthy and I feel like that the bikes are really going to do that for me in a way and like a lot of other kids too and that's what matters. I was kind of like really overweight and like you know with that comes bullying and all that and I just like day by day like I was watching a difference with my body and like that just meant a lot to me. I felt good and like I felt comfortable in my own skin. I believe that whatever we we give them as far as health and fitness and wellness is concerned will perpetuate them for a lifetime and it's not just an education instructionally but also physically and nutritionally and healthwise. to give is to receive really says it all for us. We're blessed and we we're thrilled that this partnership has come to pass and it's a big day for us. We're going to have dramatic changes. I think we will we UCLA Health will change the health of all kids in Los Angeles County and we will see a decline in obesity, an improvement in physical fitness and we know that's related to improvement in school performance which then you know you can just play it out that means your whole life is better. We're really truly appreciative and I want the whole world to know that we are honored and we will not forget that someone reached out and touched us and I think we can pay it forward.