To help you make an informed decision about the vaccine for you and your loved ones, we understand this is a confusing time. We are receiving a lot of information from different sources. Our goal is to provide you with the information you need to know so you feel confident about receiving the vaccine. Our doctors will answer your questions at the end of the presentation. Please put your questions in the chat, and we will try to answer as many questions as we can. While the doctors are speaking, please mute the audience to minimize interruptions. Once the presentation is over, if you would like to ask a question and unmute, you can do so now. It is my pleasure to introduce our experts. Dr. Lleva Gourmet Mesa specializes in adult infectious diseases. He completed his medical degree with honors at the Autonomous University of Baja California in Tijuana, Mexico, and his residency at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Jacobi Medical Center, and a fellowship in infectious diseases at Just Your Life. He has been very active in both clinical care and research during the COVID-19 pandemic in Haiti. Dr. Jaime Debil is a pediatrician at the Maternal and Child Hospital and is the director of the Care for Families and Easy Clinic. Dr. Bill obtained his medical degree from Cayetano Heredia University in Lima, Peru. He completed his pediatric residency at the State University of New York Medical Center. Dr. Debil has been practicing law since 1992. One of his main areas of research has been childhood vaccines. Dr. Debil is a member of the Advisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines for the Health Resources and Services Administration of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Doctors, welcome. Dr. Guzmán will begin the presentation, and Dr. Debil will follow. Thank you very much, Silvia, and thank you to everyone here. I am very excited to be here with all of you and that you are taking the time to learn about COVID-19 vaccines, whether because you have doubts about getting vaccinated yourself or want to share information with colleagues, friends, or family members to help them in their decision to get vaccinated against COVID-19. So, I will first talk about the generalities of vaccines for adults, and then Dr. Debil will give an overview.  Regarding vaccination in children, let's begin. First, who am I to talk to you about HIV and vaccines? I'm an assistant professor here at the University of California, Los Angeles. I'm an infectious disease specialist, and unfortunately, I've seen countless cases of COVID-19 in the hospital and palliative care units at Santa Monica Hospital and Ronald Reagan Hospital. I'm also a primary care provider, especially for people living with HIV, and since the beginning of the pandemic, I've tried to help them with their processes and decisions, especially regarding the prevention of this disease. I also maintain communication with my friends, colleagues, and family, especially in Mexico, where I've tried to help them in their process, whether it's prevention or treatment of this terrible disease. I've published multiple articles related to HIV in the community and related to its treatment, and particularly regarding vaccination. I'm a researcher at the site where the Moderna clinical trial was conducted here in Jucile, at the clinic by Street in Hollywood. But beyond my academic and medical specialties, I 'm just like you. I'm not human; I'm a son, and  I have a grandson, and I have my loved ones. I'm a husband, and I'm a new dad. So, for these reasons, it's extremely important for me to be here and try to give the real facts about the COVID vaccination, especially now that misinformation spreads so quickly within our communities, through the internet or through different messaging services like WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. Many myths about vaccines circulate, and it's very easy to take them as fact. So, for me, as a medical specialist, but also as a father, family member, or member of a family, it's super important to be here and give this message and try to support you in this decision. So, what does it mean for you, for you, for our families, our friends, that we get vaccinated? Well, first of all, not to get sick, not to have those common symptoms like fever, colds, headaches, and joint pain. Not to have the disease, but more importantly, not just not to have the disease, but to not be hospitalized, not to have the disease so severe that we have to go to a hospital or a ward, to an intensive care unit. Intensive care to receive specialized treatment, no, because it's not a very pleasant situation to end up in the hospital. There are many needle sticks, many connections to different tubes, so no, that's not something anyone would want. And more importantly, it's about not dying. In our communities, particularly the Latino communities here in Los Angeles and in other parts of the US, we have been among the most affected communities, and many of us know someone who has died from this terrible disease. And vaccination directly prevents this. And although that perfect study that says vaccination prevents the transmission of the virus to others hasn't come out yet, it's highly likely that this is true, that when we get vaccinated, the chances of me, a vaccinated person, transmitting the virus to another unvaccinated person are going to be very, very low. And there is already some evidence of this, although not 100%. In a slightly more holistic way, for me, getting vaccinated means being able to go back to seeing people in person. Because even though we've had many interactions and this revolution of Sumi and other virtual currencies, well, it's not the same as having this conversation, having it in person.  A center, and being able to chat afterward and have coffee together, and for me, that means being vaccinated, not being able to go back to that, being able to be close to people again, being able to see and hug someone again without that worry of waking up at three in the morning, "Oh my God, I just got infected with COVID." So, getting vaccinated gives us those possibilities again, right? And something, maybe a little funny, but being able to see people's faces again, not for more than a year, we've only seen from the nose up, and vaccination allows us to see people again as what they are: complete people, with full faces. So the question we all want to answer is, should I get vaccinated to protect myself from COVID-19? And for me, the only answer is an emphatic yes, no, no. For me, there is no other answer. And for me as a person, for me, for my family, and for my friends, I want to share all the information I've learned during this time that helped me make this decision. And the information will be basic; I don't want to make it too complicated. Then, after we finish this discussion, I think we should open it up to the forum so you can ask any questions you have. This will allow us to have a good discussion and ultimately reach the most informed decision possible about whether or not to get vaccinated. So, we're going to talk about the three vaccines that are available here in the US. I know that in other parts of the world, in Europe, there are other vaccines like the AstraZeneca vaccine. There's also the Russian vaccine that's being used in certain parts of Latin America. My grandmother was vaccinated with one of the Chinese vaccines. In Tijuana, there are many vaccines, but for the purposes of this discussion, we're not going to focus on the three that are available here in the US. I know there's currently a pause with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. I'll include it, but we'll talk specifically about the pause later. I'm not putting them in any order of preference; I'm just putting them in the order they came out: the Fazer vaccine, which came out first, then Moderna, and then finally Johnson & Johnson.  And Johnson, so first let's talk about efficacy, not how good these vaccines are at preventing what they're intended to prevent, right? And firstly, severe COVID, right? And that severe COVID, which we define as something that causes you to have to go to the hospital, to be hospitalized in an intensive care unit, or to die, right? And the numbers were incredible, weren't they super successful? All three vaccines in preventing severe COVID, and this is the most important thing: that they can prevent people from going to the hospital, from going to intensive care units, or from dying. That's the terrible thing. If we can do that with COVID and any other cold, that's the goal, because it's very likely that this virus will remain with us in the world, like influenza, like many other viruses. But if we can manage to make it a weak virus, a virus that doesn't cause severe illness, that's what's important. Many people, when they see these numbers, also try to make comparisons between the different vaccines, and I would advise them not to do this, because they're not directly comparable due to how the clinical trials were done, when they were done, and  In the places around the world where they were made, what I would like you to take home is that all three vaccines are highly effective in preventing severe COVID-19. When the vaccine was created and the different regulatory bodies set a prevention goal, they had set a number of 50 percent. But these numbers rejected that 50 percent; the efficacy in preventing severe COVID-19 was extremely high. Now, the clinical committee, which again considers having any cold symptoms— fever, chills, muscle aches, etc.—again shows extremely high efficacy numbers in terms of preventing any clinical COVID-19. So, these numbers were super important for me in making the decision, both personally and for my family. I got the modern vaccine, my wife got Johnson & Johnson, my mother got F1, and my little sister got F1. With this expansion of the modern vaccines, because of this data and studies, I feel very confident in recommending it to myself and to my family and friends, and to you here in the audience as well.  A noticeable difference between the vaccines is the number of doses. For Fazer and Moderna, Fazer requires two doses 21 days apart, while Moderna requires 28 days apart. I think the big advantage, as we all know, is that Johnson & Johnson is only one dose, which really gives us that protection much faster than Fazer and Moderna. According to the CNC, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention here in the US, the recommendation is that you are fully vaccinated and receiving all the benefits of the vaccines two weeks after completing the schedule. So, two weeks after completing your two doses of Fazer and Moderna, and two weeks after completing that dose of Johnson & Johnson. If you get the Johnson & Johnson vaccine two weeks later, you already have all the benefits. With Fazer and Moderna, you really have to wait five or six weeks to get all their benefits. So that's the big advantage of Johnson & Johnson. Now, it's very important for me to talk about the adverse effects, because that's what scares us and worries us about what will happen if I get vaccinated.  It might happen to me, maybe it will protect me, but I also don't want to feel terrible, so I'm going to talk about some adverse effects. The first ones are the reactions at the injection site, which we define as redness of the arm, local pain in the arm, and swelling. Most likely, when you get one of these vaccines, you'll have one of these three symptoms. The number of local symptoms with these three vaccines isn't extremely high, but the reality is that these symptoms are generally very mild and usually last two to three days after the vaccine. When I got both Moderna vaccines, on the second and third day after, I did have pain; I felt like I couldn't lift my arm, but it went away quickly. Now, the other effects that worry us, perhaps a little more, are these systemic side effects. And I'll list them here in order of frequency: fatigue, headache, muscle or joint pain, nausea or vomiting, fever, and chills. There's a high probability that you'll experience at least one of these symptoms after getting the vaccine.  Receiving either the first, second, or single dose of Johnson & Johnson is like, no, I who received Moderna, after the first dose, didn't have any of these systemic reactions. After the second, and oh my god, it's that one! I got it at 12 noon, went to work at the hospital, came back at night, went to sleep, woke up at 2 a.m. with a fever and chills, took a Tyler, it didn't go away, I fell asleep at 7 a.m., forgot to wake up again with a fever and chills, went for a jog, and watched TV. It was a good Saturday of homework, Netflix, and it passed. On Sunday, I woke up and didn't feel anything anymore. My wife, who received Johnson & Johnson, was very worried because she is breastfeeding the baby and was pumping milk in case she felt very bad the next day. That night she had a slight fever, she took a Tyler, and the next day she really didn't have any more adverse effects. No, no, no, I don't necessarily recommend Tyler.  Not because it's my favorite brand or anything, but more because it was what I had on hand. Not just any other anti-inflammatory, like a prognosis or a prognosis, might work for you, but these systemic side effects are common, but they're usually mild, lasting a day or two and going away for most people. Now, the severe side effects— these are the really important ones, and we define them as death, those life-threatening effects, those that require hospitalization, or those that result in paralysis or persistent disability. And these numbers come from clinical trials. Not because we're talking a little more about transmission right now, but we see that the rates of these effects aren't different between the vaccines and the placebo; they're not exactly the same across the three vaccines. So, sorry, we can't attribute these side effects to the vaccine. And another very important thing to say is that there were no deaths secondary to the vaccination, no deaths secondary to the vaccine, in the three clinical trials. But remember, these clinical trials were done with an average of 30,000 people in each trial, of which some  15,000 received vaccines and another 15,000 received placebos in each of the trials. So, these are small numbers of people. Now, when many more people start being vaccinated, other effects can be detected, and that seems to be what happened with Johnson & Johnson and also with AstraZeneca in Europe. Here we have a timeline of what has happened with Johnson & Johnson: on January 29, the very favorable trial results were published; on February 27, the vaccine was approved. This is a monumental achievement because it is the first vaccine in the US that only requires one dose, which makes it much easier to administer doses here nationally. Then, in March, it was approved in the European Union. But last week, on April 12, we had a pause in the vaccine. As you know, almost 7 million doses had been administered, and some concerning side effects led them to stop this vaccine in Europe. Today, a decision was made: vaccinations will be resumed, and we are awaiting the FDA's response on Friday, April 23. Here in the US, to see if vaccinations can resume, as I mentioned, almost 7 million vaccines have been administered correctly, and there were only six cases of thrombosis, a blood clot in a vein in the brain. This was associated with low platelet counts. So, six cases out of seven million doses administered is extremely low. The risk of this happening is extremely low. There was also one related death. So, it's concerning. There was a lot of discussion and debate about whether the FDA and the European organization did the right thing in stopping the vaccinations. For me, yes, because it gives me the assurance that all the cases are being reviewed and investigated to determine why they occurred. It gives me much more confidence that there is protection if these kinds of things are happening. All the cases were in women between 18 and 50 years old, and that's very similar to the AstraZeneca vaccine, where there was also this problem of blood clots, which occurs mainly in younger people. So, which one will give you fewer adverse effects? The reality is...  It's impossible to know right now. We live in a time when we're all very savvy shoppers, but not everyone checks products online and tries to make the most informed decision possible. With these vaccines, it's practically impossible for you to extrapolate the data from clinical trials and decide which one will have the fewest adverse effects for you personally. So, what 's the best option for you, and which vaccine should I take? Should you take it if you're making the decision? My answer for you is, really, the one I offer you, because again, it's going to be impossible for you to make a truly accurate decision with this data alone. I don't think you'll spend much time trying to compare, and you'll never know the truth. If that's the right decision, then for me, the simplest and most effective decision is really the one I offer you. And we're already seeing the benefits of vaccination. There's a lot of data, especially from countries that have been very good at vaccinating, like Israel, and also here in the US, we've had an excellent vaccination program with more than 3 million vaccines a day. And because of so many  With vaccinations, we're already seeing data that vaccinated people don't get sick, and because of this, the CDC has been relaxing recommendations regarding preventative measures. So, if you're vaccinated and want to come to my house for dinner, since I 'm also vaccinated, we don't have to use preventative measures. We can have dinner together inside, or lunch together inside, without worrying about wearing masks or social distancing. We can hug without worrying about getting infected.  If you are vaccinated and you go to the home of other people who are not vaccinated but are low risk—young, without any medical condition that puts them at high risk—you can also be sure that you don't have to use preventative measures. You can be sure that neither you, as a vaccinated person, nor the unvaccinated people will experience transmission. So this is super impactful for everyday life. Now, we have other conditions that are a little more difficult, where all these preventative measures are still being recommended. So when we are living, especially with people who are high risk, or when we are sharing many homes with many groups of people who are not vaccinated, in those situations it is still best to maintain all those preventative measures. But if you are vaccinated, you can have the freedom not to wear a mask and feel safe that you won't get infected. And we are already seeing the effects of vaccination in terms of mortality. So here on this black line we see when vaccination began here in the US at the end of December, and they started vaccinating our most vulnerable people, our elderly, especially those who live in nursing homes.  Convalescence, and we see after vaccinations begin how there is a striking decrease in mortality rates, while in communities that were not vaccinated for a few years, there were still high mortality rates. At the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020, there was a lot of talk about flattening the curve, about taking measures to avoid overwhelming the capacity of medical services, but we didn't really do it. We also had these very large epidemics in New York, which we had here in December and January in Los Angeles, which was very difficult for our medical services. But now, with vaccination, we really have the capacity not only to flatten the curve, not to obliterate the curve, but to end this pandemic, to end these fears about this disease. So I invite you, please get vaccinated. If you are already vaccinated, please be influencers. You don't have to have a large following on your social media, but you are influencers. Go out and promote your stories of when you got vaccinated with your friends and family so that people know it's not a big deal, that you might feel a little unwell for a few days, but If you survive, everything will be alright and the protection is impressive, right? So here are some recommendations for where you can get vaccinated. They're all official, like the online site Maternity.gov (this is the number). Healthcare providers like us here in Jucilei, but also other providers like Kaiser (you see, all the big medical providers have their vaccination programs), and different pharmacies like Civilian, Ryder, Kroger, etc., also have their vaccination programs. In many of our communities, there are these mobile clinics for parents that are giving vaccinations. And it's very important to remember that it doesn't matter your immigration status, it doesn't matter if you have insurance or not. All the vaccines are free, with or without insurance, with or without immigration status. If you're here and you find a vaccine, they shouldn't charge you. You can ask for insurance; the site might charge insurance companies $20, but you should never get a bill. And I'll pass the baton to Dr. Debil. Good night. Thank you very much, David, for all the information we've received. And I wanted to talk a little bit about the pediatric part, not about...  That's about children, and let's also remember how frequently we vaccinate our children, but this is something we do n't see in adults. If we can move on to the next slide, this is a chart, and excuse the numbers; I don't know why we like numbers so much, but it's just to emphasize that regarding ancient diseases—I don't know if anyone in the audience remembers or has had any of these diseases—we're talking about old diseases like smallpox, diphtheria, measles, mumps, pertussis (whooping cough), congenital rubella, and tetanus. I talk a lot about all these diseases, but what is each one? Smallpox is a disease where you get a terrible rash all over your skin, fever, and fever, and you die. One out of every three people who get it dies. Diphtheria occurs in membranes that stick to the throat, preventing you from breathing, and about 10 percent of people who get it die. Measles, so common in children, not so much in the sense that it's fatal unless it affects an adult, but anyway, basically all children had to go through measles, and that's two weeks of fever, a week of rash, pneumonia, and a host of complications. Mumps, which caused facial swelling and produced problems in the nervous system and infertility in adults, especially men. Whooping cough, which has seen a resurgence in recent years, from 200,000 cases to 5,000. But if you look at the details, you see the number of cases reported annually. The real number of cases was much, much higher than what we're seeing now. In 2020, these diseases, with the exception of whooping cough, which is a somewhat special case, have practically disappeared. And lastly, childhood meningitis, we saw 20,000 cases; many of these children ended up with developmental problems. Psychomotor and it's another disease that has practically disappeared. If we move on to the next slide, we see the second part. These slides are a little different because they're from different years, but what I wanted to emphasize in these slides is that you should come to the last line. These are the adverse events. Obviously, if we don't vaccinate anyone, the number of adverse events will be zero. But you'll see that by vaccinating basically the four million children born every year in this country, approximately 15,000 adverse events are reported. What are these adverse events? Very similar to what Dr. David was discussing, which is basically local problems where the injection is given: pain, redness in the case of children, crying, fever, and in general, they last a maximum of 48 to 72 hours. The number of severe adverse events is approximately between 150 and 200 per year. For this, there is a separate system where these events are evaluated. That is to say, these events exist. Compared to the 4,000,000, we can't say that vaccines are  100% perfect, but you'll see the number of millions and millions of cases of diseases we're preventing, and we've reached the point where practically no one knows about them anymore. Let's move on to the next one. In the adult population, there have been many cases of Kobe and more from Yale; we're close to 600,000 deaths, which is truly tragic. As for the population under 18, the pediatric population, up until the beginning of the month, almost 3.5 million cases had been reported, which roughly corresponds to 13 percent, or let's say one in seven Kobe cases, have been in patients under 18. Some states have reported more cases than others, and here we see that California, of course, since we have the largest population in the country, is where there are the most cases. Let's move on to the next slide. So, roughly 13%, three and a half million out of 25 million cases, roughly as of April 1st, and in five states there have been a little more, perhaps 18% of the cases, have been in girls. And what's going on?  This moves on to the next point. It's a positive line, please. As we were saying, unfortunately, almost 600,000 people have died from COVID-19, and children are not as severely affected as adults. Even so, up until the beginning of this month, 284 children have died, which is truly tragic. However, when you consider the total number of adult deaths—over half a million— compared to 284, COVID-19 is much milder in children than in adults. Similarly, of all hospitalizations, as we mentioned, 13 percent of all cases are in children, but they only account for 1.8 percent of all hospitalizations and 0.06 percent of all deaths. So it's clear that COVID-19 is not as severe in children as it is in adults. Moving on to the next point, the COVID-19 vaccine is important to use in children. Why is it important? One might think, well, children don't get sick as much, there aren't as many problems. But if you think about how we are going to end it, how we are going to eliminate it, we are going to have to vaccinate most of the population.  Given the potential population size, and with almost 70 million children in the country, it's impossible to eliminate the virus if children aren't also vaccinated. Furthermore, we must be very careful about how this vaccination is introduced. As Dr. Guzmán mentioned, there are three vaccines. One of them, the FACER vaccine, has been approved for ages 16 and up. This helps somewhat with adolescents, but studies are still underway for younger children. Studies have already begun with those over 12 years old. The most important thing in children's populations is to ensure the vaccine is safe enough and that any side effects are minor, as seen in adults. The appropriate dose is also being studied because we want to know the minimum dose that can be administered. Giving fewer doses of a vaccine prevents side effects, but it must also be sufficient to produce the desired immunity. After reaching children aged 12 to 17, or in the case of the FACER vaccine, 12 to 15, the age is lowered to 6 to 12 years. We'll continue with the following slides.  From 2 to 6 years old, finally going down to babies and basically reaching children under 2 months of age, this process is always longer than in adults, but we have to go little by little. This process is necessary to ensure that there are no problems with side effects and that the dose is sufficient for the vaccine to work well the following day. Positive, please. So that's the small part I wanted to bring up regarding the disabled population. Thank you very much, and we'll be back with the doctor and David. Yes, to wrap up this part of the presentation, here are some resources that are available on Jucilei: the Kobe 19 vaccine center, among others. But ultimately, we want to thank you very much for being here. This is the information center, and yes, it's the one that's entirely in Spanish. You can search for it in your web browsers, and here's the link. You also select the point or diagonal axis: Kobe 19 vaccine info. It's available in Spanish and multiple other languages. With this, we close the presentation, and I'm going to open the chat to try to answer the questions. I think we'll go in order. Let's start with some terms.  Excuse me, I did n't define them. Blanca asks what a placebo is. A placebo is an inert substance that shouldn't cause any effect. We use it as a control in any study. So we compare the vaccine against this inert substance. It can't be a saline solution; it has to be medical-grade salt water so that the person receiving the vaccine doesn't know. And I think the other definition María Chávez is asking for is what it means to obliterate, and this really means to make it disappear or end it. So I was trying to say that with vaccination we can end this epidemic and this pandemic. So I'm going to start now from top to bottom. Edgar asks when I received the first dose of Facilitator. Should I only receive half, maybe a little more, because there was an issue with the syringe, and they told me it was fine because I had received more than 50%? When I checked three weeks later, they gave me the whole dose. My question is, am I fully vaccinated without having had the first full dose of Facilitator? With one full dose, which was your second, with that one alone you have at least 80% protection. So I'm sure you must have very substantial protection. I don't think it's an area outside of data. No, I'm not so sure about the efficacy. I don't know if there are enough cases that have had your experience to know the full efficacy, but the truth is that I would believe that if not, I don't know, Dr. Debilito, do you have any thoughts on this situation? Well, this is a really difficult question to answer, and we can't give a direct answer. What we can say is that one of the vaccines, a gas, in Ica, had that basically almost accidentally, and they did a study, and the first dose, for reasons we're not going to discuss, they gave half a dose to a group of patients, a group of participants in the study, and for the second dose, they gave them the full dose. Incredibly, the group that received half a dose and then a full dose did better than the group that received two full doses, which is really difficult to understand. But, making that exception, it's a question that is very difficult to answer, and the recommendation will probably be that you will have to get two full doses to be considered fully vaccinated. Thank you, Dr. Marta Navarro. Question: I am vaccinated, but if I am at a meeting where the  80% are not vaccinated, so I run a high risk of catching the virus, in my opinion. Look, even if you catch the virus, you're already vaccinated, right? If those two weeks have passed since completing your vaccination schedule, even if you come into contact with the virus, the chances of you getting sick are very low, and the chances of you getting so severely ill that you end up in the hospital are even lower. So that's why I think that even though you're in a group where many people aren't vaccinated, you still have that protection. I'm not saying, yes, if you know that nobody is vaccinated, well, ideally you should maintain those preventive measures like distancing and masks, but you will have the protection. Alexis Pérez asks, what's true about us receiving a third dose of the vaccine in a year? Doctor, you're weak and want to preserve it. Well, that's another very good question. No, no, there's no way to know. But on the other hand, you surely know very well that every year we have to get vaccinated against the flu, and the vaccine varies each year; it's never the same vaccine. On the other hand, there's the possibility that new variants will appear. Anyway, if it does arrive, in that case, one will be much better served with another dose, but apart from that, it's very, very difficult to prevent the future. What it would be about is trying to eradicate, eliminate, obliterate what our word of the day is, literally, alcohol, before the variants become the ones that predominate worldwide. Vicky Medina had a similar question, wanting to know if the Moderna F1 vaccine will require a third dose. As Dr. Debilit says, this is unknown. I would bet that we will; I think there are indicators that suggest so, but we don't know yet. We thank Dr. Hasbun for her comment that she is very happy to be here. I think it's very important to let the public know that SARS-CoV-2, or Kobe 19, is not a simple flu, as many people believe. In many cases, the infection goes beyond a flu; it becomes a monster with a political basis and a cascade of inflammation that can be deadly. Many people don't understand. It's sad that the degree of risk is reduced.  Severity of the infection, therefore the importance of vaccination. Yes, thank you very much, Dr. Hasbún. And that's what we're seeing at the hospital in the cases of people who acquire this infection, but afterwards it can be very difficult for them. Vicky Medina asks why the cases of clots in the Johnson & Johnson vaccine have only been in women, but that's not entirely true. We're not entirely sure why only in women. Reports are just now coming out regarding AstraZeneca in Europe as well, where this vaccine has caused these clots. There have been cases in men, a little more in women than in men, but there are cases in men. Sometimes certain autoimmune diseases are more common, those diseases in which the defenses are activated, and in many cases they are more common in women. So perhaps that could be it. Do you have any comments regarding this, Dr. Weak? The good thing is basically to reiterate what she says: in the study of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, a case of clots was found in a person who received the  vaccine and another case, a case also of symptoms in a person who received the placebo, and one of them was a man, the other a woman. Then Fortino Hernández asks if you have a purple color where the vaccine was given or if a bruise appears on your arm. What is that? The most likely thing is that it's something doctors call a hematoma, which is, let's say, a bump of blood. Maybe when the needle was inserted it hit a small blood vessel, but I don't think it's anything to worry about. Marta Navarro, a very important comment: tomorrow at the San Gabriel Mission Church, the mobile clinic with the Moderna vaccine will be there from 8 to 4. You don't have to register, just get there and register. Or if anyone is around the San Gabriel Mission, please go. It seems very easy to get vaccinated. Dr. Album asks a couple of questions: should those who have already had Kobe get vaccinated, and how long after? This is an answer: yes, it's very important that people who have had to flee get vaccinated because we know that the antibodies  The effects of natural infection appear to be not as high as those produced by vaccination, and they may disappear without providing lasting protection. So, if there have been multiple cases of infection— people who had food, recovered, and then later became ill with Kobe again—then it is very important for these people to get vaccinated. The CDC's recommendation is to wait 90 days before vaccination. Regarding the recommendations, if you have already had Kobe, you should not get vaccinated. The actor also asks what precautions we should take when receiving visitors from other states or countries, and what the risks are of contracting Kobe-19 in this situation. Again, I think this question is mainly about the variants or mutations of the virus that have been reported in different countries and that are now also found here in the US. These mutations or variants, and I want to remind everyone that it is  These mutations or variants are common in almost all the viruses we know; it's the nature of these viruses to create these mutations as they reproduce. And if some of these mutations make the viruses more infectious or perhaps more dangerous, the important thing to know is that so far all vaccines have maintained protection against all these variants. So I think the important thing here is vaccination. If you 're vaccinated, you'll have that protection against the variants, and if a new variant appears, like what happens with influenza every year, pharmaceutical companies will have to create vaccines with certain modifications that also protect us from those variants. Perhaps that's why we need these boosters every year. But that's a very good question. Any reviews of vaccine boosters and the loss of effectiveness have only been seen in the case of a vaccine that isn't used here yet in the US, the AstraZeneca vaccine, which was found to have lost its effectiveness against the South African variant. So that's a race that generates that we 're in, but as the doctor from the IDB says...  It's more likely that we'll need a booster in a few months, or maybe it will be annual, perhaps every year or two, until it disappears. I do think Juana Gaitán thinks it will be the same. We'll have to get the COVID vaccine every year, like we do with the flu. We don't know for sure. I'd bet on it, but that's just my guess. I don't think we have that data yet. Constantina Pérez comments on what it is and what happens if I don't get the second dose of the vaccine. Most likely, you won't achieve complete protection. You'll still have a high degree of protection, but not the full protection you'd get with two doses. That's what we're really trying to advise everyone to get: those 22 doses are super important to truly achieve total protection. If you'll allow me a second with that question, with the COVID vaccine, the efficacy is calculated after a single dose, and the number they cite is 52% compared to 95% with two doses. Aren't you losing half the benefit? Thank you, Dr. María Arámbula. Question What precautions are there for people with diabetes and hypertension regarding the vaccine? There are n't any specific precautions that need to be taken. I would advise you to control these diseases, not only for your overall health, but especially because we know that COVID-19 attacks people much more severely, particularly those with these conditions. So it's super important to get vaccinated; they are our highest-risk group. Sonia asks again about whether we have to get vaccinated every year. We 've already answered that. Grace, my question is: can a person with hypertension and deep vein thrombosis get vaccinated? Which vaccine do you recommend? There are no contraindications based on deep vein thrombosis or hypertension. I think we'll know a little more after Friday, especially regarding the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. Are there any recommendations? Will the Johnson & Johnson program resume, or will there be any guidelines stating that people at high risk, like those with thrombosis, shouldn't get it? But with the Fisher and Moderna vaccines, so far we have n't had any risks. So, without knowing more, I would recommend  Maybe those from The Fighter or Moderna, I don't know, Dr. Jaime, any comments here? Yes, reiterating what Dr. Guzmán said, we should perhaps wait to see if there is any guidance regarding the Johnson & Johnson vaccine and the Moderna vaccine. The Fighter has not shown any of these effects to date, and it has been used much more than the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. More than 100 million doses have been received so far. Lisette Ramírez asks if one doesn't have insurance, doctor, and has a reaction to the vaccine, where should one go? Again, vaccine reactions are generally mild, so you don't have to go to a doctor. Most reactions you can take a Tylenol and you'll be fine, or an ibuprofen. But if it's something you feel is severe enough to warrant a visit, there are always the county hospitals. And anyway, in any hospital, in any emergency room, they will never refuse you care. But above all, in terms of expenses, going to the hospitals, especially the county hospital, like the one in...  The exile harbor in Toranzo, the Hollywood Sea, and all the hospitals can also help you get that insurance. I don't know if you have any other options, Doctor M. Basically, those are the county hospitals that are really a good resource. There's one more thing regarding reactions. I hear that many people leave before 15 minutes have passed since they were vaccinated because, although the reactions are immediate, they are rare. Those are the ones that sometimes cause the biggest problems. So, it's always good to stay near the vaccination site because they are generally prepared for contingencies in case there is a problem that occurs immediately after the vaccine. Grace asks, are the vaccines effective against the Brazilian variant? And I think this goes directly to the P1 variant. So far, I haven't seen any data that suggests that the efficacy is lower. It hasn't been given by GM, no more. Basically, the same as the vaccines we have; they still neutralize the virus, so they must be effective. Stephanie asks, are there risks for pregnant women? And that's a very good question. I think there was a lot of controversy about a letter that  A group was sent to, let's say, the European Union, claiming that antibodies were being created against a placental protein. This is a complete lie. No, that hasn't been seen. Clinical trials, from the outset, exclude pregnant women, and the clinical trials I participated in, especially the Moderna one, as a doctor, I had to advise women to try not to get pregnant during the trial. But the reality is that many women did get pregnant during the trial. So there's already a lot of data on vaccinations at the general population level, and there have been more than 30,000 pregnancies in the Facer and Moderna trials. The effects during pregnancy in these women have been compared to those in historical controls, that is, women from the general population, and no increase in adverse effects has been seen in the women who received the vaccines compared to these historical controls in terms of malformations, miscarriages, or other things like gestational diabetes or preeclampsia. There is no difference whatsoever. So these vaccines do not cause these risks, Doctor Gmail. Just a comment, but I reiterate what he did.  Dr. Guzmán, we have many years of experience vaccinating pregnant women against pertussis (whooping cough) since 2010, which was during the highest outbreak we had nationwide, and in California in particular. It's routine to vaccinate pregnant women against pertussis, tetanus, and diphtheria, and we haven't seen an increase in problems like premature miscarriage or birth defects. Therefore, it's now much more acceptable to vaccinate pregnant women against Kobe. On the other hand, we have seen and reported many very severe cases of Kobe in pregnant women, so they are a high-risk group, and vaccinating them is the most effective way to prevent these severe cases. Thank you, Dr. Vicky Medina, for your comment. Thank you, Doctor, it's very good information because there is a lot of controversy and people who don't want to accept the vaccine. Juana Gaitán asked, "Can I get the second dose in a different place than where I went the first time?" I don't know if you mean...  Anatomical location or site in the community: if it's anatomical location, you put it in your left arm; if you can put it in your right arm, nothing will happen. But regarding the location, let's say if you go to a clinic, most likely you'll have to return to that clinic. Many clinics find it difficult to give you the second dose if you didn't receive it. Victor asks what's true about the Johnson & Johnson vaccine being tested on fetuses, and well, for me, I've never seen any concrete evidence that this is true. It's not a myth that has circulated on the internet, but there's no evidence, at least that I've seen, that this is true. The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is a virus, a common flu virus, that has been manipulated to give us the protein or genetic material that can code for the protein in food. That's all they do, as far as I know. There's no evidence of side effects. You, Dr. Jaime, no, the same. There's no evidence that that happened with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. [ Music]  I'm tired of other vaccines being non-live. Constantina asks, "I'm having strange effects with the first dose of the vaccine. I feel electricity inside my body when I get up, and I feel nauseous and anxious. Is this normal? If I get the second dose, will the discomforts go away? But I think they'll subside or continue. I think it's something very specific, and I would advise you, Constantina, to definitely see your primary care physician to try to investigate these symptoms a little more thoroughly and see if it's perhaps due to something else that you might be having these effects, and that it was just a coincidence that it happened with the vaccine. But really, my advice would be that you go see your doctor because, well, I think... Edgar, excuse me, in my case, the first dose was less than 100 percent effective, but the second dose was 100%. I have to go back for a third dose to be 100% vaccinated and protected. I think Dr. Jaime and I have a little disagreement there. I would say that I think it will be difficult to get that third dose, and I think you must already have sufficient protection."  But I think Dr. Jaime did suggest you receive that third dose. Sometimes, among me doctors, we understand each other. Basically, this is because there's no way to know how much of the first dose was administered, and with a vaccine like the COVID-19 one, you have to be careful to receive exactly what is needed. You would really have to go back to the provider and investigate to see exactly how much I think was administered. Thank you very much to everyone who has left positive comments. I think we both appreciate it very much. I think a couple of questions have come in. Angelica Espinoza asks: My mother received the Seneca vaccine and three weeks later she feels tired. Could it be because of the vaccine? It's difficult to know. I don't think fatigue so late is difficult to say. Would it be a good idea to stop the vaccine? It would be good to see her doctor. And then Constantina Perez asks: If I get the second dose of the vaccine when it's due and wait three months, will it have the same effectiveness? Well, there was a lot of discussion about this when the vaccine schedules were established. Should we encourage that period between vaccinations?  To actually improve effectiveness, we don't have the studies to make that exact determination, so I wouldn't know how to answer you. I don't know if Dr. Jaime has any other thoughts. Well, the idea is to be fully vaccinated as soon as possible. So, by waiting longer between the first and second vaccines, you're basically putting yourself at risk for a longer time. After the second dose, the protection will most likely be the same, but you haven't lost those two months. It would be unfortunate to catch the virus during those three months. Okay, it seems the questions are disappearing, and only positive comments are coming from me. And I'm very grateful to you for taking the time to be here. It's late, and you have the information to make a better decision. I hope that any information we've provided helps you make that decision, which for us is the right decision, but ultimately, you make that decision. Is Dr. Jaime having any closing remarks? Thank you very much for all the comments and the very interesting questions. The only message we want is to help you make the right decision, and we're lucky that there isn't just one  but three vaccines that work very well. So all this we're talking about is a problem, but it's a good problem to face because if we didn't have any vaccines, we'd be talking about something very different. Good doctors, thank you very much for that very thorough presentation and for your answers and comments. And to everyone who attended tonight, thank you for your time and attention. We hope you feel safe and have the information you need to schedule an appointment and get vaccinated. We know it's been a very difficult year for everyone, but brighter days are coming as more people get vaccinated and the pandemic subsides. To schedule a vaccination appointment, you can visit the MyCar website, or there are other sites as well. And if you need more information, please visit the Zelaya Vaccines website, which is also available in Spanish. You can search for Howard Bach Sting's Vaccines website as well. Well, thank you all, and have a good night. We wish you good health. Thank you.