Hello, I'm Dr. Andino. I'm a urologist who focuses on men's health. And today we're talking about vasectomy reversal. If you've had a vasectomy but now want to have kids, you're not alone. A reversal might be a good option for you. In this video, I will explain what a vasectomy reversal is, who might be a good candidate, how the surgery works, and what are the success rates, and what to expect after the surgery. A vasectomy reversal is a surgery that reconnects the tubes called the vast deference that were cut or blocked during a vasectomy. Once the tubes are fixed, sperm can travel again and be a part of the semen. This can make natural pregnancy possible. There are two main types of reversal surgery. The one we choose depends on what we see during the procedure. Vaso vesostomy or a simple reconnection. The ends of the vast deference are stitched back together. This is a simpler surgery and used when sperm is found in the fluid during surgery. But there's also something called a vasoepidostomy or a more complex reconstruction. If there's a blockage near the testicle, we have to connect the vast deference to a nearby organ called the epidmus, where sperm is stored. It's more complex, but still works well in skilled hands. About 60 to 70% of the time, sperm will return to the ejaculate. Both use a surgical microscope for accuracy and better success. You may be a good candidate if you've had a vasectomy and now want to conceive naturally. you're healthy and can safely have general anesthesia. Your partner can still get pregnant and has no known fertility issues. And for couples who want to try natural pregnancy before using options such as invitro fertilization, even if your vasectomy was 10, 20 years ago, reversal can still work. The sooner is usually better, though. Before the surgery, we'll review your health history, do a physical exam, and check hormone levels. Depending on your situation, we may also recommend a fertility evaluation for your partner. What about the procedure? It is done with general anesthesia. It takes around 3 hours. It happens in an outpatient surgery center, meaning you go home that same day. It involves small cuts or incisions in the scrotum, and most people recover quite nicely by about 2 weeks. How well it works depends on a number of things such as how long it's been since your original vasectomy and which type of reconstruction we have to do in the operating room. If it has been less than 10 years, sperm returns in more than 90% of cases done by a urologist who specialized in micro surgery. After surgery, we check your semen to see if the sperm are present. And sometimes we also collect and free sperm during the surgery. That way you have backup sperm in case you need IVF down the road. And what about after surgery? Well, you can't lift heavy things or have sex for about two weeks. There can be mild pain or swelling, which is normal, and it tends to be well managed with over-the-counter medicines and anti-inflammatories. We then check the sperm counts about 6 to 8 weeks after the surgery. And risks are low, but may include things like bleeding, low risk of infection, or new scarring that blocks the connection that was made in the operating room. Vasectomy reversal can be a great choice for men who want to become fathers again, especially when done by an expert. If you're thinking about this, come see me at UCLA, the men's clinic. We'll go over your options and help you choose what's right for you and your family. Thanks for watching. If this video helped, feel free to share it with someone else. Take care and I hope to meet you soon.