It is one of only three radiation devices like it in the world. UCLA has just added the V-Ray to its ever more sophisticated arsenal against cancer. Finally, we have a tool that we can visualize the cancer while the radiation beams on for the first time in the world. So, it's very exciting and we truly believe it's going to impact and improve the outcomes of our patients at UCLA getting radiation therapy. Traditionally, doctors use a CT scan in a so-called simulation to help plan a precise and comprehensive treatment strategy, relying on patient positioning and tiny tattoo markers on the skin to line up the radiation beam. But the Vue ray adds the most highly detailed MRI imaging live in real time to keep the radiation beam directly on target during the treatment itself. We know that tumors in normal tissue move around all the time. We need to adjust for that and this machine finally allows us to do that in real time. You can see this lung tumor outlined in red with margins in green moves when the patient is breathing. If the target moving out of our designed target area, the tumor moving out, the radiation automatically stop and until it moving back will start the treatment again. So it's a we call the gated treatment. This gated onoff treatment ensures maximum radiation to kill the tumor while sparing healthy tissue should it move into range. When the tumor is moving, Margaret Vandenbury is one of the first patients to undergo treatment with the V-ay at UCLA for pelvic cancer. It's very comforting to know that they're getting right on the spot where they're supposed to get. They can see everything that's going on in my bowel area. It's it's very relieving to know that they are right on it. I think it's uh amazing. We've already seen images that we were amazed by the quality of the images and I think it's going to change the way we uh think about how to deliver radiation and and really personalize it to to the patient's needs. That's actually the tumor. Almost half of all cancer patients receive radiation during the course of their treatment. Improving its effectiveness and reducing side effects with technologies like the Vray is the ultimate goal. I think our department has pride oursel in acquiring um the most advanced technology to benefit our patients and this is another example of us uh pushing the envelope in this way.