- At UCLA Health it begins with U. From personalized compassionate care at our 170 plus clinics throughout Southern California to our four state of the art hospitals, the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, the UCLA Mattel Children's Hospital, the Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital at UCLA, and the UCLA Medical Center Santa Monica. Everything we do from routine checkups to the most advanced procedures and life changing research is centered around the lives we touch. UCLA is ranked among the top hospitals in the nation and Los Angeles by U.S. News and World Report for nearly three decades. We are a national leader in organ transplantation, ophthalmology and cancer care. But for all this recognition, it's those we serve who push us to be even better. We're in the community providing care to more than 25,000 children and adults each year who would otherwise have no access to such care. Our UCLA doctors, dentists, nurses and students volunteer to provide free care to thousands of underserved Los Angeles residents. Our physicians and medical students serve the homeless where they shelter. Our fight against childhood obesity begins with free, innovative fitness programs to area schools. And we are proud to stand by our troops through outreach, surgical and psychcological treatment for injured service members. Our commitment to the best in health care and transformative biomedical research has improved the health and lives of people throughout the world. Our global health programs bring the healing and expertise of UCLA to children and families from South America to Southern Africa. It was UCLA researchers who helped develop the life saving breast cancer drug Herceptin, reported the world's first cases of AIDS, established the first clinical PET center, and made organ transplants a reality. The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA is internationally recognized as a leader in research, medical education, patient care and public service. As one of the most competitive programs in the country our distinguished faculty trains a diverse student body to be the best doctors of tomorrow. Above all UCLA Health is a partnership made up of some of the most innovative and dedicated people in the medical field. Each of us, no matter our role, seek to treat each and every patient as we would a member of our own family.