Hi everyone, Michael Yay here from the endocrine center. Today I'm going to talk about what type of thyroid cancer operation do you need. Now this means that if you're watching this video, you've had a biopsy and it showed thyroid cancer. Most likely it showed papillary thyroid cancer, which is the most common form of thyroid cancer. It accounts for greater than 90% of all thyroid cancers diagnosed in the world in 2024. And thankfully, it is the most slow growing form. So there are three possibilities in terms of the type of operation. One is thyroid lobectomy removal of half the thyroid gland. The other is total thyroidctomy removing both sides the entire thyroid gland. And the third is total thyroidctomy with lymph node dissection. All right. Who should get a lobectomy? Lobctomy is most suitable for patients with an intrathyroidal tumor less than 4 cm in diameter. What do I mean by intrathyroidal? It means entirely contained within the thyroid. No invasion and no metastases. And specifically, I'm talking about no lymph node metastases to nearby lymph nodes in the neck. More than half today, more than half of our patients who are diagnosed with thyroid cancer are adequately treated by lobectomy. All right, so that's probably the most common choice. Second, who needs a total thyroidctomy? First, if your tumor is greater than 4 cm in diameter. Second, if you have multiple thyroid cancers within the thyroid that can be seen on both sides, for example. The third, a relative indication is an ismas tumor. That means one that's right in the middle and often that requires a total thyroidctomy. All right. The last reason you might need a total thyroidctomy is if your surgeon when looking at the ultrasound sees that the thyroid cancer is starting to invade. Right? So getting outside the thyroid, getting into a normal nearby normal structure such as muscle, maybe even getting close to the airway or trachea, those people need a total thyroidctomy. Now you notice I just said surgeon performed ultrasound. I personally think that every patient I'm going to perform the ultrasound on all of my patients because the quality of my operation depends on it. I really have to have a three-dimensional view of everything that's going on in that person's neck. I need to know the relationship between the thyroid cancer and the nearby structures. I need to know what is going on with the lymph nodes. Why do I need to know? I don't want any surprises on the day of surgery. I want surgery to be really boring and and planned. That's what I love. All right. So, who needs a total thyroidctomy and a lymph node dissection? Well, you saw abnormal lymph nodes on the ultrasound. That could be in the central neck down here. They could be in the lateral neck here on the side. And that is a very nuanced, very subtle thing to find. Um, each year we look at thousands of lymph nodes and you get to you you figure out which ones are normal and which ones are abnormal. So we here at the Andocon Center, we do personally the surgeons, not a technician, not a radiologist. I'm sure those people are perfectly fine, but we the surgeons do all of our ultrasounds. And that way we know exactly what type of operation you need. We have the ultrasounds in every exam room. You're going to see them. We also have them in every operating room. So, when the patient goes to sleep right before the thyroid cancer operation, we remap the entire neck. We remap the entire thyroid. We remap the lymph nodes. And that's how we know the operation we perform is going to be the right operation for the patient and is going to have a durable result to keep that patient in health for many many years after that. I really depend on the ultrasound. I personally need it. I can't imagine doing trying to do thyroid cancer surgery without it because it really is a guide. I would be lost without it. So the importance once again of surgeon performed ultrasound in selecting exactly the right operation for you. Not too much surgery, not too little surgery, just right. Thanks for listening.