Hello, my name is Dr. Ariel Summer. I'm a UCLA primary care physician. We've worked closely with our hospital-based inpatient team to create this video for you. When you're hospitalized with CO 19 and you're being discharged from the hospital, there are often many questions and concerns that come up. We're going to review some of those common questions that you and your loved ones may have after discharge. Please note, I'm filming this by myself with only household members present. To start, we at UCLA Health want to acknowledge that being discharged from the hospital is often really scary for you, the person recovering from CO 19 and for your household members. We hope this video will be helpful to remove some of that fear because you'll know what to expect and who to contact for help. In this video, we're going to cover isolation guidelines, retesting after isolation, the importance of having an outpatient primary care physician after your discharge, lingering symptoms, and when to notify your doctor, how to check your oxygen and exercise your lungs, the risk of reinfection with CO 19, what you need to know about CO 19 and flu vaccines, mental and physical recovery, and where to go for more information. When you're discharged from the hospital after infection with CO 19, you may need to continue to isolate from other members of your household. To keep everybody safe, please follow these isolation guidelines as closely as you can. Pick a private room where you can stay separate from others and ideally you'll also use a private bathroom. If there is not a private bathroom, make sure to sanitize and clean the hightouch surfaces after every use. Also, everyone in the household should close the toilet seats before flushing in all the bathrooms because CO 19 infection can be found in urine and feces and may enter the air or aerosolize with flushing. You should reduce your time in common spaces. But if you need to enter these spaces, it's very important to wash your hands thoroughly for 20 seconds at least and put on a face mask that covers both your mouth and your nose. Other members of your household will also want to wear a face mask that covers their mouth and nose and also wash their hands very frequently and try to maintain at least a 6 ft distance from you at all times. Your household members may also want to wear eye protection such as goggles or a face shield. If possible, have somebody deliver you your food and beverages to outside your room and keep your plates and utensils separate. Keep dirty laundry separate as well and never shake it. You may want to wait until you're out of your isolation period so that you can do your own laundry. Throughout your isolation period, your household members will want to wash their hands very frequently. Your main caretaker should also wipe down surfaces at least twice per day and after every time you come into contact with them. You also want to clean your isolation space two times a day to reduce the viral load in this area and reduce the risk of this traveling outside your space. Please remember that while you are isolating, it's very important for all food, medicines, and other items to be delivered to your home either by a friend or a delivery service. This pertains to all members of your household as well. Before discontinuing isolation, the CDC recommends that for patients who have been hospitalized with CO 19, the following three things must be met. First, there has been no fever for at least 24 hours without the use of medications that can lower fever. Second is that symptoms are generally improving. And third, that it's been at least 10 to 20 days after your symptoms of CO 19 developed, which may be different than the date that you had a positive test. Please note that the specific isolation time depends on your unique condition. And if you have an immune compromising condition, it may be longer. Your inpatient doctor will likely tell you the time in which you have to remain isolated, but you can also discuss this with your outpatient doctor. In addition to the isolation period for you, the person who is recovering from CO 19, your household members should also quarantine for at least 10 days after your isolation period ends. This helps prevent spreading of CO 19 virus to people outside the household. Once you have been cleared to come out of isolation, you do not need another CO 19 test to rejoin your household, go to work, or otherwise be considered non-infectious. We do not recommend retesting because it is possible that dead virus still remains in the nose or saliva up to 3 months after infection. Luckily, studies have not shown that recovered people have transmitted infection to household members or others even if their test remains positive. However, there may be exceptions to this rule if you have an immune compromising condition. So, please discuss this with your outpatient provider who may consult an infectious disease specialist. Once you are discharged from the hospital, your inpatient hospital doctors transfer your care to their outpatient colleagues. It is extremely important that you have an outpatient provider, either your primary care doctor or a member of our UCLA COVID ambulatory monitoring team. This doctor will help answer questions, provide resources and referrals, and help you on your road to recovery, as well as provide medical guidance should you hit any bumps in the road. If you are sent home from the hospital with oxygen, you may need to monitor your oxygen levels at home. In order to do this using a pulse oximter, please do the following. First, warm up your fingers. Second, remove any nail polish that may be on there as this can interfere with the measurement. You'll want to make sure that you're sitting still and then place the pulse oximter on your index finger like such. Wait 30 seconds. measure and then record. A normal oxygen reading is 95 to 100%. But for those who have been discharged, especially with oxygen therapy, a level greater than 90% is generally considered acceptable. However, this is highly individualized and you should discuss this with your outpatient doctor. Please note that these values of over 90% only apply to those who have been discharged with CO 19 and not to those who are currently suffering from their infection. You should also create a log of your oxygen levels every day and review this with your physician at your follow-up. To keep your lungs active, you may want to use an incentive spometer. Try to get the marker as high as you can, keeping track of your progress as you go. If you do not have an incentive spometer, that's totally fine. You can use breathing exercises instead. You'll want to take a big deep breath in for up to 4 seconds and then a long breath out for 7 seconds. Try to use purse lips like this. Please keep track and try and do these at least 10 times an hour while you are awake. Patients who are hospitalized with CO 19 may experience the following symptoms from anywhere from a couple of weeks to a few months after discharge. fatigue, which is often really severe. People who have been hospitalized or critically ill often develop muscle weakness. This is normal and we see this all the time in our hospital and ICU survivors. Regardless of the cause, you will continue to get stronger with time. To help, you may need some physical or occupational therapy or just a slow and steady gradual exercise routine. You should discuss this with your outpatient doctor and don't push yourself too hard without first discussing it with a licensed professional. Mental foggess, depression, anxiety, or insomnia are also really common. You have been through a lot physically and mentally. A therapist, psychiatrist, or neurologist may be part of your outpatient recovery team. Your outpatient provider may also discuss with you a number of other resources we have for patients recovering. Mental recovery from this illness is just as important as physical. Shortness of breath is also really common when recovering from CO 19. Your lungs were really inflamed from this infection and even small activities such as getting up to go to the bathroom or washing dishes may cause you to feel out of breath. Some people may even need to use oxygen at home for a period of time, but most are able to come off of this in a couple of weeks. A small subset of people may also develop arthritis, often of the smaller joints, or have continued sinus congestion or headaches or muscle aches. You can use over-the-counter pain medicines such as acetaminophen or non-steroidals like ibuprofen or neproxin. Please discuss these symptoms and any other ones that you might be having with your primary care provider. Some individuals may experience a coming and going of symptoms that are a lesser version of their original COVID 19 infection. We don't fully understand this yet, but we generally see people improving over the next few months. You should discuss all of these symptoms with your primary care provider while you are recovering. If you experience the following, please call your outpatient provider right away or if it feels like an emergency, call 911. New or worsening of your shortness of breath, oxygen levels less than 90%. Please note that if you have oxygen at home, this means with the prescribed oxygen you are using, new or worsening chest pain, new or worsening leg swelling, new neurologic symptoms such as loss of sensation in one area of your body, or difficulty moving muscles in a certain area. If there are any sudden neurologic changes, call 911. We think there is a low chance of reinfection with CO 19 for at least 3 months after your infection. However, with new viral varants and strains, this could change. The fundamentals of our protection against CO 19, handashing, a mask that covers both your nose and your mouth, and physical distancing continue to remain the most important thing you can do to protect yourself and your family members. Because your immunity may fade over time, we recommend that people get the CO 19 vaccination as soon as they are able. Given your protection against COVID 19 should last about 3 months after infection, it's reasonable to delay vaccination for up to 90 days. Each individual circumstance is unique, so please discuss this with your primary care doctor. Everyone who has not already been vaccinated against flu this year should get one as soon as they recovered from CO 19. This will often mean before you leave the hospital. Getting your flu shot is critical because your lungs are really fragile after a COVID infection and getting the flu could be quite dangerous. We recommend getting your flu shot at least 2 weeks before you get any COVID vaccination. To close, we want to focus on the great mental and physical toll that this illness has probably had on you and your loved ones. Being hospitalized under any circumstances is both psychologically and physically incredibly difficult. CO 19 adds to this fear of unknown, fear of spreading the infection to those who you love, loss of loved ones, social stigma, loss of jobs or wages, and so much more. Anxiety, post-traumatic stress, depression, sadness, fear are not only coming from your experiences with this illness, but from the landscape of this very difficult time in our history. The physical toll that this has taken on your body also has a mental one. We understand this and we really feel for what you have been through. While we do not know everything about the CO 19 virus, we as health care providers are pretty comfortable working in uncertain circumstances and we are here to help you get better step by step. We encourage you to work closely with your outpatient doctor to discuss these or any other fears or thoughts that you are having so that they can get you the mental and physical care that you need. If you're looking for more information, please see our frequently asked questions websites. And if you need a primary care physician, please use to find somebody most local to you.