Good afternoon. I think I think we'll get started. Uh I I'm Dave Rubin. I'm a geriatrician and uh as a geriatrician I care for only older people. Uh my oldest patient uh is almost 101. Uh and my youngest what I call my pediatric patients is in her late 60s. So just a child. And uh if you're going to care for older people as a as a geriatrician, you're going to have a lot of patients who have Alzheimer's and other dementias. So, here at UCLA, we're we're trying to do something very different. Uh, and I'll explain a little bit more about this towards the end of the talk, but we're trying to provide comprehensive coordinated care. So, it's it's not just about the patient, it's not just about the disease, it's about the experience of the entire family and and going through this journey. Uh, so as part of this, uh, we're having a lecture series and this is one of of a number that'll be repeating. uh and that will be ongoing with some replacements and some new ones. Uh and this is kind of the overview lecture. So we're going to talk about what is dementia and we're delighted that you could come today. So it's going to what we're going to cover here is first of all what is dementia and what is not dementia because there's a lot of things that that people think might be dementia but really aren't. How do you make the diagnosis and what are the different causes? So something that patients sometimes even students frequently ask me is you know is it Alzheimer's disease or is it dementia and we'll talk about those kind of differences and and what's the umbrella and what's the underneath the umbrella what are the natural history of uh and consequences of dementia then we'll talk about kind of the management of dementia we'll have time for questions so I like to call dementia the gray plague. Uh, pardon me. Yes. Because of the gray. Yes. Because as we get gray, as we get gray, we have much more likelihood of getting dementia. Now, everybody has probably heard of some patients who are in their 40s and early 50s and such that have very early onset dementia. And those are very rare. They they do happen and they're very rare and they tend to be tend tend to be familial but um they are um they are rare more commonly are the other variety of dementia that are age associated. So here we have if you're 65 to 75 years of age dementia is still an uncommon disease still quite an uncommon disease. As we get older, our likelihood of having dementia is is increased. So that by the time people are in their 90s, virtually half. So if you have a couple that's both in their 90s, the odds are that one of them will probably have dementia. And the other thing that tells us is that none of us, and this is what I tell the students all the time, even the the students who were college students, is that dementia and Alzheimer's disease in 2012 affects everybody. And if it's not you or your loved one, it's your parent, your spouse, your cousin, your father, your grandparent, somebody you know is going to be affected by this disease. It's that common. Right now, 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease, which is one kind of dementia. And over the next 10 to 15 years, that's expected to increase to about 13 uh million. So this is something that's really growing in the numbers of people who have this disease. So what is dementia? Dementia, and this is the definition that doctors use for diagnosing dementia. This is right out of the textbook and I'm going to explain it to you. It's an a chronic acquired decline in memory and at least one other cognitive function. So memory is a part it's one of the hallmark features of dementia. So somebody's behaving beh bizarrely or this or that and they don't have memory problems it it probably isn't dementia. Uh the other things they they have uh is aphasia and that's uh that's difficulty with communication. We commonly see this and people have less language or empty speech. You know, they'll be very fluent in talking with you, but if you were to transcribe it, there's really not much content or they can't remember uh simple names. Uh we'll get to that in a few moments. um araxia, that's motor recognition, a motor execution. And these are things that normal task that used to be able to do but they can no longer do. Uh agnosia, not recognizing things that they would normally recognize as their work. I was just uh reading a book where uh somebody didn't uh patient uh didn't even recognize their own children. And sometimes you see that and then executive function. This is synthesis. Uh the what we do in our daily lives, the tasks that we do in our daily lives require synthesis of data from a lot of different things. What we're hearing, what we're seeing, what we're reading, what's going on outside, what the environment is like, how hot it is, and being able to integrate all of that together to complete our tasks. And this has to be sufficient to interfere with daily life. So it has to get in the way. So you can have a lot of these things very mildly. If they don't get in the way, it's probably not dementia. And sometimes I will tell patients, and we'll talk about this in just a couple minutes, is that, you know, there's a good chance that you may be developing dementia, but you don't have dementia yet. So things that aren't dementia, one is something we call delirium, which is also called an acute confusional state. And this happens very frequently, especially in the hospital. Not only in the hospital, but can happen when people get really sick from other conditions, but usually in the hospital. And it is frequently caused by medications or acute illnesses such as an ammonia uh or other kinds of infection and it usually resolves uh and many cases are probably preventable. So let me tell you a little bit more about this. Let me give you a classic example. Classic example is a patient gets sick, has a bladder infection or pneumonia, and you go into the hospital to visit your loved one and they're confused and they're swatting at things and they're picking at things. They don't know where they are or after they've had surgery, they get very, very confused. That is what we call delirium. Delirium is really scary. If you've ever seen, especially in someone that you love, it's a very scary uh condition. But the good news is that delirium generally resolves. Now those people who develop delirium there's some controversy that might be a higher risk of for developing dementia in the future but the delirious case is is is something that tends to resolve depression. Sometimes depression looks a lot like dementia. There's a lot of sadness and and people are kind of withdrawn and they may have anxiety and they have poor concentration and they not thinking very well. they just don't seem to be themselves. Uh they may complain that they can't focus or they can't that their memory isn't good. And on the other hand, uh when you do formal testing of them that in fact they do pretty well on the testing and particularly uh if somebody's orientation is intact, if they know where they are, they know what date it is, uh if they uh those kinds of things are tip offs. Now, let me just say this is a little bit uh gets a little complicated is that sometimes people who have Alzheimer's disease will present with symptoms that look a lot like dementia, like depression, excuse me, a lot like depression. But depression can look like dementia and not be dementia. A third one thing that looks like dementia that is really very important and this is something that there's a lot more literature about now is something called mild cognitive impairment. Okay, mild cognitive impairment patients will frequently complain of memory and when we do testing on them in fact they have memory deficits. They have memory deficits, but they're not sufficient to impair with their daily function. So, the interesting thing about mild cognitive impairment, and this is kind of a a pretty new diagnosis. We've just been dealing with this for the past decade or so, is that it may or may not represent a transition state for any person to dementia. So you go from having normal cognitive function to mild cognitive impairment to dementia. Three stages there. Now the tricky thing about mild cognitive impairment is that each year somebody has mild cognitive impairment about 10 to 15% of them will progress onto dementia. So after about five years about half progressed and about half haven't. So, what I'll tell uh patients and their family is that, you know, there is something going on here. Uh we don't we can't say that it is dementia yet, but we're going to have to monitor you pretty closely and see what happens. And I tell them frankly that, you know, there's about A-50/50 chance that this could progress to dementia. It's also important because at the present, we don't have any any medications for mod cognitive impairment. So if you knew you had A-50-50 chance of to progressing, you'd like to do something to to prevent that and we just don't have anything at this point for that. Do you want us to hold questions? Yeah, why don't we hold the questions till the end and then we we we can we should have plenty of time. So the last one that is not dementia is normal aging. So normal aging is uh frequently when the patient is more concerned than the family. Uh generally uh when uh patients present with dementia a lot of times the patients families will tell me that they're very concerned. Um if somebody can describe the details of their forgetfulness. So for example if you say if a patient comes to me and says you know I'm really worried about my memory and my wife told me to go to the grocery store and she wanted me to buy three things. She wanted me to buy tomatoes. She wanted me to buy bananas. She wanted me to buy toilet paper and she wanted me to buy uh shaving cream and I only remembered three of those. That is not that's normal aging. That's normal aging. And people who have normal aging have intact recent memory for important events. So if uh if there was an earthquake last week or a heat spell or something like that that was really important that it was on everybody's lips, you remember those things. But word finding difficulties are part of this tip of the tongue. Tip of the tongue, you know, I I gez, it's on the tip of my tongue. I I just can't get it out. That is normal aging. And one way to think about this is that people with normal aging do really well on multiple to uh multiple choice questions. If you give them three or four things, they'll always get the answer right, no problem. And I know I'm not that I'm not that old. Uh I'm older than I look, but when I travel frequently uh and do and get some jet lag and things like that, I have woring difficulties. And normal aging, once again, with normal aging, function is preserved. Okay, still able to do the things. So how do we make the diagnosis? The first thing we do is we do some screening test and this is generally done uh by the primary care physician sometimes in in uh even at senior centers. And these are very uh simple tests. Uh one of the ones that we use very commonly is a three item recall. So I'm going to ask you to remember three items for me. A ball, a flag, and a tree. Can you repeat those? Okay. And I want to make sure that you've got them so we make sure that you really register. So repeat them again for me. Okay. So I'm going to ask you about them in a few minutes. So don't forget them. The mini cog exam does the same thing, a three item recall, but adds a clock as well. and draw being able to to draw a clock actually is a very interesting and a very complicated task. If you think what it takes to draw a clock, a lot of the things that happen when people get demented make it impossible for them to do so. So they have to have good visual spatial stuff. They have to be able to construct remember that araxia we were talking about the motor skills and they have to have executive function functioning. They have to be able to plan where the numbers go. So when we ask people to draw a clock, sometimes they they get into trouble because they don't adequately plan where the numbers are go. So you'll see 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12. Uhoh, we got all this space here with nothing. Or they uh on Monday, I was seeing a patient uh who who probably has some early dementia and she she drew a clock for me and had 16 numbers. She just kept going. So generally in that upper quadrant uh between nine o'clock and and 12 o'clock because of poor planning, poor executive function they they get into trouble. So what are those three items? All right. See, so no dementia here. So that's the three item recall and that is also the mini cog examination. Another one is called the mini mental state examination and that's a 30 item battery that that goes through some of these things in in greater detail. uh in addition to the memory and in addition to in that case it draw drawing uh uh pentagons it asks for serial taking say away serial 7s 100 - 7 is 93 minus 7 is 86 dot dot dot dot and it also has a lot of orientation questions what's the name of this place what floor are we on what city what county what state and these are are screening tests what these do for us as docs is raise the suspicion that something is wrong here. Now, these tests are actually pretty accurate at saying that there's something wrong, but they don't make the diagnosis. To make the diagnosis of dementia, you have to go on to the next step. So, the next step is a clinician's examination. And uh that can be uh from a uh general internist or a geriatrician or a neurologist or psychiatrist who uh takes does a physical examination does more in-depth mental status examination determines what the functional status etc. One of the things uh as a as a clinician who's pretty seasoned at this I would say that about 90% of the time I can make the diagnosis in my office. about 90% of the time I can tell if somebody has dementia or not. That other 10% 10 to 20% there's something called neuroscychological testing which Dr. Linda Urkeley who just walked in leads the neuroscychological pro uh program here. Um, and what uh the neuroscychological testing are those kinds of tests we just talked about, but instead of being 10 to 15 minutes of testing, they're generally several hours and really are very good at at detecting where the deficits are. And frequently, I find these exceptionally valuable as a clinician because they tell people what they can do and what they can't do because of their deficits. So they tend to be very valuable in establishing the diagnosis and determining where the deficits are. We also do some blood tests and some imaging tests to uh exclude medical conditions that might be contributing. So things like low thyroid, sometimes vitamin deficiencies can be contributors to cognitive impairment. They're not causes of dementia per se, but they can be things that look like dementia. And finally, imaging. So imaging, we're talking about certain kinds of X-ray tests. And it turns out that uh if I was giving this talk a decade ago, it would be very simple. We didn't have much in the way of imaging. But now we have CT scans and we have MRI scans and we have uh PET scans and we have spec scans. We have all these different kinds of tests and they all do a little bit differently and depending upon kind of what the spe suspicion is for the type of of dementia those tests are are generally done. So they're done for two reasons. One reason is to exclude things that can cause picture that looks like dementia. So for example, sometimes you'll have a and it's rare a tumor that can cause can cause symptoms that look like depression or something called normal pressure hydrophilis which is a rare condition but can cause symptoms that look like dementia. The other tests, some of the more recent tests like the PET scanner can actually tell you where where the problem is and frequently uh people feel pretty comfortable making the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease depending upon where these PET scans light up. Now with these these imaging studies, the advanced imaging studies such as the PET scanners, there are certain criteria under which Medicare will co cover them and certain ones that they won't. So you have to talk with your doctor about that. But the other ones, the MRI tests and the other tests are mostly covered by by Medicare. So what are the causes of dementia? So what I tell patients is the the big umbrella is dementia. So, and that's that definition we talked about earlier, that acquired progressive uh deficit of memory and other uh cognitive functions. The most common is Alzheimer's disease and it's estimated that uh 60 to 80% is Alzheimer's disease and the second most common is vascular dementia. And by vascular dementia, it's it's really a very complicated uh uh number of conditions. So vascular dementia can be one or more large strokes that people have or sometimes they're very many many many many very very small strokes. We all think about strokes as leaving you weakness or slurred speech or those kinds of things. But in fact the very small strokes that you have may not show any of those motor problems but may just affect memory. There are is a feature called dementia with uh condition called dementia with louisi bodies and that is closely related and may or may not be the same disorder or ends of a spectrum of Parkinson's disease uh with dementia. And this these are each of these dementias have a little bit of a different flavor to them. With de dementia uh with Louis bodies, people tend to have fluctuating mental status. They tend to have very prominent visual uh associations with it. So for example, a lot of my patients who've had this disease will complain of seeing red men or blue men and they're not necessarily scary. they they will have these kind of visual types of disturbances. Uh these also tend to be very sensitive to certain medications uh that uh that do do not agree with these this diagnosis. Frontal temporal dementia is uh another kind of dementia that's presents a little differently. It doesn't have quite so much memory problems although there are have to be memory problems but it the big issue here tends to be changes in personality. People tend to be very aggressive uh or in contrast sometimes people who are uh uh develop this disease become much more passive. I had a patient a number of years ago. It was a very very sad case of a woman who had um frontal temporal dementia and she was she just didn't she was very withdrawn didn't speak a lot and and I I talked to her daughter and I said well you know this is just a terrible disease but one of the things that that if there's any consolation that your mom is very sweet she's not aggressive and like that and the woman burst out in tears she just started crying she said, "My mother was never sweet." She said, "Yeah." So, this change in personality, uh, toxic metabolic disorders, uh, those are generally not dementias per se, although they occasionally can be and they tend to be some of the rarer dementias and other movement disorders. Those are generally with Parkinson's disease. Now, if you add these up, guess what? They're more than 100%. And the reason why they're more than 100% is that sometimes these different causes of dementia more than one can occur in the same person. And in particular, vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease uh frequently occur in the same patient. So we have a name for this. We call it mixed dementia. So, let's talk about Alzheimer's disease because it's it's the most common and things that increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. As we said earlier, the older you are, the more likely your chances are are of developing this disease. Family history. So family history, this is something that comes up all the time in my practice, is that a patient uh develops Alzheimer's disease and has a terrible course with it and the family members will say, geez uh is this the children particularly, is this what's going to happen to me? And in fact, the family history of Alzheimer's disease is not all that strong unless it's early onset Alzheimer's disease. uh if somebody develops Alzheimer's disease in their 40s or early 50s, you know, then you tend to see that really strong family history, but the f there it is a familial but it's not that that strong in um in older people. There is a gene called APOE4 uh that's not commercially available. It's done mostly in research that gives you uh that puts people at a higher risk. people who develop depression in late life uh are at higher risk. And this is really very interesting because that depression that they develop in in late life may in fact be uh early Alzheimer's disease. Uh let me give you an example of a person who's a neighbor of mine who I saw was referred to me because of a um of a positive PET scan. She was in a research study. She had a positive PET scan that that showed that she had Alzheimer's disease. And I examined her and this was very very very early Alzheimer's disease. And from my examination and I was putting on my best examination, she looked like she had depression and I couldn't detect any cognitive impairment. So that those patients may actually have early Alzheimer's disease. Some factors that reduce risk if you have this gene profile of apo E2 uh is reduces your risk. Uh Mediterranean diet and higher physical activity uh lead to reduced risk. Uh there haven't been strong studies saying that if you actually intervene and put people on Mediterranean diets or get them to exercise, it will prevent the development. But in large studies looking at populations, these are less likely. So this is a a very very very simple slide to try to explain at least one of the leading hypothesis of leading uh theories about why people develop Alzheimer's disease. Let me just say and I was reading about this in boning up for this talk today is that there are a lot of different theories about why people develop Alzheimer's disease and there's still a fair amount of uncertainty. In fact, there's a lot of uncertainty. But one of the theories is that this is a protein here which is called the A or they call amaloid precursor protein that all of us have. And this amaloid precursor protein for some reason or another gets snipped and gets snipped and a piece get cut out. It gets snipped right there and then begins to accumulate. And that accumulates as what they call uh amaloid plaques. And those uh amaloid plaques build up and uh can cause a couple of things. It can c lead to cell death uh or it can get interfere with the process of neurotransmission. So the way our brains work, all of our brains work, is chemicals. And one of the chemicals that is really very important is something called acetylcholine. It's a neurotransmitter. It's it's like the electricity that goes into the brain. It's one of many. And um that is one of the ways in which we treat dementia is with with drugs that try to increase acetylcholine. So the consequences of these beta amaloid accumulation are something called neuropibrillary tangles. And here instead of having nice clean cells that one cell touches the other cell, what you get is kind of this scarring kind of picture with tangles and they look like a almost like a spiderweb. And the cells stop talking to each other. uh with a loss of neurotransmitter as I mentioned and sometimes in this disease or one of the other ways that we're treating it is that the wrong transmitter which is called glutamate causes further injury to cells. Now, let me just say that these are only a couple of of ways in which cells are are damaged and and some of a couple of the ways in which the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. And the reason why I mention these two in particular is because the current treatments are for the most part aimed at these correcting these deficits. But I'll also say that there are other theories. There are other theories and there are some problems with these theories. So from a clinical perspective, the kinds of things that we see with patients with Alzheimer's disease is loss of memory. That is the hallmark of this disease, loss of language. And one of the things I I frequently will do is something called an animal naming test. Animal naming test goes like this. I send I'm going to send you to the the zoo or a farm or jungle and I just want you to start naming animals. they start naming them. So they'll say, you know, a dog, a cow, giraffe, an elephant, pig, and you know, normally if somebody can uh identify about 18 animals in a minute, that's that's pretty pretty much normal. Once you get below 10, it it's pretty clearly abnormal. And what you tend to see with patients with Alzheimer's disease is they tend to recycle these animals. So they'll say a dog, a cow, a fish, an elephant, a cow, a dog, because they don't have that language. They've lost the language. Visual spatial, we've already done this when we talked about the clock or the intersecting pentagons. Uh one thing to mention and this is where neuroscychological testing really comes uh into play is that many of our patients at least many of my patients are people who are very highly educated. A number of years ago I had a patient who was a college president. So this person's IQ was exceptionally high and did very well in some of these basic questions. So what you have to dial it up and there's uh with with the drawing stuff you can get very very complicated. There's some very difficult tasks higher level the executive functioning types of tasks. Remember we talked about the planning of the clock. But another one is I'll simply ask people I'm going to send you to the grocery store and I'm going to ask you to make change for me. Want you buy some bread for me. Bread 75 cents a loaf. I want you to buy two loaves for me. It's I'm going to give you $2. How much change you get back? Okay. kind of a simple grocery store, but you have to manipulate information to be able to do that. And finally, we talked about apathy. Apathy is incredibly important in Alzheimer's disease. It's not universal, but many times you'll you'll see this kind of apathy. So last year um the um Alzheimer's Association with the federal government redefined how we think about Alzheimer's disease and put it into three categories. Preclinical. So this is uh it's felt and there's some pretty interesting data particularly from a study that was done I think in Iceland where they took a look at people who um had very early onset dementia those kind of familial people and that they could find some changes in the biochemistry and the chemicals there and sometimes in the structure you know decades beforehand decades beforehand. So that there is a period of time when people are functioning very very well. They don't even have mild cognitive impairment and the feeling is that some of the underlying changes in the chemicals of the brain and in the structure of the brain have already been occurring. The second level is MCI and we talked about mild cognitive impairment and uh these are people who have demonstrable physical findings, memory findings but has not impered yet with function and the third level is people who have full-blown Alzheimer's disease. Now the trend now is towards identifying biomarkers and biomarkers can help in the preclinical stages to see if we can get earlier treatment to prevent this disease and this is uh mostly in clinical studies and trials. uh it's not ready for clinical usage and an MCI these biomarkers may say that remember we said 5050 might be able to help identify which 50% are going to progress to really having Alzheimer's disease and which 50% are not going to progress and then for those people who have what looks like Alzheimer's disease that the biomarkers may be helpful in saying geez no this isn't Alzheimer's disease it's something else. So that's that's where the field is going. So what happens here with Alzheimer's disease? The first is the disease progress. The dis these uh universally progress and it progresses on a on the many mental state examination on the average of about three to four points per year. That's a 30 item scale. So over about a 10-year period, and this is pretty common, over about a 10-year period, you go from uh being where where you were to really having uh essentially no cognitive function. Essentially no cognitive function. Uh now, let me just say this is incredibly variable. I've had patients who have declined very rapidly over a year to two years with Alzheimer's disease and I've had patients 15 16 years down the road and and their disease has not progressed. But thinking about it as kind of an 8 to 10 year horizon. So this is a longhaul disease. This is a long course disease and we're going to talk about that in a few moments. Now that's that's one of the devastating components of it. The other are the are the other symptoms that are associated with this. Um and by psychotic symptoms uh sometimes uh these can be uh hallucinations or um or um marked disorientation or uh seeing things that experience things that other people don't. It's in a minority but occasionally we do see that. Depressive symptoms are quite common. And agitation or aggression. This is something that's almost uh almost universal at some time where people will get agitated. Uh they'll also get very suspicious. Some of the kinds of things that you tend to hear about. In fact, the two most common uh are that um people are stealing from them. People are you know accused people of stealing especially caregivers. And sometimes the caregivers are stealing but most of the time it's it's it's the disease. And the other is infidelity. So, you know, you have this this person who is has dementia and and the caregiver is this very frail older person and she says, "There she is. She's running all around on me." And that's that's just a very common uh non-cognitive behavioral symptom. Survival is about 9 to 12 years. And Alzheimer's disease of the other diseases of of different causes tends to have the best survival because the other ones are generally associated with other problems. For example, vascular dementia. Those people have bad blood vessels not only in the brain but in the heart and in the vessels of the legs and such. People who have uh louisibody dementia or dementia with Parkinson's disease uh generally the Parkinson's disease is the thing that that really uh gets them into bigger trouble. So uh management falls into two categories. First is managing the disease and the second is managing the patient and both are important. Both are important. Managing the disease uh we'll talk about the colonsterase inhibitors and meantine. Uh those are the only two classes of drugs that are available right now other than in clinical trials. And we'll talk a lot about managing the patient and that's managing the other diseases they have, caregiver support, which is probably the most important thing I'm going to talk about. Some behavioral therapies and pharmacological management of complications. We have to mention that at least briefly, although it's not our top choice. And then something that's exceptionally important is advanced planning managing the disease. Uh the colonsterase inhibitors uh there are three out on the market now. Aerosept, razidine and exalon are the um are the trade names. Um and the the generic names are are there um in uh in regular font. They not only benefit uh Alzheimer's disease, they have some effect in Louis body dementia. Uh whether they're effective in vascular dementia is still pretty controversial, but many of the patients with vascular dementia have mixed dementia and they seem to be uh uh helpful in dementia of Parkinson's disease. But as I alluded to earlier, and this is really important, is that these drugs do not prevent the progression of mild cognitive impairment to uh to Alzheimer's disease. That's been studied a number of times now, and they just don't work at that level. Now, these drugs are not home run drugs. They just aren't home run drugs. And what I like to tell my patients and their families is that if this is the slope of the decline of patients with Alzheimer's disease, what these drugs may do is to slow the slope. So instead of being quite so rapid, it's it's it's takes longer. About 50% of patients, it tends to work in terms of slowing progression. and about 10 to 25% and I've seen this a few times and sometimes it's really valuable patients actually improve on these drugs uh those people are are quite lucky and then conversely about another quarter or so there's no response to them whatsoever they just don't help at all. There's some evidence that suggests that some of the behavioral symptoms may improve. uh that's not quite as consistent the uh the data and some people decline rapidly when the uh when the drug is discontinued and that's sometimes how we find out that the drug has been working is that it doesn't seem to be working, it doesn't seem to be working. So we give it a trial off the drug and you find the patient declines uh pretty dramatically start the drug back. Mementine um in contrast to the colon eststerase inhibitors is really reserved only for people who have pretty severe dementia. It's not really for early dementia and it works differently. The acetyl colon the colonsterase drugs cause more acetylcholine that's that neurotransmitter that got depleted. What meantine does it's it's very interesting. It protects brain cells from damage from glutamate. as that other transmitter that that can be toxic. And what this does is slows the rate of cognitive and um functional decline and frequently it will improve behavioral symptoms. Uh that tends to be a little bit more of its niche but not entirely 100%. The FDA approves this only for moderate to severe uh Alzheimer's disease whereas the colon eststerase inhibitors are improve approved for mild, moderate and severe. Now what happens if you add the two and here the data are pretty controversial. uh some studies have shown better outcomes than either one alone but some more recent studies have shown that the addition of the meantine to the colon eststerase inhibitor may not have that much benefit as a clinician I'm willing to try both and see if if it helps in latestage dementia uh but at some point for all of these drugs there reaches a point when people are very very late in their disease we don't think it's benefiting them that much and it's time to do a trial off the medicine. So, these are things that don't work. These are things that have been uh thought of and got some headlines in the New York Times and such. And when you test them further, they don't do so well. So, none of the vitamins B6, B12, vitamin E or folate, uh none of they've all been tried and none of them have worked very well. uh GKO there was a lot of press about this about a decade ago and when they the first study showed a lot of benefit and then they tried to repeat that replicate the findings couldn't do it. None of the hormones testosterone estrogen they originally thought was going to help cognition and now they think it may actually make it worse. The statins these are the drugs like Lipur that we take frequently for uh high cholesterol and heart disease prevention. uh they thought that they might work for uh for Alzheimer's disease prevention not so uh aspirin and um other drugs like aspirin ibuprofen motrin Advil those kinds of things um uh do not prevent Alzheimer's disease or treat it and finally vaccines and there's been some interesting uh studies with vaccines initially uh that were quite promising in mice and then when they did them in in in humans uh a couple of things happened. One, uh, these were very early studies, uh, so not a whole lot of people, but they found that some of the, um, the changes, the biochemical changes that you would see and some of the debris that's collected in the brain of Alzheimer's disease was less. So, it actually did what it was supposed to do, these vaccines. However, the cognition didn't change. So, it did it it fixed the the in the pathway, but it didn't fix the memory problem. and then there were some complications. So, it never made it to prime time. It never was released. There's still work going on with vaccines and and maybe something we'll see in the next decade or so. So, the rest of the stuff is managing the patient. Uh and this is a lifelong disease. This is not like having uh a disease that's going to last a week, a month, a year. Generally, this is a longhaul disease. And I like to tell patients and families, you play the ball where it lies. Okay? And what I mean by this is if it's early in the disease, I like to get the patient involved making helping making decisions. If it's late in the disease, then we have to work and and uh and decide what the patient others have to help decide what the patient would want. Uh we always aim for the highest level of independence that works for everyone. And my strong uh belief is that Alzheimer's is not a disease of the patient. Uh Alzheimer's and dementia, Alzheimer's disease and dementias are diseases of the family because everybody is in this. Uh and it's got to work for everyone. It's got to work for everyone because if the caregivers get burned out, it doesn't really help the patients. It just doesn't. Managing hot button items such as driving. This is something that as a physician I'm required to report patients who have dementia and are driving. I've had some patients at my throat actually with our hands around my neck uh threatening me uh because I was going to report them and I just I just say you know this is my job I as a doctor I have to do this uh managing other diseases um and then managing the symptoms. We'll talk about that in just a moment. Caregivers. Caregivers are the most important resource that a demented patient has much more important than certainly than the doctors. Over 50% of caregivers develop depression. This is a tough disease. And this is why I say it's not only the patient, it's the patient and the families. The more knowledgeable and more empowered the caregiver is, the better care the patient will receive. And there are specific caregiver training programs uh offered by the Alzheimer's Association and other community partners that we can help uh steer people to. Uh in fact, we're going to be offering uh one here at UCLA uh beginning next month. Yeah. Um and the care there are many caregiver resources that are available through the Alzheimer's Association. other community resources. We here at UCLA have a Beyond Alzheimer's support groups that meet here in Westwood on Monday evenings and in Santa Monica on um Thursday evenings. And these are free of charge and Linda leads co-leads one of them um and uh Patty Davis uh President Reagan's daughter uh co-leads them at both uh at both locations. They are free of charge. managing behavioral and psychological complications. This is the agitation, the aggression, the paranoia, those kinds of things. And uh our preference is to do that with with behavioral approaches, identifying what the behavior is and how to respond to it. So if people keep asking the same questions over and over again, you getting you're getting annoyed because they don't listen, they don't seem to listen. How do you deal with that? If people are wandering, how you deal with that? Those if they're getting aggressive, if you're trying to bathe a person and they start scratching at you and stuff like that, how to deal that? The answer is generally not medicine. Occasionally, we will need medicines, sometimes depression, anti-depressants. It turns out that the anti-depressants don't work as well in patients with dementia as they do in patients without dementia. uh they may help with some symptoms such as problems with sleep or problems with appetite but they don't work quite as well and then there's a whole class of drugs called antiscychotics and uh respardone quitapene or lanzipene are are the uh generic names but you may have heard them as cerakquil or cyprea or or respol and there's a number of these that are out there and and the bottom line is they're they're not very effective in big studies when you compare people, they're they tend not to be very effective and they also have the potential for side effects. Uh they can cause um increased risk of dying from either stroke or heart attack about three or 4% higher risk. Uh they can cause issues of some other cardiac uh conduction problems. But that said that said for some patients there is some benefit. And I'll have to just tell you that I've had some patients that a small dose of one of these medicines means that the patient isn't firing the caregivers. It means that the person can still stay at home. So we use these judiciously. We try not to use them as much as possible, but in some cases they're helpful. Advanced planning. So if the uh dementia is early or if it's mild cognitive impairment, we always try to get the patient involved in the decision- making. Uh the first thing is very important is to establish a surrogate. So if the person's disease progresses and they're no longer able to make decisions for themsel, who do they want to make those decisions to identify that person? Because as we all know sometimes you know you've got a big family not everybody in the family sees things the same way. So the person needs to identify who the right person to speak to. Beginning financial plannings early and anticipating long-term care needs. Once again you're you're talking about a disease that on average is you know 8 to 10 years. And if you're going to need caregivers how long is how long are you going to have those kind of resources or do you have those kind of resources? uh one of my patients who has vascular dementia with a lot of complications. She's just been really difficult uh to manage her uh she has 24-hour caregivers and she's going to a daycare program and all of this and and her son says I've got I got four years this that's how much I can afford four years of this kind of care and then we're going to have to think about something different. So that kind of planning ahead is really important. A couple of milestones. These are milestones I tell my patients, families, is these are these are things when bridges have been crossed that are are telling you that things are closer to the end. The first is when they stop walking. When somebody stops walking who has Alzheimer's disease or another dementia, you realize it's probably getting pretty close to the end. And when they stop eating, then it tends to be very close to the end. We in our practice do not offer G tubes, you know, feeding tubes for people with dementia. Most of the data, and it's not perfect studies, but the data seem to suggest that that doesn't improve the quality of life and doesn't prolong the life for very long either. So, we just generally don't offer them. There are some hope on the horizon. There are variety of different treatments and prevention strategies in the pipeline. Um, the optimal care is probably going to be multimodal. some medications, a lot of behavioral stuff, and it's likely to be there's some false starts and some unfulfilled promises. There have been a number of very promising drugs that have been tested and they've gotten to these clinical trials, and thus far they've pretty much all bombed out. Uh, every summer, uh, around July or the national Alzheimer's, international Alzheimer's disease meetings, and it always hits the news about the drugs that just aren't going to make it. So, I just want to spend the last couple of minutes, and I know only have a few minutes, talking about uh a new program we've done uh at UCLA. And um this is the UCLA Alzheimer's and Dementia Care Program, and it works with primary care physicians to um care for dementia patients and their families. Uh it starts out with an in-person uh 90minute essentially uh assessment of what the needs for that individual patient is and what the uh resources because everyone uh uh patients with Alzheimer's disease are like snowflakes. Everyone is different. Everyone is different. And then developing and implementing individualized dementia care plans and monitoring response and progress. So it's a custommade uh for that person and that family in that situation to try to get the best outcomes and that is actually provided to the primary care physician who has input into it and approves the plan. Uh it also uh gives 24hour 7-day a week 365 days a year access for uh problems and assistance and advice but it doesn't take over the care of the patient. you stay with your primary care doctor. What patients get from this program and families? Counseling and education, linkage to UCLA program such as support groups and education, linkage to community based services. We have five partners in the community, the Alzheimer's Association, uh OPIA, uh Wise and Healthy Aging, uh Lisa's Place, and Jewish Family Services are our community- based partners. And all the PLA patients have uh ongoing followup and intervals uh depending upon the care plan. Most commonly our our dementia care manager who's a nurse practitioner will get in touch with people a week or two weeks afterwards to say did you have any problems implementing this plan? How can we help you? How are things going to develop that relationship to be a part of this program? um p people have to have dementia diagnosis. They have to be a UCLA patient. This is something that's offered by UCLA uh for um and not in a nursing home. We we one of the goals of this program is to prevent people from going into a nursing home. uh some components such as the support groups and such like that are open to anyone but for this program uh the idea is they can be in assisted living or at home but that's where we want to try to prevent them from having to be institutionalized. They need to be referred by a physician. And this is the referral number 310 319322. And our our uh dementia care managers, a nurse practitioner named Leslie Everson. That's her phone number as well as well as her email address. Um we we have high hopes for this program. This program is being offered at at no additional cost other than what Medicare covers. Uh we've gotten uh some support from the the federal government including a large grant. We've had a number of our patients who have been philanthropic people who have had this uh family members with these diseases and say they want to give back and most of the program or a good bit of the program is actually supported by donations. Uh so we are offering all these services at no charge to patients. So in conclusion the dementia uh is an epidemic particularly among the oldest old uh many diseases have symptoms of dementia but are not dementia. So we have to know that you're dealing with this diagnosis. Uh history taking and the mental status examinations are still critical uh elements and diagnostic testing is important but generally doesn't give us many surprises. Physicians can do a lot more for dementia than we could a decade ago, but the drugs to tr prevent uh the disease progressing uh and treating complications are really um somewhat limited. Behavioral management and caregiver support are essential and those are the key components of managing these disorders and the the the rescue, the the the Hail Mary, the the the things that are going to cure this disease are are still a long way off. So we have to play the ball where we lie where it lies right in 2012. So I'm going to stop here and I'd love to answer questions. I know that some came and people were writing down notes and such like that but now is a good time to answer questions and uh uh I don't want this talk to be pessimistic. It's not supposed to be a p what it is is kind of a getting everybody on the same page talk with the idea is this is what we've got to do. this is the task at at hand and we need to approach it. So you had a question earlier on. Um yeah, you answered some but you mentioned Yeah. Um should your person have been seen by a geriatrician, a neurossychiatrist, all the ones that you mentioned a to get an accurate diagnosis and b for ongoing work. So at this point uh and this is one of the things about the the UCLA Alzheimer's and dementia care program is that many of the components in fact perhaps most of the components that where the primary care physician may have some lack of expertise this is kind of a wraparound to make sure those are uh so I don't I'm not sure that you need to see a geriatrician or a geriatric psychiatrist if you have if you're involved in that program But let's say my person, for example, I'm in UCLA system. Yeah. My mother is not so Oh, she can't access UCLA. Yeah. So, in those cases, if somebody's outside of UCLA, uh, typically I would, if a geriatrician is available, uh, geriatricians, this is kind of our bread and butter. You know, we just do a lot of this kind of stuff. I would say 30 to 40% of my patients have dementia. It's something I see every day. Most uh primary care physicians, you know, it's 10% of their elderly practice or less. It's very very uncommon. Um sometimes neurologists are very good at at managing this and sometimes psychiatrists are very good at managing it. And uh the other thing is there's a lot of good community resources. uh Alzheimer's Association has chapters versus virtually everywhere and that's also a very good place to start because much of this is really about about caregiving and behavioral treatments. Yeah. What is your feeling about not involving the patient if you sense they really don't know my I don't believe my husband wants to know so I've chosen not to tell him. Yeah. Yeah. And that sometime, you know, there there are no fixed rules. There are no fixed rules. I have have patients who don't know their diagnosis and and even if they did, they probably wouldn't retain it for very long. But if it's going to be something that's going to uh to irritate people, aggravate them, exacerbate these symptoms, it's probably not it's not really worth it. I think devastate him. I would then be dealing with a severely depressed man. Yeah. Yeah. And sometimes it it really is a case- byase basis. He knows it's memory. He knows that there's something going on. Satisfied with that. Yeah. And that, you know, that's something we can live with. Yeah. There's there's no need to, you know, put a scarlet letter on their chest saying Alzheimer's disease. Yeah. How do you determine whether a patient should see more than one type of doctor? For example, they had a memory problem. But it was based on and they were seeing other doctors before but basically now they're just how do you determine so that once again that tends to be on a case-byase basis and generally most of the primary care physicians are pretty good about knowing when to bring in the consultants and um you know I get my hand slapped by probably some of my partners and colleagues but uh I'm I'm a firm believer in in patient empowerment and by by patient empowerment I I mean, not only patients but also their family members and proxies is if you think something's not not right, you know, bring it up. Bring it up. You know, maybe maybe this person ought to see a neurologist. Maybe this person ought to see a geriatrician. Maybe this person ought to see a psychiatrist. And um you know, sometimes on as a physician, I say, you know, that's a that's a pretty good idea. I didn't think of that. Or I might say, you know, I I just don't think they're going to add that much. But it's it's it's it's incumbent upon you if if you're concerned to bring it up. Yeah. To add on to that, I mean, for an example, the person's doing fine and then someone passes away. Yeah. And they're already kind of quiet. So, how do you know if they need like state, you know, not always having Yeah. And we see this a lot. I mean, I've seen it actually even when someone loses a pet, right? It's like it's like a person. And you know, many times what we'll do in those kind of cases is we'll uh based on the change and what that person was like, you know, we might say we might treat empirically and we might get them in started on in either kind of a counseling session even though they're not asking for it. But you've seen these kinds of changes. Yeah. Other Yeah. Yeah. Someone sent me a clip. Yeah. A news clip regarding coconut oil and Alzheimer's. Have you seen that? Uh I know about this. I know about this. And we have seen many many things like this. Uh insulin there. Did you guys read about the insulin? I mean there's you know there almost anything. And there's a reason for this. There's a reason for this is because we are seeking we saying as a society are are seeking a panacea. We want to pull something out of the air that says geez we were missing it all along and it was coconut oil that's going to prevent this or going to fix it. And the problem with those kinds of things is they get tested sometimes a fair amount of money gets put in into them and they tend not to work. It's it tends to be it's a more complicated system. You know how many tests? My understanding was there have not been any tests that they're studying ketone esters for Parkinson's. There were no NIH studies regarding ketone esters for Alzheimer's patients. No, there aren't. There aren't. And you there will be, you know, if it generally makes the the the headlines in the newspaper, somebody gets a study to study it. And the tradition the the history has been that these tend to make a lot of news print, get tested, and then go by the wayside. Genkoa was the classic example of that. Well, now they have Axon, which is Yeah, Axon is another one. Big pharma's answer to the overounter version, I think. Exactly. Kurcam, those are in tests right now. So, you know, all of these things are kind of the great white hope, but you know, we're dealing with the disease right now with our patients and our family members and those things that they happen, you know, eight or 10 years down the line. It takes a good five to six years to even find out whether these things work or not. So, yeah, maybe, you know, there's always room for hope. This is Pandora's box. There's always room for hope. But in while we're waiting for the hope to we need to we need to do our homework. We need to get involved and work on this disease. And it's it's the people in this room, it's the caregivers who who really need to get energized with this. Yeah. Yeah. So the there's there's two questions. One is about, you know, did something earlier happen that caused this? And and the answer is, yeah, sometimes that happens. Sometimes and and there's there's really if if it's something that happened if it was a heart lung machine, if it was somebody was a boxer earlier in their life or you know, there are things that happen and you know those are the that's our cross to bear. I mean there's there's we can't go back in time and change any of that. Yes. and such. Yeah. And it's worry about it. It really is on a case-byase basis. And sometimes what how the best approach is similar to how we treat mild cognitive impairment and say, you know, at this point we we can't say too much, but the most important thing is not to not to forget about this is to come back in a year and see what's happened. And frequently when I refer to Dr. Urky's group and get uh neuroscychological testing. They say, "Geez, we can't establish the diagnosis of dementia at this point, but let's have the patient retested in another year." And the important thing is not to forget about it is is to is to monitor it. The other thing we don't want to do is is to call things too early because, you know, otherwise you're just giving people medicines that aren't going to help them. Can you talk about some of the side effects of those that I've heard from other people Yeah, generally the generally these drugs are tolerated pretty well. They're they're they're not they're not real bad drugs, but they're but people do get uh complications of them and side effects. Uh some of the ones are mostly G many of them are GI, they get constipation or or diarrhea. Um sometimes uh they get nightmares, bad dreams. Uh and uh sometimes it can also rarely cause slowing of the heart. Frequently what'll happen is when we start people, we always start people on a low dose of them and then after about a month we increase it and when we go up to the higher dose, they can't tolerate the higher dose and then we can go back to a lower dose and they're able to tolerate it and occasionally we can switch from one of these uh anti uh colonistrates inhibitors to a different one and have a less of a side effect profile. Is it the kind of thing? Because I'm concerned about my mother's other medications. She hasn't officially been diagnosed. If they came along and said to take one of those drugs, my concern is it creating more trouble. Yeah. Then it helps the other Well, that's a really good question. That's a really good question. And in England, uh England, they've been slower to adopt uh these medicines. They're a little more suspicious. this is big pharma uh just trying to make money and in fact there was just a recent study in the past couple of months that I thought was very very interesting where they stopped these drugs and they saw what happened to these people and the people who were on the colon estrates inhibitors who stopped the drugs they declined uh they actually really did decline so I think I think the drugs by and large if you take that caveat that about half it slows the disease maybe 10 or 25% increases cognition the other quarter it doesn't really do anything that they they probably are worth the benefit, you know, worth uh and what we do and I do this in my practice all the time is that if people aren't tolerating the drugs, we stop them. Yeah. You don't want the dis you don't want the cure to be worse than the disease. But is there a severity of symptom you would want to see before you started or you just because I feel like it's sometimes so yeah. So the answer is uh I generally follow the FDA's guidelines and I do not treat unless somebody has a diagnosis of dementia. So if it's mild cognitive impairment I don't treat. There are some physicians who do. I don't think they have much ground to stand on. And if it's mild or moderate I don't use meantine. I don't use amenda. I just use uh the colon eststerase inhibitors. And if they don't tolerate them, I stop them. Yeah. And some don't. Some just don't I tolerate them. How long does it take for the drugs to take effect? Good question. That's really a good question because what happens is that in most of the cases, it just slows that slope. So, they are declining still, but the rate of decline is is less. Most people will say three to six months. And um generally you expect on some of these tests a certain amount of natural history decline and if the decline is less than that I tend to keep them on it. Yeah. But it's it's it's a it's a judgment call. It really is a judgment call. So we expect the decline to be like this. And if it's less than that, if the client's only like this, I tend to keep them on the drug. Yeah. Last question. Um, is there such thing as early stage milestones? The ones that you gave those or Yeah, that's that's a really good question. I don't really Yeah. So, um, early stage milestones are kind of the milestones that that lead us to really making the diagnosis of dementia is is if they are not functioning well in their current lifestyle. Uh, one of the things I always ask about uh is is driving, near misses, accidents, those kinds of things. Now, I have to report either way, but uh I uh generally if it's mild dementia, what happens is that people can actually go to the DMV, get retested, and keep their licenses. But if they're having near misses and stuff like that, I generally tell them they've earned the right to not drive. Yeah. Well, thank you guys so much and it was so apologetic that you know this was so hard to find and the the parking and such, but but you guys were great and good luck with it. And if if if you folks are being care for by UCLA or loved ones being care the Alzheimer's and uh dementia care program, do we have any flyers or anything on that here? Yeah, they're attached to the packets to the packets. Oh, yeah. grab a grab a packet and u we we will do our best to try to help your loved ones and help you folks. Thank you so much. Thank you.