Before we begin, uh there's a couple of housekeeping items I wanted to review with you. The format uh this morning will be uh two presentations running 20 to 30 minutes followed by a 15 minute break for so you can go to the potty uh which incidentally is to your left and then another left. So where you signed in if you just kept going in that direction you'll see the restrooms. Uh we'll ask that you hold any questions uh until the very end of the program. We'll have a lengthy Q&A uh opportunity with the panel. So, write them down and we'll be happy to address them. One of the most important things for us is your evaluation. So, you were given one of these green sheets when you signed in. Please uh fill them out and return them uh at the end of the session. Okay. So, without further ado, I think we should begin. What I have to do now is figure out how to work this thing. Okay. You know, at home I never get the last word and so I figured it would be most appropriate to feel at home today. So I'll get the first word again and not get the last word here either. But I'll like to spend a few moments with you in talking about what gastroosopial reflux disease is, how we typically diagnose it, and how we generally manage it for the majority of uh people who have it. This is a very common disorder. If you look at this graph uh you can see that uh between the ages of 25 and 75 uh perhaps 60% of folks in this country will have acid reflux symptoms at least once a week um or will have it at all and about 20 to 5% or so will have it weekly. uh that translates into 50 to 60 million people. So there's no accident that you see all the commercials on television for the purple pill. They're reaching out because they know they have a big big big audience. And until recently uh when uh the some of the proton pump inhibitors like pryloac and previsid went over the counter when they were still under prescription they were the most heavily prescribed drugs in this country. they've been replaced by the statins for cholesterol and when and if they ever went uh generic and over the count certainly went over the counter which I doubt uh they uh too would drop in their percentages but this is a very very common disorder and what you have to understand is that the stomach likes acid the esophagus doesn't and if you look at this analogy. If you make believe that this sandy beach is the esophagus and the ocean here represents the gastric contents which contain acid and this little juncture between the beach and the ocean represents the border between the esophagus and the stomach. There is a sphincter muscle that's present here whose job it is to act as a barrier or guardian to prevent this from washing ashore as you see here. When this happens, acid comes back up and can cause symptoms of heartburn and irritation. And this is what the normal lining juncture looks like. The lining cells of the esophagus are similar to the cells that are present on our skin. Whereas the lining cells of the stomach are far different. This lining doesn't like acid. And what happens is if you have acid that creeps up, it causes erosions, small ulcerations here, redness, and the typical symptoms that you might experience if you have acid reflux disease. Now, if I wanted to, I could just use this slide entirely for the next 10 minutes and explain acid reflux disease because it is really caused by a variety of disorders that are depicted here. If you look at the anatomy that we're showing here is the juncture that I showed you on the last slide between the esophagus and the stomach. Normally, this should be at this point. This is the diaphragm. This is the chest. This is the abdomen. When you have a pooching up of the stomach into the chest, that's what a h highal hernia is. And if there is a pressure zone here that causes a retrograde flow of contents from here up into the esophagus, you're going to promote acid reflux disease. For many years, it was thought that the whole problem with acid reflux was related to a weakness of this muscle. And while that does occur in some people, the majority of folks who have acid reflux have a normal resting muscle sphincter tone pressure. What happens is that this muscle relaxes during the day in all of us. That's how we belch. You swallow some air, you're uncomfortable, you want to belch. It's normal for that muscle to relax 50 60 times a day. But if it relaxes 250 times a day, every time it relaxes, there's the potential for something in the stomach going up this way into the esophagus. And when that happens, you run the risk of getting symptomatic. Now the esophagus at the same time has to be able to push the contents back down by what we call paristtoalsis which is a normal sequential muscular contraction that gradually pu pushes things in the direction you want them to go. If people have disorders of the esophagus so that it's weak, so it doesn't squeeze, so it doesn't sequentially squeeze in the proper fashion, you can have stuff that regurgitates up and sits there. So that aggravates the condition. In addition, if you have any disorder that impairs the ability of the stomach to empty, gastric contents sit here longer and longer and longer and may potentially regurgitate back up into the esophagus. If you're doing weightlifting, situps, if you're significantly overweight, the pressures in your abdomen are higher or much higher than the pressures in your chest. And so that promotes the retrograde flow of gastric contents up into the esophagus and produces what we see in acid reflux disease. Now, how do we diagnose it? Best way to diagnose it is to take a good history, to listen to the patient and ask them what they're feeling. And the typical feeling by far, by far is heartburn. But you got to ask what what do you mean by heartburn? A lot of people think heartburn is a pain in the belly or a pain in the neck. Uh oh. Sorry. Um but in reality what we think about heartburn is that it's a hot burning sensation that can occur anywhere from the uh tip of the uh breast bone up into the throat. Oftentimes associated with a hot liquid or burning in the in the throat. Um and it's distinctly it's different than just regurgitation. Regurgitation is the appearance of stomach contents up into our throats. Okay? Or a sensation of uh regurgitation of liquid back up into our throat. And many people will have both. Some will have one without the other. And so when we listen to a patient, we'll we'll we'll look for those symptoms and then we'll ask them the most important question. What have you done for it? Because you folks aren't silly. You don't walk around with these symptoms forever without trying to treat them. There's enough advertising around that tells you that you might think about an ant acid or a pill that turns the acid off. And so we ask what have you tried? Have you taken mlocks or milanta or Tums or Rolates or prylok or zantac or any of these drug? And if the answer is, oh yeah, and what happens? It helps, but the package insert said not to take it for more than two weeks. Okay? Or I took it and then my symptoms came back. Well, you didn't cure it. You controlled it. So, the most important thing for us to think about is what are the symptoms and how do they respond? And probably the best test to look for evidence of acid reflux disease is to treat for it. And so when I see a patient who comes in with acid burning or symptoms that I think are heartburn or related to acid reflux, uh if they have no worrisome features like vomiting or weight loss or bleeding or they can't swallow or we'll talk about some of those things later on this morning. I'm perfectly content to say, well, here's some medicine I want you to take for the next two to four weeks and come back and see me. Now, you have to remember that this may be a chronic disease and so once you treat it, you've made a diagnosis, you then have to decide how you're going to continue to treat acid reflux disease. So that's in large part dependent upon the frequency. There are many folks who will say that they only get hurtburn when they have a pepperoni pizza. Excuse me. So I tell them, well, you got two choices. You can have your pepperoni pizza, but take some ant acid afterwards. Or have your pepperoni pizza, but if you know you're going to do that, take a pill that's going to knock the acid down for the next 8 to 12 hours, like an over-the-counter uh medication, pryloc, pepsid, acif, I mean axid, you name it. And that'll that'll cover you. You can do that. If you're going to somebody's house for dinner some night, you don't know what they're going to serve and there are certain foods that you know bother you. Take a pill. It'll it'll cover you for while you're gone. On the other hand, there are those who say, "Well, you know, I can't predict. There are some days where I feel great and other days where I have mashed potatoes and I get heartburn." Well, those are folks who need regular daily therapy. It's no different than if I told you your blood pressure was elevated and you needed to take a pill and you came back a week later and guess what? Your blood pressure looked great. What would I tell you to do? Stay on the pill. Don't stop it cuz your pressure is going to go back up. Same would apply if you had a little diabetes and I put you on a pill and your sugar came down nicely. Would I tell you to stop the pill? No. Well, if you've got chronic acid reflux disease that you cannot predict will occur with certain activities or certain foods, you really have to take a medicine on a regular ongoing basis to keep it under control. And that's fine. And the only reason that the manufacturers put a warning on the over-the-counter pills about not taking them uh too long is they don't want to be held responsible. If you do have some more serious condition, you never saw a doctor and this was masking or controlling your symptoms for a period of time and they were then going to be held responsible for your having a delayed diagnosis of something bad. So, it's strictly a medical uh legal uh issue that uh warrants that warning. Now, if you're on a medication or if you're on a medication, it's going to be on an ongoing basis. For many many years we had the H2 receptor antagonist. Those were the first kids on the block and they made an enormous impact on the management of u acid related disorders whether it be reflux or peptic ulcer disease. Tagment was the first one followed by Zantac and Axid and Pepsid. Uh and um they were great drugs and they still are. Uh they work quickly. They're not quite as potent as the proton pump inhibitors. Uh, and to some extent, as you'll see in a minute, they may over time lose their effectiveness. But if you're going to use them on an as needed predictable basis, they're great. On the other hand, if you need a pill for a daily management issue, the proton pump inhibitors, Pryloc, Nexium, you'll see the list right here, and there's another one on the list as well. Um, Nexium, Asex, Pyloc, Previsid, Protonics. These are the generics. They're all pretty much the same. Pharmacologically they have some minor uh differences but all of them work and they all knock acid down from 10 to 14 hours substantially and that's maybe good enough for the majority of folks. About 30% of the folks who are on chronic proton pump inhibitors um require twice daily dosing. 70% get by with a single dose. But it's important to remember that these drugs work best when taken before a meal. I can't tell you the number of people whom I see and under the direction of their physician are told to take one of these medicines at bedtime. Well, the way these drugs work is they get into the cell that makes acid and they block the cell's ability to make acid. In order to get into the cell, that cell needs to be awakened, needs to be stimulated. And what stimulates it? Eating. The halflife of these drugs, meaning the amount of time it takes for half of the dose to be metabolized and excreted is 90 minutes. So if you take the drug at bedtime without eating until seven, eight hours later, the next day, the cells aren't stimulated the way they should be. So they're not going to take up the drug as well, if at all. And how many half-lifees have you gone through by eight hours from now? You're down to about 10% of the available drug that's going to be there to be taken up by the cell. So, I can't tell you the number of people say, "Well, I take this pill. It's just not working so hot." I said, "When do you take it?" "At bedtime." Because that's when I was having my heartburn. Well, that's wrong. You should take it either in the morning before breakfast or at dinner time. And I've given this type of talk probably a dozen times to physicians. And every time I say this, half the audience, really? I didn't know. So, you're not alone. Anyway, these drugs basically all work equally. And why someone says this one works better and that one works better for me, I really can't answer. Uh but it's the way life is. There was a study that showed that Nexium seemed to heal um erosive disease uh a little bit faster than the other drugs endoscopically, but it doesn't have any real meaning uh from the standpoint of clinical relevance. They all work. There's a newer uh drug that really is a version of Previsid that is made to have a dual release. Most of these drugs are absorbed in the upper portion of the small intestine called the douadinum. Uh whereas dexalant has a dual release uh that in that some of it is absorbed up in the upper portion and then another portion of it is absorbed more distally. Uh the only place where this may have relevance is in folks who've had gastric bypass operations because if they've had those kinds of surgeries their their douadum is bypassed. they empty their stomach contents further down and so if they take a pill it may be like a pryloac or nexium or one of those uh it gets emptied uh in the lower or mid portion of the small intestine not the douadum and there's a different degree of pH and acidity which affects the absorption of the drug. So, we've had some benefit in those people who may have the need for one of these agents and who've had a gastric bypass operation using this uh formula uh of the medications. What about lifestyle modifications? you know, before we had these drugs, and this goes back to really the 70s before the first before tag came on the scene, uh we really made a big deal about uh diet and things of that nature. We know that fatty foods delay emptying of the stomach. So, remember what we said earlier about that potentially contributing to acid reflux. We know that chocolate, onions, garlic, and I don't have it here, but peppermint uh can cause relaxation of the sphincter muscle and potentially lead to reflux disease. So, people who have acid reflux disease are prone to symptoms if they eat these kinds of uh foods. On the other hand, our goal is to improve the quality of your life. So, I can't tell you the number of people who tell me, "Well, if I take my pill every day, I can eat razor blades. It doesn't matter. I'm able to do fine. I don't get any heartburn." And I don't disagree with that. I tell them that's fine. If you feel all right, then you don't have to worry about a very specific diet uh to control your symptoms. On the other hand, uh we do know that it's wise to avoid eating late at night because when you eat late at night and then you lie down, the contents of your stomach are going to come back up and lead to potential symptoms. And even if they don't lead to symptoms, while you're sleeping, you may be having reflux that you're unaware of and develop some uh irritation, damage, etc. to your esophagus uh without you even knowing it. trunkal obesity. In other words, you know, more of your weight in your in your belly uh contributes to a gradient of pressure as we showed earlier where the pressure in the belly is higher than the pressure in the chest and it's going to force stuff up. So, it is certainly helpful uh to u make every effort to get to your ideal body weight and smoking is bad no matter what you do. What about maintenance therapy? Well, as I said earlier, drugs like Zantac and Pepsid, etc. do work. But if you follow these folks out over time, you you find that by the end of a 12-month period, 50% of the people are losing effect from these drugs if they take them every day. And that's because the body tends to develop a um I wouldn't say a resistance. There's a medical term called tachapilaxis which means that you sort of get used to it and you need either higher doses or more frequent doses to get it to work. Now proinetic drugs are drugs uh that help motility of the GI track tract and help the stomach empty a little faster. And as we said earlier, if the stomach empties slowly, there's a tendency for reflux to occur. So if we can promote more emptying, uh theoretically we would control reflux. Unfortunately, there's only one medication that's available on the market in this country called Reglan, which by itself is inadequate and unfortunately has significant side effects in about a third of the people who take it. And so it's not a really good choice. If you add the two together, you get a little bit better result at 12 months. If you do a proton pump inhibitor, however, pryloc etc. It's a single dose per day. 80% uh of the folks at the end of a year still well controlled. All right, pryloc and a proinetic perhaps a little better. Uh but again, this is difficult to maintain because of the side effects. What are the risks of PPIs? You've probably seen a lot of this stuff in the literature about these drugs can cause all sorts of problems such as pneumonia. Theoretically, um you're reducing the acidity in the stomach and so the bacteria that normally um would live uh in the stomach are not killed off as easily and so maybe you're at risk for uh infections. Cardiac disease was raised as a possible problem. Colon cancer was raised as a possible problem. Suffice to say, none of this none of this has ever pro been proven to hold uh to hold any uh any accuracy. There's a bacteria called seed difficil. This is the bacteria that occurs in some folks who are hospitalized most commonly and are given antibiotics for one reason or another and then get an illness because you've killed a lot of the bugs in the gut and this one survives and proliferates. So theoretically if you reduce the acidity in the GI tract and bacteria then live longer and more uh readily might we lead to the development of ced difficil infections and the truth is statistically that has been shown to occur. It's almost assuredly in people hospitalized and people who were given antibiotics. So that if they were given antibiotics and they happened to be on a drug like a proton pump inhibitor, they may be a little bit more prone to develop this complication of antibiotic therapy than if they were not. The bottom line, however, is you have to decide if somebody needs the proton pump inhibitor. Unfortunately, a lot of folks get put on these drugs when they're hospitalized without good reason and when they're discharged, they're simply maintained on the drug. And I can tell you there's a huge number of folks who I see in the office who come in and they're on this long list of medications and I say why are you taking this? I don't know. I was put on it when I left the hospital. Did you ever have any heartburn or problem with ulcers? No, they don't need it. So the bottom line is if you need the drug, you should take it. Okay, let me try this again. We're almost done. Okay. Osteoporosis. Now, this has gotten a lot of play in the lay press. The concept is that calcium absorption um is um to some degree dependent upon acidity. So if you reduce the acidity in the stomach, might we affect the ability to absorb calcium uh in our diet? And there is a huge now uh body of literature uh that has looked at this from both sides and the results are varied. Uh there are studies that have shown that there is indeed an increased risk of hip fractures in people who are on these drugs. But you have to look at it from the standpoint of why were they on the drugs? Maybe they have other diseases that rendered them more likely to have a hip fracture. Maybe if they had rheumatoid arthritis and they were on the drugs because they had medications that needed to be used to control their arthritis which would upset their stomach so they were taking these drugs they were da more likely to have a fracture. On the other hand there's been studies that looked at bone scan dexa scans which you know we do to look at um calcium uh content of bone and found there was no increased risk. Suffice to say, I think physiologically there is some sense to this concern. Uh, and what we tell our patients is to either make sure their diet is rich in calcium containing foods, leafy vegetables, if you can tolerate milk products uh and or supplement with a calcium citrate form of um supplement. Again, it comes back to the need to take the medication. If you don't need it, don't take it. But if you need it, don't let this be a reason to avoid it. And this has been shown to be uh not an issue. There was concern raised about the interactions between these drugs and plavix, which is a drug for platelet activity. and pharmarmacologically it was found to have some value but clinically no significant consequences. So again these drugs have been now on the market for 25 plus years and they really are amazingly safe. They're a hell of a lot safer than asper. Now what happens when things don't go well? There's incomplete relief. There's ongoing symptoms, there's relapse, there's failure to respond. At this point, I'm going to introduce Dr. Kevin Gasemi. Kevin is assistant professor of clinical medicine here at UCLA, is the um director of our esophageal physiology lab and testing program. and he's going to take it from here and talk about these kinds of things as well as symptoms of reflux that you don't think are necessarily typical for reflux. So, thank you very much.