This is Medically Speaking. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier. If you or someone you love has ever been admitted to the hospital, you might likely met a hospitalist. And like most people, you probably have never heard the term hospitalist before and almost certainly did not know what it meant. So, you may also recall that in a past episode, we talked about primary care clinicians like myself as your home base, your quarterback, or for my orchestra nerds out there like me, your conductor. So, think of a hospitalist as the onfield quarterback inside the hospital, coordinating the team, keeping the plan on track, and helping you get safely home. So, today on Medically Speaking, the hospitalist, what they do, why this role exists, and how families can stay organized when the days blur together. I'm thrilled to be joined by Dr. Ashley Busatil, hospitalist at UCLA Health and Chief Medical Officer of Ronald Reagan Medical Center. Fun fact, Ashley and I have known each other since junior high. And yes, we were on the dance team together. Ashley, welcome to the pod. >> Thank you, Eve. I'm thrilled to be here. >> Um, so Ashley, let's just start with the basics. >> Okay, >> what exactly is a hospitalist? >> So, I do think your introduction was quite on point with referring to a hospitalist as your quarterback, but inside the hospital as opposed to inside the clinic. Um, hospital medicine actually has been around for some time. It started back in the late '9s and even before then in um a lot of health systems in Europe, but it's interesting to me that not a lot of people, you know, know know the term. Um and what happened back in the '90s is health care costs were really skyrocketing. That was coming to the, you know, forefront of everybody's attention and hospitals realized that they really needed to make sure that the care of their patients while they were in the hospital was really efficient. And the old model was primary care doctors would wake up in the morning. They would, you know, go see whatever patients they had that happened to be hospitalized in the hospital. They would go to their clinic. They would stay in their clinic all day and then maybe they would go back to the hospital in the evening and see those patients. So, it was not really 24/7 care for those that were the sickest in the hospital. Um, you know, and I think if if you're a patient, you want your doctor to be available. Uh so hospitals realized that they really wanted somebody on site there all the time being able to address the you know the the the the changes that patients were were undergoing you know while they were there. Um and I think the second component is medical care has just frankly gotten more complex. There's so much innovation. There's so we there's it's just so much bigger than like when you and I trained. Exactly. >> Um you know and I think about what you do in the clinic. It's such a different skill set. It's such different, you know, medicine than what I do in the hospital for a patient who's there for, you know, um, a more acute illness. >> I mean, I couldn't agree more. It terrifies me to think about doing what you do. And I mean, and I think for our listeners, so Ashley and Ashley and I both completed a residency in internal medicine. So, we completed 3 years of 90 hours a week, right, training. We studied adult medicine in both a clinic setting and hospital. Um, we also completed a year of chief residence because we're a superstar. Um, but yeah, then I went to practice in an outpatient primary care setting and you became a hospitalist. And it's interesting because even today, you know, you and I sit next to each other at at work. I really I really wouldn't know how to be a hospitalist. The medicine has gotten so complex. And granted, we both work at UCLA where um it's what what we call a tertiary coronary center, right? The most complex patients, right, who are there for transplants. you you can go into the medicine versus what I do in the clinic, right? Doing preventative medicine, but it's really like we really bifurcated and I really don't know how to practice that medicine. It is very very complex. You prescribe antibiotics, you work with teams that I just don't do in the primary care setting. So, I think um it's so helpful to I think for our for our patients and listeners to know that that that's right, the old school way of like if I'm a primary care doc, I'm going to round on patients and then go to clinic. Not only do I not want to do that, that's honestly not part of the work life balance that I'm signing up for, but also I'm just not equipped intellectually to take care of patients in the hospital. So, we have this partnership even around general medicine. Um, so it's helpful to hear about that, you know, the the shift. I guess I I think all of our listeners might want to know this is having a hospitalist, is that sort of the best practice? Is that common among hospitals across our nation? I really think it's almost becoming the standard of care. Um and by that you know that means the way the way you know everybody is practicing now when you think about umos you know patients who are hospitalized and how to care for them. Um and just to go back briefly to what you said I mean likewise as a hospitalist I don't know how to do the things that you're doing. So things around complex conversations around like say screening colonoscopies or things that you're you're really projecting out you know far for your patients. I'm concentrated more on their on their acute setting. Um, but yes, I do think it's becoming the standard of care because again, you want someone who is there all the time, who is not trying to, you know, listen to what's going on from a phone call, you know, across the city and and and, you know, call, you know, call in orders, you know, while they got a a patient in their clinic, right? You want someone who's there. You also really want to think about the relationships of the entire care team in the hospital. So, I know the nurses, I know the consultants, I know who I need to call, I know how to quickly and efficiently get things done and keep patients safe and progressing through their care. And if you're not there all the time, you can't you can't do that. >> I thought it might be helpful um just to um kind of describe exactly what hospitals do, what you do by maybe even walking through a patient journey. So from let's say admission whether that's through the emergency department or direct admission and we can define those things for everybody um to the dayto-day of a hospital stay and then finally to a safe discharge. Does that sound okay? >> Yeah, sure. So um I'm going to take a little bit of there's some complexity around how um hospitalists are scheduled. So, for example, it may not be the same person that that meets the the patient in the emergency room to be the one that takes care of them throughout their stay. That has to do with the eb and flow of patients and just how the size of of a group may be, you know, organized. So, I'm just going to take that out for a minute. But, but if you think about it, what will happen? And a patient, let's say they have an acute illness, they've got abdominal pain. They come into the emergency room, they get diagnosed with something, you know, by their by by the emergency room doctor or maybe they don't even get diagnosed. Maybe they just get sort of stabilized and really the decision is made. You need to be admitted to the hospital. They'll then call a hospitalist. Um the hospitalist will come down, evaluate them, you know, decide, oh, you need, you know, you know, speak to them, you need X, Y, or Z tests. and then they move up to whatever room in the hospital that's appropriate for them. Uh from from then they're you know they stay in the hospital for the duration of their care. The hospitals will decide if they need to have a consultant in board. Let's say they need to have a you know cardiologist see them. Let's say they need to have multiple you know multiple um uh consultants a cardiologist or rheatologist. The hospitalists then job is to see them every day or as many times as necessary through the day. coordinate the recommendations from any specialists or if they don't need specialists, come up with a plan of care themselves. Make sure they're communicating that care to the patient and then when they're ready to leave the hospital, um coordinate with their primary care physician or whatever outpatient physicians that they need and do what we call that handoff. Um and we may get into it probably but the two I think you know most critical times of you know a person's hospitalization are when they come in and then when they leave and to make sure that the care is is seamless across those transitions seamless with regard to their education seamless with regard to their the medications that they need that they can pick up those medications they have their appointments in followup and so on and so forth. Um so I mean so starting then with the with the handoffs I mean so um what can we advise maybe patients and families I guess around let's say that first transition or handoff right so whether it's in the emergency department I mean it's hard right I mean if you're going to the emergency department right and there's urgency it's hard to remember everything that you need but anything that you would recommend patients or families bring to the emergency room you know just that might make that that ease of uh and safety I guess of of transition. >> Yeah. Well, let me take a step back for a second and and just comment on, you know, when you think about these transitions, you know, I could take care of everything that needed to be taken care of in a hospital setting, you know, all the right medications, all the right interventions, whatever it might be. You could be feeling, you know, great. But if I don't set you up in a way that you are then able to continue that care once you leave. >> Yes. >> You know, again, obtain your medications, know what what diet you need to do, know what kind of rest you need, all all that stuff. And there's so much of it, you're not going to do well. So, it basically, you know, takes away the, you know, all the all the, you know, stellar work that happened in the hospital. >> Don't make Ashley look bad, right? So again, that's to just sort of take a step back and and and highlight the importance of those transitions. But but back to your question, you know, what can families know that that when you're coming into an emergency room, that can be that can be chaotic. You know, I get that. >> But things that are important is knowing what medications, you know, you or your family member take. um having a a a contact and an advocate for the person who's and by that I mean somebody who you know maybe knows something about your medical problems if if if let's say you're a um a a daughter or a son taking care of your you know your your parent you know knowing your your parents medical problems at least generally knowing who their outpatient physicians are um and almost most importantly having a sense of what your loved one wants wants kind of for their healthcare. Um, that's a a big topic, but those are the kind of things that I'm going to want to know when I, you know, when I evaluate a patient when they come in. You know, what what was their what was their sort of day-to-day life before? How does the situation, you know, the medical situation that they're in now compare with that? Um, in addition to those more, you know, medical things like what are their medications, what exactly conditions do they have, um, and so forth. >> No, that's that's perfect. And then um so walk us through I guess a typical day for you then. So the patient has you know our patient has been admitted you're the assigned hospitalist. What's your typical day then in your role? >> So I work um as a academic teaching hospitalist. So that's a you know I I say that because I think families who come to UCLA do need to be aware that there's a lot of people that come in and out of the room. And by an academic teaching hospitalist what I mean is I work with resident trainees and I you know educate them through our care of the patients. So in the morning a patient who's you know hospitalized on my team or I am the primary doctor responsible for them. However they may have an intern which is a first year resident who comes in there early in the morning to see them. We remember that from when we were you know good a good deal younger. >> It was like three years ago. >> It was like three years ago. So much younger. um that that that intern will probably come in in the morning. There's a more senior resident on the team. Um and what I do is I come in, I usually look through the medical records. I'm, you know, seeing what are their labs look like for the morning, what were their vital signs, how did they do overnight, what have the nurses said about how they do, and I'm kind of collecting all that data. Then I will hear about how they're doing from the from the residents. And this is the major like teaching component for the residents. We're talking through all our patients care. We might have just to for perspective like um somewhere between 10 to 20 patients in the hospital at a given time. By we I mean >> on the hospital's team, >> right? Me and my team. >> Um and we'll talk through all of them. We prioritize people by, you know, if there's any anything that's concerning about their care in terms of they're they're sicker than we anticipate, there's something going on, they're not doing as well as we thought. And then also by those who, you know, might be going home because of all the complexities around that that I that I sort of mentioned. Um, and then I'll go around and and and see them, you know, one by one. And we'll sit down and we'll talk and we'll talk about how they're feeling. We'll talk about um what's going to happen for their day. We'll talk about any concerns that they may have. I like to project out several days and really talk to patients about what can you anticipate for certainly for today but for the next few days of your hospitalization and then the next you know phase of your care after that. Um so it has to be so comforting though to set that expectation. I mean like you're me like you like you're mentioning there are so many people coming in and out of your room and you're hospitalized and I think all of us have either been patients or our family members have been patients and it's really overwhelming. It's stressful. I mean, you're usually not in the hospital because you feel great. It's not, you know, it's not the four seasons. And you're not sleeping well. You're probably hungry. You're in pain. You probably are worried. There's uncertainty. So, um, it's really helpful for you to for you to, um, articulate and kind of itemize all the people on the team. Um, that's so those are the people walking in. And again, that's your hospital's team. If there's consultants, are there other people besides your team with residents that are coming in? >> And I think you're absolutely right. It is so overwhelming for people to be sick and see all these faces. I mean, this really came to light, for example, during, you know, the thick of of of the COVID pandemic when everybody was wearing masks and gowns and you can't tell who. I mean, how terrifying for a patient, right? >> Um, I do always really um make a point of every time I come in, I say, you know, hi, I'm, you know, Ashley Boozil. I'm the supervising doctor on your team. I really always introduce myself even if I've been in, you know, however many times before because you just can't expect anyone to necessarily keep track of those things and it's important for us to let people know who we are, what we're going to be doing, you know, what our role on the team is. Um, other people on the team. So, of course, there's the the the the patient's primary nurse, which if anyone's been in any kind of hospital setting, you just know how critical, you know, your relationship is with your nurse. That's someone who's going to be there, you know, basically throughout the day for you. As a for perspective, a hospitalist may have again, you know, 10 to 20 patients that they're seeing, you know, at a given time. The the nurse will be taking care of three to four. And so that individual, that nurse is really going to be in the room, you know, sort of almost constantly with those patients, working with them on on their needs and also helping with a lot of the educational part, you know, of their care. Other members would be um what we call the care coordinator, which is um a a case manager or sometimes a social worker, both. Um and those are individuals who help with a lot of the social aspects of a patient's care. Are they having problems with um their finances? Um are there other aspects that really impact their health that we can help with? Are people having um food insecurity? Are people having issues with transportation? I mean, there's so many aspects. And then, you know, the the case manager is the person that will do a lot of the logistical work helping that individual move to the next phase of their care. And then they'll be the medical physician consultants as well. So, I mean, this is just a huge number of people. >> So, a lot what I like to do, you know, with patients is, you know, say, you know, let them know who I am and say, "Okay, today for example, you know, we're having a cardiologist come see you. I'm asking them to see you because, you know, I'm I'm concerned you may have had a heart attack or what whatever it might be. And I like to really help that patient understand what the role of each of the consultants is because >> the consultants are really focused on their area of expertise, right? And the hospitalist is there to bring it all together for that patient, >> which is amazing. And I mean, it's it's very reassuring and obviously amazing to hear that you lay this all out, right? and you're you're coordinating and you're explaining for patients and families if they have questions. Do we can we encourage them to say to ask what's the plan for today? >> Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. Um it's really critical that they be aware. Now you know I do always let them know this is this is a dynamic you know situation you know based on you know how the individual does the plan today might not be the plan tomorrow but we always can and should be you know planning out and and and and working with patients to ensure that they not only that they understand that they're participating right you know they need to they need to understand and be involved and and agree with with with what we're Um, >> what's the best way then would you say for them to be involved? I mean, is it like someone's taking notes? Is it >> a daily log? >> I mean, I think that depends on the individual and it depends. I mean, that's it's so personalized, right? You know, there are some people who really like to know about, you know, every every test and every, you know, everything. And, you know, now, um, with our electronic health record, you know, people actually can look on their phone and have like call. Yeah. in real time and see the notes and look at the labs and all this stuff. So I think it depends. Other people are sort of like I want big picture, you know, tell me, you know, tell just just just give me the kind of interview, right? One thing that I find very helpful and I think for your listeners this is a good way to think of of a hospitalization is you know how sometimes like you're dealing with some like really you know dramatic situation and you almost don't you can't put don't know like like what what the big picture is at all. It's just hard to wrap your head around it. I like to help them like scope out what is the goal of this hospitalization. Right? It's not always for you to feel perfect when you leave, right? There are people who have chronic illnesses that you know may you know may you know may be going on it. There are people who may not even have a diagnosis by the time they leave a hospital which you know that's so frustrating and scary right for people. So explaining okay you know the our goal here for for example is to get your symptoms under control and make sure that you are set up to see the right person who will do X Y or Z testing to get you to that diagnosis. Um, and so the that goal of the hospitalization is quite different from from one case to the another to the next. And I think that is a is really important for people to understand so they can kind of wrap their head around this like really, you know, scary experience that they're going through. >> I think that's such a critical message and it it reminds me that um I mean I feel very lucky to work at in our health system and I say, you know, I'm not going to take care of you in the hospital, but the hospitalists are all my colleagues, right? And so there I know exactly what's happening in the hospital so that when you're discharged when this episode of care, right, those symptoms are controlled. You might be admitted for just to have your pain controlled, right? But then there's a handoff back to me as a primary care doc. There's a hand handoff back to specialists that will keep on continuing your care. So I I I think the setting of the expectations is really um important. And you're right, maybe not every question is answered, but symptoms will be alleviated and it's to get you home or let's say to a a facility so that you can continue to heal. >> Yeah. >> Um sometimes I do feel like with all the people coming in and out, um patients and their families don't aren't sure that the plan is unified and I'm guessing that's where you come in. >> Yes, I will say that is that is a challenge. that is a challenge in um I think you know any hospital system um and certainly you know in the one that I I work in work in so I consider that to be one of my you know primary you know responsibilities and goals it's a balance right you know when for people are coming in and out of the hospital room at all different times during the day the cardiology team has a different schedule than the you know primary hospital medicine team than the rheatology team right And the the the the team members all want to give the patients as much information as they can. The patients always want as much information as they can obviously but that leaves them real you know getting some of the information peacemeal. >> Yes. So it is definitely the hospitalist's job and often this might be circling back for example at the end of the day to sort of say okay you know we talked about the plan in the morning which was that the cardiologist was going to come in the rheatologist is going to come in now we've got all that information let's review and kind of synthesize this and see where we are now >> um and so doing that you know periodically with your patients um is really is really critical so um usually Usually for me, you know, at minimum I am seeing them in in the morning and, you know, in the evening or, you know, a team member is or whatever it is. Again, of course, more if if needed, but just to kind of, you know, pull everything together so that they understand where we're getting. >> I mean, the the communication sounds essential. Um, so discharge, which means leaving the hospital. Um, how do you decide when someone is ready? I mean, it sounds like you're looking ahead and projecting, but um, what are some of, I guess, those those end points? So um obviously there's you know medical stability that they no longer need you know the services you know in a hospital and so that would include you know for your listeners the kind of things that you know happen in a hospital that that that we often don't do at home or one >> if someone's like like their health trajectory isn't clear. I don't know if they're going to be sicker tomorrow than they are you know than they are today stable. >> Right. Exactly. They need to bear they need to be stable. Um the second is just simply, you know, needing, you know, a good deal of of nursing care, for example. Um they need somebody to be with them because they're not they're not safe. The third is, you know, medical interventions, you know, whether that be, you know, IV type medications that can't be given at home, you know, frequent, you know, diagnostic tests, whole host of things. Um, so they need to be medically stable, you know, as you said, and then they need to have a safe discharge plan. And by that I I mean if I have someone, for example, you know, who is elderly and they live alone, maybe they're medically stable, but I, you know, I'm trying to picture them in their home setting. I know they don't have any help and I know they're not going to be able to get out of their bed, make food, get safely from, you know, whatever the bed, the bed to the toilet, do the stuff of life. >> Then >> my job working with the, you know, case manager and care coordinators to say, okay, how can we get them into a, you know, safe home situation? So it's really two main issues medically stable and safe place to be afterwards. Actually one third thing is making sure that all remember I said we have necessary like you know followup after they leave the hospital by that I mean clinic appointments whatever part of that safe you know home situation is that they're able to you know get to those appointments and that their the necessary follow-up care is you know established or at least we have a path you know towards it. >> It's incredibly complex. I mean, I think um and I I guess the only way to really talk about it is to explain it and to constantly communicate because you're absolutely right. I mean, your your pneumonia might be better, right? You might not be coughing anymore, your vital signs, which by that we mean blood pressure, temperature, how well you're oxygenating, your your pulse, all those might be >> normal. But exactly, if you can't go home and feed yourself or get to the bathroom, then you're not actually stable and then you're just going to come back to the emergency room. >> Right. So for your listeners, one of the things that how I kind of like to phrase it to um uh uh patients and their families is think about how you are here in this hospital bed and and your hospital room and you know the services you're getting and now picture yourself at home. >> How's that how do you think that's going to go for you? What do you think you'll be able to you know in the way you feel now do the things that you need to do for your for your daily life? And okay, that might not be initially, you know, popping out and doing some, you know, soul cycle, >> right? Soul cycle, you know, but um, you know, are you are you going to be safe? And in terms of when we were talking earlier about sort of, you know, being an advocate as a family member, you know, for your loved one who's in the hospital, um I like them to be there, for example, for um physical therapy, for occupational therapy, to be paying attention to do they need to be fed, you know, can they do it themselves? You know, that family member may be thinking about, you know, what is what does my mom's home situation look like? Is she going to be able to do this stuff? Is she going to be safe? And that's really a partnership to figure out how to get to that next step, right? Is the family member going to, you know, stay with their loved one for a time in the house? Do they need to, and it's a whole another topic maybe, but they do they need to have, you know, go to a, you know, rehab facility for a period of time, hopefully as a stepping stone to getting home. Um and the the case manager will be working with the families and the patients to like really do a standard assessment of their home situation and their home needs. Um do they need, you know, medical equipment, you know, all that kind of stuff is really a conversation and again a partnership with the patient and and the family. And it also brings us back to that idea of of this is a joint this is a joint venture with the patient. And I mean the patients are the most important people here to be a part of this conversation. >> Do you feel like when patients are, >> you know, they come in quite ill usually? I mean, for them to get admitted means that they're pretty ill. Um, >> any advice for how they can be advocates for themsel? I mean, again, I just I'm sensitive to the fact that they don't feel great usually, but for their but they're for their families. It's hard to just keep track of all the information. um how are they going to feel reassured I guess for this critical handoff of of being discharged of leaving the hospital transitioning out? >> I think it's important um for people who are you know ill like that to recognize maybe some of their limitations and when they need, you know, a family member or a friend to to really help them. I mean, you know, I always think about it like you're in the hospital, there's stuff going on through the night. you know, you might be um left without eating because you have some procedure and you're not allowed to eat. You know, you're in, you know, potentially hospital. You're not you're not feeling your best, right? You know, you're not, >> you know, you're not at your primary decision-m, you know, it's very hard. So I think maybe having um compassion for yourself and realizing you know when you need to you know when you need to ask for help you know a partner to kind of hear the medical advice you know even you can say to your doctor I I need someone else to participate in this can you call my can you call my daughter you know what whatever it is >> that's actually my next question because I think you know you mentioned coming in right during rounds that's our super doctor word right we rounding in the morning it's usually like 7 might well first of all it can be any time but often it's quite early like surgeons around very early >> um so sometimes family members right are by their loved ones bedsides >> sometimes patients are awake you know and with it but let's say someone's not there what what do you tell the families in terms of if they're like I Dr. Dr. Busatil, I want to talk to you later in the day. You know, can I call you from work to get an update? Is that something they can ask for? >> Absolutely. Um, and I want to like all of this stuff, by the way, should be standard. What, you know, our goal is really for, you know, patients to not have to remember anything. I don't mean the medical care, but I mean like, you know, I I don't want it to be on the patient to say, "Oh, I need to ask for x amount of communication or whatever." Nevertheless, um having a clear phone like who is the primary, you know, person that you want this this doctor to be speaking with, you know, is it a family member? Is it the patient? If it's the patient, do they want to bring a family member, you know, in with it? When do you want that to be? Now, there is a lot of stuff going on in the hospital. So, you may find a doctor saying, "I can't just call you back any time of the day." But you can certainly say, "Hey, can we can we establish a goal?" You know, standard time every day for us to touch base. Okay, that is 100%, >> you know, often often people do that. And I think it's actually a great way to communicate, >> right? And you're wanting that because we want the partnership. That's going to be better for everybody. >> Yes. >> So, um, something I especially admire about what you do is that you're also a teacher, right? So, we both work in this academic medical center of at UCLA Health. um how do you structure rounds right so when you're going around and uh on all of our patients um for the medical students the residents so that patients um feel heard and not necessarily you know presented about >> sure um and I should say I can't remember if we covered this or not for the audience rounds you probably hear doctors saying that a lot that means that we refer to that as when we're going around I think that's what the word comes from and we're seeing all our patients So that may take se several hours. You got 20 patients. You know, you can imagine you're going from one floor to the next to the next and you're rounding on your patients. I did air quotes there for those who are just listening. Um but uh how do we structure it? So like I said, I I the the um residents and the medical students will tell me about the patients typically first and then we will ideally go see them all together in person. And >> does that mean that they've pre-rounded before like they've presented to you before you go in too like earlier in the morning? >> Yes, they they have usually seen the patients early in the morning. We've all looked at all the data. We've all discussed them and then we will go in and see them all together in person. Um, the sort of, you know, gold standard or holy grail, whatever you want to call it, would be to go in the room with every me with every team member, including the bedside nurse and including the the case manager because then you have everybody hearing the same thing from the patient, the patient getting any question they, you know, they they they have answered all at once and they can really put everything together. Um, ideally, you know, if if a patient asks a question from a case manager, a doctor, a nurse, you'd want them all to be able to give that patient the same information because everybody knows the plan of care. Everybody knows what's going on and they're on the same page. >> So, we do our best for that. But as far as for the trainees, again, the residents, I'm using those words interchangeably, or medical students, when we walk in, I introduce myself, I introduce my role, I have everybody on the team introduce themselves again. And like for patients, sometimes that may seem redundant. They're sort of like, lady, you were in here an hour ago or, you know, whatever whatever it was. But like I really there's so many people I never want to make assumptions about, you know, what what what patients may remember again. and they're they're sick, they're they're underslept and so forth. Um, and then I sort of essentially myself I do like to ask the patient and hear, you know, with with my own words and hear from them directly how they're doing, what's going on, anything that's bothering them. Um, we examine them. Um, it is, you know, teaching. So if there's some specific physical exam finding, I may I may ask the patient, do you mind if I have the medical student listen to your lungs? Or do you mind if you know I have them, you know, examine your abdomen? Obviously, if no, if someone doesn't want that, you know, we absolutely do not. I may say, if I'm doing a little uh what we call shop talk, that means kind of, you know, teaching, you know, with medical jargon, I will always let the patient know, let's say that student examined their lungs. I will tell the patient, I'm just going to, you know, talk a little medicine jargon for a moment while we discuss, you know, what the medical student, you know, heard. Um, and then and then I will actually turn it over typically to the medical student or the resident, whoever is kind of the primary trainee taking care of the patient to explain the plan of care to the patient. That may have changed based on that interaction with the patient or it may be the same as what we we spoke about before. before we came in. Um, and then of course we make sure that they understand and we make sure that they don't have any questions, concerns. What else do we need to address? And I think a lot of like bedside education for residents. What that means is, you know, um, uh, teaching them at the site of care with the patient. Um there's certainly you know look there's there's actually I think education for them in everything that I described how to talk to a how to talk to a patient >> right that's the role modeling right >> the role exactly role modeling you know physical exam skills um but I think the most important thing is role modeling that communication >> you learn so much by watching and especially when you I mean I would have loved to have you as a teacher and you know and and watched you talk to patients because it's really listening listening to the words that you're use you're using how you're talking to patients I mean that really serves as the fundamental foundation right of then how the doctor I think that we all become >> yeah and I think you know we're taught from early on you know there there is some you know scripted teaching you remember in like med school or residency we had you have we have like um actor actor patients and you have to do these like sim simulated patient encounters so we all know like not to use you know medical jargon and to make you to try to make sure that patients under understand. But there's all this stuff that gets buried in there that people don't even know. Like they they'll use words like, "Do you feel like you have fluid on board?" And I hear residents saying that. I'm like, "What do you think that person thinks you're trying to say?" That means like if somebody has, for example, heart failure and they're retaining they're retaining water or something. >> We do that all the time, especially when you're in a hurry or you're tired as a provider, you just default into jargon. >> Yeah. >> And sometimes it's fun. It reminds me that I love that you do this at the bedside. It reminds me in clinic, so in the doctor's office when I'm talking to patients at the end of a visit, I'll often just sit with them by the computer and say, "Look, here's your plan." And I'll write it out together so they can see it. And so there were we're both involved in formulating the plan. I think that makes a really big difference. >> And it's not just, I think, the way you you you speak, it's also, you know, one's body language and, you know, the the the residents can be taught about that. sitting down with a patient is so critical. You know, getting at their, you know, eye level and really talking to them >> and having everyone just leaning over you is horrible, >> right? And, you know, you think about how scary that can be for a patient. So, also like observing, you know, via their body language or or via how they may be, you know, responding and and maybe even if they haven't asked a question, making sure, you know, did you understand what, you know, Dr. so and so, you know, meant when they said this, you know, and and kind of preempting some questions they may have to. So, you're really looking and making a decision that they're un understanding. >> Um, >> and you know, for patients, for families, stop doctors, ask them questions like you don't understand. You know, they don't the doctor may not know that. So, so you know as much as you you can you know you know ask your questions >> right and I think and it's okay exactly it's okay to ask your questions and also I mean something um that comes up a lot is I mean is communicating to the patients obtaining consent for even just like touching them right I think absolutely I think for so for so long it was just like I'm just going to put a stethoscope on you and you're just going to sit there I mean I I'd love to hear from you because when I'm in in clinic again in in in the doctor's office no matter what I'm doing I say you know Listen, can I can I place the stethoscope over here so I can listen to your heart? Right? Because otherwise people are like, why are you putting your stethoscope on my left breast for no reason? >> Um, we just can't make any assumptions. Yeah. >> I don't know if you experience that in the in the inatient. >> Absolutely. And I do think >> um it's a bit more uh some people may forget that more in the inatient setting, you know, and and people are you're wearing the hospital gowns and sometimes they're, you know, they're moved they're moved down or whatever. I think explaining everything that you're doing to somebody is really critical. >> The other thing that's really important and I think can come through in a teaching way but as well as you know just generally you know physician patient interactions is >> we see in hospital medicine a lot of patients with chronic diseases >> these people know their bodies. They have been living with this disease for however long and every individual is different. So just because you know I've read about you know whatever this variant of lupus in you know in in in this book this this person knows their body and it is important to teach and it is important you know teach the the residents and teach myself like you have to listen. >> Yes and right and it's the reminder that patients have an enormous amount to teach us. >> Oh my goodness. So much so much. We had um we had um Julie on um last week and she was talking about how um she's been been uh uh enduring stage four colon cancer for like seven years and she was saying that what she really appreciates appreciates about her physicians is when they just admit when they don't know something. Yeah. Right. And she knows an enormous amount, you know. So I think that's such an important reminder whether you're in the hospital or out out of the hospital patients. I mean Exactly. Especially when they've had chronic illnesses and or we can learn together. >> Yeah. I actually try to be very clear about that. Not just in terms of, you know, admitting if I don't know something. I have no problem doing that at all. Um, but being clear with patients like this aspect of whatever it is, it's clear. We know we know what's going on here. Here's the plan with it. We're really really trying to still work this out. We're not sure what's going on here. Because I think for a patient it's important to un to understand that in addition to I think you know a little bit of reassurance of being like oh they're not you know pretending like they know everything like you know um one thing I think you know um we we first of all I love talking hospital jargon because you shouldn't have to go to medical school to enjoy some of it. So, um, one of the words that come up a lot that seem like buzzwords, but I think that they're out there in the mainstream, in the news are are quality and safety. And those seem like hospital buzzwords, um, but I think when I think about, you know, translating them, even for myself, I think about, you know, this is about helping our patients feel better faster, you know, with fewer complications and making sure that we as the physicians are catching problems early. And so I I'm hopeful that, you know, by educating our our patients and listeners a little bit about just a kind of a couple of these quality and safety basics that that might help them also just be attuned to better partnering with the medical teams and asking questions. Do you think that this are quality and safety um aspects are important for um patients and families? I mean of course um you know interestingly back to you know how we started um the the idea quality really came into um medical care only kind of as recently as as the late 90s and by that by that I mean really developing a um a culture of sort of continuous quality improvement process improvement and optimizing safety um and hospitalists are actually really at the forefront of partnering with um health system administration to develop processes in the hospital to keep people safe. I would love to say that any patient that comes into the hospital only has to worry about getting over their disease. Um unfortunately there's all kinds of things that can happen you know in hospitals. Patients can fall um and sustain injuries. they can get, you know, um um uh infections that they acquire in the hospital. Um all of these that's what we mean when we refer to patient safety. We we mean keeping the patient safe for all those things apart from their you know disease process. You know, making sure that they get the intended procedure, the intended medication at the appropriate dose. People have heard about the um >> uh what was the that hepin overdose in um uh uh I forget the the the there was a actor who had his kids got you know a heperin overdose many years ago >> which is a blood thinner right too much blood thinning. Yes. >> Right. Exactly. So there's all kinds of there's all kinds of you know potential errors and what we need to do as hospitalists and as health system is understand that we cannot just rely on you know all humans error >> right >> that does not that that that does not make them flawed but we need to develop systems of care around you know humans to make sure that those errors don't reach a patient. So that's why, for example, when you're in a hospital and you get um a medication given to you, um we scan your barcode on your wrist to make sure you're the right patient and we also say something like, you know, the nurse will say, you know, even though you've seen this nurse the entire time, they'll say, can you let me know your name? And you'll say, Eve Glazier. Yes. And you might in your head be thinking, why is she asking she not remember my name? Like she's been taking care of me for three days. No, it's to make sure that we have a system so you are getting the the care that is intended and it's appropriate for you. If that if that makes sense. >> It makes so much sense and I think it's it's it's enormously helpful. I think not only just as an explanation, but it's just reassuring to know that yes, hospitals are very busy. They're complex, but that little tiny misses can really snowball. And so like like right you're saying whether it's a missed allergy whether it's a medication dosage um but knowing that you as an individual hospitalist as a group of hospitalists and then the larger healthcare administration is just constantly and I know that they are constantly dedicated to improving the system of care so that these tiny misses don't happen and there's no that there's no unavoidable harm. >> Yeah. And so when you know when I patients should absolutely feel empowered yes >> to to speak up about anything that they are worried about anything that's concerning to them. You know I had a tray brought into my room and it's the wrong type of diet or you know whatever it is. Do not feel that you can't bring that to light. We absolutely want to know about it. And there's a phrase that's used which is called a culture of safety. And that's something that we really work hard to instill throughout the hospital which is no one needs to everybody should feel empowered to speak up when they see something that is not going right to to what we call stop the line. It doesn't matter if it's the physician, the nurse, you know, anyone on the care team, you know, the the the the the diet tech, the person who's bringing in the tray. >> This person's diabetic. This doesn't look like the right. >> You stop the line. And, you know, we all respect that. We all no one is no one is is is um pointing fingers or placing blame. We are all working together to create systems to keep our patients and and our colleagues and everyone who works there safe. Um I mean I I think while it's a little bit overwhelming to also worry about right like falling and you know complications on the other hand I think it's right it's so much better just to say look these are things we're let's name what we're worried about and let's come up with systems to >> prevent um >> uh there's another word that we use a lot called outcomes you know and I think um I don't know if you could maybe go into a little bit of that and only especially in so far as that it's helpful to patients and families um I think it would be helpful just especially kind of some of the levers that we use in the hospital so that the patients do better. >> So, um we were talking before about safety. You also mentioned the word quality. >> Quality correlates a little bit more with with outcomes. Safe safety does as well. But when we think of outcomes, we think about let's say for we track so much data. Let's say for our transplant population, what's our uh one-year mortality rate for patients who have had liver transplants? What's our 10-year mortality rate? Same thing for all of our, you know, transplants. We do that for basically almost every, you know, diagnosis. We do it at the hospital level. We do it at the, you know, unit level. Um, so if if the outcomes the outcome is >> an example of an outcome would be that, you know, one-year mortality following a following a um a transplant. By that I mean essentially the percentage of patients that are still living a year after their their their transplant if that makes sense. Same thing for 10 years out whatever. >> Um we want to continuously improve our outcomes. >> We also want to understand where we're falling short of our the outcomes that we anticipate or that we want. Um and so we need to understand the root cause for those shortfalls and address them. You know, are we, you know, do we have the same, let's think about something that, you know, might be all over the hospital, congestive heart failure. >> Are we having, you know, worse outcomes on one unit or the other? Are we having worse outcomes for um some demographic or the other? Are we have, you know, whatever it is? And then why is that? And how can we address that? Yeah, >> I'm just in such admiration. I mean I mean not only as I think again I've been a patient in the hospital but you know my family has too to know that you the hospitals group the hospital is always just obsessively obsessively diligent right about making things as good as they can be and then continuously improving I think is just something that it's really important to share. Yeah, I mean and one thing we actually do this is within my you know my own hospitalist group is we really going to the outcomes we really like to learn from each other and so we will essentially you know track individual data even outcome data let's say um one metric or metric means like a um we can think of it as an outcome that that we like to that we like to look at is the percentage of patients that we discharge who we send out of the hospital who are readmitted back to the hospital within 30 days. >> We want that number to be low, right? We want them to to to discharge from the hospital and we want them to, you know, thrive and do great and not have to come back. >> If they're coming back soon, you know, that's that, you know, maybe we didn't do the right thing at maybe we didn't educate them well enough at discharge. Maybe there was, you know, some clinical thing that was missed. You know, a million a million things that could be going on. >> But we will we we track that across our group. And if we have somebody who for example has a you know 7% readmission rate where the most of the group have a 15% readmission rate we'll say hey what are you doing how can we learn from you let's really like hear what you're doing and maybe we can sort of disseminate it across the group. So we do it at the level of the hospital we do it at the level of the group sort of on all kind of levels. >> No I I mean I love it. Um, I mean, those are honestly the best parts of being at an academic center. But you're, you know, the hospitals group in general, I think, is just a real paradigm, I think, of this model of of just getting better and doing better by our patients. >> Um, couple myths and misconceptions. Maybe you and I can both go through these, but um, uh, myth, my primary care doctor will round on me in the hospital. What's the reality today? you know >> um in most scenarios uh they do not um like we were saying before I think that you know the vast majority of inpatient care now is done by done by hospitalist now there may be scenarios where your primary care doctor is able to you know pay a visit that's it just kind of depends on the on the scenario but I would say for the most part that doesn't happen I did want to mention it's important you know to to um uh reassure though you know your audience that it's not like we only touch base with the primary care doctor when the patient comes into the hospital when they leave. It's really as much as you know as much as as needed, you know, and often, you know, a phone call is is the best way to do it to really be talking about it. Hey, I'm worried about this, you know, what's your experience with this person? You know, what are you concerned about? Do you have any recommendations for how we might handle that? So it's it's it's potentially a ongoing conversation with the to you know connecting the hospitalist and the and the PMD but an impatient visit by the primary care doctor they often can't they might not be near the hospital they're in their clinic all day. I mean you can comment on that. >> No absolutely I mean right so I mean if I my clinic is in where I practice is in Santa Monica. So sure if if one of my patients is hospitalized across the street what I usually do is sure I might go across and visit them. And then what I really like to do is remind the patient and their families that my colleague Dr. Busatil is taking care of them. We're constantly in communication and I agree and endorse your plan. You know what I mean? Which, you know what I mean? So that everyone feels reassured. We're all on the same page and then I'm ready for you when you're discharged to come see me as followup once once you're out of the hospital. >> Um, and I do think that, you know, that endorsement, that community endorsement helps. But now granted the Santa Monica hospital is right across the street from the clinic where I practice. But you know here at UCLA we have like 290 clinics. They're all over the place. So that's not always feasible. But that's where I think um patients might be reassured to know as as you were mentioning we have part of the electronic record is I can see I can actually see the patient's vital signs, the nursing notes, the x-rays, everything that are that's done in the hospital and I can see and I say I'm following along as well. >> Yeah. How do you um build trust? I mean, so I have, you know, I have these longitudinal relationships as a PMD, primary medical doctor, PCP. Um how do you um build trust with patients? Um because that's some kind of one some of the myths which is that oh this hospital doesn't know me well. How are they going to care for me? >> Yeah. I mean it's tough, right? Well, first of all, we've talked so much about communication. Um the most important part of that communication is listening. >> Yeah. you know, so um that you really need to, you know, listen to a person's concerns and and what's going on with them and you really need to that's part of also sitting down spending, you know, the time that can be and you know, making sure that I think it's a lot of everything we talked about, you know, explaining making sure we're both agree what the goal of our hospitalization is. It is though it's a skill that hospitalists really need to, you know, learn and continually work on because you got to get in there immediately. You don't necessarily know this person. They're in this really, you know, potentially really vulnerable and potentially critical state and you got to get in there and quickly have hard discussions with them, you know. So I guess I don't have an easy answer for the for that one other than really making sure that you have a wellfunctioning birectional >> um you know uh open lines of communication with them. And sometimes you can't just jump in and be, you know, heavy-handed with stuff. Maybe never you should be heavy-handed, but you know, everybody's different. Everybody's had different experiences with the medical system. Some people, excuse me, have had really bad experiences and they have a lot of, you know, earned distrust, right? So, you need to just be thoughtful and um you know, uh uh um careful with with with those relationships. >> I mean, that's an amazing answer. Um one thing I just wanted to emphasize, and you've said this, but the myth is that discharge here's a myth. Discharge means I'm 100 100% better. >> No. >> Yes, it does not. the realistic time frame. Yes. >> And I think you know people can even think if they've had for example you know experiences with you know >> like let's take child birth you know which is a you know normal you know kind of hospitalization maybe not but you know um you don't feel great when you get home but also like most people I think they do want to get out of the out of the hospital. >> Yes. >> Um so yeah >> um I have to tell you it's amazing to sit across from you and Yes. having known you, you know, since you were like 12 years old and I'm like, "Oh my god, now you're this just an incredible adult. I'm just going to say it like you're an incredible physician and teacher and just person." Um I am curious, you know, um >> uh you know, from dance team to to residency to now. But why I mean, why did you become a hospitalist? >> Um I mean, I had a sort of I was never the kind of person who knew exactly what I wanted to do. I think I became a hospitalist because I I do like from a you know what I'm interested in medically, I do like the sort of more acute medical illnesses. >> Um I >> I like being able to sit down and empathize with people when they're in that vulnerable state and I hope >> make them feel, >> you know, comforted and safe. Um, I think it is such a privilege to really like bear witness to be allowed to bear witness to people when they're when they're, you know, kind of dealing with that. I mean, it's just I it's it's really kind of profound. Um, and then, you know, on maybe a less, you know, emotional level, um, I met physicians, mentors who I admired and decided to do what they did because I admired them. I mean that's kind of how I figured out some of my career trajectory whether it be on the you know clinical side by that I mean the medical you know taking care of patient side as well as you know the administrative roles that I do as well. So um we have a segment called from the rooftops. Um so if if um what would you want to shout from the rooftops I guess or wish that every patient and family knew who are going into the hospital? Um, your doctors are really there to help you um as much as they can and be your partner. Um, you know, you they they can't help you unilaterally, you know, it's it's a partnership. you know, we we want to work together, you know, with you um for whatever it is that your health goals are. And if we're on the wrong page, you let us know. Like, we need to be on the same page. Um and so we need we need we need we need that feedback and that that partnership. >> Um incredible. Um I um first of all, I want to thank you for coming on the podcast today. I think you've made hospitalist care totally make sense. I'm I also just want to thank you for the incredible role that you play at UCLA Health every day. Honestly, I just I mean I shouldn't be surprised but you know sometimes when you're close to someone you just don't realize or not that you don't realize but you're just so exceptional. I mean your patients are so lucky to have you the trainee as well. And I'm done complimenting you now. But um I will I think it goes without saying that if I'm ever admitted you're taking care of me. I will >> drive you crazy. I will page you non-stop um text you. Um, but thank you for coming on today and walking us through this. Um, to our audience, I want to say thanks for listening. Please share this episode for anyone navigating a hospital stay right now or honestly for all of us. I think all of us will be in a hospital at some point. >> Yeah. >> Um, any last words? >> Thank you so much. I am equally impressed. >> Um, >> um, some people drift apart after decades, but not not us. >> No, not us. Not us. We actually share a wall. Um, and we dress the same. Um, I'm Dr. E. Glazia. This is Medically Speaking. Thank you, Ashley, so much. >> Thank you.