Hi everyone, welcome to Medically Speaking. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier. Today we're exploring something that affects every single one of us and that's social care. It's an evolving term in health care and what it is is it's about everyday factors that shape our health. From the food that we eat, the homes we live in, who we live with to how we get appointments or manage financial stress. Healthcare is evolving, thank goodness. And part of that means looking beyond exam rooms and lab results. And it means caring for the whole person. To help us dig into this, I'm joined by my two incredible colleagues doing this work at the front lines. First, we've got Jasper Comp, a licensed clinical social worker and educator. Over 20 years of experience connecting the dots between mental health, equity, and system level change. He learn He leads our social work and care coordination efforts at UCLA Health. And honestly, you're just one of those people who just knows how to build systems that actually work for real people. Uh we also have Nikki Miller, our amazing chief of staff at the UCLA Health Faculty Practice Group. Nikki also leads these very big complex initiatives driving quality and health equity. And she with Jasper has been just crucial in shaping UCLA Health's approach to social care from embedding screening into clinical workflows to forging partnerships with community organizations. Jasper, Nikki, thank you for being here. I'm just thrilled and I'm just so glad we get to have this conversation. >> Thank you. >> Um, okay, let's just get right into the heart of today's episode. What is social care actually mean? And how does that really just show up in real life? >> Yeah, I think we can vibe. >> Yeah, absolutely. Let's do it. the two nice tables. You should go first. You should go first and both. >> Uh, and you know, this is something that Jasper and I really try to model, which is meeting our patients where they are or meeting our community where they are. And so, when we talk about social care, it's this model where our health systems are responding to the social needs of our population. And I think, you know, I'll defer to Jasper to really talk about the heart of it, which is our social workers, our community health workers, and how we're modeling that. >> Yeah. Social care has always been something that we've done as part of social work and and now community health workers have become such an important part of the work that we do. Um so we've always been concerned about the things around a patient's health. Um but now we have a more formal way of doing it and and we we take it like a vital sign, right? So we look at it as that like it's something just like any other health indicator. This is also part of your health and so we want to look at it that way. >> I love I love thinking about as a vital sign. Just for for our listeners who aren't necessarily in medicine, a vital sign is is you know when you go to your physician for example and you get your blood pressure taken, your pulse, you know, which is your heart rate, you know, what's your oxygenation? We always consider those those traditional vital signs. So this is a very powerful idea that your social care, your social needs, which I'd love to ask you to define in a minute, are also part of the essential part of how you are doing. So tell me a little bit about, you know, what what exactly do we mean when we say social needs? So 40 to 80% of the reason why patients don't get the care that they need is has nothing to do with the health care itself. It has everything to do with their lives. It has to do with do I have enough food to eat? Do I have the right foods to eat? Do I have transportation to get to my medical appointments or to other things that I need to do? What is my home life like? Is is my home safe? Um and so all of these types of things are are what we would refer to as social drivers of health. You'll sometimes hear them called social determinants of health, but at UCLA we're very deliberate about calling them drivers because we don't believe anything is determined. They can be intervened with and they can change. And we're seeing that on a daily basis in the work that we're doing together. So, it's really anything in your life that isn't necessarily direct medical care, but that could contribute to your health. >> Um, I love that. I'm obsessed about language and and semantics. And so yes, sometimes I think in the news, you know, we hear about social determinance and Nikki and I talk about this a lot as being that's so fatalistic sounding. It means it makes it seem like you can't change these things, but drivers are just sounds like Yeah. No, we have we we have um influence. We can we can change these important um things. Um you going to say anything else about social needs though? Yeah, I was going to say, you know, how we've also conceptualized it is >> beyond the exam room. >> And so it's access to these resources or to these systems that support your overall health. And that's something that we really try to embed in our care. And that's something how we conceptualize our community is that you're impacted by where you live, your environment, things that sometimes you can't change but are influenced by it. And so we want to build these systems that allow for that support to be the healthiest person that you can be. >> Well, I would imagine too, I mean it's um it's your current health, right? You know, based on right your environment, your genetics, your education, but also how you will do based on some of these factors. So it makes me think of for example um during the co 19 pandemic, right? um for a lot of our um patients, our colleagues who lived, let's say, in um housing situations where there was a lot of people, right, that really changed your exposure, right? So all those advice, you know, and recommendations, you know, quarantine, you know, isolate. Well, if you're living with like, you know, lots of people in your household, those things aren't real recommendations, but certainly then influence if you're going to maybe in this case get right an illness and then how you'll fare. >> Yeah. Especially these multigenerational homes. We saw that like you said during the co9 pandemic when we had to isolate which is you have multigenerational homes with many people and it's not just the burden of illness it's the burden of the stress and so something that we talk about a lot is it's not just about transportation and access to you know um a stable home it's also stress and trauma and things that you know might not be elicited in your normal screening but that's something that we're really trying to model whole person care >> I mean I love um the phrase whole person care and um I'd love to dig into that a little bit. What does that mean to you Jasper? Well, I mean, it's something that and as a social worker, you learn in school right off the bat is we look at the person and the person in environment, right? So, we look at not just the person themselves individually, but who are they related to, who are they in connection with, where do they live, what resources do they have? And so, when we look at whole person care, we're not just looking at them as a collection of medical diagnoses, right? Or or as something we need to treat, um, but in fact, someone that we're here to partner with and help provide support to. And and Nikki, any thoughts about whole person care for you? >> Yeah, I always contextualize it with, you know, when we think from a public health perspective, just from my training, it was thinking about how influencers influence your lifestyle. And so when we think about medical >> I noticed that you pointed out >> the podcast. >> Exactly. and how you know really how we how we've started to conceptualize it too is that um outside of the four walls what can we do to look at you as an individual because to your point it's not just a condition it's your lifestyle and so these environmental factors we can ensure that we're meeting your needs so that you can be the best in the best health I should say. Yeah. Well, I would imagine too that the amount of time you spend within the four walls of an exam room are minuscule, right? Compared to how you're spending your life, right? >> So, when you say beyond the exam room, I mean really that's I mean when I see my patients, right? And again, I'm a primary care doc and I love my longitudinal relationships with my patients. You know, I really I like to think that I approach, you know, my patients with a whole person lens, but I'm still only seeing them, right, for a kind of c in a circumscribed, you know, environment, right? Lots of times people are on their best behavior, right? Sometimes depending on parking. Um or you know, for example, um you know what I mean? A lot of times people even dress up for appointments, right? Or they, you know, uh groom especially for appointments. And again, I'm only seeing them in a a specific glimpse, right? In a very controlled environment. But I mean, I'm always blown away and maybe you could get a little bit into um the statistics about people's health outcomes, how they do, I mean, are mostly determined, I'm guessing, not just by the clinical care, meaning the care that they get where I'm prescribing, right, their blood pressure medications, but by everything else in their lives. >> Yeah. And we talk about how we're also trying to hold ourselves accountable when we're providing social care to our community and our patients, holding ourselves accountable to the metrics. And so do you want to talk about that? >> Yeah. No, it's it's really exciting. I think initially to your point like one of the beautiful things about the program that we've designed at least in the ambulatory interventions is that it includes a field-based component which means we'll go to patients homes, we'll meet them in offices, we'll meet them at community- based organizations. So, and there's so much that you learn about people when you're in their environment, right? And you meet them where they're at. So, it's a very exciting new thing that we've been doing. And um patients are, you know, have a mixed reaction to that. Some people don't want you up in their business and that's fine too. We can talk to you on the phone, but we also love to get where people are. Um, but but some of the initial stuff, I mean, we we look at things like are we keeping people from having to go to the emergency room, right? Because nobody likes to do that, right? So, if we can help keep people healthier, they can avoid those things like hospitalizations or ED visits. But even more than that, there's some initial data that we're looking at so far that is indicating that we're helping people close their care gaps, which means they're getting preventative care um in more more than the folks that we haven't intervened with, which is exciting, which means we're getting ahead of that. We're helping them stay healthier, which we love. Um and then also for patients that have diabetes, we're seeing that their A1c, which is a measure, well, you can explain that. you're the doctor, but it's it's a measure of of your blood sugar over time. Um, and it helps to to tell us how they're doing. And those have improved uh at least from our initial initial data so far in in the patients that we've been providing food interventions for. Um, which is exciting because when you when you have diabetes, you you want and need to eat a little bit differently. So, can we provide you with tailored meals? Can we give you nutrition education and things like that? So, uh, it's super exciting. It's very initial, but uh but we're excited about what we're seeing so far. >> And we're also seeing at least from the inpatient side, high rates of folks, you know, having a financial strain. And that could be financial strain of medical bills. That could be financial strain about paying rent. That could be financial strain that, you know, having to choose between rent or your medical bills. Yeah. >> And so >> you see that a lot >> and that's actually the most prevalent domain as we call it a social need >> on the ambulatory side too. >> And ambulatory just for our listeners >> means in the world >> in the world meaning that you're not in the hospitalized. Okay. No no exactly. I'm like thank you in the real world. Yeah. >> When you see your primary care. >> Yeah. Okay. Okay. Right. Okay. So that actually is the number one >> that is the number >> most reported >> and I think you know a lot of people are experiencing that especially right now. So something our social workers are doing and our community health workers are trying to do is viably as we like to call it connect folks to community resources >> in a real way >> in a real way. So if they don't have housing or they have unstable housing or they're food insecure you know our wonderful social workers and community health workers from the hospital to the clinic to the community that they're living in. So we really look for folks that are in the community and embed our workers in the community. they're really trying to connect them to those resources. >> So you mentioned um screening. So and um you know we've talked on this show about like screening for for example certain diseases right so looking for let's say colon can cancer or breast cancer in the absence of having any symptoms like so I go and get a mammogram not because I have a lump in my breast but because I want to make sure there isn't there that I something that I can't see but something that can be detected early. So you mentioned screening for these social drivers or screening for social needs and then you mentioned kind of interventions but let's just talk about screening first like how are we screening you know for for social needs. >> I'm going to defer to my clinician over here. >> So so uh on the ambulatory side um we have over a half a million patients in primary care at UCLA health and so it's we we had to come up with something that was sustainable. We wanted to address assess and address their needs on a routine basis once a year. That was our goal. Um and so we target our patients in primary care. And what happens is 7 days before their primary care appointment in the my chart portal which is the is the interface that we use that is encrypted so that your information is private. Okay. Um and you can communicate with your physician through it. You can get lab results through it. So, in that portal, when you go to check in for your appointment, there's one question that says, "We'd like to ask you some questions about your basic needs like food, transportation, etc., and offer you support if you need it. Are you interested in participating?" And if they say no, they're done. And they'll see the question again in another year. But if they say yes, then they get 10 questions across six different domains um that ask them about food, transportation, social isolation, housing, utilities. Uh I'm forgetting one. Um, but they get those questions and so if they say yes, they want to participate and a a need is identified, we we've created the medical record system so that it automatically tease them up so that our community health workers and social workers are ready and will see it appear on their dashboard and they will reach out to the patient. But wait, not all patients pay attention to apps and to my chart. Right. >> Right. Of course. >> So we have exception reports. So any patients that don't respond to the survey get a phone call from our team and we offer them the same question or questions and we will manually enroll them in the program if needed. Um and then we also do some other manual enrollment. We've had some amazing stories so far. We've been doing this a little over a year and we had one example where we went to see one patient who was seen for the the um who responded and and wanted some help. We did a home visit. Turned out their spouse was also a patient and also had needs. So we manually enrolled them and we're helping them as well. So it's it's exciting. I think what what what can be tough though is when we show up in the home and they have friends or loved ones that aren't part of our health system and they're like, "Can you help this friend too?" And we don't ignore those folks. We slip them resources and information. But I think the the thing that that Nikki said that I really want to underscore that's so important is is so often in in healthcare settings and in community settings when you express a need, they'll give you a list of things and say, "Good luck." Um we did not want to do that. And so our goal is to stay connected until the patient gets their needs met. That's the goal. Um and sometimes that's a couple of days the patients, you know, because a lot of our patients are younger and they're just they didn't know about these resources and they're happy to to jump in and and take the initiative to get it. But if we have someone, for example, that needs caregiving in the home and can't afford it and they may be eligible for medical, we'll help them apply for medical and we'll stay connected until they're approved and we'll help them try to find a caregiver. Right? So, we've stayed engaged with people for 4 to 6 months if we need to. Our average is more like 14 to 21 days, but um but again, the goal is to make sure that patients get their needs met. >> I I think this is incredible. I mean, first of all, what the two of you have have built at UCLA is absolutely amazing. It's crucial. It's the cornerstone of of care. And again, I'll say it since I don't think you said it yet, but said it yet, but basically 70% of health outcomes, how people do are based on their social needs and how how well that they're met. And as a clinician, right, I might say like, "Oh my gosh, that's so humbling. Only like 30% like what I do is like contributes to how how well they do." I think it's amazing and it makes sense, right? And I mean just on the most basic level, if I if I just prescribe from the four little walls of my um exam room, oh, here's the blood pressure medication, but they don't my patient doesn't have the transportation to get it. >> Exactly. >> Right. And that's just transportation. >> Let alone find, you know, the financial means. Well, then that was a completely pointless clinical interaction or intervention. And so I I can't imagine thinking about medicine without all of these things being interdependent, interdigitated. Exactly. And I feel incredibly proud on behalf of you of of what you've of what you've built here. Um but yes, I mean I I I do want to ask you uh maybe in a minute about you know what about if you're not part of a health system yet and you have um social needs, but let me first ask you about interventions. So we talked about screening. Um again I'll say as a clinician I mean it used to feel terrible to me right to be like oh you're hungry and then be like write it down in a note and have no idea what to do with that information. I mean, it's helpless, hopeless, and just very demoralizing. So, um, it feels incredible to have this acknowledgement that social needs are healthare needs, right? This is not an add-on. Social needs are healthare needs, right? >> The same way you need your blood pressure and taken care of, you need food and nutritious food, right? >> So, tell me a little bit about um since it sounds like we have um screening both inatient, which means if you're hospitalized, right, and if you're ambulatory, which means ever in the world. Um so tell me a little bit about the interventions that you know that you you both have been building. >> If I could rewind too to just talk about hospitals. So even in the hospital and you know we were really progressive with identifying that just because you're seeing your primary care physician and you have social needs there doesn't mean that you don't have social needs in the hospital. >> That's right. That's right. And so globally across the health system and what we've actually you know heard across the nation because it's becoming more prominent in health systems is screening isn't just happening between you and your primary care physician it's happening in the hospital too. And so we also partnered with our hospital colleagues to make sure anytime you're admitted, whether you're um a pediatric patient, so parents or caregivers of any pediatric patient or an adult or elder adult or caregiver, you're going to receive um resources wherever you are in the health system. >> Yeah. >> And so, you know, maybe you want to talk about the resources and valuable connection. >> Yeah. So, well, again, one of the things that we've spent a lot of time on and and I have to give a shout out to all of our social workers, uh, both on the inatient and ambulatory side as well as our community health workers. We we created and amassed a huge database of resources across the community. So, we work uh closely together and we refresh that regularly. We make that available to all of our all of our anybody who works at UCLA Health so they can provide it to patients in real time. Um, but we we call upon that. We also use a platform called find help. We have a community resources website actually that anyone can access on the UCLA website. So you would just go to your browser and enter community resources UCLA health. Boom, there you'll be. You enter your zip code and there's all kinds of resources that are available for you there. So we use a a number of different platforms, but we also leverage relationships that we have throughout the community. And in fact, we're very fortunate at UCLA Health because we have some really generous donors that also can help out in a pinch when patients are having a really difficult time and can build bridges, financial bridges for folks when they're having a crisis. So, we're we're very fortunate. I mean, it is a challenging time for everyone from a resource perspective. Um but but we have an amazing team of folks both in both uh inpatient and ambulatory where we have deep relationships in the community and all these agencies that do this work and and Nikki and her team are developing those even more deeply and more formally. Uh we had uh we had a food intervention that's been very successful so far that we're I think we're looking at expanding. I hope we're looking at >> yeah tell me tell me about the food intervention. >> Yeah. So, something that we're trying to also create is this model of a community care hub. And it's because we know that you're not just coming to see your doctor and you're staying in the same location. You're going to go home and get the resources you need within your neighborhood. >> And not everybody lives in West LA. And to make sure that you can get the resources you need, we've started to bridge that gap of meeting community- based organizations where they are. And so ensuring that our resources aren't just localized to UCLA Health, that they're in the region where you live. And so with the uh regional food banks, what we've done is crafted a way in which if we identify a patient or even a community member because we can share resources with food insecurity or they're not getting their needs met that we can make referrals. And I mean this kind of goes into also talking about our community and also destigmatizing. >> Yes. Getting food from a food bank or getting food from a food pantry. And something that we try to do is be sensitive to that. And so we also understand that in doing so we craft this relationship with these community based organizations that are embedded in the community that know the community that can speak to our patients in a way that meets them where they are. So if they're feeling like I don't want to share this information that I have these food needs that we partner with people that are sensitive to that >> that's very powerful and probably a lot more effective sometimes. >> Sometimes >> right and acknowledging too I know that you know we we give this screening once a year but I'm guessing again knowing the two of you that there's ample opportunity at many points you know through um touch points where you can raise if you need help. >> Yes. >> Yeah. Absolutely. Well, and one of the beautiful things about the the social care program that we've rolled out that we're talking primarily about today is that it's not a program in isolation. In addition to the inpatient and ambulatory interventions, we also have primary care social work. So, the SDO program is just sort of running in the background. We wanted to have this uh automated so that our physicians and their office staff didn't have to ask these questions and didn't have to try to figure out interventions in between all the appointments and the other work that they're doing with patients in clinic. So this is all running in the background but it's not you can't refer patients to it but that's why we have primary care social work along with it so that if a physician says oh wait a minute patient told me this great refer and then we have a team of social workers that will intervene and we have a care coordinators who are administrative staff members that can help patients navigate the health system as well. So if they're having trouble getting an appointment or figuring something else out they can also help them. So so we we have a pull and a push opportunity for folks. And I will say that anybody that's been involved with any of our programs, we have a fairly sub significant >> rate. When you when you get a social worker or a community health worker that has been helpful, they don't lose that number. So, and that's great. We love it. >> It's so meaningful. >> I mean, you really makes me think that, you know, really the cornerstone of healthcare is really right the is is the social care. Have you have you felt surprised by sometimes how um how meaningful you know these interventions can be? >> You know when we first launched this I mean we tried to launch it multiple times. It's >> understandable that you know in order to build these systems of care the engagement of the care team and the trust to be there. And so we did a lot of work to make sure that not only does the care team trust us but that we establish that relationship with our patients. And so >> when you can you go into a little bit about what a care team when you care >> when I when we talk about care team anybody that's taking care of you in the health system. So it could be your primary care physician if you have a specialist. Let's say you have diabetes and you have an endocrinologist >> your social worker your community health worker. We're wrapped around you. Even the staff in the clinic from the front desk to the back office when we're talking back office you know the clinic manager. Everybody is trying to support your care. And so we wanted to make a meaningful impact not only to our patients but to ensure that we meet the needs of our staff. And so they were bringing up to and I guess to your question you know it's not just the patients the staff >> yes >> have really provided us this feedback that they're seeing an impact in how patients even verbalize the needs because this is this is a topic that not everybody feels comfortable with. Everybody has social needs but it doesn't mean that they're comfortable talking about. Mhm. That's so interesting when you say verbalized needs. It reminds me that it's almost like we have to learn a new language, right? >> To sort of not just talk about ourselves and our needs, but how to talk about them. And um you mentioned, you know, dstigmatizing, you know, these needs. And I I think unfortunately that there probably is like this um belief that social care is only for certain types of people, people in crisis, people who are experiencing homelessness or poverty. And I'm guessing, but you tell me that that's not the case, that everyone has social needs. >> No. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And I think yes, everybody does at every part of the socioeconomic stratus. So it doesn't matter if you're in living in poverty or you have a lot. Um, everybody has social needs. And I think part of the challenge and I think part of the stigma is that there there's a pervasive feeling that I'm a failure because I have these needs. And the reality is everybody got these needs. Like everybody got these needs. has a life that they're living. >> Yeah, absolutely. And we all need help. >> It's actually validating and comforting, right? And it certainly is brings us together. >> Yeah. Absolutely. And I think that's part of the beauty of having community health workers and social workers that come from these communities that are in these neighborhoods that know these resources that look like the people in these communities as well is so important because they can build instant trust in a way that maybe you and I couldn't as quickly, right? Um it would take us longer. And so I think that's also been a big benefit as well. >> Yeah. And I think that what our care team, so our physicians, our social workers, our community health workers do so beautifully is establishing that trust and even the transparency. And to your point about language, it really is >> using language to make people feel comfortable describing what it means to have food insecurity because it could mean a spectrum of things. It could mean that you don't have access to healthy food because and you have let's say diabetes or a chronic condition or you don't have a financial means for food. And so it really is meeting those patients where they are and changing the language and even the perception of what social needs are because how I used to think about it when I was in graduate school wasn't how I conceptualized it now in these systems of care. >> How did you used to think about it? you know very similar which is like it's a socioeconomic spectrum or gradient and those that are lower on the soioeconomic scale is that those are the people that have the most needs but actually in the 15 years that I've been in healthcare it has significantly changed and you can speak to even that gradient itself is that >> at at each part of the gradient somebody has a need >> and it's okay to have needs right and we can do something about your needs >> completely absolutely and I think you know and I I think you know this is where I get on my soap box and talk about mental health care in addition to social care because they are intrinsically related. You show me someone who is having any kind of medical concern and you are showing me someone who necessarily could have depression or anxiety if not only about that uh particular medical concern but other things as well. So there's lots of things there and and I think we all are familiar with how difficult it is to try to find a therapist and to get connected to a therapist and one of the reasons why we felt it was so important to have social workers involved in this work and not only community health workers is because of that mental health care component. Most people don't realize that licensed clinical social workers are mental health clinicians. They are therapists. Um they may they may not be your therapist in that role but they bring all those skills to bear and those sensitivities to bear as well. And so we we really and and that's one of the things that I love about the way the programs have been designed is that even though we start by asking you about these six domains, everything is on the table, right? So if it turns out if it turns out that you're depressed and you need a therapist, we going to get on that, right? We we will do whatever we can to help support you with those things as well. So so it isn't just limited to those areas, but we're we really again want to support the whole person. >> That's a springboard at least for those conversations. I mean, I think that's so important. Um, everyone has social needs. Um, I'm wondering too how we can normalize those conversations about the needs. I mean, what have you found that's been an effective way to, I guess, communicate again with people from all walks of life about just normalizing the fact that we all have needs and again that we can do something about those needs and also again we're evolving. You might not have not have a need today, but you might later, >> right? One of the most important things that I think we have as health care teams, regardless of role, >> is to hold hope for patients who've lost theirs >> and to continue to point to that hope. >> Oh my gosh. >> Because we lose hope. We don't know what's available to us and and we feel alone and isolated and and I think of all the things that we do, that's probably what excites me the most is being to show up and to validate and say, "Hey, this is hard and I'm sorry you're having to go through this, but you're not alone and let's come alongside you and see what we can figure out together >> and hold hope." >> Yeah. >> It's so interesting. Sometimes in my practice, I'll have people who um are having, you know, a lot of depressive feelings and it I actually do feel this very sincerely and I say, "I know you can feel better." Um and it does I think sometimes it takes that person next to you to say, "I'll hold the hope, you know, but I'll hold your hand through this." But I mean, what incredible, incredible work that you do. And I'll just say again, too, I've seen again from the quote medical standpoint, although I'm going to posit that medical, mental, social care is all part of the same clinical care and healthcare. Um, but I do see that sometimes, you know, again, I might ask a patient and, you know, say, "You need to eat better, right? Or your, you know, your hemoglobin A1c, your diabetes is is is out of control. You need to eat more plant-based um organic fruit and vegetables." And how flippant is that, right? To be like, I'm going to assume that you can go to that farmers market that you whatever, I don't even know what your job situation is. Go to that farmers market and often pay for more expensive food that is more nutritious, right? So, that might happen. Or often sometimes people feel I am too depressed to take this cholesterol medication that you want me to take. Right. So again all of these things are interrelated and the outcomes depend on all of these variables. >> And we always talk about how there is an intersection of need. So here there is an intersection between your chronic conditions and your mental health. And if you're too depressed to get to your doctor's office to get the care you need, >> plus you don't have the transportation, >> how then can you get the care that you need to be at the best health? >> Barrier on top of barrier on top of barrier. >> And to your point, then you lose hope. >> So do you feel I have to ask you both. I mean, so do you feel overwhelmed when you, you know, come across somebody who has all these barriers? I mean, tell me how you approach >> or do you just feel hopeful because you actually can do something? >> We we can feel overwhelmed, too. >> I'm just so empowered, you know. Yeah, I think because there are a lot of systems in place that make you feel that you can't overcome them. >> But with this team approach, I have felt that at every turn, >> right, >> that there is somebody or some place in the community >> that there is care. >> So on the flip side of barriers, there's community and teams >> and hopes >> and hope >> and creating that momentum. >> Yeah. >> And we see it nationwide. I mean, even CMS or the centers of Medicare and Medicaid have moved towards looking at social needs and how they impact your overall health outcomes. And even the state of California and looking at those that are covered by medical or Medicaid as it's nationally known, they're looking at these very strategically because they know overall it impacts your health and how you're going to get healthare. >> And so, Sure. >> I mean, overall, it's really the team that I feel the hope for. >> Yeah. You know, I I think when we look at a specific situation, we we're fortunate that we know the resources that are out there. And that's part of what gives us hope is that we've got we've got things up our sleeves, right? Which is great. So, like for example, you may have insurance, an insurance plan, or even if you have medical or Medicaid, um you have benefits that you probably don't even know about, right? So, we start with that and say, listen, let's dig in and see what you got, right? And then we can look at community- based organizations. And then we can look and and we love coming from a strength-based approach because patients have so much resilience. And it is and sometimes all you have to do is remind them of that, right? Is to say, "Hey, I see this strength in you. I see this. Look at all you've overcome so far." Right? Um this is just another thing. Let's get let's get it. Let's figure it out. Right? And so I think that's another piece of it is always holding that that strength-based approach looking for what's going right looking for how we can build on that is is another big piece of the puzzle. I think that could bridge off that too and something that you mentioned earlier which is what if you're not a part of our health system and you mentioned our platform there are ways in which you can screen yourself >> and those are online on our platform and that allows you to determine yourself and take that agency that we want to give you to determine what resources do I need to feel better or to get myself to a place of confidence and hope. I think that seems to be the thing >> and then you and we really try to promote that across all our platforms to really talk about, you know, and you don't have to be our patient, >> but we're a part of your community >> and so we really want to share this with you because we want you to be the best that you can be and feel good about yourself and these are the resources. >> Yeah, that's so important. I mean, I gosh, I feel like our patients are so incredibly lucky, all of our teams, to have the two of you, your teams. Um but yes it does. I want to make sure that you know for you know those of our listeners who let's say that are not even patients in any health system right but to even have awareness about what social needs are how it contributes to your overall needs and your your overall well-being right and and health care. Um it reminds me because I really want to you know encourage everyone to advocate for themselves right in in any space. What is, you know, is there any advice you would want to give anybody, you know, when they go to see a primary care doctor, if they go see their high school principal, you know, a guidance counselor, their therapist or not therapist or, you know, their pastor, their rabbi, what's is there any recommendations about how to voice give voice to, you know, these concerns or how to advocate for themsel? >> Yeah, >> go ahead. I mean I yeah I the first thing is like to the biggest hurdle is that shame is that is that fear that we have um and the reality is and I I love that you use the word advocate because the truth is that people who advocate for themselves or their loved ones get better care period it's just the way it works um it's part of why I became a social worker is in order to advocate for people right and so I always encourage people to advocate for um for what they need um and sometimes that's as simple as saying hey I think I could use some help. >> Um, right. I might you might not even know what help is. Right. But just saying, "Hey, I think I could use some support here or some some help here. Would you be willing to talk with me about it?" Right. >> Yeah. And that's not weakness. It's actually an enormous amount of strength. >> Yeah. Well, courage is the keystone, right? So, just having that much courage to be able to bring that up could open the doors, right? Because the reality is you don't know. And and it's not your fault that you don't know. Um, you don't know what we don't know, right? And so whether it be community resources or insurance resources, it's like um there's all kinds of things out there that you just don't know about. Listen, one of the reasons why I love what we do um from office staff to community health workers to care coordinators to whatever is that I have a hard time keeping track of everything that we have available in our health system, right? >> Let and so if I were a patient on the outside, I have no idea what's going on. So hard to navigate. >> Absolutely. So just saying, "Hey, I think I could use some support here." That is enough. And you know, you're you you know, and in even in the community settings that you mentioned, whether it be in a faith community or or a community center or, you know, whatever, just say, "Hey, listen. I think I could use some support. I'm not even sure what's available or what what all I need, but can you help me?" >> Yeah, >> I'm going to hitch on to that. And also maybe just a lot um just bring to the top that anything that you share with your physician or clinicians that's protected health information. >> If any information is shared that's for us to provide you services to provide the care that you need. And I think that there is stigma of sharing that with your physicians or sharing that with anybody on your care team still. And so it's really finessing that language that we use, emphasizing whole person care that the this impacts your care, but also emphasizing for those listeners. >> Anything in your medical record. >> It's protected. It's protected. And we want to personalize your care, right? We recognize that you are not a generic number, right? And I'm I'm guessing too that if someone whether you ask the question right during screening and and people respond or if someone is able to voice a need that one question one need identified then be gets more conversation more dialogue right and I'm hoping and I'm guessing more needs met >> absolutely yeah it is it is amazing to me like we see this a lot in primary care social work where the physician will refer for one thing and we'll get to know the patient and be like oh there's actually a couple of other things that we could help with too. That happens in in the social care program as well. Um is we it it is kind of like a treasure hunt, right? You're like, "Okay, so you have this issue, but then it also means so it sounds like your home life is is kind of tough, right? Let's talk about that. Can we give you some support there as well?" So, >> and that's only going to come out with more conversation and definitely trust. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, and you know, we and when we train all of our new staff members, we talk about the importance of listening. It's such an important piece of it. And I always quote my grandmother as she used to say, "God gave you two ears and one mouth for a reason. You should be listening twice as much as you're talking." And I love that. >> I love it. I need to hear that many times. What else? Um, wait, let me um What else do you do you tell the trainee about listening? >> How can we all be better listeners? >> Uh, well, making sure you get it right. Right. So, making sure that you you you confirm what you've heard, right? So hearing what they say but also confirming what you've heard and say did let me make sure I got this right and what I'm hearing you say is X Y and Z and then also you can never underestimate the importance of empathy and validation >> really showing up as a human with feelings right um and sometimes that means being vulnerable as well and saying hey you know what I had a time in my life where I had some needs like this too and and I got some help and I'd love to be able to help you right that that's a world of difference, right? Especially when you are because unfortunately in the healthc care world for so long it was doctor is the boss, we do what doctor says and everything falls in line, right? There's a there seems to almost be like this divide between it and it's so not the way our care teams work, right? and and it's s it's so refreshing to be in a health system that values these kinds of resources and support um because it really is and I think that's one of the things that surprised me um on on the and I think you kind of touched on this one of the things that surprised me most is that I've had physicians come to me primary care physicians say you have changed the way that I do healthcare like it's such a comfort to know because they they say like I worry about these patients they tell me things in session but I don't have the time or the expertise to follow up on these things and so um and so and yet I see in the in their medical record I see your notes and I see you guys calling them and and meeting them at this community- based organization or whatever and and it so it gives them comfort as well which is again we we love being able to help patients but we also love being able to help the care team too. >> Oh beyond care. I mean, I I can tell you as as a primary care doctor. I mean, you the two of you, the teams that you've built have single-handedly not just made me a better physician, but a more efficacious, you know, physician. Definitely all the learnings, but >> definitely a better person. I mean, you definitely want to make me be a better person. >> Um, uh, I'd love to ask you, you know, we talked about some of the domains, right? And, um, mentioning food, transportation, I'm guessing, environment, education, right? Um, >> I'd love to talk about domestic violence. I think that's a you know that's a very very um hard topic very very difficult for people in all communities to discuss and you know you mentioned feeling safe right um how have you been able to work with um people who might be living with an abusive partner or in an abusive living situation >> you know we also thought about that from a screening perspective so you want to talk about how that >> Yeah so when we when we designed this the initial screening so once you get the first question and then you get the 10 questions we didn't actually include in intimate partner violence in that screener purposely. Uh and the reason why is because number one, uh that would require urgent response, right? And so when you're responding to a survey, we may not get notification of that survey for a day or two. And if there's a safety concern, we want to be all over it. Right. Right away. >> So we didn't include it in the original screening. Uh the inpatient team does it regularly. Right. Right. But they're they're in the hospital. >> They have them there. Yeah. The other thing too is that sometimes folks when they're in domestic violence situations, their partner will have access to their medical record and so you don't want to document some of those things in the medical record should they be able to see them. So there was sensitivity in just from the design perspective, but we are always vigilant for that and we have had cases where we've needed to get someone to safety and thankfully we know we are very well uh there are not enough domestic violence resources in this city. I'm going to just say that right out front. Um, and we do our best to to help coordinate support for those patients, whether it be safety, um, you know, a safe place to stay or to other resources or, you know, at the very least helping them come up with a safety plan. >> And I do want to add to that that it's in addition to do domestic violence, it's all safety. And that's something that you know we're actually seeing nationally from a screening perspective and the literature is demonstrating that we don't just ask about intimate partner violence now that we observe and ask and ensure that we are conscious that it's not just partner violence but it could be safety of your environment and do you feel safe in your environment >> and so that's something that the inpatient team I know does very well as well is making sure that they >> when they're screening are asking the patient in a private in a private in a comfortable environment in a space where they feel open to speak to it or if they observe something speak to them aside from who their caregiver or spouse or whomever is in the room. >> Okay. Um you know you mentioned um national right and so it it it makes me want to ask you the question about you know I know what we're doing here about UCLA health and maybe even I have perspective thanks to you about what we're doing in our you know communities and adjacent communities. um what are you seeing in terms of kind of the momentum and conversation around social drivers of health and social care nationally? So, not just kind of in the millia that we're most familiar with. >> Yeah, it's evolving. >> Mhm. And I >> I mean you mentioned CMS but I mean >> yeah it's evolving and I will say we're in local consortiums or local meetings with other health systems and it's prominent in our discussions and so our colleagues across the way the other health systems >> with that shock >> um we work with them closely because know that there are resources that they have that we have we want to ensure what we call you know best practice and learnings, right? >> Learnings or what we call promising practice. Now, what we learn that could potentially be something that grows, but we're also a part of like larger health system associations where we talk about what how can we best screen and get the resources to patients and what are we seeing as part of social needs? Are we seeing a growth in financial needs and what does that mean? >> Yeah. What are those? What do those trends mean? what can we think about economically and embedding resources in our health system? There are a lot of promising practices of how to intervene, but how do we then embed that in our care? And so then I lean on Jasper to talk about how he can embed that in his care. >> What have you kind of seen? >> Well, I think one of the things that's been great about being involved in the local consortium is that we've learned from other people's experiences. I mean, one of the things that I was really surprised at and is we've been talking about social drivers of health in the social work world for many, many years, and it's been a conversation that the health systems have had for a long time, but nobody really knew how to start, right? Because they don't want to ask the question if they don't have something to give, right? And and it makes sense, right? And so, so I was very exciting when Nikki came to me about the fact that the University of California wanted to prioritize this across all of the UC's and what are we going to do here? And so then we started to brainstorm and come up with like what are our ideas? What would we do? And to be part of that initial thing was just amazing. But we learned for example from one of our other uh health systems in uh that they they were using only community health workers and they were scrambling because the CHWs needed social work support and they didn't have that and so they would just randomly try to find any social worker nearby to get advice from them and I was like when we do our when we build our model let's include social work in addition to community health work and it's worked out really really well. Um and so that was one of the learnings that we've had but I think um you know it is it is a trial and error like we've we've shifted and made little changes here and there as we've gone because we see did patients respond no let's try something different right did we get a higher response rate um and so finding ways to reach people finding new ways to get resources it's you know it's it helps to be nimble yes and iterative is yeah best practice >> and and you know and I don't mean to toot her horn but Nikki's leadership here has been instrumental definitely her home. >> Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. And the team that she has, right? Because because we need to be able to try things and then shift and pivot if we need to. And it's >> it's a human work. >> Mhm. >> I mean, something else that I think we've also learned across nationally is that the populations that consume healthcare are not a >> monolith. Mhm. >> And so how we screen, we've had to iterate on even how the questions are screened like what is appropriate in this setting versus a hospital setting and how can you do it in a setting where they can't respond >> and who do you ask if they have social needs so that when they're discharged from the hospital, how can you give them the resources if they can't respond? >> So even working in and being agile. >> Yeah. Well, and and also being sensitive because like we're looking at expanding our interventions to more of our pediatric patients and their families. Well, you can ask the same questions and what questions do you ask the the patient and what do you ask their parents and when and how. So, there's a lot of nuances that we want to think through before we launch that. But it's exciting to to be able to expand it a little further. >> I mean, you mentioned um which will stay with me forever, you know, holding hope, right? You know, alongside, you know, um our patients really with with anyone. Um, what gives you gives the two of you hope I guess about the future of this work? >> I to Jasper's hope. >> A lot of be it. >> Yeah. When I was thinking about the program itself, it it really is the people that have helped build it because they have the courage to be in the community and show up. Mhm. >> And it is our care team, it's our physicians, it's our social workers, it's our community health workers, it's our staff >> to really ensure that when a patient says, "I need help >> or even nonverbal cues that a patient needs help that we recognize that and our care team is showing up." And so that's really what has given me hope >> and maybe given me even more courage >> because I think that you know it's not isolated to just our health system that we are part of those communities and so being embedded in those communities have really given me hope. >> I just want to be a nerd for a second because I studied Latin for a long time and the Latin roots of the word community are mean um with gift. >> That's what that means the com and the munus. Anyways, so it just always reminds me that just being part of a community is sharing of gifts. And I just can't think of two people who are more giftgiving. I thought you were going to say something, but I had to take that home with me for sure. That's that's amazing. Well, I I mean, as you asked the question, I started getting emotional because I started thinking about the the community health workers and social workers that I work with every day. They give me such hope every day. I hear story after story about the things they do, the lengths that they go to, the connections they build with patients. They're changing people's lives. the messages that we get from patients about I never knew I could get this kind of support somewhere else before. It's just it's just beautiful. And so that that really literally is um that's where I get my hope from. >> That's everyday hope too. >> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. So never never can hear enough of those stories. >> I agree. Please feel free when I call you every day to to tell me a hopeful >> Absolutely. >> a hopeful story. Um I I wanted to ask just a couple of kind of our our asking for a friend segment and we got to a lot of these of course cuz I guess I was that friend who was asking you. Um but um uh I think um I want to reiterate this because I think this was so important that if if I share something personal, right, like not having something to eat or not feeling safe, does it go in my medical record, right? Who sees that information? >> So the majority of the time it goes in your medical record, especially if you're talking to one of our clinicians or anybody on our team, but it's protected protected health information and it's between you and whomever you're speaking to. And it's only so that we can ensure that you're getting the resources you need, that we're building that care team around you. >> So protected meaning that only my care team can see it, right? Not no random person, my insurance company can't see it. >> Cannot see it. That's right. >> Okay. Um and again, I just want to reiterate this as well. I've never asked for help before, but can I still reach out even if I feel like I should be able to handle it? >> Absolutely. Yeah. Absolutely. >> Every time like you said, the strength, >> it's a strength. Well, and and here's the another thing. thing. I'm going to go back to my grandma. If you don't ask, you can't get right. >> I just have to ask where your grandmother is from. >> She's from Missouri. >> I know, right? >> I was like, are is she from North Hollywood like me? >> Okay. No, sorry. I I will let the two of you go, but I I'm just I guess I'm just so moved by the two of you and the work that you do. And I'd love to just if you could just share with me briefly like what brought you into this work. I know you have a social, you know, work background, but I'd love to even hear like what brought you to social work and then and then into this in particular. Well, I was I'm a midlife career change social worker. So, I I was in marketing and PR and customer and patient relations for many years in medical device and briefly in luxury fashion. And I wanted I wanted >> right and I had uh those are some stories let me tell you. Um but I I had benefited from psychotherapy with licensed clinical social workers throughout my whole adult life and it made such a difference for me and I wanted to do what I consider to be more meaningful work. Um, and so I went back to graduate school and pursued a career in social work. And I remember my first day in class, I sat around a group of social workers and we started learning about these things. I was like, "Oh, this is where I'm supposed to be. The these are my people." Yeah. >> It felt so good. >> Yeah. And I have never I've never looked back. I've never once regretted it. It's the best decision I ever made. And I have to be honest with you, I'm living the social work dream at UCLA Health. No, I literally am. to be able to to come up with these ideas and to implement these programs and to work with such incredible people and to have such amazing patients. It's it it really is a dream come true. >> Everyone is so lucky. Nikki, if you don't mind sharing, I'd love to hear that too. >> Of course. You know, when I went into my undergrad, I and graduate school, I focused on health policy and management. And so it was in the confines of thinking about healthcare in oper from an operational standpoint, meaning like how do you put programs together? And so what really got me in both programs was, you know, care isn't confined to those four walls. And so we built in our health systems of care that are for patients in whatever environment you're living in. And I mean to share a personal story a few years ago with my first child, you know, I'm getting a little we but I had a complex birth that was very hard and traumatizing and you know who showed up? Social workers. >> And it wasn't until I understood that outside of health or clinical outcomes, there was much more. It's access to those resources, access to that community. Is a social workers that came to ask, "Do you have everything you need?" >> Yeah. What an amazing question, >> right? And to have a baby in the NICU and have a social worker just come talk to you. >> Understanding that you're in a hard situation >> and >> do you need anything? whether it's food, whether it's a parking voucher, you know, and these are things that you don't conceptualize or think about when you're in the hospital. And so having that need met >> Yeah. >> meant so much. >> And something they particularly social worker told me, >> you have to have grace yourself. >> Oh my gosh. Yeah. >> And that way that grace is something that you can pass on to other parents or pass on to other folks that are experiencing that. And that's >> which is exactly what you've been doing. >> After that moment, I just I always wanted to embed social care not as like a bolt to our healthare system, but as a part of the tapestry. >> Yes. It's the thread. >> It's the thread in the background that you don't necessarily see all the time, but it's something that we've brought to the forefront >> and it's in every aspect of our care >> because we want to look at you as an individual. And that's how I felt on that during that time period is I felt C. >> Oh, so powerful. >> Um, if you could each share just one takeaway that you want our listeners and again our listeners are, you know, everyone, not just our, you know, our patients, but everyone in our community, what's one takeaway that you would want kind of to share with everyone about kind of social care or the work that the two of you do or have done? >> Uh, I think my message would be you are not alone. and um and we're here for you. >> Yeah, >> I think to take from that social worker, give yourself grace. >> You can share when you have something that you're struggling with or that you have a need >> and it's okay to talk to somebody in your community or you're a clinician or whomever you feel comfortable with, but know that there's there are support systems in place. Yeah. >> You're not alone. >> Yeah. And we all have needs. Like El Whitman said, we contain multitudes. Yes, >> I think that's what he was talking about >> to your point about community, >> right? Yeah. Yeah. We all have gifts to share. >> We all have gifts to share. >> Um I could talk to you guys forever. I'll just come home with you. It's not a big deal. I'll just come home. Um I I can't thank you enough for for being here. Um >> not just helping us understand, I think, you know, obviously that whole person care, you know, isn't just a slogan what social care is, what social needs are, but I think teaching me, our listener, that we all have these needs, right? that there's uh definitely nothing to be ashamed of. I think it's incredible to hear how much you love your work, right? >> Um and the hope that you hold, you know, for um our community members, our patients, for me, all of us, you know. Um I just um I think you just really bring that commitment um to life. We are all so lucky to have you. I think you are the two of you, your teens are really changing and saving lives, you know, um every single day. Um, thank you so much for being here. >> Thank you. >> And I really just want to thank our listeners as always for um for tuning in and thank you for joining us.