Hello, I'm Dr. Michael Yay from UCLA Health Endocrine Surgery. Here I'm going to answer a common question. Will I need chemotherapy for my thyroid cancer? And the short answer is almost certainly not. Thyroid cancer usually grows slowly and rarely spreads beyond the neck. In our practice, only about 5% of the thyroid cancer patients we see end up needing chemotherapy. When most people hear the word chemotherapy, they often think about a friend or a family member with colon cancer, lung cancer, maybe pancreas cancer. They picture these people getting regular infusions and experiencing hair loss and very difficult side effects. But most thyroid cancer patients do not go through anything like that. In fact, about 75% of thyroid cancers are treated with surgery alone. Another 25% may need radioactive iodine after surgery and maybe only 5% need anything more such as external beam radiation therapy and very rarely chemotherapy. I often get the question do I need an oncologist after I get a thyroid cancer diagnosis and most of the time the answer is no. Thyroid cancer is usually managed by a surgeon and an endocrinologist together. Sometimes a nuclear medicine doctor helps if radioactive iodine is needed and that team takes care of about 95% of thyroid cancer cases. Medical oncologists may get involved only if the thyroid cancer stays after treatment or spreads beyond the neck. Even then, chemotherapy today is very different from the past. We now have targeted therapies which are much more precise. Thanks to new advances in molecular testing, we can find the genetic mutations driving a cancer and use targeted medicines that attack those specific problems. Today, we often see excellent results in patients with advanced thyroid cancer who get these newer treatments, and it is amazing to see. To summarize, you probably won't need chemotherapy for your thyroid cancer. And even if you do, the treatments today are more effective and much easier to handle than they used to be. Patients with more aggressive thyroid cancers are discussed at the UCLA endocrine tumor board. This is a team of about 30 specialists who work together to create a personalized treatment plan for each patients. It's something that wouldn't be possible with just one doctor. And that's the power of receiving care at a world-class center like UCLA Health. We have the team, the tools, and the very latest science to help you. I hope you found this helpful, and thank you so much for watching.