 subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to me. But here's the thing, they do happen. One out of every four people will suffer a stroke in their lifetime. And so when I look around our studio, there's four of us in here right now, statistically means that one of us, at least one of us, are going to have a stroke in the course of our lifetime. The good news is, is that there's so much we can do. We can lower our risk factors, we can recognize warning signs, and we can get life-saving treatment quickly. And there are remarkable clinicians leading this charge and joining me today is one of them, Dr. May Noor, UCLA Health Interventional Neurologist and Founder of California's first mobile stroke treatment unit. Welcome to the podcast, May. Thank you so much. It's such a pleasure to be here. I'm so glad you're here. May, can we just start at the beginning, Wendell? Like, what first sparked your interest in neurology and then more specifically in stroke medicine? That's a great question. So I think we're most influenced by mentors. So I did a PhD in neuroscience before going to medical school. And my work was in gene therapy for inherited retinal degenerations. But my first experience in clinical medicine was an orientation with a neurologist who was just absolutely wonderful. He was terrific with the students and teaching. He was terrific with his bedside manner of the patients. He was terrific in explaining to us. And I said, wow, this is a field I really would love. You know, maybe I could do this. My dad is a transplant surgeon. So my, my first sub-eye, I did, oh, I have to do transplant. And I love to transplant, but not for me. So as soon as I did the stroke rotation and neurology rotation, I said, wow, I find myself here. I find myself relating to the patients. I find myself making an impact. And furthermore specifically for the interventional, you know, there was a, I was doing a sub-eye at Mayo Clinic and one of the physicians was telling all the residents and all the fellows, if I were to go back, I would be interventionalist. I would take the patient from the ER to the industry to following up on how wonderful would that be. And I said, hmm, nobody's telling me about this. This is what I want to do. I wonder why they weren't telling you about it. Because I was a medical student. I was a medical student in the corner, but I, but that's okay. But that's okay. That makes me much more sensitive when we're teaching our students to include them, right? Make sure we answer their questions to make sure that they're part of the conversation, to make sure that they feel that they're the future. Oh, I love that. But that was the moment, honest to God, that was a life changing moment for me as a fourth year medical student. I said, I'm going to be interventional neurologist. So going, going back to just to add on to my, what interventional neurology means. So I think you talked about using techniques then though, to kind of remove. Yeah. Clots or stopping bleeding. That's kind of the difference between being a traditional neurologist and an interventional. Well, it's a minimally invasive surgical practice. And just like somebody would go to the cath lab and get a stent for their heart, we could put stents for blood vessels of the neck or the brain. We could stop bleeding in severe nose bleeds or in patients who have had a neck cancer, help them with bleeding complications of the cancer. We, of course, for stroke can go there and immediately remove the clot and return blood flow to the tissue of the brain. Because as you know, and as you mentioned, minutes matter. And every minute that there's lack of blood flow to the tissue of the brain, 2 million brain cells die. So acute action, fast action is so critical and so important. I love the hearing that what got you into it too, just to go back because even when you talk, you exude so much compassion and connection. So I love though that you're thinking about this ophthalmology, but then this person who clearly demonstrated kind of compassion. And I'm guessing a lot of just diagnostics, probably that extended to that thoughtfulness extended to diagnosis was that real inspiration for you. Absolutely. Absolutely. And then fast action and then life is sometimes a series of, you know, happenstance. Yes. And I think that person that mentor, those mentors were put in my way in my path so I can have the career I have today and I'm so grateful to them. Oh, I love it. Well, at the end, I want to ask you about who you're mentoring because I have a feeling that you mentor you mentor in turn. Let's just start with some I think just some basics just for our audience. I mean, what is a stroke? What defines a stroke? Great question. So stroke is where there is either lack of blood flow to the tissue of the brain. And so the tissue of the brain doesn't survives and dies, or there is bleeding into the tissue of the brain. The majority of strokes that we will see in that people will experience are actually lack of blood flow type strokes. So they can be a blockage in a tiny blood vessel or a large blood vessel. So about 80% of strokes are ischemic in nature where there's lack of blood flow and about 20% where there is bleeding into the tissue because of many reasons could be high blood pressure because it would be a problem with connections with the vessels could be a ballooning of the vessel like an aneurysm. And both are devastating and both are devastating different ways. And I like to give for our audience, you know, the understanding that the brain is like real estate. It's all about location, location, location. So let's say you have bleeding into a tissue of the brain that affects strength, then somebody will lose strength. Let's say lack of blood flow. Let's say a tumor that's sitting there. Let's say a seizure that happens there that incapacitates those neurons or brain cells. You will still have the same outcome. Somebody's arm is weak, right? Or we've heard of patients having migraines and they look like a stroke, but they're not. So there are stroke mimics that present looking like a stroke. And that's why in stroke, not only do minutes matter, but do immediate diagnosis is very important because not everything looks like a stroke could be a real stroke. Right. So it's actually takes some so nuance. What what actually happens in the brain when a stroke happens? So whether it's caused by, I think you mentioned ischemia, which is kind of death or something like blood flow isn't getting to tissue or hemorrhagic, which is there is bleeding too much bleeding into the tissue. But what's happening inside the brain then the brain, whatever function that area is responsible for is incapacitated basically, like it dies or it's incapacitated or both. Yeah, it dies. And the brain is not like, you know, other organs which may regenerate. The brain is once these cells are dead, nothing makes up for them. But with time with rehabilitations, other cells can take over that function and help the patients to recover. But those cells once they died, don't regenerate again. That's really, that's overwhelming, honestly to think about. So but just to reiterate what you said, the outcome is really depending on what region of the brain is affected. 100%. Okay. And I mean, when you say brain cells die, like a lot of brain cells die, the brain is also about eloquence of the tissue. So sometimes a big amount of tissue and you can see a patient with very minor deficits and sometimes a very small amount of that real estate or that tissue and the patient is devastated clinically. Yeah. It's so and it can be so life changing. So we talked about, we started talking about just how precious the minutes are. And I guess my first question would be if the damage is starting, let's say in one region of the brain, can it spread or worse than over time? Or does it depend on maybe what kind of type of stroke it is? Typically, the the the the damages contain typically whatever is, you know, the area that's subserved by that that blood flow or whatnot. Typically, it's contained. Okay. And so talking about everything that you can do about it, which is exciting and promising. So what are some of the treatments that an interventional neurologist like you do if a patient's having a stroke? I think even to take one step back, please, what are the symptoms of a stroke? So because we want the interventions to be involved swiftly, very, we have to take the responsibility of recognizing in ourselves and our loved ones. The thing about stroke, it's not like a heart attack. It doesn't is not painful. Patients now say, Oh, my chest hurts or this hurts or that hurts. So the thing about stroke is that it's painless. And sometimes the patients don't recognize the symptoms as a result of the stroke. We have this concept called neglect. Patient doesn't understand that that's the side of their body that's weak. So the most critical thing is that we recognize and we can recognize and by giving the audience an acronym to remember. I love acronyms and the acronym is called B fast. Okay. B stands for sudden changes in balance. E sudden changes of eyes or vision. So somebody can lose half of their vision or their whole vision or C double that happens suddenly. The hallmark about stroke is it happens suddenly. It's not something that creeps up over weeks or months. Sudden change in outcome. F stands for weakness in the face. Somebody can have a facial droop. A stands for weakness in the arm or leg. S stands for changes in speech or language. So somebody is not intelligible in their speech. They're slurred or they can't quite understand what you're telling them or you can't quite understand the words they're making out. And T is time to call again to come back and emphasize every single minute matters. Right and B fast. B fast. So now what does inferentialness do about that? So what I've noticed sometimes is that people think that the symptoms of a stroke are going to be very dramatic. Like right like just like when you're watching a movie and someone has this like very like prototypical heart attack. But not only our symptoms can be subtle and so we're asking you know families and you know partners and kids themselves to be you know to be aware of subtle changes. But what if you're by yourself like what if I'm by myself and I look in the mirror and I'm like oh my god like is my face drooping a little bit like what should I do? Yeah the biggest problem is that sometimes stroke is not the awareness of stroke is not there for the patient. So the patient can be weak on the left side of their body and actually part of the stroke syndrome is that they don't recognize that this is their limb. So how do you deal with that? Right. I think we still have a lot to do in terms of innovations that actually automatically detect stroke symptoms. You mean like a wearable? Like a wearable. Like so many I mean we have something very simple now something called the Apple watch. We have it already. Maybe you've heard of it. Right. Where somebody can fall and it can call 911. Absolutely. What about an idea or with somebody's blood pressure surges and they fall and this and this algorithm we have so much AI advancement. So much. We have to put our forces towards detection of stroke that patients do not recognize. What about stroke during sleep? A lot of... Yeah I was just going to say can you detect oxygenation in the brain? Yes. Yes a lot of atrial fibrillation patients actually have stroke in the early hours of the morning. Right. So they're asleep. So again so all these minutes have gone by. All these minutes and then somebody discovers grandma the next morning or is she not waking up for breakfast? Oh she's had a stroke. So what if there's a wearable that sleeves off of a watch or any other device and sees well the rhythmic movement of grandma is not the same tonight as it was every night. Right. That calls an alert. So I think we have to put so much effort into innovating devices that will detect stroke that patients don't recognize and for patients who are alone and don't have someone to recognize the symptoms. I can't wait to do the startup with you. Let's do it. I know. Let's do it. I push it to Apple. Yeah. Apple are you there? Okay no that's very very helpful. And I guess I would say is that if you do have the whereabouts to understand that something is going wrong call 911. Absolutely. Is that right? Absolutely. Right. So don't even call your friend first. No. Call 911. Don't call a friend. Don't call a daughter. Don't call a son. Don't call your spouse's phone. Call 911. Yes. I have to say like as providers we like to be bothered. I know that seems counter-intuitive but we like to be bothered. The worst thing that happens is what you go to the ER and you don't have a stroke. Exactly. Fantastic. Fantastic. You think that anything's wrong. Please call 911. Yes. Yes. Be fast. Be fast. Can I go back before we do the treatment really fast? So I mean I love that it's first of all it's like a very memorable acronym. So anyone can learn it. Definitely teach you know their family. I hear that you're saying that they happen suddenly. I do think that sometimes like you know when I think about like the cinematic version of like a heart attack it's always like oh yeah but with like strokes I mean I understand these happen suddenly but can they be subtle? Can the signs be subtle? Yeah the signs can be subtle and I think when you know the general public thinks of stroke or when you say the word stroke what does that mean to you? Somebody's collapsing. They're like really like exploring their speech. They can absolutely be subtle. So even subtle changes in our loved ones we should be very cautious about and the most critical thing is not you know to discuss it or call a family or whatever it's the call 911. Yes. It's the call 911 for many reasons. One because time is everything. Yes. Two because the paramedics will take the patient to the center of stroke care that is most reliable for their condition based on the severity of symptoms. Three because people can change fast. People can deteriorate fast. God forbid we take our loved one in the car and something bad happens and we cannot handle it. Right you can't help because you're driving. So and also because timing is everything. I just think this is an important point. I've just in my own experience I've had patients who've had strokes or they're family members and they're like I something was a little bit off but I didn't know and so I just really want to encourage you know our community and our patients if something just seems a little bit off and that's why it's so important to know a baseline right. Something seems off call 911. So I think that's a really important point call 911 there. Call 911. Okay so yes now tell me the amazing things that you do as the interventionalist. So as a vascular neurologist the patient comes immediately to the hospital and we assess them and the treatment first the most critical thing is to get imaging. Do we do we think this is an ischemic stroke where there's a lack of blood flow or there's a hemorrhagic stroke. Right. The medications that we have for each of these are vastly different right. Right. So let's say there's an ischemic stroke the most common kind of stroke. We have clot busting medications but the the other importance of time we come back to this fact that that medication can be only given four and a half hours from the last time the patient was seen their normal selves. I always like to ask the family and members this way not when did you last see grandfather normal. Yeah when did you last see him as a normal self. Right. Patients have different relatives. Right. Yeah. And not when they went to sleep the night before and when did you see them well and sometimes that's you know before they went to sleep. The fact that they got out of bed and fell this morning doesn't mean that their last known well time was in the morning. No it was the last time they were seen normal. Okay. Why is that critical because we can give life saving medications or brain saving medications like clot busting medications but only within four and a half hours within four and a half hours they may help out of a hundred patients who take these 30 will do better. Three may do worse. God forbid one may die because of hemorrhage but you could do that within four and a half hours. So when you give them outside of that time window the risk of hemorrhage or risk of bleeding as a result of the medication increases so we don't give the medication during that time. Okay. So now that's the medical management of stroke. Right. And let's do we start with that if you can. Yes. If you can you start with the medical intervention. Always. Always. Always with the medical intervention. Okay. That's for ischemic stroke. Right. Let's say somebody comes with a hemorrhage. There's a brain bleed and they're on a blood thinner. We can immediately reverse that blood thinner. The effect of that blood thinner. Right. Yes. Exactly. We can decrease the blood pressure so we decrease the rate of expansion or blooming of this blood and we can get them on seizure medications because that's something that commonly happens when we have something irritating the brain like blood. So now we are done with the immediate emergent medical intervention. What about the endovascular or interventional services? So let's say a person has a blood vessel that's blocked. It's really about opening that blood vessel on time before the tissue dies. Not opening in general later. Right. Right. We're doing the thing. So we give the clot busting medication but the clot busting medication does very well for tiny clots but for big organized clots maybe 20 or 30% of the time it can dissolve that clot and not always on time. So in spite of giving that medication we immediately proceed to the angiography suite which is kind of like a small operative room except we use x-ray beams to understand what's happening in the brain and visualize the blood vessel. Right. So that's what the angiography is. That's the angiography. So we are injecting the blood vessels with contrast. We can see that as a tree or a map and in a minimally invasive way either go in through a blood vessel in the wrist or in the leg or even in the neck or in the arm sometimes. We go all the way up and thread catheters, catheters or tubes all the way up to the tissue of the brain inside the blood vessels and mechanically remove the clot and believe it or not. Like just grab it and then pull it out. Grab it. We can aspirate it. We can suction it with a machine with a little pump with tubing or the first stent retriever was actually invented here at UCLA. And what is that? It's like a stent is like a mesh like a chicken wire and it's hollow like a tube of pasta but it's on a wire. Yeah. And then you implant that inside of the clot and you allow it to grab the clot and then you pull that out and immediately when you pull that out you see the patient miraculously improve on the table. That's amazing. As soon as that blood then reaches like the tissue we could we the word is perfused right but then all of a sudden those cells right get all those the nutrients the blood and then start functioning again. And the grandfather who was paralyzed who was unable to talk to their family can now lift their arm can lift their leg can reintegrate into life again and can be part of have a meaningful life. It's not we never extend life you know but we help to improve quality of life. It's incredible and really moving and all time. It's all about time. All about time and another important thing for the audience. Yes age doesn't matter. Oh good. The oldest patients I've personally helped to return blood flow was 101. Age doesn't matter. It's all about quality of life. Well and then also I mean I just want to this is why like though paying attention to yes how you are normally paying attention to if something changes right and listening to that gut feeling you're you know I'm not sure you're having a stroke but something feels a little off call 911. Yes much better to be checked than miss something. I agree I think that's just such an important message. I think sometimes people get really deterred they're like oh it's just a subtle symptom or it's something else is going on or I don't want to go to the emergency room. It makes a humongous difference in your outcome. Yes in fact I'll tell you a story about a patient I saw today and the patient is a physician and his wife is a physician and he had some he had a stroke in the past and he had some subtle symptoms and his wife felt that maybe they're being overbearing like I don't want to disrupt people every time and call well as the speech is a little slurred well in fact turned out that was a stroke from three weeks ago. Oh wow. So sometimes we feel that we may be inconvenienced like we're not we're not brain is precious call 911. Yes yeah and you're precious. Oh my gosh okay let's talk let's talk prevention right because I think that's really important so I mean first of all great we've talked about you know signs symptoms getting yourself to the emergency room you know different ways that we can break up a clot right or remove it or reduce and stop bleeding and again I think that people are like oh my gosh one in four people have strokes or oh my god they're so they're so debilitating and catastrophic but I really want to emphasize that there's something called prevention right and so we absolutely can affect that and we all need these actionable takeaways. Tell us what are the major risk factors for having a stroke. Absolutely and I can even start by telling you something very important 80% of stroke is preventable. That's incredible. 80% that's great. We have so much we can work on. Yeah let's talk about things we cannot control things we cannot control are our genes. If we have propensity to have high blood pressure propensity to have high cholesterol we cannot change our genes but we can change our environment and how we act about things. But even that you can change your risk though. Exactly. Even with the genetic risk. So the risks are the common things that you can think about diabetes that's not well controlled high blood pressure that's not well controlled smoking illicit drugs that pump up the heart like cocaine or amphetamine a regular heart rhythm like something called atrial fibrillation that disease of the vessels because of high cholesterol that's accumulating etc etc there's so many risk factors there are other risk factors when we talk about genetic that somebody's born was a disorder that makes the blood more thickened at some times. There are many many risks but even even trauma can be a risk even a healthy child can have a stroke people tend to think of stroke oh it should happen somebody older yes stroke can happen at any age stroke can happen at any age the smallest example of that we had a patient a child who jumping on the trampoline and hurt their neck maybe didn't even feel hurt their neck a day later had a stroke because our blood vessels are like an onion with multiple skins and when we have mechanical shearing of that yeah by small things we've had patients how this is called dissection we've had these experiences dissections even reclining back at the hairdressers for hair washing or going on a roller coaster or having a big fit of coughing for three weeks or whatever and they may damage the blood vessel and what happens is that small blood clots will get caught between these layers and then the travel all the way up to the blood vessels of the brain and block them and then you have a schemic stroke that way so one important thing is that stroke can happen at any age yes there are risk factors we know about we can control yes and we should all try to reduce our risk nothing eliminates risk when you have risk factors but we can definitely reduce oh my gosh there's there's so much even if you're born with that you know propensity to your blood is thicker and you might clot more than the next person when we know that though we can give things to think your blood and another very very very very crucial thing i didn't mention healthy diet and exercise yes tell me what you what that means for you for stroke risk prevention a Mediterranean diet has been shown to help reduce risk of stroke what does that mean healthy fats like avocado olive oil nuts like almonds cons and so forth great um lean meats less red meats and more you know proteins that have white meats beans and so forth a good variety of fruits and vegetables and you know maybe a few years ago there was a thing if you have a glass of wine a day prevents you against stroke or heart disease but i really think it's the flavonoids in that red color yes so if we think about very healthy fruits and vegetables things that have that red color yes beets berries grapes and so forth those can be preventative against inflammation in the body as well and then exercise and exercise exercise is important you have to do exercise that helps you as we age with balance something like yoga and pilates and stretching and and and things that build up our muscle mass but also cardiovascular exercise right three to four times a week good 20 minutes to just pump up our heart even if it's a brisk walk we can all do that yeah we can i mean i think that's what i mean i think that this is what's counteracting i think what sounds very scary for people but i mean the for us to focus on these are the things that you can do or not do in some cases because don't do you know these you know really you know some of these illicit drugs are so so you know bad for you and your and your heart um and even some of these conditions you might just accrue as you get older or run in your family diabetes high blood pressure those can all all be modified and the risk can be so greatly reduced yes i think that's incredibly it's empowering encouraging and empowering absolutely and you have agency and autonomy like you know life doesn't have to just happen to you you can happen to your own life yes um so what's amazing to me is that um in addition to just being the expert that you are um you've um you've built something and i want to talk about that you've innovated so to me like what i see is that you you've probably been in the field all these years maybe even starting in in in your fourth year when you first explored neurology and clearly you saw right how precious these minutes were um and it sounds like you decided to not just flip the model but create a new model and really innovate and bring the hospital and those features of the hospital that are so critical to this process of um mitigating you know the damage of of too much time going by meaning like imaging right because it seems like the big process is getting in getting imaged you know and then um getting a clot busting drug or stopping bleeding um and so tell us about the mobile absolutely so as you said i was inspired by the many patients i've seen but not just the patients the families yeah there's a lot of caregiver fatigue that's involved there's a lot of un unanswered questions patients suffer through so much and and when i saw that i really got inspired and i said i want to do something that can revolutionize that can change things in our county that can create something different we have to be visionaries we can't think about oh can be under our feet today we have to think about in 10 years how can we create change and so the arlene and hennry gluck mobile stroke rescue program that ucla health has just so much supported is a county initiative it's not just the ucla health yeah and la county la county and la county emergency medical services has designated this as a shared regional resource of ems what does that mean unlike any ambulance that when you call 911 will come or fire engine or so forth this is a primary stroke center on wheels or a hospital on wheels we bring the hospital to the patients because we know time matters and so the ambulance is equipped with actual CT scanner where we can see the tissue of the brain and also the blood vessels of the brain we can tell if the blood vessel is blocked right away right away right away like you pull up somewhere and like within five like five minutes within five minutes within that's how long the scan takes 30 seconds this is within how many that's incredible yeah but but the the key is that we are actually dispatched with the 911 services so of san amonica fire department long beach fire beverly hills fire la city la county culver city fire we are live with eight different fire departments in different regions of the county where we are there with the primary crews with the firefighters with the engines with the ambulances we determine if the patient is having likely a stroke and if they are likely having a stroke then we'll admit them to our ambulance and our team it's very exciting to be there yeah because you can really impact change you can right there right there right there and without transporting yet to the hospital without taking all that time to register without taking the time to get wheeled to the imaging without waiting for the pharmacist to get 20 minutes just to say that exactly exactly exactly so basically on the ambulance is a firefighter paramedic and we have partnerships with different fire departments for example torrents fire long beach fire culver city fire who staff us a physician either in person or by telemedicine because you want to expand the reach of that physician everywhere now we have three ambulances so now i can cover one two three and in fact covering today you know so you can literally sit at this table and you can consult from here as all three go on emergencies exactly exactly in fact the last time i consulted on a mobile stroke unit patient i was in the middle of removing clot from another patient's brain and like in the or in the or and then we had a telemedicine projection okay one patient we're working on here one patient on telemedicine that patient turned out to have a blood clot as well and that patient ended up coming to our hospital by virtue of where they were in the vicinity and i scrubbed out of this case and finished it and went to the mobile stroke patient removed the clot from her brain and she was completely normal after how gratifying how gratifying so technology has changed a lot i don't know why i would ever need to see like a marvel movie i could just watch you all day i'm here kidding it's really amazing so so when they're when the department the ambulances are out in the field and you're let's say like consulting from this from this table if they see a clot will they bring the will they wait for you to remove the clot or will they do any other intervention in the mobile stroke unit so we actually have the same medications that are in the hospital on the ambulance so they can get the medication clot busting medication we can reverse and lower blood pressure lower blood pressure we can all of these and most importantly know what the diagnosis is so we can route the patient to the right hospital from the beginning that's right when you say right hospital why do you have to say right hospital it is not every hospital have exactly so every hospital has different level of stroke privileging or certifications or the things that they have the ability to offer some are not stroke centers at all some are stroke centers that can give the medications through the ivy like the clot busting some have intervention lists they're 24 seven yeah some have neurosurgeons they're 24 seven to deal with hemorrhages so you have to take the patient to the right hospital that can cost them their life if they go to the wrong one right so now we have conclusive diagnosis in the field we're able to take the patient to where they need to be and the most important thing is that although we're operated by ucla health we are a shared regional resource of the county what does that mean we are a community resource yeah we drop off patients at over 24 hospitals within our county and this is in an effort to improve stroke care everywhere right all over los angeles all over less yeah right i mean it's such an amazing demonstration of health equity in that way you know making sure that everyone has access to life saving care right no matter where they are in the county yes um that's such a that's so um incredible um i still can't get over that you can just do like the brain imaging you know in the mobile van um but also i mean thank you for explaining too because i think i don't know if everyone also understands like i didn't did that there's different stroke centers on level of care and it really is again that's another part of getting there um on time um just just amazing um tell me about the program i mean has it been successful it has been absolutely one i want to hear all about a journey it always uh started our first clinical operations in september of 2017 actually remember this yeah yeah eight years yeah fantastic still going strong yeah and all of that by support from philanthropic funds and special project funds and support from l.a county board of supervisors we have been just so so fortunate because every day we can operate we can help more patients and in fact part of our study for the county is  so that we did geospatial mapping for the incidence of stroke all around our county. So the patients who had final hospital diagnosis of stroke in the hospital, we went back and looked at the longitude and latitude of where they were picked up from by the 911 EMS services. And we found where the stroke hotspots are because we want to direct these resources to the areas where they need it most. So did that also inform stroke prevention? Absolutely. If you're like, here's a hotspot, does that mean like, oh, we need to put more primary care in for prevention and diabetes care? But you found a very interesting pattern that something we already learned about from the textbooks, right? Our genes play a lot into it. So we found major hotspots in San Fernando Valley, where primarily Hispanic population, St. Gabriel Valley, primarily Asian population, Englewood, primarily black American population. So we know genes play a lot into it, but also access to preventative services, access to health care. We have to do better. We have to do better by our patients. Yeah, I mean, the access is, I just think is such a huge part of it. I mean, because to me, you've built something that goes way beyond technology, right? Because it's about, it is about access. I mean, just because, you know, something bringing a hospital to you, I mean, that's access, access, access. And it sounds like though you see a lot of inequities in not just stroke care, but in stroke prevention. So what do you think the best ways are to address that? I mean, it sounds like having a mobile unit that can be deployed. I think education plays a lot into it too, about the importance. How are these factors? How are these 20 years of uncontrolled blood pressure really affecting me? People don't understand that until the stroke, the day the stroke happens. Our job is to educate also. In the downtime of the mobile stroke unit, we have the unit everywhere. We have health fairs and we have them stopping at the street, talking to patients who just read the name or are curious, what is this thing? And then this is an opportunity for us to educate about early prevention, early notification, diagnosis, treatment, how we can help our patients. Right, and if not for you, for your family. Yes. Right, and then we've got this great acronym that anyone can remember. And I encourage our listeners, our viewers, to teach that to five of their family members. Be fast. Learn it for yourself and teach it to five people you love. I guess that's an important reminder. I have to say, I think that it still feels like that people assume strokes happen to older people, older, older people. And I can think on my right hand, five of them, and there are 42 have had strokes, and you're going to tell me that kids have had strokes, especially when there's a mechanical or disruption, but that's incredibly important to remember. And often though, it's a family member who says something isn't right. Yes. So I just want to really keep hammering that message of like, listen to yourself. Yes. Don't stay home. Absolutely. Absolutely. That's incredible. What are your other kind of plans for the mobile stroke unit? What else do you think we can do for stroke prevention and just prevention? We have to dream big, continuing to expand services with a fleet of mobile stroke units that cover the entirety of the county. A fleet. I love it. My dream is for us to be the leaders. Los Angeles County should be the leaders nationally and in the world to say, this matters. We should really incorporate this into, become part and parcel of EMS care. Every patient should have access to this. Not only the patients who are lucky when we're operating 7-7 in, you know, San Fernando Valley or Long Beach or whatnot. Do these mobile stroke units exist anywhere else in the United States? They do. Actually, they started in 2014 in Texas, but they originally started in Germany because in Germany they have physicians writing ambulances for advanced life support calls anyways. They said, well, okay, we treat heart attacks this way. How can we treat stroke? Well, we need a scanner. First, we need the diagnose. So actually the engineer who built this brilliant guy, he was motivated by the fact that his brother had a ski accident and he was in a remote area where no brain imaging was available. He passed away because of a big brain hemorrhage. He dedicated his life to make a compact scanner that could fit in an ambulance. That's how it all started. They put these on in Berlin and other areas in Germany and they said, oh, wow, okay, now we can affect care. We call these golden hour emergencies. The first 60 minutes really matters. It's the outcome of patients. And so we were part of a big clinical trial called Best MSU. We do everything in medicine by evidence base, of course. And so anecdotally, as physicians, we know if you treat a patient sooner, they will do better. But we needed to prove that if you treat them sooner on an ambulance, they will do better. So as part of the best MSU, there were seven mobile stroke unit programs in the nationally that participated, including our Los Angeles County UCLA Health Unit. And one week we looked at patients' outcomes when we give them clot busting medications in the ambulance. And the following week, the patients were randomized to just receive normal care, get to the hospital, receive the same clot busting medication. And we asked the question, how did these patients fare? They got this faster versus they got this same medication later. Out of 100 patients who got treated earlier on a mobile stroke unit with the same medication rather than later in the emergency department, 27 had a less final disabled outcome, including 11 of whom were completely disability free. Wouldn't we want this for our loved ones? We should demand it. We should demand it. Yeah. Exactly. Oh my gosh. Okay. Is there anything I didn't ask you though about stroke prevention, risk factors that I forgot to ask you about? Maybe we can talk about aneurysms. Oh, that was my next question. Yes. Is that those are definitely like out there. And I think whether celebrities have been diagnosed them with or not. But I think the question is, what is an aneurysm? And then is it a risk factor for having a stroke? Yeah. So great question. What is an aneurysm? An aneurysm is a ballooning or an outpouching of a normal blood vessel. As you imagine, if you have a balloon and you inflate, what happens to the latex of that? It gets thinner and thinner. So the bigger the aneurysm is, the more likely it is that it can rupture. We also know that there are some risk factors that control who's likely to have an aneurysm and what is the likely risk of its rupture. But to even take a step back, how prevalent is this? We said in stroke one in four, right? So to give a frame of reference in the US, about one in 50 of us are walking around with an aneurysm. Right. They don't give symptoms until they've got for bed rupture. Again, the aneurysm, it's a thinning or a bulging. It's nothing's exploding in your brain. Nothing's exploding in the brain until they rupture. Until they rupture. Right. So it's a thinning. So if you think of it, how can we say it in kind of like an anecdote to it is like a tire has a little blowout. It doesn't explode, but there's a little bump and that bump is a weakened part of the tire. The same thing for the blood vessels. Now what are the risk factors of developing an aneurysm? Again, family history is a risk. If you have two or more first degree family members, you have a slightly increased risk to have aneurysms. That's one risk. Smoking, tobacco. We know tobacco is not good for our vessels for stroke, for heart disease. Even for the aneurysm, it weakens the vessel wall. Again, the drugs that pump up the heart, cocaine, methamphetamine, others. Other things, increased use of alcohol, that's alcohol abuse. These are the most common things that we think about in terms of aneurysm risk, but also, again, our genes. Who are two of the populations that are at the highest risk even when we do an aneurysm risk scoring of how likely this is to rupture over time? Japanese and Finnish. Two genetic populations who are at a higher risk when you have the aneurysms developed for them to be more dangerous or for them to rupture and so forth. Do we know why? We don't know. The genes, this is so. We are all born with different tensile strengths to our vessels and that same wear and tear, my same 10 years of high blood pressure and someone can cause an aneurysm and someone can cause nothing. I think a lot has to do with that. I think someone's listening would probably say, how do I make sure I don't have an aneurysm? I think the big message is that we don't need to panic. Not everybody needs to have a general screen for aneurysms, but if you have two or more first degree family members with an aneurysm, I recommend to screen that whole generation. Any screen with a CAT scan or MRI? You screen with anything that ends in an A. A stands for angiogram, so you want a CT angiogram or an MR angiogram. Both of them will show you the blood vessels of the brain and if there's bulging. If aneurysms and when aneurysms are discovered early on, God forbid, before they rupture, we can treat them. Yes. We don't have to have a big brain surgery. Sometimes we need to, but most of the time we can do a minimally invasive. Again, interventional assistus myself can go in through the blood vessels with leg, arm, etc. Go all the way up to the blood vessels of the brain and put tiny coils. That's another invention that happened at UCLA. The first treatment for aneurysms where you put these tiny, tiny platinum coils, what is the purpose of the coils? Because it's metal, it causes the blood to clot. So if you deposit them very carefully inside of this very fine aneurysm, then it will clot off and no more blood will go in there to keep it expanding. And sometimes we have to do that in addition to using a stent or what not, depending on the shape of the aneurysm. Yes. And in some cases patients need surgery for clipping or mechanical tying off of the neck of the aneurysm. But in so many cases now we're doing everything endovascularly, whether the aneurysm comes ruptured or we know about it and we can treat it. Endovascularly meaning through the vessels. Through the vessels. Right. And so patients, yeah, no, no, patients wakes up, they think they're going to have major surgery, they don't have a major surgery, they're walking the next few hours. It's incredible. I mean, what do you think? Like when you first started becoming interested in stroke medicine, have you really, how do you feel like the field has changed even since you were first interested? Amazing. It's amazing. Even the procedure called mechanical thrombectomy or removal of the clot, when I started as a resident and I was applying for an interventional fellowship, in fact, many people were, oh, well, field of intervention is going to die. The stroke trials don't show that if patients, you remove the clot, they do better, et cetera. There are just one or two trials that were not very well designed and then all of a sudden monumental change, you know, 2014, seven positive trials showed that if you remove that clot, that patient will do so much better and all of a sudden the field completely flourished. What I love about that field, interventional field is that there are so many innovations in technology. A new stent, a new this, a new that and all of that for the betterment of the patient. And it changes so fast. You can barely keep up. This is a new device. This is a new device. So you have to be comfortable with what you have on the market that you can use that you're comfortable with that you know is reliable, but also you have to be open-minded because many new generations of these devices evolve every day and we have to use them for the better of the patient. Something you mentioned, you know, was really poignant was just, you know, obviously the person who's undergoing the stroke and, you know, probably in my goodness, hopefully if they survive and they have a rehabilitation, but how hard strokes are on families and caregivers and partners. I just didn't know if you wanted to say a word about that. I mean, I think that there's like amazing things that we can do, but I also want to, I guess I'm asking you to also to feel the hope for those who have strokes and might have a few deficits and by that I mean effects of that stroke, you know, what life is like for everyone. Well, I'll tell you, you know, we see stroke patients in many different times and I am so fortunate. I get to see them on the street by their house. I get to see them inside of the Andrews Suite. I get to see them, you know, in the hospital and I get to see them when they recover afterwards after rehabilitation. And one thing I always tell stroke survivors, number one, your mood, your affect, your will to improve is 100% correlated to how well you're going to do. So many times we will give patients some medications that help increase their mood, better their mood, that can also help motor recovery because I want to advocate for them. I want them to advocate for themselves. And the other thing I always tell them all strokes improve. We can't predict the degree towards you. Some people improve 100%, some people 60, some people 70, but I know you're going to get better. I want you to believe that I know you will get better. I want you to know that you will get better. And the greatest recovery perhaps we see in the first six weeks to three months, but improvement continues for one whole year. Where you are at one year is your new baseline. And I tell the family members one piece of advice when I go to the bedside, especially for patients where every 24 hours we have to just make it past the next one. It's overwhelming to think in three weeks what's going to happen. In one month what's going to happen. We have to take it one day at a time and you have to take time for yourselves to recover. As a family member, you have to take care of yourself so you can take care of others. I think that's very important. I get that all the time from my patients too. I know that you're going to get better. I think that's very powerful. And I think it's hard. I mean, we talked about that it's very scary, right? I think for people to feel like their parts of my brain have died, right? And then all of a sudden I can't move my leg too. But you can feel better and you will improve perhaps quite slowly, but there will be improvement. But that's really important to hear. I think that just sort of the mood, the well-being and also just for caregivers how they need to care for themselves. And today as I was showing the imaging of a patient to his wife and the imaging looks like a lot of the brain is missing. And I say, we don't treat the imaging, we treat the patient. This looks very bad, but look how he looks. That's right. So we have, recovery is miraculous. People can be motivated. The brain can rewire. We have to encourage patients. And that's really amazing about the brain. So even if some of the brain cells die and don't regenerate, other parts of the brain can take over. That makes us, we're just very... We're just very complex. Despite everything, we're a very cool species. Yeah, or just like us all animals are. So it's really neat. Yeah. What gives you kind of hope then as we move forward in your field? People who believe in the cause. You know, people such as yourself. People who believe in the cause, who believe that we can impact change. People who are forward thinking to look at innovation, not just for today. Like I said, what's going to happen in 10 years? What's going to happen in 20 years? We have to think for the future. We don't have to think and look under our feet. And we have to do that all with the drive and passion that we have for improved patient care. We went into this field because we had a mission and we knew that we wanted to deliver better care to patients. And yes, we have hard days and yes, we have hard jobs and yes, sometimes the disease beats ups and we can't help the patients, but we still go the next day. And we still go the next day for the hope that we can impact one person's life. It's amazing. You literally are a living testament to your own hope. You mentor a lot of people. I mentor a lot of people. I bet. You're so inspiring. Thank you. Your patients are so lucky to have you. Thank you. I mean, I feel like a whole organization too is so blessed that, again, for your innovations and your forward thinking, I love that even with this incredible innovation that you're still just kind of thinking, go, go, go and move forward, move forward. In fact, our mobile stroke unit, the two recent mobile stroke units, thanks to philanthropic funds that we got from the Brett Torino Foundation, the Karen Canarelli Foundation, we are so fortunate we had the first most advanced mobile scanner in the world. We were the first in the US to have an employee here. So we continue to push boundaries and look further and further. And we're all the beneficiaries. I have seen the mobile stroke unit across the street from my house and I'm like, oh, wow. Dr. Noor. For me, it's a celebrity sighting. When I see it, I start video. Like, why do I video? I was just on that thing an hour ago. It is kind of a celebrity sighting. I'm excited. I'm excited for you. This has been such an incredibly valuable conversation. I mean, everything that you do is just honestly so groundbreaking, but also so kind of human and everyday moving. And you certainly make something that seems very terrifying and very overwhelming, not just understandable, but it actually feels very actionable. And I think that in itself is reassuring and hopefully gives our listeners, the agency, the autonomy to say, like, you are in control. This doesn't just like have to happen to you. You know, you're not to blame if something happens, but you are in control of mitigating these risks. I want to remind our listeners about Be Fast and also to teach it to five people that you care about because clearly it saves lives. Anything else I forgot? Keep the hope. Yeah. Keep the hope. Keep on the lookout. Keep the hope. Keep improving your own health. Keep being a positive beacon for others in your life. And that makes a whole lot of difference in recovery. It does. And thank you for being a positive beacon for all of us. Thank you so much for joining us today. For our listeners, there's resources. There's going to be stroke education materials and episode notes. I'm Dr. Eve Glazier, this is Medically Speaking. And until next time, stay curious and healthy. See you next time. Thank you so much, ma'am.