The thing that prompted me to apply to the young scholars program is throughout my academic career, I have always been a part of research programs. I love research and when I started my pre-licenture program here at UCLA, I actually came in contact with some faculty and some students who were a part of the young scholars program, who were part of the Agnes group. They say they were going to have an actual educational seminar. They had like some of them maybe once a month. And so I said, "Okay, I've always been interested in pets. Always interested in kids, teens." So I was like, "I'll give it a try and see what this older adult thing is all about." And I went to a couple of the sessions and nothing really piqued my interest. It wasn't until I went to a session and it was around caregiving and HIV AIDS that it really struck a chord with me. It just all started. I started to think more and more about what about the older adults? Not just the older adults taking care of HIV positive kids, but just what about the older adults who are positive themselves because the whole push in the future is that they say by 2015 about 50% of the people who are HIV positive are going to be over 50. And it just opened a whole new arena, a whole new field for me related to HIV. But it started with me going to one of the educational programs. I actually struggled with the decision. I don't know about you guys. Um because I was actually coming from the master's entry clinical nurse program which is a second career program at the UCLA school of nursing and I was very clear that I wanted to become a floor nurse when I started that program. So, the idea of applying to the PhD program, I was kind of on the fence about potentially going in another direction. Um, but I think that the deciding factor for me was the sense of responsibility that I felt to contributing science that would improve the health outcomes of African-American older adults. and I had not only the passion to do it, but I had the opportunity and I had the support of the Gerald faculty and it just made sense to to do that first before um pursuing a more clinical position. I I agree with you. I think the fact that I felt um I can make more of a difference uh in the care for uh older adults with dementia through research and through improvement of nursing care uh with research rather than the bedside nursing was the defining factor for me. Yeah. And having the resources and the support of the faculty uh definitely helped me make that decision. Yes, for me it was maybe after speaking to the to my mentor being able to find out that I have a more of a responsibility because if I found a gap where I need research needed to be done and I felt that I needed to contribute to that to the research in that aspect. So that's what that's why I PhD. Yeah. So I think it sounds like it's a combination of a sense of responsibility, opportunity, um commitment to to a certain research problem and mentorship. I think that was key for all of us to have some one or a group of people who are really there for you and who can help guide you along the path to achieving the goals that you have for yourself. Support system. Yes.