Hi everyone and welcome to Medically Speaking, a UCLA health podcast. I'm your host Dr. Eve Glazier. Our listeners may not know this about me, but in addition to hosting this fabulous podcast, I'm also a primary care physician and I really love what I do. Primary care is often described as the front door to the health care system, but it is so much more than that. It's about building long-term relationships, preventing illness before it starts, and helping people navigate every chapter of their health journey. So, in today's episode, the power of primary care, we're going to unpack what primary care really means, why it matters, how to choose the right provider, and what should you should expect when you go in for a visit. And of course, we're going to get into some classic listener questions like, "Is it okay to Google my symptoms?" And, "Do you actually believe me when I tell you I only drink one glass of wine a week?" Joining me today are two incredible guests, my wonderful colleagues, Dr. Will Carroll, Dr. Maria Han. Uh, a little bit about these wonderful people. Dr. Will Carroll is an internist at UCLA Health. You practice both traditional primary care and also complex medical care. Um, at our UCLA Extensivist program, which um, specializes in individuals who have frequent hospitalizations, really complex issues. You're also our clinical medical director of our UCLA Alzheimer's and dementia care program and also our medical director for senior care. Uh you're a passionate advocate for health policy and you actively engage with our American College of Physicians and the California Medical Association and you're just a phenomenal person. Dr. Maria Han, who I've also known for a really long time, um one of my favorites. You're an internist as well, chief medical officer for ambulatory care at UCLA Health. You practice primary care in a lot of different settings, but currently at Iris Kenter, right, Women's Health Center. You've got an MBA from UCLA Anderson School. Um, and you're especially interested in how you can innovate in our clinics to improve the way we deliver high-quality primary care. So, Will and Maria, thank you so much for being here. Um, let's get into it. And why don't we just start with the basics? Um, Will, I'm going to ask you first. What is primary care? >> Of course. Yeah. I think you know it depends on the day and it depends on the person. It really can be anything you know that can be I have COVID that can be I need my medications refilled. I think when I think about primary care, it's really the person's doctor, you know, your doctor that knows you the best, has probably seen you the most in your life, has kind of grown up with you, right? Like knows when someone's had a child, knows when someone's kid has gone to school, someone that you know, you've been seeing over a long time. And you know, I think when you think about the purpose of primary care, the purpose was that everyone has a doctor and someone that they can go to in times where nothing's wrong, right? Like a nice boring visit, coming in for your physical, coming in to get some paperwork done, but also the person that you reach out to when something is going wrong, right? Like you have a new diagnosis and you're trying to learn how to navigate that. you caught a cold at a party last weekend and you need some medications just to get through that. I think that's that's how I imagine how primary care has evolved over time. >> That's great. I mean, I think what I'm hearing too is that it's comprehensive. It's everything. It's the person in your corner, your coach, your navigator. Um, I guess to the comprehensive idea, anything else you'd add, Maria? >> Yeah, I tend to think about having a primary care doctor as having a very medically savvy best friend. And it's someone who knows you really well, ideally over a longitudinal period of time. They know your history. They know your family. They know your habits, your hobbies, all of these things. And they kind of take everything that they know about you, that they've learned about you over the years, and they help you make good medical decisions for you and figure out how you can as an individual stay healthy and stay well and and thrive. Wait, I love the best friend because um I feel like that's what I do every day is be a best friend for my best friends and my patients. I mean, doesn't everyone want that? Um, one of the things that I realize is confusing for people even as we're talking, even just starting out, is um you guys are both general internists, you know, as I mentioned in the introductions, but who practices primary care? Like lots of times people ask me and they say, you know, what's your specialty? And I say, oh, I'm a primary care doc. And they say, wait, what does that mean? And I often say I'm a pediatrician for grown-ups, right? Or a GP. And hon and and will the way you're talking about it like that old school like right right like almost that doctor who's going to make a house call or like come to your house or um but I mean let's for our listeners actually kind of describe like who can practice primary care like this comprehensive holistic you know managing everything from right like screenings you know giving your vaccines managing your colds who practices primary care. It is a large pool of people. I mean, in the world of pediatrics, primary care is practiced by your pediatrician. You know, I think that's >> the first doctor the majority of us met in our life, right? We were going, our parents were taking us to the pediatrician. >> And for pediatrics, it's really confusing because then you graduate out of pediatrics. And so, they only take care of children. And so as you go and transfer over to adulthood, you know, during the time of college, you start seeing an internist. So an internal medicine doctor, but then we also have other folks that help us with this as well. And that's their main stay. You know, the practice of family medicine, and family medicine doctors have been trained on some pediatrics, they actually do some OB, they do some adult medicine. And so through their training they're able to take care of patients throughout their entire life including in pregnancy as well for our female patients. And then in the space of OB you know I think obstitricians deliver obstitricians and gynecologists deliver a lot of primary care in the space of women health when you're talking about breast cancer screening when you're talking about HPV screening you're talking about cervical cancer screening a lot of that care is actually delivered in the office of obstetrics and gynecology. Now, in this day and age too, there's such a shortage of primary care doctors that a lot of America is receiving primary care services through allied health professionals. So whether or not that's a physician assistant or nurse practitioner, many of them than themselves, their training is different than ours is, you know, they actually may have done some additional training in primary care before they did went out and started practice or they may have just started practice, you know, in collaboration with the physician. So I think the face of how primary care is being delivered has definitely changed over time as well. >> Yeah. I mean we're definitely like the front line of the medical field and the OB/GYN I think that doesn't occur to a lot of people right away but you know we had Dr. Maya Zapata here and there's a lot of care right it's like whoever you're going to see the most who you're going to formulate that relationship with. Yeah, I think that that's right. I think it's a lot of different uh people and specialties are trained in primary care and the population, the age of the patients that they take care of might be a little bit different, but it really is your routine doctor. It's the doctor that you're seeing on a regular basis, whether that's yearly for your annual checkups or for some individuals, it'll be more thanly, but it's really that person that you're seeing whether you're sick or you're well, and they're helping you navigate your health in the healthare system. Which reminds me too because you know, will you're saying there's like different places to get this primary care. One of the things that we really advocate for in terms of primary care is establishing right care with someone whether you're sick, whether you're well, um but in a place where you can have this comprehensive longitudinal relationship, right? So, you know, if you need an opinion to get you through um whatever a surgery, if you want, you know, >> support, but a lot of people, I think, you know, often will get their care from like urgent care, right? Or what we call immediate care. Um, and maybe we could just kind of define those a little bit for our listeners. You know, we know that what the emergency room is, but mostly I want to advocate for people establishing these relationships. So can you talk a little bit about you know getting care like was it an immediate care for or an urgent care? >> Yeah definitely and you know there there's really it the the practice of urgent care and immediate care has exploded because I think >> you know when you think about kind of the state of primary care in America we just frankly don't have enough doctors. You know we have a shortage and one our population has grown and thankfully we've actually had improved access to primary care services as well. um through multiple governmental you know interventions over time but because of that it got harder to see your doctor you know it got harder to see your doctor and so when you called your doctor for hey I caught COVID on the plane the doctor couldn't see you for a week right and so then people started going to these urgent care facilities which is great because the patient needs to be seen there is a need that needs to be addressed that day >> but I think through that there's been some patients that have lost the understanding of the importance of connecting with a primary care physician in the first place because >> these urgent cares you're never really seeing the same physician all the time and really the purpose of it is to solve that one problem that you present there to today with right give me a medicine for my COVID or an antibiotic for an infection >> but if you only pursue that type of interaction with health care you're missing out on all the preventative services that you would be actually embraced in primary care, but also having a person that really knows. I think you know, Maria, you said it best earlier where you get to know everything about this person. And all of us are so different that there's so much, you know, the art of practicing medicine, right? How do we interpret everything we've learned for everything I know about you, Eve? Yeah. >> Right? Like what medicine am I going to recommend that you take for X, Y, and Z condition? or you need to undergo a surgery and understanding is this really the best thing you would want to do. It reminds me of a conversation I had earlier this week where a patient was recommended for surgery and I know that this individual's one of their mo most important things to them is is that they really love to play paddle tennis. You know, they love to play paddle tennis. It's their big passion. And this patient was particularly nervous about pursuing the surgery, but I knew if the surgery was successful, the patient recovered well, they'd be able to play their paddle tennis, you know, and so >> able, you know, having the ability to understand the importance of that and actually having that conversation with that individual really helped quell the anxieties around the procedure, but also inform the decision for that patient to say, "Oh, actually, you know what? I think this sounds like a good idea. Actually, >> it's so excellent. I mean, it really is true. I mean, I think we're always wary of like episodic care, which has its place. And by episodic, right, I mean, right, I wake up with a sore throat. I don't have a primary care doc. I'm just going to go into urgent care, get my cough evaluated. >> And that works a lot of the time. But when someone comes in and you're evaluating and maybe solving, right, their problem in context, it's often easier. It gives so much dimension. And I mean something that happens a lot um in my practice is I'll have a patient who again luckily I've had the amazing fortune of knowing them for a long time and they'll come in and they're like I'm tell me what's going on. They're like I have a horrible headache. And sometimes I'll be like well tell me tell me what you're worried about. And you know this particular patient said I'm really worried I have a brain tumor. And then I'm like tell me why. And then it turns out because you know they had a family member who who you know was recently diagnosed. And I said okay let's step back. First of all I know you don't have a brain tumor and now let's get to talking about the headache. Right. And I know you and I know what matters to you and what you're worried about and it so helps then the care almost treatment plan. I don't know if you have similar experiences. >> No, I think it really allows you to individualize the treatment plan and to personalize how you're taking care of that patient, that person, right? >> Um I think the the flip side of that though, you know, for for all the listeners is is also don't be afraid of the team. >> Yes, >> healthcare has really become and it's had to become a team sport. And so there is not only your primary care physician but also your specialists. You'll have the physicians that you see in immediate care. You'll have the allied professionals like Will's talking about, pharmacists, social workers. All of these people are part of the team. And I think they can all play a really important role in supporting you and supporting your primary care physician in really making sure that you're getting the care that you need. >> I mean, it's so true. I mean, this isn't an advertisement per se for UCLA Health, but one of the reasons I really like to be part of an integrated health system, right? and that you know people can complain about an electronic health record but I mean it's awesome right I mean you know our patients basically we can see all of their care right wherever they are I can ask you know our our urology colleague was here earlier I can reach out to him and get his input and then I can see his opinion and his recommendation I mean it makes a tremendous difference and then again right I mean there's we have social workers we have therapists um we're all working together >> all of that information is coming back to the primary care >> physician so that the primary care physician who knows you best can guide you in terms of next steps. >> I mean I think that's ideal. >> Yeah. I mean we've we've made strides in IT integration where one the information is passing to the right people right. I I I think >> as we continue to integrate you know all the electronic health records you can see what's happening you know you know exactly in live time with your patients what's what's happened today. You know, I can think of, you know, one situation where running into someone, you're like, "Didn't you just get out of a procedure?" Because the computer told me that. I knew that that happened that day. And I think one of the nice, you know, when I first joined UCLA after residency, I remember, you know, getting up and running in the extensivist clinic where some of these patients there there's such chronic complexity that it required such a big team like Maria's mentioning where there was a pharmacist, there were four, five, six, sometimes 10 specialists involved. And I was so impressed when, you know, there was a really complex situation. I'm kind of juggling a few things. I'm not sure of the exact answer. I needed their help and we could talk to each other, right? Like sending off a message and getting a response same day, a few hours later, giving someone a call, getting an answer back right away, right? I do think the integration of the information technology has really helped us actually make this a team sport. >> Yeah, absolutely. And especially if we do it with our patients. I mean can you talk a little bit about I mean I think we all agree on like why primary care matters. I think a little bit I think maybe even for our listeners like what do we do during a primary care visit? I mean right I mean you mentioned you know colds or you know again being their um >> their person their doctor which I love but I mean what else do we do in primary care you know in terms of what is compreh when I say comprehensive >> what do we mean? >> Yeah. Yeah. So I I think it it's really the foundation of a patient's healthcare journey. And so it starts with the things around prevention, making sure that patients are getting the screening tests that they need around cancer screenings, that they're getting the immunizations, the vaccinations, all of these prevention wellness focused pieces. But then it's also the management of chronic conditions. So if you've got high blood pressure or diabetes, your primary care doctor is helping to connect the dots on that to make sure that those things are are optimally managed. Um, and then they should really be also your your first line contact when you're not feeling well or you just have a question or you have a new concern or something that you're wondering about. That's the first place that you can go to raise a flag and say, "I'm concerned about this. I want to talk to somebody." Your primary care doctor can be that person. And from there, they can direct you, you know, where you need to go. if you need more expert help, if you need um you know more specialization in in a certain area, they can direct you. >> Do you often feel like you're also sometimes your patients advocates? >> Yeah, definitely. Definitely. The the healthare system is so confusing and navigating it even for us. You know, we're on the delivery side of the healthare system and sometimes when I'm a patient or my family members are patients, it's so hard to navigate. And so your primary care doctor, I think, can also partner with you in in figuring out how to do that part of it. >> Yeah, I think that's an incredibly important part for for both, you know, care that's not necessarily being delivered and sometimes care that's overly delivered, right? I mean, we talked about certain situations where I think if the patient was talking to someone that wasn't familiar with their background or say, for example, that patient that you saw with a headache and you knew the family history, you knew the concern about that and you watched them go through that experience. if if they had presented to someone that was unaware of that history and sometimes that complete history is not obtained right in in a you know urgent emergency room or immediate care or such that can sometimes lead to the slew of testing that one might not be necessary but two also can lead to some damaging outcomes unfortunately it can lead to anxiety it can lead to unnecessary procedures can kind of open Pandora's box where when you have an established relationship with the primary care doctor, we can help direct that individual to additional services knowing you know everything that's happened in the past with that person. That is such an excellent point. I think for a long time, I think even maybe even when I was deciding to go into primary care, maybe before, let's not date myself, when HMOs were um which are um management organizations um health management organizations um >> where by insurance rules, right, you need to get a referral from your primary care doctor. I think unfortunately sometimes primary care docs were seen as like gatekeepers, right, and sort of a barrier between a primary care doc and a specialist. But I do like to think that we've evolved, right? And it is more of like, no, let me be your partner, right? Let me see what I can do, right, before sending you unnecessarily um to a specialist. And yeah, I mean, I have that brain tumor example. I have so many times people come in and they want a referral to a gastroenterenterologist or they self-reer, right? And like to your point, exactly. They have all of these tests. Um, and then I say, "Listen, let's like I know you like let's actually have a different conversation." And you know they're kind of suffering from anxiety, >> right? >> Yeah. Definitely. >> You know, that have manifestations that are gastrointestinal >> entirely. >> Yeah. I think your primary care physician can be your partner in this exercise around when should we worry or when do we need additional information. >> I love the Wii. >> Yeah. And there's there's so much information at the fingertips that that patients have, you know, on through Google, through chat GPT. Now, everybody's doing that and they have kernels of information. But I think you can bring that to your primary care physician and engage in the exercise of of when should we worry and do we need to look into this one a little bit more or can we can we be reassured? >> Well, I mean speaking of Google, what what do you guys think about um our patients googling their symptoms? Why are you laughing? Just kidding. >> Dr. Google. Yeah. No, you know, I I think it goes to you know, the world has changed and there's so much information available and there's pros and cons to that. I think there's great pros and people are educated on their health if they want to be right. Like the information is out there. >> I think the con for that is these online algorithms, even these AI algorithms now can't contextualize everything about that person. And so, you know, it gets to the point where sometimes it's like I stubbed my toe on the door and my toe hurts and you put it in the chat GTP and it says toe cancer, right? like cancer is included in all all of these algorithms, but >> it's so low right on your list of things you worry >> that person using that information technology does not know that, right? They don't know that. And I think that's still where it takes the physician to help contextualize that information. But I do think it's getting better. Like I really, you know, even just in the last five, you know, two years, like these things have gotten a lot better. And I think it's going to be a good partner for us in the future. >> Um, you know, does it send out remind when do I get my colon cancer screening, right? Like when do I get my mammogram? All this information is out there and they're getting more advanced where you can add in your family history, you know, like what happened to your family members? And there are some changes and nuances to guidelines based on that information. And so I do think it's it's great like we've really expanded the venue of the information. And I do think, you know, we've all seen where that's actually a large part of the primary care now, right? Is contextualizing information that has been read online, whether or not that's vitamin supplementations or, you know, >> hormone testing, >> hormone testing or tests, like is there a test available? Is there a tumor marker test? Right? That's a big topic right now. There's some great information coming out through research and it's just, you know, we're not ready to use it yet cuz it's not available to us. But, you know, I think patients are more engaged because in general people have more information in their hand in their phone than we ever have before. >> I mean, the engagement is great, right? And I mean, we could talk forever about um, you know, AI, but I mean, let's feed it great information. Let's partner. I mean, I'm sort of like with Google, it's like drinking. I'm like, just don't Google alone, >> right? you know, um, let's let's let's partner and chat about it. But, um, no, it's it's it's true. I mean, I I definitely don't want to disparage, you know, our patients who are right, who are engaging with good information. We just need to, >> you know, >> right? >> And a lot of people use that because they don't know. They'll come and say, I don't know if I should like bother you with this. Right? So, I I looked at Google first so that I could figure out whether or not this was something I need to go to the doctor or not, cuz there is, let's be honest, there's no handbook that says this requires a doctor's attention. There's really not. And so, what that means for everyone is is different, right? There are some situations where you say, gosh, I really wish I knew about that last week. You know, I wish this person had called me sooner. And then there's the other side of the spectrum where you're like, no, that's actually okay. like you're you're fine and we're okay. But I think you know again going to it you know now your doctor is able to communicate with you electronically and I do think those electronic portals are great for concerns like that. >> I mean I think that all patients should deserve amazing primary care docs like the two of you. Um what would our advice be though? I mean I love hearing what you're saying about primary care. I hope I'm a good primary care doc, but how do we instruct I think our community and prospective patients? Um like how do you choose the right primary care doctor for you? >> Yeah, I think there's so many factors that that go into that, but I think >> ultimately you're talking about the power of primary care at the beginning. And I think the power of primary care is that relationship. And so you do want to find, I think, a primary care physician who you kind of vibe with. Yeah. >> Who you, And when I say vibe, what I I the piece I'll highlight is someone who you can be honest with and be open with and who you feel comfortable bringing your concerns and your anxieties to and who you also can feel reassured by. I think that's a big component of of the therapeutic piece of a primary care relationship. Um, but it's also who takes your insurance and who's close to your house and um, you know, if you want your kids to see the same doctor, do they also take care of children? You know, there's those kinds of practical questions, too. But I think um, you know, over time, you do want somebody who you feel comfortable with. >> No, and the trust is so important and being honest. I mean, that was, you know, I was joking in the introduction about, you know, do you really believe me when I tell you I only drank a glass of wine? But I think what it's speaking to is like, you know, can I trust you and not feel judged? Can I just tell you and share who you know who I am? Um I think also an important point is you know give it some time right you might not vibe with someone or you might vibe with them for now and then you evolve or things change like it's okay to break up with your doctor and choose someone else like these relationships are dynamic. Um but you're right there's some very practical considerations um as well but I definitely just want to encourage you know all of us you know just like find the right person for you. Yeah. And because it is a longitudinal relationship, you can also bring some of those relational issues, some I'm going to say some some of those relational issues to your doctor. And so if you did have what felt like a bad interaction or there was something that was said that it didn't make sense to you or you didn't feel understood, I think bringing those things to your doctor and having a conversation about it, maybe a short conversation about it is, you know, totally reasonable and appropriate and I think actually strengthens that relationship over time. I've had definitely examples where patients have made me be a better person and better doctor, you know, and if they take the time to say like, "Listen, you didn't explain this or I felt like you blew me off." It's hard to hear, but it's the truth, you know, and it does it does strengthen our relationship. I'm not talking about weird boundaries, everyone, but I mean like, you know, uh, absolutely. Yeah, it is. It is relational. >> Yeah, it's totally relational. And I I I think just feeling comfortable with that person >> cuz it's your body and there are parts of your body that you >> may need to talk about, right? Like things happen. People get hemorrhoids. People have sexually transmitted illnesses. These are private parts of our body >> that not too many people in the world maybe depending on your life have seen and you feel comfortable talking about with. And so I think you know just feeling comfortable and not judged you know just not feeling judged like you should feel like secure in that relationship. And I agree I think you know probably the things doctors are wor the worst at is making sure the patient understands what we just said because guarantee you for two reasons. One we all trained in medicine and like this is our day job so this is our bread and butter. So for that reason alone, we have trouble sometimes translating our knowledge into human language, >> right? Like it's just it makes sense in my mind and it makes sense in all of our minds here, but everyone else is like, "What are you even talking about?" >> And then they go and Google what we >> and they Google it and they're like, "Did she think I had cancer?" >> Right. But then call their friend instead of you back. >> You're like, "I'm not sure." You know? So, like, you know, I really do >> think it's so important that before you wrap up that visit, if you're if you have that feeling in your gut of like, >> I still don't understand what the doctor's saying, >> just stop them for a second. That's our fault. >> Yeah. You know, like stop them for a second because that doctor probably doesn't know that, >> right? >> You know, probably doesn't know that. And I know we we teach our residents all the time, right? Like the teachback, >> you know, all the time. like all of us working in residents with trainees did you teach back you know did you confirm the patient understood okay it's the probably one of the biggest things that we're always harping on them and then we go and do it ourselves >> right >> you know we go and do it ourselves cuz the day is busy and that's just we kind of get lost in it so you know I would say for patients out there like just make sure like you got your questions answered and you understand actually what was mentioned because >> the doctor will be very happy to explain that because that was like the purpose of that interaction. >> And also like cuz to to your earlier point too, you are never bothering us. Like I we really like need to get that message out. Like whether we're on call, whether we're in the office, you are not bothering us. >> We want you to understand. >> Yes. Yeah. It's like I know it's like our job, but it's also our vocation. >> Totally. Right. >> Um >> I want to know why you guys decided to go into primary care. I'm curious. I mean, both of you have amazing leadership positions like within UCLA Health, but what kind of drew you to primary care in the first place? I'll start with you, Maria. Yeah, for me, um, I was actually inspired to go into primary care by my dad. Um, I grew up in a a very small town in northern northern Michigan, a town of like 2,000 people. And for 50 years, he actually just retired last year. Um, for 50 years, he was the town doctor. My gosh. And so I grew up watching him take care of this community. and we did house calls and sometimes on the weekends my siblings and I would have to tag along and he was on call every hour of every day and every single day of his career rounded in the hospital >> and >> for how much work it was. I just saw how much joy and meaning he derived from it and also the impact that he had on patients and their families over their entire lives and their kids' lives. and I just wanted a a slice of that. Um, and to be able to to impact in a similar way. >> That's incredible. You are really carrying on an amazing legacy. >> Medicine has changed a lot. Obviously, I'm very far ways away from northern Northern Michigan um here in Los Angeles and very far from the town doctor. Um, but I think there there are pieces that are are paralleled in in the primary care that I practice too. Oh my gosh, even just the everyday interaction with people like that doesn't change I think no matter where you are >> honestly in the world. >> Yeah, >> that's incredible. >> Congratulations to your dad. >> Yeah. No, congratulations. Yeah, the a long a long amazing career. >> Well, we feel lucky for you. >> Thank you. >> Um what about you, Will? >> It's amazing. I think there's like 2,000 people living this block. >> Exactly. >> You know, like what a different what a different world. It's amazing. Um yeah. No, I think you know I was someone who always liked whatever I was doing. So like in med school I was going to be a surgeon on surgery and then I was going to be an OB on OB and then I think I was going to be ER for a bit and then I fell into internal medicine. And for listeners like internal medicine is is great because you can do things like primary care but then you can specialize also in all these different specialties right cardiology oncology gastroenterology. So it was like you kick the can down the road for a few years, right? You're just like I don't really need to make that much of a decision right now. So, >> you know, that's kind of how I ended up in internal medicine. >> And then through residency training, I was kind of doing the same thing. So, you know, internal medicine, like I said, it has so many different specialties. So, I was bouncing around specialties. I was going to be a cardiologist taking care of heart attacks and then I was going to do oncology you know taking care of cancer patients and I think I also had a phase in hepatology which is taking care of patients livers and then I finally realized you know I was getting to game time like we had to make a decision I think you know through through that process we were getting towards the ends of residency and it was either you apply for another you know set of training or you go and get a job in something. >> And so I kind of took some time to reflect and you know I had great mentorship in my residency program. are amazing and they really helped me through that time, you know, just thinking like what do you like in this, you know, what parsing out like what parts of this job do you like and what are the things you you like the most? And I I enjoyed a lot of it. And what I started realizing was, you know, thinking at that time I was doing some primary care in our clinics and I was like, I really love seeing the same patients over time, you know, seeing how things play out, right? Like finding a problem, fixing a problem, but also helping that person through the process of overcoming that problem. >> Um that navigation piece, right? And that really stuck with me. Like I thought that was really great. And I I like the idea too of being a person's doctor, right? Like I I don't really have like my swim lane. I can kind of stick my fingers in everything. And you kind of have to know a little bit about everything. You know, you need to know enough about everything so that you know where to get that person to when they need to be there. But between like the the longitudinal relationships, I think it just makes the day so nice. Like it just it really >> brings out joy in the practice of medicine. >> And to be honest, it makes it easier, right? Like having established relationships with people really makes it easier navigating all the difficulties. >> Yeah. >> Practice medicine, you know, is is really great. So, I think that's really like how it it kind of drew me, you know, into it, honestly. And now, a few years out, I mean, I think gosh, this is 7 years out now, it's a blast, you know? It's it's like a total blast. You never know what you're going to find that day, right? Like, you walk in the door, you kind of think you know what your day is going to look like, and it never ends like that. It's great, but you also don't know >> what that patient is going to share with you. And I love that part. >> Because I'll come in, I'll say, "So, I think we're here. We're going to talk about like high blood pressure and diabetes and curveball. Something totally something else, you know. It's totally something else." But, um, I I like that, you know. It's nice. It keeps you on your toes, keeps you fresh, >> and it just makes it exciting. >> It reminds me that it's such a um it's such a privilege, right, to know these people, and when they share themselves, especially over time. I mean, I almost have like no tolerance for small talk in my everyday life because I'm so used to having these like super intimate, right, conversations with people all day long. So, I don't understand it when people don't tell me like all their stuff right away. But, it's interesting cuz you were talking about like choosing your, you know, choosing a specialty and you're like, I liked the heart, I liked the liver, whatever. I liked the liver. Um, and then it turns out like you like the person as the organ system best, right? >> All of it. Like all of it. >> All of it. You know, you >> that's most interesting. you know, you get to the end of it, you're like, well, actually, I like internal medicine, so why don't I do it all? Yeah. You know, why don't we do it all and we'll have a blast doing it. >> And you do >> completely. >> So, I think for, you know, our listeners who, you know, I want to really make sure we're saying, and I think you guys would agree, everyone needs a primary care doctor, right? No matter how old you are, how young you are, everyone needs a primary care doctor. So, I'd love to explain to our listeners a little bit what happens when they establish care with a new doctor or they come in for a primary care visit. Just nuts and bolts. >> Yeah, definitely. Marie, you want to take a spot on that? >> Yeah. I mean, I think the the first piece is uh plan ahead because especially um at this moment in healthcare, it can take a long time to get an appointment. >> Okay, that's what you mean by planning ahead. So, so kind of plan ahead and and make sure that you're scheduling an appointment, you know, before you you might need it. >> Um, and then there's going to be this whole process of of getting to know the the doctor and the doctor getting to know you. And that can look like a lot of questionnaires through the patient portal. Sometimes those those questionnaires are still happening on paper, but it's tell me about yourself. Um, what is your medical history? What is your family medical history? What are some of your social habits around smoking, drinking, sexual activity? Those are all things that are are health discussions for us. Um >> because they have clinical implications. >> No judgment. It's definitely not a moral or or judgmental conversation. It's totally a health related conversation, but it'll be those kinds of questions and then going through your medication lists and then you'll come to your doctor and you'll meet the whole healthare team. You'll meet a medical assistant who will make sure that you're comfortable, take your vital signs, get you into the exam room. you'll meet your doctor and that will be an opportunity to have a conversation and to talk about some of the things that are top of mind for you. Um, but also to make sure that, you know, like we said earlier, you're up to date on all of your screenings and your vaccines and that you're thinking about your health related goals that are are relevant for this time in your life. Um it often includes a physical exam um a headtotoe physical exam and then um you know an opportunity at the end again for you to as Will says ask questions and to make sure that everything that you talked about resonated made sense to you and to figure out what are some next steps >> and all those like you know when you're talking about screenings right or vaccinations those are all age related what we call evidence-based I don't know if you could kind of go into a little bit of you know we're not just whimsically deciding Oh, like what is evidence-based, right? Why does my doctor want me to do all these things? >> Yeah, like a colonoscopy, right? Or a mamog or even get a vaccine. >> Absolutely. So, my mood. No, I'm kidding. So, yeah. No, there was a lot of work that went into these things. I mean, >> and ongoing. >> I can't give something to any patient just because I feel like it. Yeah. you know, the process of any of these medical innovations, whether or not it's a medication, whether or not it's screening, colonoscopy, a mammogram, a vaccine, the amount of scrutiny that these processes went through is quite impressive. I mean, if you you look at kind of like the pipeline from someone came up with an idea, someone researched this on both animals, then actually did it with humans and then went through the governmental process of justifying the need to approve these then, which I think a lot of people don't know is it needs to have the insurance approved actually paying for these services. >> That could take like a decade. You know, that can take a really long time. And this takes you know the eyes and minds of probably by the time the process is done several thousand people right in that process it's probably 7 thou se several thousand people before we feel comfortable using these medical vaccines medications diagnostic modalities in the general population you know so it's very very controlled where we just make sure that anything that we're doing we're not causing undo harm. There's actual value to that, right? Like we are actually helping the outcome >> of whatever individual that we're working with. >> And that being said, what might be good for you might not be good for me. And that's again, we go back to why do I need a primary care, right? Because your primary care will actually help walk you through that process, right? Do you need a colonoscopy at 50, 45? Do you need it even younger? Right? I think this comes up a lot with um screening for prostate cancer as well, right? Like what is your family history? What is the risk benefit conversation around that matter? And then you know some high you know frequent conversations I have right is about cholesterol medication for what I always say and I think I had this conversation three times today already. What is the investment in your retirement usually is how I have that because yes we're lowering your cholesterol today, right? >> Yes. doesn't really matter. Today we're talking about trying to prevent you from having a heart attack or stroke, which typically happens. >> Great way to think about prevention >> when you're done with work, right? And so, you know, is that pertinent for you? And so, I think, you know, that's again comes back to having that person that can actually have that conversation with you. Cuz if you go to someone that doesn't know you, they just look at the numbers and such, they might just say the guideline says X, Y, and >> Exactly. So putting those guidelines in context like you were saying individualizing >> personalizing but also making a really good wellfounded >> recommendation I think prevention and I we can kind of um move into our my favorite segment asking for a friend. Um but I think a lot of um >> people are sort of like you know do I need to do these do I need to do labs every year? Like why do I need to prevent anything? And you know the power of primary care is everything you've said and also the power of prevention. And I do think that's why you know thinking about this a lot over the years especially getting younger people right who otherwise feel well to establish with a primary care doctor is a little bit more challenging right because they might not have a medication that they need renewed right or maybe they don't have a screening that you know Google says that you need. So, like what would you like kind of message do you guys think to younger people about getting that primary care now? You know, don't wait. >> Yeah. I think it's so nice to know that when you need a doctor at 2:00 a.m. >> Yes. >> Because you just woke up with, you know, vomiting and diarrhea and you've got some kind of food poisoning and you need a doctor right then, that you've got one. >> Yes. And you know who you're going to call whether it's then or in the morning. You know that you've got someone, you know, Yeah. in your pocket. And I think that that's that's the value of having established care when you're feeling well is that that moment when you're sick and you're stressed out and something has happened, you've got someone to turn to and you don't have to figure that part out in that moment. >> Right. You can count on us to tell you when to worry. >> Exactly. >> And by the way, and where to go. I mean, I think it's hard, right? I mean, we put it's complex enough, right, healthcare, but then we're when we're asking our patients to decide themselves whether to go to urgent care, immediate care, the ER, call us first. >> You know, we know you and we'll and we'll tell you. we'll give you our best recommendation. >> Right? I I think you know we always say the word triage, right? It's like navigation, right? That that's what we should call it is, you know, where should that person be seen for that problem at this time >> and we know, you know, we know cuz we work in that and like we have all alluded to, it's really hard to navigate. It's really, really hard to navigate. And I think when you look at healthcare in America overall, >> we have a supply demand issue across the board. whether or not it's urgent care, emergency room, outpatient visits in the offices. Um, >> so if we can save you six hours in the emergency room, >> yeah, >> we are very glad to do that. Right. Cuz if that's something that I could actually prescribe an antibiotic and get you in the office tomorrow with me. >> Absolutely. Absolutely happy to do that. >> I'm so bummed there's a shortage because um it shouldn't be a privilege >> to have a primary care doctor, >> right? Um, so for all of you who are thinking about going into medicine, primary care is calling you. >> We are and you'll love it. >> You will love it. And I think, you know, it's it's a complete blast. And I I do think, you know, hopefully we'll we'll see things change with the trainings and we'll get more, you know, residency slots and such. But yeah, right now it's just kind of the the state of of what's happening and any change will take a little time. I mean, but it's amazing for me to hear how much the two of you enjoy it. I mean, again, I know we we completely work in service, right, of our of our our patients, but >> I don't know. I think it's really meaningful and it feels very mutual to have these relationships with our patients. I've had patients now all these years who I've been take who I've taken care of since I was a resident. But I would also say they've taken care of me. You know, they've seen me >> get pregnant, have children, you know, watch them grow. I mean, it's really amazing. It really brings back sort of, you know, we call it a clinic visit or an office visit. It's a visit. >> It is a visit. Like we like catch up with each other, >> sharing pictures of the kids. Yeah. >> Entirely and it's and it's a privilege for um for us too. >> Um >> I really can't thank you both enough for coming on. I would love it if you guys would come back. And again, all I can say is your patients are so very lucky to have you as physicians. Um we as uh UCLA Health are so lucky to have you and I'm really lucky to have you as colleagues. Um, any last minute takeaways that you would want to kind of leave with our listeners? >> Yeah, I mean I I I think there's a few, right? It's like feel listened, feel heard. >> Um, don't be afraid to ask questions, you know? I think >> really feel cuz we're we're talking about access issues this entire episode, right? And so >> you probably paid to park to come see someone. You probably waited too long to actually get that question answered. Get your question answered. You know, that's that's why you're you're there. And you know, don't feel bad actually asking that cuz the person in front of you wants you to understand that information. >> Truly. >> Yeah. I think that's I couldn't. So true. >> And I think come as you are. >> Yes. I think there are so many barriers already to getting care, whether it's your work schedule or finding child care or the parking or whatever it is. >> You know, I want to try to allay one of those barriers, which is that that mental part in the back of your mind that is worried that your doctor's going to judge you for something. Whether you, you know, haven't been to the doctor in the last four years or you've never been to a doctor or you gained weight since the last visit and you guys had this plan to lose weight or whatever it is, we are not thinking about that and we are totally unfased by it >> and come as you are. We're here to meet you where you are and to to walk through the next steps with you. >> Yeah, I love that. Come as you are. >> And before we wrap up, I think Maria, you just like hit the nail on the head there. I think there's a lot of anxiety about, >> oh gosh, things didn't go as planned. >> I never did those referrals you sent my mamogram. >> Exactly. Exactly. So, let's normalize that for all your listeners. >> We, by the way, I'm a patient. I don't get everything done >> entirely. So, like the actual chance of any plan, is it a medication? You know, typically I think the data is around medicine. So like the chance of us prescribing a medicine actually making it into a patient's mouth is about 50%. >> So don't feel bad folks like really don't feel bad. We can start fresh. It goes with the weight. It goes with the referral. It goes with the mamogram. It goes with everything. >> And come as you are both like emotionally but also physically. You don't have to clean your ears. You don't have to brush your teeth. You don't have to shave your legs. Like there's all sorts of funny things that patients feel like they need to. do not have to perform for us or dress up. You don't need a new outfit. I just had that >> just like this podcast. That advice is for all the guests. >> Um it's so it's it's so true. Like we really >> are grateful for you as you come as you are >> always every day. >> Always. Um I don't really think there's anything else to say. I can't thank you enough. I want to thank our listeners and also again don't skip, you know, come establish care. Don't skip your annual visit. Um, and whether you're scheduling your first appointment, whether you're following up with with someone that hopefully that you trust, um, we just really want to inspire you to stay with your healthcare journey, um, and stay curious and be informed. And Maria and Will, thank you so much. >> Thank you.