ぜぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜhe,ぜheぜheぜheぜheぜheぜheぜheぜheぜぜheぜぜheぜぜheぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜぜ be perhaps a little perturbed about the apparent handover of power for this episode with Danny kind of leading the show. And I just want to reiterate that it takes a lot of power and strength to hand over the reins and let someone else take the spotlight. So this is one of those situations where iron culture is dominating this episode in a very passive way. So I just wanted to get out ahead of that. Absolutely. I mean, it's the best way to show a sign of self-assurance, right? Absolutely. Yeah. I'm comfortable handing it over. Yeah. Yeah. Whereas I'm very not self self-reassured and have to use this display of power to try and feign some degree of expertise, given that I'm the only one here without a doctorate. So I'm already at a disadvantage. Yeah. Some would call it sad. I wouldn't. I'm not saying it's sad or pathetic, but some would. No. Well, I think it's not, you don't even need to say it. It's quite implied, I think. And I'm sure our listeners are going to be very aware of the gap in the intellect between the three of us today. And I will show my stupidity at several points, but let me try and try and smooth over that for now and let it introduce our amazing guest today, Dr. Gabrielle Fundaro, who is also a member of the advisory board at Sports Nutrition Association, has appeared on both our podcasts previously. And so now we have this crossover episode where we have the pleasure of talking to her again. So Gab, welcome to the podcast. Thanks for talking to us. Oh, thank you. It's always a pleasure. So we have a lot to get through and I'd like to jump straight into some of these ideas, but as is usually a good idea in most of these situations is to get clear on some of the terms that we're going to come up and discuss today, particularly ones that people will have heard a lot, but maybe have not taken the time to think about what exactly we mean, or at least how we might be applying them, particularly as we'll look at some of the research a bit later on. So there's probably a few, but the two first big ones that I would like you to maybe address for people is the concept of body image and also of self-esteem. And there's obviously relationship there, but maybe getting clear on what we mean by those terms and how people should conceptualize those. Absolutely. So body image, we can roughly define as the thoughts, beliefs, and feelings that we have about our appearance. There are two general constructs that most people are probably familiar with in terms of the terms, but not necessarily the definitions. So we have positive and negative body image. Positive body image refers to having a general respect for one's body, favorable opinions about one's body, and an appreciation for one's body, not in terms of appearance, but in terms of functionality. Negative body image can refer to body dysmorphia. So where we have an unrealistic perception about the appearance of our body and or body dissatisfaction. So we have generally a negative perception. We're unsatisfied with our appearance. We don't like the way that we look. And although a lot of people think of these as being on a spectrum, like we have more negative or more positive body image, they're actually two separate constructs. So we can think of them like two separate volume dials and they're negatively correlated. That means that people with positive body image will tend, higher positive body image will tend to have lower negative body image. But we still probably know people or have experienced points in our lives where we're like, well, you know, yesterday I felt like pretty okay about things. And then today I'm noticing a lot more negative body image thoughts. And I do want to clarify that positive body image is not the same thing as liking the way that you look. That's something that a lot of people confuse it with. So they think, oh, well, if I really like my appearance and I feel, you know, proud of the way that I look, that means that I have a positive body image and then I must not have negative body image. And we know that that's not the case. And negative body image, one thing to keep in mind here, but it's really important is that higher negative body image, especially body dissatisfaction is considered a risk factor for disordered eating. So, and that is exacerbated in people who are seeking weight loss and or using self-monitoring methods like control, like tracking macros or calories. So when we're working with someone who is trying to lose weight for the purpose of liking their appearance more, and they're using something like macros or calories, they have then accumulated a few different risk factors for developing disordered eating. And then when we talk about self-esteem, it is quite similar, but instead of just our appearance and our body, it's just our sense of value that we, that we have towards ourselves, it's our perception of our value, our worth, our opinion of ourselves in a more general sense. One of those important things you've just mentioned around maybe a misinterpretation or that many, or misconception that many of us have is that it's just one spectrum and at one extreme, we have positive body image and the other is negative. Whereas you said, both of these constructs are in play all the time for all of us, but just to varying degrees. Would that also extend then to foreseeably we can have differing levels of positive and negative body image depending on certain contexts or situations that I could have a positive body image in one particular context, but in another that could potentially be different? Absolutely. Because there are triggers that will bring up potentially more negative body image experiences. So for example, you know, leading into in countries where there are seasons leading it to summer, that's when we start to see a spike in body dissatisfaction, especially among women, because they're wearing more revealing clothing. And so they are looking at their bodies more often and more and more of their bodies are visible. And they're also concerned about what other people will think of their bodies as they're able to see more. Another example would be when a person is going through body changes. So we see this quite often, you know, after a person has maybe reached their leanest, they've gone through a decompetitive and, and, you know, they have a very favorable opinion of their appearance, but it is temporary and it's conditional. And once they start to regain weight, then that triggers a really significant negative body image. And sometimes people will also, another, another aspect is that they will mislabel emotions. So if they're feeling insecure or frustrated or lonely, they will actually label that as feeling fat or feeling ugly. And so that can also trigger more negative body image thoughts, even though it's actually an emotion that they're experiencing. They're labeling that as, you know, my body doesn't look good today. So we've established a couple key definitions and I want to introduce a third term to just kind of get your, just to get a sense of where it fits in, because this term became a kind of a buzzword in like the fitness world seemingly overnight. It's really interesting because Gab, you can probably relate to this. It's a term that like does not come up much in the literature that I've read, but was all over the place all at once in fitness. And when people are talking about body image, particularly in the realm of nutrition, a lot of people talk about a relationship with food. And that technically, when you think of the words going into that, does not necessarily seem like it is an offshoot of body image. But I see people using that term a lot when it seems like they're talking about body image. So how does a person's relationship with food kind of fit into this context of a nutritionist's view of kind of body image and self-esteem? Oh, absolutely. I love that question. And I have gotten some, or I've seen some pushback against that term as well, because people are like, well, how is it a relationship? You know, like food is for fuel. You don't need to have emotions about it. But quite to the contrary, people start to attach their value and their identity, not just to their appearance, but to the dietary practices, to the eating habits that they feel brought them that appearance. So when people have very high weight controllability belief, when they believe there are almost no other factors that influence their body composition outside of their choices about food, that is actually tied to an increased risk also of disordered eating and a really high amount of internalized weight stigma. So weight stigma is something we should probably also define. It's essentially a negative set of opinions and beliefs about people in large body and about body fat. So even when a person has focused on the process, we talk about that a lot, like don't focus on the outcome, you know, focus on the process, be really proud of the work that you put into your physique. If they overvalue that aspect of their lives and say, I am, I look this way because I am so disciplined and because I have so much self-control and I need so many good decisions about food, you know, I urge this, I put in the work, then the opposite can also become true. If I regain weight, if I eat something different, that means that I'm lazy, I'm not motivated, I don't have enough self-discipline. So what I say often is that a person's relationship with food reflects the relationship they have with themselves. So if they are very self-critical, if they're very perfectionist, they have a lot of absolutist black and white thinking about themselves, I'm either lazy or I'm, and I'm a bad person and making poor decisions or I'm motivated and disciplined and I'm making the right decision. We'll see that play out in their relationship with food and how strict they are about their macros and their food choices. Do they say that there are, you know, junk foods that are completely off limits? And so, yeah, even when we're, when we're focusing on the process, we really do need to be aware of how that person's beliefs about themselves reflect in how, what they think and what they believe about their dietary pattern. And that's why I call it a relationship with food and the same that we have, we have a relationship with ourselves or a relationship with our bodies, you know, just refers to sort of the dynamic and the sets of beliefs and thoughts and feelings that drive the way we behave in relation to something else. Yeah. I really like a term you use there. You use the term weight control ability belief. And I think that's a really important term just based on personal experiences I've had within the last year or so. And I think one of the reasons that I've been weathering the situation fairly well emotionally and, you know, kind of mentally is because a lot of what you alluded to, if you go back, I've in the past, I've talked about how I generally have had a lot of success with managing my weight, whether I'm trying to gain or lose weight. And I've never attributed that to me being a superior person with tremendous willpower. I think a lot of what makes that harder or easier tends to be neurophysiological with a little sprinkling of behavioral regulation. And within the past year or two, I kind of had this double whammy where I've been dealing with a chronic pain issue that has really limited my ability to do much exercise at all other than kind of leisurely walking. And I also started taking a medication that's known to cause weight gain. And I do remember in the initial phase, like the first time I had to move up a size in, in pants, there is that initial hint of like genuine, almost fear of like, is this an uncontrollable situation? And I think when we are discussing with clients about this weight control ability belief, you know, when pay when clients are going through these changes, I think a huge part of that emotional response is do you actually believe that you have the ability to exert some degree of control or self efficacy in this context? And so for me, at first, I had that little bit of fear of like, is this kind of a runaway train? Is this just, you know, a trend line going upward in perpetuity? And I was able to kind of talk myself down and say, eventually, you will be back into your normal exercise routine, you're not going to be on this medication forever, you've done this before, you'll be able to do it again. But when you're working with a client who doesn't have that history of repeated successful manipulations of body weight and body composition, I think, you know, one of the things that just kind of jumped into my mind when you use that term is understanding the power of fear and uncertainty. Because a lot of clients are not going to have that weight control ability belief baked in from past experience. And if you're not really cognizant of that emotional response and the fears that drive it, you know, that's a situation where I believe a nutrition practitioner has the potential to do not just be unsuccessful, but even do more harm than good if we're not kind of aware of that. Absolutely. And I do want to mention some nuance there that when we talk about the weight control ability beliefs, there's an excess of, you know, I think it's almost like internal locus of control, you know, where we take too much responsibility. And then the other end is to think that we have absolutely no efficacy. And then yes, that can lead to that fear and anxiety that a lot of people experience when they're trying to move away from chronic dieting and macro tracking and calorie counting. They think that they can't trust their bodies. And they think that the alternative to rigid control of their weight is eternal weight gain and eternally eating foods that are, you know, not very nutritious and whatnot. And so it's about helping our clients challenge those beliefs and come to a middle ground where they realize how complex weight modification and weight people are and realize their realistic, I would say, margin of influence and then know what to realistically expect in terms of their body changing. And so that is a big part of it really comes down to body image work, helping people identify where that fear is coming from, because a lot of it is about how am I going to be perceived by others around me if I gain weight. And then that triggers this innate fear response of I'm going to be rejected, I'm not going to be accepted, I'm going to lose my place in my relationship and society. And so it's important to understand the root of those fears and anxieties because that's really where the work has to be done. Yeah. And especially you think if you are someone coming from the fitness world who, you know, it's not just the normal level, in my opinion, of kind of body image and and kind of self worth, but it's like I have built a huge portion of my life and personality around these fitness pursuits. I mean, you can imagine how that kind of in your mind amplifies the stakes, you know, and turns all those emotions up to 10. Absolutely. To continue on with that idea, not only around identity, but this relationship or association between body composition and body composition change, and body image, as a number of the points that you just made, Gab, really show how complex and deep this goes and how much more around body image, for example, is relating to those thoughts and our own perceptions of identity. Because I think often, and has been typical of most of us at some point, and certainly within the fitness industry, of having almost viewing that body composition change and body image are going to be tightly linearly associated, but in a way that the way to improve your body image is to improve your body composition, and it goes, and that's the kind of marketing that we do, right, of that, okay, you have a negative body image or maybe low self-esteem. If we change your body composition the right way, your confidence is going to improve, your self-esteem is going to improve, and therefore, your body image will improve. Can you maybe talk to this idea and what, I suppose, the perspective you would take on this line of thinking? Yes. Oh, yeah, I've talked about this quite often. You know, I want to start by saying, if you only like your body when it looks a certain way, you have not actually improved your body image. You have just made your body less triggering to your negative body image. So when we help a person change their appearance, in order to help them, you know, quote-unquote, feel more confident or like their body more, we have not actually addressed the negative body image. It's latent. It's just dormant. It's not being triggered because they like the way that they look, but that's going to be temporary, and we really have failed them by not helping them to address that negative body image, by not helping them to establish more body image flexibility, because all we've done now is reinforce. You like yourself more when you're leaner or when you're more defined. You feel better about yourself when you look this way, and we have reinforced the notion that people who are more disciplined, more motivated, better people are leaner, and so then the opposite must be true. So all we've done then is reinforce that belief system, and another thing to point out, and I want to credit my very good friend and colleague, Shannon Beer, who I know you both know, which she speaks so much about body image, and she has pointed out that when we talk about confidence, really confidence is intended to be sort of situational, like I feel self-confident in my ability to do a thing. So how can we really feel confident in our bodies when body is an, it's just an appearance. It is a momentary appearance, the momentary physical representation of essentially your energy balance and physical activity habit. And so when we tie a person's, you know, beliefs about, you know, what confidence means, what self-esteem means, that we tie that to their appearance, and we reinforce that notion, we're really doing harm long term, because we're not actually improving their body image. Hopefully that's clear now, you know, we have reduced the triggering experiences. We have increased positive perceptions about appearance. So we could say to some extent, maybe positive body image has increased temporarily, because now they have a more favorable opinion of their appearance. But because positive and negative body image are two separate constructs, we can increase some positive body image experiences temporarily without improving negative body image. We're just putting it off until their body inevitably changes. And what we really want to focus on more is that body image flexibility, where a person doesn't attach so much value and so much meaning to their appearance. And in that case, a person could go through body composition change, you know, they could prep for a physique show, and they know that, oh, this is just a hobby. And this is just what my body looks like when I'm engaging in this part of the hobby. But it doesn't mean anything about me. And then if I gain weight in the offseason, or if I stop competing, I have not changed as a person, this hasn't affected my identity or the way that I perceive myself as an individual. It's just that the external casing of my personality has changed temporarily once again. I mean, as you say that a few things jump out to me that on one point, like you say, we do live in a society, unfortunately, where there are realities we have to deal with and society views people in certain ways. And so then foreseeably, we do have situations where someone changes their body composition and may report some, let's say, benefit or at least reporting this benefit for body image. As you noted, that can be a couple of things. It could be this increase in positive body image, but also could be just removing some of the elements of this external judgment that others are placing on someone. And of course, that does have a real impact on someone's life. But as you noted, there's still probably a missing element somewhere of that more intrinsic part, I suppose. And I'm sure all of us can identify people that we know quite well who have gone to the extremes of body composition, right? In terms of how are some of the leanest and most in-shape people you can imagine, but are even maybe more critical or maybe more hyper-focused on some of these things a lot of the times than others. And so it kind of speaks to this disconnect between those two things that, yes, there are some tangible benefits. And I think maybe we can't go and say, oh, well, it makes no difference, but it's being clear on what those differences are that you outlined. Exactly. And I think one of the words that I would point out too, that you've alluded to, is a sense of preoccupation. So at both ends of the spectrum, whether a person is at their leanest and they like their body the most, what is the level of preoccupation then that they have with their appearance? Has it become something that they think about all the time and a vast majority of their time and energy and resources are going to try toward trying to maintain that physique and control their weight? That is really no better than having a preoccupation at the other end where they're not as lean and they're still having the same level of psychological distress and cognitive restraint, dietary restraint and preoccupation. So we really want to look at how like the ratio of time and energy spent controlling or modifying body size and shape versus the rest of their lives. Because we sometimes maybe often see that that becomes almost everything and it influences all the other domains of wellness. It influences their social life. It influences their psychological health and well-being. It could even influence, you know, like occupational health. They can influence philosophical aspects, you know, like our sense of meaning and purpose in life. So even if we help a person, you know, reach their their physique goals and they feel very good about their appearance temporarily, we don't want to do that at the expense of the other domains of wellness that help to create a fulfilling life or a complex human being. Quick follow up on that. I'm curious to hear how you would push back against a particular scenario that I've seen play out many, many times. I'm sure we all have. But you know, there are some folks who will tell you, I used to have really negative body image. I was, in my view, out of shape. And then I kind of internalized a lot of body dissatisfaction and kind of bullied myself into getting my physique to match what I thought was, you know, good, right? So people who, almost kind of internalize a lot of negative feelings about their body image, turn that into effectively a lifestyle and they say, well, yeah, now I, you know, would resent myself if my body, if my body looked differently. But that's what keeps me going back to the gym. It's keeping me, quote unquote, healthier based on, you know, whatever physical health metric you want to put in there. I have built a small community of folks in my little social sphere who reinforce these things. And we kind of view ourselves as the elite who are able to push ourselves in this way. So you can see folks who will tell you, no, I've built my own little bubble here that, that is completely satisfying and perpetuates itself. So what would you say to someone who has that type of pushback and thinks they're on, on a completely sustainable track? Sure. Well, I mean, people in that state, I mean, people are familiar with the trans theoretical model, even though it's sort of, you know, just a theoretical construct, that person is not in a place where they're open to change their mind. And I'm not here, you know, to change mine. So in a person, with, with a person who says that, you know, they have already a very strong set of beliefs. They have plenty of evidence to support those beliefs and they're not interested in taking on another perspective. And so to that person, I would say, Hey, well, it sounds like what you did really got you the results that you wanted. If I wanted to then inspire a little bit of thought, I would ask what else might have worked or how do you know that something else might not have worked? Or what do you think it would be like if you tried something different? Just to inspire some additional thought. Um, but you know, it's, I think it really also comes down to the bodily autonomy and, and respecting a person's decision to modify their bodies and do that in whatever way they think is best for themselves. Um, which may not be the most, it's may not be evidence-based. It may not be realistically sustainable. It may not be healthy physically or psychologically. Um, but everyone I think has to reach as to get to a place of change on their own. And maybe that person, you know, would get to a point where they think I'm so stressed out all the time. Like, you know, wow, I reached my body goal, but I still am never satisfied. You know, my, my, I'm having all these negative thoughts again. I don't enjoy food anymore. Like, you know, what am I supposed to do now? And then that's when other avenues open up or we can talk about integrating self-compassion practice and body, uh, appreciation and body functionality appreciation and allowing the person to collect evidence to the contrary. Uh, and they're going to have to collect a lot more evidence to the contrary than they had to collect, um, you know, based on our first exposures. Um, but that is quite often. I mean, a lot of those folks are, uh, other poaches. They can be clients as well. Um, you know, clients are often in a place of extreme ambivalence where on one hand they feel this sense of, um, restriction and, and restraint and they're, uh, resentful almost about having to track macros and they don't like that they're constantly negative toward themselves and super self-critical. And on the other hand, they think that it's keeping them safe because that is what is helping them to maintain their, their appearance up to this point. And so the alternative feels like a threat to their safety. And so I think it's also about integrating those other practices in baby steps, not trying to tell a person, Oh, I'm going to take you from like, I hate my body to, I love my body. Actually, both of those are kind of two sides of the same coin. It's just helping people to feel more flexible about their appearance and to not attach so much of their identity and personality to it. But, you know, as you mentioned, if someone's created a whole community around this, where they're having to give up a lot in order to take on a new set of beliefs. Yeah. And I like the distinction that you made there, um, because, you know, you, you mentioned that if someone's already kind of entrenched in this set of beliefs, then even if you, for some reason, felt compelled to move them from it, probably not going to happen, right? There, there's some stages of change that they need to reach before that's going to be a, a very productive, uh, contextually relevant conversation. But you also alluded to the fact that a lot of these folks do end up becoming coaches and trainers. And so I think that's where, in my opinion, some of the potential issues arise, which is where someone would say, well, when I was dissatisfied with my body, I built my whole life around it and changed my body to match where my mind was rather than addressing some of those underlying psychological factors. If a coach is using that as a model for success, and then when a client comes in and says, I feel bad about my body and they say, oh, perfect, let's change your body and the social environment in which you engage. That's where I think, you know, it, it does become, uh, potentially pretty problematic. And one of the things that I, I always, um, suggest when people think that is the route to go is, you know, it's, it's kind of like talking to someone who's an NFL football player and they're 31 years old and they say, this is great. I got it made. I put all of my life and identity into being a professional football player. What could possibly go wrong? And, and the question is, well, do you know any 56 year old football players? And do you plan to be 56 years or older at some point in your life? You know, there's really no off ramp there for being a person who is not in the ultra elite category of physique and also comfortable with their own body. You know, you need to kind of build that off ramp by working on some of those psychological tools and those underlying factors. You know, that is such a great question too. I should say maybe like a great reflection, you know, when you're talking to someone who is not in a place, uh, ready for change to really reflect that there really nothing could go wrong because we are by nature sort of contrarian and it can inspire them to think about, well, no, probably nothing can go wrong, but maybe, and to help them start to think about, well, how sustainable is that actually? And like, what are the potentially negative consequences and helping them think about the longevity of their fitness lifestyle, um, and their, or, or their hobby, um, rather than, you know, how are things right now? Things right now can be great, but if you want to keep doing this for the next 10, 20 years, what does that look like? What does it look like once you've had a child? What does it look like if you have to move? They're just helping them to imagine other circumstances in which their approach might not be the best fit. And I love that you brought up that point because we do have such a strong influence on our clients and the way that they think about themselves. One of the things that I see often happening in these types of conversations within the fitness industry more broadly, or what can potentially be a, a turnoff point for some people initially is maybe the first time they hear about some of these things, they have the impression, either someone explicitly says it, or that's the sense they get from a discussion around body image or the potential harms of dieting or the harms of pursuing a body composition change or weight loss as an example. When they're first hearing that, those things, they presume, well, that means that there is no potential way for me to have these pursuits. And it's kind of a shattering of that, their identity or these things that they do want to pursue a change in body composition, or even how much of that people get a sense of community or identity of, oh, I want to get more jacked and whether that's for a sport or not, or I want to be leaner, or for me, this gives a self accomplishment. And maybe their first interaction then with hearing some of these things to think over in some way feels like, well, the only solution then is it's never okay for me to have these pursuits as opposed to maybe what you've been suggesting. Well, first, our first port of call is think about why are we pursuing these things? And what are the kind of sequelae of thoughts after that? Could you maybe talk to this and maybe a useful thing for people would be to see if there are the typical types of pursuits people have in fitness? Are there better and worse ways to pursue them? Are there healthier and unhealthier ways to do that? And what might that actually look like for someone? Oh, sure. Yeah. And I am always like a person of nuance. So I have never been dogmatic about, you know, it's never okay to track back rows or never okay to modify your physique. The analogy that I use is that weight modification is like a contact sport. So there is inherent risk, but with the proper technique and the proper protective equipment, we can mitigate those risks to the greatest extent possible. And so it really comes down to knowing what those risk factors are for us as, you know, health professionals, and then helping our clients to either reach, you know, the safest state with, at which to start, or if they're already there, you know, we're integrating these practices that are protective along the way. So the first is, you know, if your client is coming to you because they're dissatisfied with their body composition already, that right there is already a risk factor. Like this person has an injury that has not healed properly, and then you're going to go send them out onto the field. You know, no, we would never do that. As health professionals, we would say, we have to make sure that we've addressed this injury and that you're pain-free, your mobility has returned, and then we could start with prostate. So ensuring that we have already done the body image work. We might find that once the person has addressed their negative body image, they have much more body image flexibility, appreciation, respect, they say, oh, actually, I don't have that goal anymore. I really, like, I just wanted to do that to change the way I feel about myself. I feel much better in general without having to change my appearance. And so we say, okay, great, we don't even have to pursue that risky avenue. If a person, though, is, you know, competing in physique sports or they're in a weight class sport and they already come to the solid foundation, no pre-existing injuries, they're in a good place with their relationship with food, we still want to engage in best practices. So if we can put off using macros for calorie counting, if we can still help them to just address other factors that could influence their energy balance while still relying on internal cues, that's one potential protective factor. So we say, like, relying on biofeedback in the same way that we rely on biofeedback to use our PE in our training. The next step is that if we are using macros or calorie tracking, that we're focusing not on adherence, you know, did I hit my macros 100%, but focusing on an analysis of what made that challenging? What foods were more filling or less filling? What factors might have affected my energy balance in terms of my physical activity habit? And so we focus more on the things that are within their control. Another thing would be very judicious use of body monitoring in terms of like, you know, do we really have to track body weight? If we do that, how often do we really need to do that? You know, we don't need to be tracking, we don't need to be weighing every single day. Two to three times a week to get an average is sufficient. Does the athlete or does the person need to be looking at the scale every time? Not necessarily because it's our job to be tracking their progress over time. Or is it a better idea to use something like circumference measurements or, you know, an alternative to weighing? Making sure that we're checking in with them over the course of the process. You know, how are they feeling about their eating habits? Are they feeling higher levels of restraint or restriction? Are they feeling more preoccupied with their body? Because part of the process of body modification, body physique modification is physique monitoring. And that can really exacerbate an underlying preoccupation with one's appearance. So you could end up with, you could start with someone who has no body dissatisfaction or very minimal and, you know, a flexible relationship with food. But over the course of several months, you have them tracking every tiny morsel. You have them weighing in every day. They're constantly looking at their body. They're starting to squeeze or pinch different areas to look at the level of body fat. Now you are actually integrating risk factors. You're actually causing injury along the way and then not addressing. It's like a stress fracture and you're not addressing it. And then by the end of the three or to six months, now you have a person who has an extreme level of preoccupation with their appearance. They've tied their sense of, you know, self-esteem and value to the way that they look. We already talked about, you know, even if you're focusing on the process, you have to be sure that the client isn't internalizing that as like, oh, this means that I'm a good person because I'm making these decisions around food. So it's certainly possible. But again, we have to do that with best practices and with the protective equipment in place and realize that, you know, tracking macros is not going to be a rest of their life practice. We have to also get them ready for, you know, the offseason. If you think about that, how do we off board them in a way that they can get back to, you know, focusing on their internal cubes and that they're okay with the fact that their body is going to change once again, that their physique is going to change. You know, we don't have a person peaking for a powerlifting meet and then competing every single week for the rest of their lives. So we don't want to be doing that with their dietary habits either. One of the things that comes up is that in one way, as you've outlined, is we can get people to a place with the proper guidance and help to maybe where they are able to tackle some of these potential interventions in a healthier manner. But with that in mind, it probably goes to speak to the point that there are probably other people where that may not be possible, no matter what. And we can't just have this thing of, oh, I'm going to have a certain approach where I talk about some of these things with people. And we can always get to this point. It might be that in certain contexts, there is a contraindication to some of these. Can you maybe just speak to what those may be and a bit more about that, that screening that fitness professionals generally should be aware of that maybe isn't such common practice? Oh, absolutely. I would say the number one would be a history of disordered eating or diagnosed eating disorder. You know, that is a sign because the analogy there could be like, you know, a severe injury, like a femur fracture, that could be a contraindication for certain activities. Um, or when we're using, I don't, I don't see a lot of people using sort of the validated weight internalization questionnaires, body image questionnaires, but they are available. Um, so one thing that I've done is I've actually compiled sets, uh, you know, questionnaires, um, with a compilation of questions from these different, uh, validated questionnaires so that I can get a sense of where a person is starting. And if they're saying they have really high levels of, uh, body preoccupation, body dissatisfaction, they have a lot of extreme weight controllability beliefs. They have very negative opinions about people in large bodies. Those are all signs that when taken together indicates a person who has internalized a lot of weight stigma feels very dissatisfied about their bodies and may not, even if they've, you know, gotten to a place where they've addressed a lot of the negative body image, that if they start again, in terms of a weight loss pursuit, they might notice though that they're triggered once again, back into those habits. It's hard for coaches necessarily to see that from the beginning. So I think the other thing that's really important is to have this open dialogue with your clients, help them identify what to look out for because both, you know, coaches especially can be very, um, blind to their own disordered eating habits and their own risk factors and, and, uh, you know, equally clients can be unaware. So increasing that awareness and making sure that you have your, uh, you know, radar out for these things coming back up. And once the client says, Hey, you know, I'm starting to feel really neurotic about this again, then we say, Hey, maybe it's time for us to go another route. The other thing to make very clear is that the, I don't want to say inability, but the contraindication to pursue physique modification, the fact that you have tried and, you know, even though you've done a lot of work, you find that you're triggered once again, back into those old habits is not a sense of failure. There's not something wrong with you. You're not dysfunctional. It's just that this is the way that the mind works. It is a pattern seeking machine, and it will default to the things that have worked in the past. And if you have 10 years of experience with that approach, and that's what helped you feel safe, then it makes sense that after a couple, even after a couple of years of work, going back into that environment mentally could lead you back to that same place. It is not a failure. It's just something to be aware of about yourself and to make decisions accordingly that are in your own best interest long term. Yeah, I just wanted to kind of second something that you mentioned there. So you talked a little bit about using validated questionnaires pertaining to kind of disordered eating symptomology or diagnosis. And I would expect that a lot of nutrition practitioners listening will say, that seems a bit excessive, probably more than I need for what I'm really trying to do in my screening practices. And that was my initial thought when I got into this whole business. But after screening a tremendous number of coaching applications, and trying different ways, what I generally tended to find, and this may differ from your experience, but if I ask people, have you ever been diagnosed clinically with an eating disorder? The number of people who says yes is small, and we miss a lot of people who should have been screened differently. If we instead say, if we drop the whole concept of medical diagnosis and say just, do you think maybe you have an eating disorder? The number actually is excessive. There are, well, maybe not excessive, but if you are screening in that way, and anyone who thinks that maybe possibly in some way they have a disordered eating habit or a set of beliefs or however you want to phrase it, you will end up with a tremendous number of people in the fitness world saying, eh, probably. And if your screening criteria is as cut and dry as, you know, anyone who says maybe to that, I can't work with them, there's going to be a lot of people who are left without the support that they need. And in reality, some of the people who would respond, eh, maybe kind of something like that, actually, it was appropriate to work with them within certain contexts depending on their goals. So yeah, that screening, you know, if you go one direction and say, I'm only going to take it seriously if there's a clinical medical diagnosis, you're going to miss a lot. And if you go overprotective with it and say, you know, I'm not going to really define this, I'm just going to vaguely say, hey, is there any chance that maybe you kind of have a mild eating disorder? You're going to get a lot of people who say yes, but actually probably would be a justifiable candidate for your coaching services. So it really is helpful to kind of lean on some of these validated scales. And the reason that they were created and validated is because of this issue, which is that it's actually kind of hard to intuitively triangulate that without really thinking carefully about how you ask that question and conduct that screening. Yeah. And, you know, one important point there is that we can be really a stopgap. Like we can help prevent the progression of a person who is in this gray area of subclinical collection of disordered eating habits. We can help to prevent them from progressing toward a clinical eating disorder. But we can also do the opposite. If we're not engaging in best practices, we can progress them then to a clinical eating disorder. But, you know, that population is so underserved because they don't qualify as a, you know, a diagnostic case and they are often overlooked or, you know, they're unaware of their risk factors. The health professionals are unaware of, you know, the collection of disordered eating habits they have. And so they are worked with, you know, a little haphazardly and really, and, you know, the medical professionals, like mental health professionals don't always have training in areas like body image and nutrition and exercise practices. And so it really can be a helpful synthesis, the helpful dynamic if a person is working with a mental health professional, even if they don't have a diagnosed eating disorder, to work with a health professional, with a coach who can help them on the more practical, you know, lifestyle side of things and really help to prevent that progression. Yeah, I mean, you nailed it. There is this massive group of people who falls into this really unfortunate gap where if they went to a clinician and said, I want help with my eating disorder, they might say, I'm not sure if you do. Like, you don't really meet our, like, you know, you don't really cross that threshold from subclinical to clinical. Or if they went to that practitioner and said, I want you to help me reach this fitness goal in a responsible way, they might say, I don't really do that. Like, I'm not really well trained or I'm not really comfortable working in that fitness oriented area. And so then they come to fitness professionals and say, I want you to work with me, but in a way that's responsible and appropriate. And sometimes they get turned away from the people most equipped to actually navigate that responsibly and carefully. And what often ends up happening is they work their way down to the most unscrupulous characters who are willing to say, sure, yeah, I'll do it. We'll just get you really lean and that'll fix everything. So it's, and like, I don't have a great answer for that other than to be really attentive with screening, be really attentive after screening, like you said, keeping that engagement and that dialogue open. And, you know, for the love of God, referring when needed, right? So it's okay as a practitioner to say, I think that we can still work toward what you're trying to do, but I think it'd be appropriate to supplement what we're doing with, you know, the work of this type of clinician or that type of clinician. And then at some point you may have to make that decision where you say, initially upon screening, I thought we could do this in a way that was responsible and totally compatible with your mental and physical health. I'm starting to see some signs that are concerning to me. Feels like it's drifting outside of my scope of practice. And at this point, I really would encourage you to reach out to this individual or this type of clinician. So it's a fluid situation, but I remember going into this space and initially thinking, you know, there was something noble about saying no as many times as possible, right? I'm not going to work with you. I'm going to turn down the paycheck and I'm going to fall on this sword professionally because it's the right thing to do. But of course, if someone is going to draw you out of your scope of practice, that is the right thing to do. That is the noble thing to do. But there are these people who fall into this gap. And over time, I started to recognize exactly what you hinted at, which is that these folks are being turned away from practitioners who are hyper cautious and only being worked with by the practitioners who have no level of caution whatsoever, which is the worst possible thing that could happen to the people who fall into that gap. Yeah, yeah, absolutely agree. And I think to your point about the capacity to say no in certain circumstances, when we're working with clients who have, you know, a history of disordered eating and we're encroaching on this territory of, okay, let's see how this goes. It is so important to build that rapport and the sets of your own responsibility and to be able to say, hey, like you said, you know, that we gave this a try. I'm very concerned going forward. I don't feel right continuing to coach you on this. This would be outside my scope and would no longer be ethical. What are your thoughts? Yeah. You know, they might decide that they want to work with someone else. They might decide that, you know, they want to hear you out. Like, what are the risks? They might decide that they don't want to continue on. But I think a lot of times people want to be able to work with everyone and coach everyone on everything. And that's just not the reality, you know, and you have to be able to say, hey, as the professional here, even though I know you really want to get to your leanest, I know that you like, you want to like your body again as the professional here, identifying the risk factors and the red flags. It is my duty to point out the dangers going forward. You still can make your own decision. I will not be the one who guides you into that territory. Yeah. And I do think it's helpful. Like I used to teach a course at a university that was more oriented toward like emergency care of injury. And so we would talk about different people within the sports medicine team. And the two things that would come up would be what is your duty? You know, your legally defined duty based on your licensure and your role. And then what is your scope of practice or scope of care? And I think it'd be really valuable for people who enter the nutrition coaching space, even if it's not a, you know, highly credentialed, licensed area of practice in certain context. I think it's very valuable to just learn those concepts that there is a duty, which is like you have to do this. You are ethically responsible for a certain level of care and certain actions that may occur during that care. And you can violate your duties by acts of omission and acts of commission, you know, doing the wrong thing or not doing the right thing. So that idea of just having a duty of care, I think is really lost on a lot of folks who kind of work their way into nutrition kind of as an offshoot of personal training, which is a not very tightly regulated area, obviously. So having that concept of what is my duty of care? What is my scope of practice? And how do I kind of ethically enforce both of those simultaneously? A lot of folks who are in the kind of more credentialed, licensed allied health fields are intimately aware of that. And a lot of folks who work their way into nutrition aren't really as familiar with those concepts. And even if you don't have a state regulated duty of care, it's still helpful to understand that concept, I think. Before we finish, because we're just coming up on time here, maybe a nice way to pull all of this together and connect some of these ideas and maybe address something we've alluded to, but maybe not specifically stated, is if we are talking about a case where a professional is working with someone who does have, let's say, high levels of body dissatisfaction or high negative body image or low levels of positive body image, we've said, okay, in cases where they do want to pursue a body composition goal, here's some ways to maybe offset some of the potential harms. But if we're just looking at that concept of improving someone's positive body image or decreasing their negative body image, earlier you've put forward the case that this isn't a direct linear relationship with body composition. And so just changing someone's body composition isn't the way really to sort that out. So then people are probably thinking, okay, well, what interventions do we have or what are some of those elements? And of course, this could be a very large, broad thing, so we probably don't have time for that. But what are some things you'd put on people's radar of if the answer is not body composition change? How do we improve someone's body image? What interventions do we know have good evidence for their efficacy? The first recommendation I would make is to take a weight neutral approach. Because if we are still pursuing intentional physique modification, we're still increasing their preoccupation, they're still looking at their bodies a lot more, you really cannot effectively address body image disturbance while modifying your physique. It is two set of opposing activities. That's the first recommendation I would make. Second would be to continue pursuing health promoting behaviors. So to help a person detach their appearance from engagement in the behaviors that help them feel their best. You can still even track other metrics if you want to. Energy, sleep hours, sleep quality, general mood. So to help a person start to engage in those behaviors behaviors for the purpose of engaging in those behaviors, for the purpose of their overall well-being. And then third, to directly address body image. Now there are really, probably because we're like everyone is different in the way, you know, the origins of their body image disturbance and the sets of beliefs that they have, that there's no one practice that seems to be the most effective across the board. But some of the most common and generally effective would be to engage in body functionality appreciation. So a person could do this in a formal way through journaling. And they're appreciating the functions, obviously, of their body. And I encourage people, don't just think about in the gym, like I'm so strong. Think about the functions of your senses, how your level of mobility allows you to engage in the things that you enjoy to do. So really appreciating like the baseline functions of your body. And engaging in general practices around gratitude and respect for your body. So it could be, you know, I feel grateful for the fact that I have, I can hug my family members and doing that as on a regular basis. The other thing would be to either reduce body checking behaviors or to reduce body avoidance behaviors. So body checking would be things like possibly looking in the mirror, squeezing areas that you think have a lot of fat, weighing yourself, reducing those behaviors. Body avoid, body image avoidance is something like avoiding reflections of yourself, avoiding looking in the mirror. So reducing either one of those behaviors so that you can look at yourself in the mirror and you can cope with your appearance. It doesn't cause a lot of distress. And of course, like the underlying practice, it would be something like cognitive behavioral coaching and acceptance and commitment training to help people to restructure their sets of beliefs that they have about themselves and to pursue those values on behaviors, even when they're having, you know, a tough body image day, noticing, oh, I'm saying that I feel fat today. Actually, I feel very insecure. Actually, I feel fat. Accurately identifying those emotions and being able to meet their needs more effectively and reducing their attachment and their sense of overvaluation of their appearance by helping them to appreciate other aspects of their personnel. So rather than, you know, my body looks this way, what do I appreciate about the person that I am that has nothing to do with my achievements, that has nothing to do with my physique, you know, personality aspects that I had as a three year old that have stayed with me up until this point. So it's really about getting back in touch with who you are at your core, your personality, the type of person that you are, and even your hobbies, starting to pursue other things that can bring you joy, so that you spend less time being preoccupied with your body and your appearance. Before we finish, Eric, I don't know if I've left any threads that are open or any loops that we need to close that you think we should address. Eric Leibbrandt No, I thought you were very professional in allowing me space to enter the conversation and ask questions as they came up. I think you did a terrific job allowing me to let you have that power. And no, I think this was a great conversation. I appreciate you, Gab, for sharing some of your experience and wisdom on the matter. And Danny, great questions. Loved it. Eric Leibbrandt Well, thank you for reading off that script that I sent you of nice things to say about me. But I fully agree on what you said. Gab, it's been a pleasure to listen to you talk about some of these areas that you have such expertise in, and that is going to be incredibly useful for, I'm sure, many people listening. For those of you who are nutrition professionals and are interested in what's going on at the Sports Nutrition Association, where we have educational materials as well, including some of the lectures that Gab has given on topics like these, you can check that out at Sports Nutrition Association. If on a more regular basis, you want to hear from Dr. Trexler, of course, Iron Culture is where you can continue listening. And then for myself at Sigma Nutrition. But thank you both to Gab and to Eric and to our beloved listeners today. And that's it. Thanks, everyone. .