 Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost Ghost I'll call you. Don't call me. And I'll let you know how it went. Okay. Okay. Sounds good. All right. So we're currently in Ireland. Yeah. And it's been a really cool trip. We're at the, believe it or not, the fourth European powerlifting conference. This is something that the good folks at City Gym, big shout out to Garben. Yeah. Big shout out to Danny Lennon. They've been putting this on for a long time, but COVID locked it down. So we had it in 2017, right after Belarus. That was actually my first Worlds. So that was the first time Bryce Lewis did Worlds. My first time coaching at Worlds. A little bit of history. He got a silver medal in the 105 kilo class, placing after Christoph Wurzbecky. Yeah. Wow. It was a battle. It was good. Yeah. And then we went directly from there to Ireland. And it was also the year that Brett Gibbs, I think he placed second that year. It was a disappointing loss. Oh, yeah. I remember. Against a guy from Kazakhstan, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. And he just was not up for presenting. He was actually one of the slated speakers. So Ellis McClain, shout out to the two-time world champion, my boy. He stepped up and gave a badass motivating speech, taught people how to do bench press. And we had a cool lineup. Mike T. We got to go see the Cliffs of Moore. They took care of us. We had Bryce Lewis, Greg Knuckles. And that started something that we all enjoyed so much that they were like, we got to do this every year. So we had it in Limerick in 2017. In 2018, we went to Dublin. And then in 2019, we went to London. And then COVID. Yeah. So I was so stoked to hear that Gar was going to bring it back this year. And I was even more stoked that you were going to be a part of it. So it was really cool, man. We had a lineup. We had a mixture of athletes. We had a mixture of coaches. We had a mixture of scientists. We had a couple people who do all of it. We had John Hack, which I think was incredible. Yeah. Something I really like about EPC is the effort made to make it kind of across the whole span of powerlifting. Yeah. The only thing we don't really have a good representation on is like equipped. But it's, you know, I love equipped guys. Yeah. Let's face it. We're closer to the end than we are to the beginning with equipped. You know, it's. You're not wrong. You're not wrong. That's how it is. It's tough because I think, I think equipped is definitely like we're standing on the shoulders of giants in many ways. Yeah. I get that. I get that. But at the same time, like, I'll just give you a quick example. Like if it's, it was only equipped powerlifting, I wouldn't be a powerlifter today. I wouldn't either. So I, even though I've been in the game a little bit longer and my first powerlifter meet was 2006. I never had. You're a dinosaur. You know that, right? You know that. The 2006, some, some of the listeners may just be like a couple of years old. Yeah. They're a sub junior and that's when they're on. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So Matt, Matt Gary, how do you feel about that? But, but yeah, even then I had zero interest in getting equipped there. And even though we were the minority at the time, it's just so much more accessible, you know? Yeah. You know, it's, so when I started powerlifting out, I was training by myself in a commercial gym. There is no way you can do equipped powerlifting under those circumstances. And I think a lot of people, uh, at least, uh, I'll say the example with France, but I would say it's probably worldwide, maybe not in the U S but everywhere else in the world, you maybe have a couple of good powerlifting gyms in, let's say two hours drive around your house. So definitely nothing, something can do like on a daily basis or a lot of times in the week, in the week. So I would say if it was only equipped powerlifting, since you need like a lot of people to train with, you need to invest a lot of money to begin with because you need different shirts when you're training. Like for instance, I'm cutting weight. So I would need a certain set of shirts when I'm training at 69 kilos, 70, another set when I'm at 68, another set when I'm competing. Yeah. So I think honestly, man, it's, it's just, it's like you said, it's, uh, our father quote unquote for rope powerlifting, but it's, it's a father, you know, that at some point you gotta, you gotta, you gotta let, yeah, you gotta, you let your son take care of it. You say, look, look out there, Lenny. Yeah. And, uh, just, just imagine the rabbits and then you just got to put it to bed. No, I'm just kidding. We're not going to shoot equipped powerlifting. No, no, no. People will keep doing it. It's cool. It's cool. Yeah, it is cool. And I think it's not going to go away, but I think it is probably a good thing for involving more people in the sport that raw powerlifting is the dominant form. Yeah. Everyone's really interested in it. And I think we're talking about this, how in some ways powerlifting is not a great spectator sport, but in other ways it is. Yep. And I think the way that it is, is because anyone who lifts can understand what's happening. And back in the day with equipped powerlifting, they couldn't. Yeah. Like, you know, I'm a, like a huge powerlifting nerd and fan. If I see a guy, my, my weights do equipped powerlifting and let's say he squats three, three twenty, I can row squat to sixty something. I'm like, not sure that's good. I don't know. You know what I mean? Although that's the sport that I practice, but I have no clue because I'm like, okay, how much does the suit help? How much do the wraps help? Same with bench. A little less with deadlifts, honestly, because that's the movement. The suit helps the least, I would say. And I could probably say that too. But yeah, it's, it's so remotely, it's, it's so far away from what people that squat bench and deadlift do in commercial gyms, talking about non-powerlifters. So, yeah, I think, uh, I think in terms of, uh, viewership and also people relating to the sport, row, row processing is probably much better. I would agree. And I think it's, it's, it's, it's the reason why we've had the boom. And it's the reason why we can have events like the European powerlifting conference. Yeah. So I think if, if they ever do include it, it would probably be something, um, to hopefully attract some of the people who do that. Yeah. It'd be a small component to it. Yeah. But I think this was really cool this year because we had such a mixture of talks. So we kicked it off. Dr. Pack was talking about the minimum effective dose for powerlifting a little more on the academic side, but of course he does a great job of making it applied. Yeah. Then we get into panels, which I think the panels are really cool where we get a group of people together. Um, and then we had a really cool panel, which I pushed guard to try to get together last minute that was on not like the science of powerlifting or how to have a cultivated athlete mentality or coaching things. It was on the history of strength. So we had Dr. Connor Heffernan, who is a sports historian, which is pretty cool, specifically interested in a lifting sport. And he brought out like an old poster of Eugene Sandow, old lifting equipment, which I thought was cool. And he also spoke with David Keohan, who is basically single handedly rediscovered 40 plus ancient lifting stones in Ireland, where only five years ago we thought, oh yeah, Scotland, it's got lifting stones. Iceland's got lifting stones. But of course Ireland does too. And in fact, the Basque region has lifting stones. There's lifting stones in Asia. It's, it's almost a fundamental part of ancient human culture where for practical reasons, you need to be strong enough to do the things that people do in life. Yeah. Like for example, in Iceland, people are aware of a full stoker and half stoker. What they may not be aware of is that means like half strong and full strong. And it determines what position you get to sit on the fishing boat and how much of a share you get. So I think it's kind of cool to have that connection to the past and how David could share his passion and finding those stones. And Connor could talk through how, how did competitive lifting come out of what was originally just Olympic weightlifting and then bodybuilding and then how it became what we see today as competitive powerlifting. It wasn't going to directly teach someone what they need to do next time they compete, but the audience was captivated. So I'll be honest, I didn't know what to expect of that. Yeah. I had no idea what to expect of that. And obviously the part with the like strength history was very, very cool. And one of the first ones was actually an influencer ahead of his time because based of what he said, like he was selling out the tool he was using to be as jacked as he was to like a general audience. Yep. So he was like a genius ahead of his time. The original influencer, Eugene Sandow telling you that the way he got jacked was by a little squeeze dumbbell when it was actually, yeah, big bicep. It was actually 200 pound military presses, but yeah. And then at the same time, like the lifting stones. So when he started talking about it, like, you know, I know remotely what it's like remotely, but not, not like that precisely. And then as he was speaking about it, I was like getting emotional first, which is like very weird. And also it was like, oh, we're in Ireland. They have lifting stones. We have to try it out. Yeah. So he actually by himself convinced, convinced me and, and you and the other group of very, very cool guys we were with to actually go try to lift the stone. Yes. Which is crazy. Like two days later, we're actually going to lift the stone just based off of his, his, the speech about it. Yeah. And if you would have told me that I would try to go lift a stone, I would have never believed you. Because for those that don't know me, I'm like an extreme powerlifting nerd. Yep. And also as a high level athlete, I feel that if I injure myself doing something else than powerlifting, I'll regret it. So that's why I never play like football for instance, or basketball, because I'm like, Hey, if I like spring my ankle and I can squat for a couple of weeks or months, even worse, then it's bad for my career. But he was so interesting. And his, his speech, his stories were so cool. I was like, you know what? I think I'll go give it a crack. I try to lift the stones. I'll call it when I feel that, you know, it may be dumb to wish further. Yeah. Continue. So I left my ego aside, but I just wanted to give it a go. And honestly, I'm so glad I came to the European powerlifting conference. Just for the quick story. In 2019, I actually wanted to attend, to go to the event, but as like a visitor. Right. Because like I already said, I told you to you, but you, Greg Nichols, Mike T, you guys are like my inspiration for what I do. You taught me a lot, like a lot of the stuff that I know that I do, that I practice as an athlete and as a coach. And since I coach myself, also it's, it's thanks to you guys. And so at first I wanted to attend in 2019, like, Oh, I'm going to learn so much. Uh, couldn't afford it for financial reasons. Uh, but you should always invest on your education. Uh, that's, I think something very, very important, especially if you're an aspiring coach or athlete, uh, deep down the line, you'll get something out of it for sure. So do it back then. I couldn't, but yeah. And so when I was invited by Gar, I was like, Oh, that's so cool. Like I wanted to go there as a visitor and now I get invited as an athlete. Speaker. Yeah. Speaker. And also I just want to say for the record, uh, you know, although like I'm a mass subscriber, I'm, I'm reading a lot of like stronger by science posts, uh, listening to the podcast, iron culture podcast, obviously I learned still so much. And, uh, the lifting stone part was the, the part I was expecting the least to actually interest me and to hype me up, but it definitely did. So all of that to say, give it a crack, give it a go, come to the EPC next time it happens, because that was like, for me personally, a tremendous experience and four days went by like very, very quickly. Like nothing. Yeah. I, it's, I, there really is something for everybody and I, and that's what I think is cool about it. And it's so hard to, even on something you like to sit in a classroom for a whole day and technical talks. So I think we, we did a really good job of going like, all right, technical talk panel. Panel on science panel from the athletes. I thought it was so cool to have Leah Bavoie, Panna, and then John Hack talking about how do they cultivate, uh, the right competitive mindset? How do they get in preparation for a cop? And to see that each one of you is such different people and that you've prepared yourselves and the way you've trained so differently yet you've achieved the highest level you can in the sport. I think that's a really good eyeopening thing for people in our sport to see because our sport's so young right now. Yeah. Like no one even knows who people from five years ago were because there's so many juniors in the sport. So they're more prone to thinking in black and white terms. That's just the beginning of learning. So to see that, oh wow, there's so many tools out there that I can use to get from point A to point B, which you talked about. And I just need to find the one that works well for me. I think they got that message from world champions and that probably made them very open to then Greg talking about later, how do you personalize your program? And what do we know from the research? So like all those things are so complimentary that if you're a total nerd and you want to hear me or Greg Knuckles talk about nutrition or training, you have that. If you're like, whatever, I just want to know what like the top athletes are doing and I want to learn from them and they inspire me. You got that. Or if you want to be surprised by something you didn't even think was going to get you hyped. Man, I knew it was going to be like that because I'd met David. Obviously, I'm good friends with Connor. And after the Sheffield, which was probably the coolest couple of days of my life, coaching at the inaugural Sheffield and then getting to go immediately to Ireland and lift the lifting stones and actually watch Aisha, who is Ireland's strongest woman, lift the woman's stone for the first time in 150 years. Oh, she lifted it for the first time in early 50 years? No one had lifted it since then because those stones were recently found. And they had Ireland's current strongest woman lift the woman's stone. It was so meaningful for everyone who was there. It was, yeah, like I got a little, I got a little teary-eyed even doing the presentation. Just to give a quick insight on that. So today we went to lift the stones. So there are two stones. So the male stone and a female stone, men's stone and women's stone. So I'll tell you the truth. I knew that it would be tough. Oh yeah. I knew it. We didn't have chalk. We didn't have equipment. It was just, to say it nicely, it was just us, ourselves and what makes us male. That's right. And so we were like, oh, let's try the women's stone first because it's a bit lighter. It was hard. Yeah. It's 120 kilos. It was hard. Like I'm a two times powerlifting champion. I deadlifted 300 kilos once. It was very, very, very hard because, you know, it's not like a bar. It's not something you can easily grab and just pull onto. It's like, first the stone is like wet. There's mud everywhere. The floor on which you're doing it is like very muddy. It has holes. It's slippery. It was raining a bit also. So the stone itself, like my arms are pretty, pretty. They're tore up. Tore up by that. It's painful because, you know, by the fifth attempt, you already tore up your arms a bit and then it gets worse and worse and worse. But it's so rewarding when you lift it up that honestly, I'm like, oh, if we need to do that tomorrow again, maybe let's go. Let's go. But yeah, the women's stone was very, very hard to lift. Like, so seeing a woman achieve that again for the first time in 150 years, that must be special. It was very cool. And it was because of like these stones were lost because of like the British conquest of Ireland. So for them connecting with the stones, finding them the first time, finding out that they even existed and getting to lift them was them getting to get in touch with their history. So it was very touching for me to see it. And then Aisha also deadlifted the man stone. She lifted it. She lifted it. Yes. So she, I mean, she's, she's a, she's a beast and I mean that in a very positive way. But yeah, it was a very cool experience the first time I managed to tweak my back before we went out. So I didn't lift. I was just kind of the tour guide because I'd been there before. But yeah, like we drove an hour from Limerick out to, out to Galway and it's on a, like this guy, big shout out to Cyril. He doesn't even have a phone. So he definitely is not watching this podcast. But shout out to Cyril. He's a, he's an Irish farmer. He's just like salt of the earth. And it's in his family's graveyard. You just go behind his place. We let him know we were there. We know we contacted him ahead of time. And you walk down to this graveyard and there's just two stones sitting there. Both of them are big. One's 120-ish kilos. One's 150-ish kilos. But it's not just the weight. I think that's what it's. Powers just don't get it. No. Natural stones are about finding the purchase and like negotiating with it. And yeah, the people who are able to lift those stones who aren't just beastly strong, they, you can see that they're actually thinking through the tactics and the strategy and where can I find a connection and how do I get my center of gravity there? It's absolutely a skill. Yeah. And I think I was able to just barely clear the man stone off the ground when I did it. And it took a lot. Like I had to really think it through. I failed multiple times. And I actually have a little bit of background in strongman. You know, I've done a 125 kilo Atlas stone and I've done two strongman competitions back in 2019. Okay. So I was coming into that thinking like, oh, maybe I've got a little advantage here on some of these people. But yeah, David, he has lifted most of these stones that he's found. Some I know he's still training for. But stone lifting is its own beast. Yeah. And it is, it's painful, man. And it's, but you're right. It's very rewarding. It's very rewarding. Like you said. But I would say it's like most things in life, not just sports, not just bar lifting. Most things, things that are meaningful or hard to achieve. Yeah. Like a PhD, for instance, or a world title in bar lifting or whatever you want to, you name it. But that's, that's the learning process part of it. It's like first time you try to leave the stone, you don't get it right at all. Then second time you're a bit closer, third time a bit closer. And then, you know, sometimes you make it happen on that same day. And sometimes it's, it takes a couple of weeks, months, years. Like it took me six years, five, five years, five years to get my first world title. And Tiffany Chapon, shout out to Tiffany. It took her a year. Yeah. A couple of years. And now she's on the fourth. And now she's on the fourth. So we all are very, very different athletes, different human beings, and somebody is going to have a success very quickly and somebody else, they will achieve the same level of success or even greater success, but it will take them much longer, much more work. But at the end of the day, I would say it's, it's, it's the harder you have to work for something, the more rewarding it gets and the more meaningful it actually is. A hundred percent. Like it took me, I remember I've talked about this before and it's not. It's not about me, but it's always about me, Pana. Yeah, you did. I've learned, yeah. I first decided I want to get a WNBF Pro Card in 2005. I went to my first natural bodybuilding show. I got to be a test judge, which just means that it's kind of like you're training to be a referee in the federation. The way they do it is you see your scores compared to the actual qualified judges. And if you're within 80% on every division, then you can become a judge. Okay. So anyway, I was a bodybuilding fan and I got the opportunity to be a test judge. And I went to my first INBF, which is the amateur division in the States of the WNBF. And I saw the guy who won his pro card and I had never really been exposed to natural bodybuilding. I was used to watching the Olympia and it was so impressive, but also like raw powerlifting. It felt relatable. Yeah, exactly. You know, like I was, you know, I watched Ronnie Coleman. I look up to him, but I was a little more interested in the physiques from like pumping iron because it was an era where they weren't taking quite as much. And Frank Zane is my favorite physique. He's probably the most natty looking of that era. And I saw this guy and I'm like, oh shit, that guy's drug free. And he had these massive shredded legs. He was like a natty Tom Platz. This is all the way back in 2005. But in the next day I went to Barnes and Nobles, which is a bookstore back when people read books. I'm really showing my age. Diagnosis already. Yeah, absolutely. I'm so fucking old. Well, and they had a natural bodybuilding and fitness magazine, which is the WNBF magazine. At the time. And I think it was Jim Cordova on the cover. And I was like, oh, that's the world champion. I want to be a WNBF pro. I didn't know at that time that it would take me until 2023 to give my WNBF pro card. But it took me 18 years. But I tell you what, the feeling I had when I got my WNBF pro card and then the realization that that meant I qualified to compete at Worlds. It was probably much greater than if I had been able to achieve that in 2009. Yeah. You know, when I got close, but I didn't quite win. So I think it is, in some ways, it's almost better. Like, obviously, you want to achieve your goals in the most time efficient way as possible. But when you do get them, it is that much more rewarding. So that, I think, is a really good segue. I want to talk about you. You've been achieving a lot of goals. Like you said, it's taking you time. You know, when we were both at Sheffield in 2023, we were both coaching. But now you've competed at Sheffield. Yeah. Now you have two world titles, not just one. And most recently, you competed at Worlds. And you did total the highest total. But unfortunately, so did two other guys. Neither. Oh, man. And so for those who aren't fans of powerlifting, which, if that's the case, I'm mad at you. Yeah. But I understand because iron culture does include the whole iron cult. Yeah. And some of them are bodyweight fans. Remember weightlifting fans? Some of them like shot put. Some of them just like to do whatever. Yeah. Well, it's like the science. But, oh, man. If you're not a powerlifting fan, you would be if you watched this session. Because the 66 kilo session at Worlds most recently never has happened before except in one incidence, which I'll tell you about, which is a little bit different. The top three athletes all totaled the 707 and a half. And bodyweight determined the podium. Yeah. It does not get closer than that. And the only other time it happened was, I think, two years prior. And it was when Leah Bavois unfortunately missed weight. And it wasn't quite the same because while the top athletes all totaled, I think it was 505, if Leah had been there, she would have been 20, 30 kilos ahead. But this was the best of the best. These are just a few kilos off the world record. Yeah. And, yeah. So it was incredible to watch. I was riveted even though I was watching it on a screen and I didn't get the chance to be at Worlds. Now, I know you were a little disappointed because you didn't come out on top of that. You know, clearly you need to lose more weight, bro. I'm just kidding. I know. I read it. But I would like to, did it hit you how momentous that session was during it or were you more just focused on your competition? No, I was really just focused on my comp. You know, I lift for my own reasons. Lately, like, I talked about it like on the King of the Lifts podcast. I don't know how or why, but lately I relate a lot when I'm lifting to my dad. Yeah. So my dad is like a very, very inspiring figure for me. And to me, my dad is like the strongest man I know. Like, he has a very, very tough upbringing, very, very tough background. And he always, like, stood up. Yeah. And when he, so in 2020, he got sick for the first time, cancer. And since then, every time he is better, he is getting better, then there is another cancer somewhere else. So he always has to fight. And so in 2023, when I got my world title back, what was happening was it was during a moment where, when my dad was facing cancer for the third time in Europe, like year to year to year. And so he had to have, to have big surgeries that changed his life forever, basically. He can't speak anymore. He can't eat anymore. So it's, it's very tough, you know, seeing your dad, who's like the strongest figure, you know, be like that, you know, but he's, he's a warrior. He fights always. And so in 2023, when I went to compete at Worlds, I wasn't doing it for me. I was doing it for him. I wanted to show him that he, he raised a tough son, you know, that was following his footsteps in life, in life. So that, that's what gave me the strength to win that year. So I won. And then obviously, uh, the good thing when you win Worlds is your world champion. The bad thing is your world champion for a year. Yeah. So every year you have to put the title back on the line, which is cool. Not when you're the world champion of the moment. So either way, uh, my prep was very tough, uh, for Worlds 24. I tweaked my back, um, very close to the comp. Couldn't train like I had to and I needed to train. Thought about pulling out sometimes. Uh, but then whenever I was thinking about it, I had like the image of my dad in mind. And my, my, my dad cannot quit his fight. You know, he can say, Hey, I'd like a break. Doesn't get a break. So for me, it was, since my dad can take a break and since I'm following his example, then I cannot ask for a break. I have to show up. So I decided to show up, um, knowing that my body wasn't 10%. My body wasn't really ready to do what I needed to do. And on that day, um, I'll be honest with you. I wasn't really focused on, Hey, he's hitting this. I need to hit that. Or, oh, that total would be cool. I was just focused on, Hey, man, if there is a day you have to give it your best, that's today. And whatever kilo having me, I have to get it out somehow. So that's what we did. Um, basically the second pool on deadlifts, uh, I wanted that pool to be the pool to win for me. Um, team friends decided otherwise they wanted to secure the podium. So they submitted an attempt for me to secure the podium and not to win. Uh, I will say that at the moment I was pretty frustrated about that decision because I wanted to pull for the win, not, uh, to podium. It is what it is. Uh, so got that pool. Can I ask you a question? Yeah. Do you think, you know, I, uh, my question is, cause I, I was trying to put myself in your shoes as an athlete. I would be frustrated too, cause of how tight it was, but I would also think, how would I feel if I missed the podium because this year was a little different than other years? Yeah. For those who don't know, again, I know I, again, I'm mad at you, but you're not a powerlifting fan. You should be. But if you don't know the world games, it's on a four year cycle, just like the Olympics. And it's for all the non Olympic sports. It's the equivalent. And they have these massive celebrations. It's the, the elite of the elite powerlifting is in the world games, but it's historically been the single ply equipped powerlifting. This is the first year they have unequipped powerlifting coming to the world games in 2025. And the only way to qualify is podiuming at world championships. Yeah. So that's exactly why you submitted the attempt to, for me to podium and not to win like I wanted to. Now to answer your question, I wasn't, I wasn't thinking much further in time because I'll give you the most honest and depressing answer. I don't know how long my dad will be able to watch me compete. Right. So for me at that moment, it was, if it's the last time he sees me compete, I want him to watch me as a world champ. Yes. So that's why for me, the pull to win was very important. Yeah. And I'm a bit, again, frustrated. It's the world. It's not mad or angry or resentful, whatever. It's just frustrated at the coaches for submitting the attempt to podium and not to win. But it is what it is. They submitted the attempt. I couldn't change it, could nothing about it. So I went for the pull. I pulled podium. I was sure like 99.999% I was podiuming with that pull. And then, so I had the third pull, which was the pull for the victory. And the worst thing is that it was just two and a half above my second pull. So I'm like, oh, if that was, that would have been my second pull. Maybe the story would have been a bit different. Right. So missed it on grip. And yeah, because of that, I came third with the same total as the two other guys. Now, I'll be honest with you. For me, it's not, oh, we did the same total. It's a draw. No, it's not a draw. You know the rules. You know that you're the heavier lifter. If you total the same thing as the lighter lifter, you lose. So to me, it's not, it's a loss. Like I just lost that world. And there's no really much to say about it than just means I need to become stronger. I need to train more. I need to do better outside of the gym, inside of the gym and outside of the gym, obviously. So yeah, so it was, and I couldn't, I couldn't see it. Like you asked me first, I couldn't see, hey, that was a very, very good battle. I couldn't see, hey, I qualified for world games. I was like, I lost at worlds. I lost my world title. And like the worst feeling is that, you know, I don't know if my dad would be able to watch me compete at 12 and 25. So yeah, he was, he was some, some, had some rough moments. But since I've had, let's say a pretty rough career so far, good years, very good years and very bad years. And also I don't want to say I'm used to that. It's more so I know how to deal with it. Yeah. And I think you know how to benefit from it. Yeah. Like when I, when I look at you, one of the things that I respect the most is you're aware of your weaknesses. You're aware of who you are and you use the, your experiences to improve, but you also stay true to yourself. Like as an aside, you mentioned how lifting, there's a, there's an expression element for many lifters, not all of them. You know, some are just much more pure athletes, but you express yourself through lifting. You work through the tragedies and strife of life, but you're also trying to become a world champion and you reflect. Like you have your emotions and you're, you don't judge yourself for having them in the moment. It's just, it is what it is, but then you then bring your rational mind to it. And I think all of those things combine to make you not only an inspiring person, but also an effective athlete. So it is, it is, it's really cool to see. And I, um, I relate to it a lot as well. Um, because in my second contest prep, my father died. Um, and he, he took his whole life and it was very, very, it's, it cemented me in bodybuilding because I used my bodybuilding prep to, to, to express myself. And he actually died the day before a powerlifting meet. And I called my aunt on the phone and I was like, should I pull out? Like, and she was like, he wouldn't want that. And it was like, you know, like he would want you to live your life. So that season in 09 was me proving like he can't be strong anymore. He, he, unfortunately, and many do, he lost that fight. So I'm going to be strong. I'm going to prove myself that I can be. And that, when that happened, obviously I wish it never did, but I do look back and I go, that's probably what enabled me to stay in the game 18 years to eventually get to my goals. Yeah. So when I see that in you, it just, it speaks to something very deep in me. And I understand very much how being in the moment, how could you think about world games? How could you think about what's the right tactical decision? How could you not hold, like hold yourself back in a way that was productive, but then to not get lost in that. Cause I've heard you talk about, you know, I've realized some things that when I'm expressing myself and I'm pushing myself so hard and I'm thinking about my dad, I can actually be counterproductive. Yeah. And, you know, like you recognize that showing strength isn't just giving every single piece of your soul, but it's also giving the piece of your mind and your heart and doing what's right for your body and listening to yourself. So how did you, how do you take the passion you have and all the, what's going on in your life and still retain some element of rationality and bring Hannah, the coach to your own self coaching? Cause I think that's very hard. So I would say, um, like we were saying earlier with like the, the stone example, uh, it took me a couple of tries. It took me a couple of fails. And one of those fails was 2022 when that's actually when my dad got into hospital. That's when they found the second cancer, which was like one of the toughest ones because they actually had to do a surgery to remove it. And that's when like, basically he lost his voice, lost his ability to speak, to eat, to, to drink. And he stayed in the hospital for like three months. Wow. Uh, and so I was, so the thing is I was visiting him every day that I wasn't training. So I'm training four times a week and I was visiting him the other three days. So I was interesting. Uh, so I was training, then going to see my dad and training, then going to see my dad and training, you know, he was like, oh, you don't have to come see me, blah, blah, blah. And I was like, yeah, but it's not that I have to, it's I want to, I want to be there for you. So that moment, it was the toughest moment to deal with. Um, and that's where I made the biggest mistakes. I wasn't training smart. I wasn't training. I was just training to hurt myself, but not necessarily knowing that I would, I would hurt myself. It was more so, Hey, it's hard, but your dad is facing much harder things. So don't complain and just, just do it. And I think when you are an athlete, that's could be helpful. And at the same time could also be very, very bad for you. Yeah. Uh, could lead you to, uh, errors to, uh, a darker place basically. So it happened 2022, I lost everything. I went to the darkest place and what helped me was actually my dad. I was like, there are two ways to think about it. Um, you could be like either very, very depressed about something and not do anything, or you can be as depressed, but be like, how can I turn all of that negative healing that I have right now into something positive, into, into something constructive. And so basically that's where I had to take a step back and be like, okay, what you want to do is you want to be very, very strong. You want to accomplish great things to show to your dad, Hey, see what you're doing right now? The way you fight, I'm doing the same. And I'm just following your example. And in order to do that, I need to be strong and to be healthy enough to show up on the platform and, and compete and win. And so I would say what allowed me to reflect back was actually my failure. I was like, by hurting myself in training, I'm not doing anything productive. That's the easiest thing to do, actually. Like if, if I'm, if I'm very, very depressed, if I'm hurt, hurting myself even more is the easiest thing to do. The hardest thing to do is like, okay, I'm on the ground, I'm depressed. How can I stand back up? Even just a bit, a day at the time, a training session at a time, how can I do that? And that's actually how I actually was able to accomplish it. It was through, you did your mistake. You're at the lowest possible. You lost. So basically for those that don't know, I'd won all of the titles in 2021. So world champion, European champion, national champion for France in 2022, I lost all of the titles. So even the national champion title, I lost it. So I went from being at the top of the game for barlifting to like the bottom of the game. And yeah, that's, that's how I did it. I recognized my weaknesses. I recognized where I was lacking. I recognized the mistakes that I made. And I think, like you said, self-reflection is probably the most important thing. Um, and you know, uh, let's, let's face it. Let's be honest. We don't lift weights in the gym. We don't go through those hard training sessions to those like burning sets, burning reps, hard sets to do for fun. You know what I mean? We do it because deep down there's something, uh, that we need to fix that we need to, um, express that out. And that's the way we found to do it. Like yourself, myself, a lot of other like, uh, uh, lifting weight guys. But at the end of the day, you have to make something productive out of it. Yeah. You have to channel it into something. A hundred percent. Yeah. I, um, it's, it's, it's fun. It's, it's interesting. Like I would say is bodybuilding fun? Yes. But if you ask me like six weeks out from a show, I'm like, well, I mean, I wouldn't say it's fun right now. But the accomplishments I get in the process and the journey and how hyped and motivated I get, the experience is fun, but it's almost like this authorship when you reflect. Yeah. And I think that's something that athletes, there's so many double-edged swords with high level athletes. Um, they want to win, but they learn more from losing. Yeah. They want to push themselves the hardest they possibly can, but they realize that elite level performance occurs when sometimes you learn when to push yourself, not just to always do it, when to hold yourself back, when to listen to your body, when to listen to other people and how to channel things rather than just flipping the switch. Because I know a lot of very, very strong or very, very willful people in both bodybuilding and powerlifting who have the genetic talent, but they never learn to operate the dimmer switch. They either have a light switch, which is the first step. I know how to turn it on, turn it off. Or they don't even know they got a switch. It's just on all the time. And those people typically burn out or they keep making the same errors over and over and over again. And everyone watches and they're like, God, if this person would just do X and we can all think of examples like that. And you're not one of them, man. I think, um, I've always like, you're definitely stubborn and you're hardheaded and you're going to do it your way, but your way includes, I'm going to learn from my mistakes and find a way forward. Um, at least that's what it seems like to me. Yeah. You know, I definitely am, um, because there's also something that's very, very important to me. That's very dear to me. If you tell me, hey, Banna, um, here is the best program for you to come to become stronger, but I hate it. Yeah. I won't do it because deep down, obviously I won the accolades. I won the world titles. I won the world record or whatever, but I also want to do the sport the way I want to practice it. You know, it's, um, you know, like, I don't know how to say it, but in basketball, they have this phrase, like ball, ball don't lie. You know what I mean? It's like, just express yourself doing the sport you want to do the way you want to do it. And let's say you tell me, Hey, you should do like 20% of your training should be ball lifting and the other 80% should be this and that. I will go, no, I'm, I want to do ball lifting. That's the sport I want to do. It's like, for me, it's like you're a basketball player and the coach told you, Hey man, well, let's do one game every, every other month. And the rest of the year you do like weightlifting, you do like sprints. You'd like, no, that's not, you have to play basketball. And for me, ball lifting is my basketball. I want to, you know, when you're a basketball player, you play very often. Yeah. Whether you're an athlete like NBA or you're just a baller, you play very often because that's what I want you to do. That's what you want to do. Right. And so for me, ball lifting is no different than any other sport. That's the sport I want to do. So I get that my approach is maybe a bit extreme to some people or maybe not, doesn't include enough variety or accessory or whatever you want to name it. But I'm like, yeah, that I'm a ballifter. I want to do ball lifting. I don't want to do any other sport. It's in my mind when you were like, is it 34 meets? Yeah, 34, 34, 34. Yeah. And you, when did you start powerlifting? What year? End of 2016. Yeah. So I, that's 10 years after my first meet and I've done 20. So, and I, it's not like I don't compete a lot. Like I did, I did a meet almost every single year. No, I did a meet every single year, all the way up to one or two meets every year, all the way up to 2015 or 14. I can't remember that. I had to take some time off for, I had to get hip surgery and then I came back and then I was doing it like every other year. So to think that you've been in it a decade less than me, but you've actually done like more than 50% more than the number of meets I've done. People don't get that. And I almost got weight every time. That's incredible. Like last year, I think I did five or six meets and I got weight to 66 every single time. Yeah. So, I mean, let's just say that you, you have more practice for your sport than most. I think someone could argue, maybe that's not the best way to approach it, but what they can't argue is it's not like you're not getting any benefit from it and you're not getting certain unique skills. Like competing is not going to be a stressful environment for you. So I'll tell you something right now. I'm one or two meets away from brushing the world record by a huge margin. I'm one or two meets away. I know I have the strengths. Now I have the experience because I competed a lot. I know how to cut weight. I know how to feel good when I cut weight. I know how to execute my movement. And I know all of that. And I'm telling you, I'm one or two meets away to like, so the world, the standing world record is 7, 10.5. Yep. And I'm like one or two meets away to do like 7, 30 something. So just crush it. It will happen because I won't stop up until it happens. And let's say I do 7, 30 and some other dudes come and do close to that because I know a couple of names that could have the potential to do something like that. We'll just push the 7, 50s, 7, 60s. It's, I will make it happen my way or I won't. And that's the way I view it. Yes. So, you know, it's in basketball. I think that's a very, very good example in the NBA. So in the early 2000s, they were playing the game a certain way. Yes. It was, if you're a very, very tall player, very physical player, you play like down the rim. If you're, so, you know, it was very, very structured. It was like, oh, that's, that's the way we did it since the 70s, 80s. And that's the way the ball, the game should be played. And then you see a couple of athletes that are a bit more hybrid than others. You see Steph Curry come up, you see those guys, you see playmakers that are way taller, way bigger, way, way slower also than the usual playmakers. And it just redefines how the game is played, basically. And in my head, if a sport that's as big as basketball in the NBA with those many like genius scientists behind it, genius freak athletes, and 10, 20, 30 years later, they're like, oh, that's not how we should play the game, guys. We should do it like this and like that. I'm like, who is like, what is powerlifting as a sport? How big is it that we can't review the way we're doing things? Yeah, of all. You know what I mean? So when I started out, obviously my approach was unheard of. I don't want to say I brought it up, definitely not. It was great. It was a usual. It was a usual to train like the way I train right now. And then, so I coached Leah Bavwell up until 2021 when she won Worlds for the first time. So I coached one world champion. I'm still coaching Tiffany Chapon. So I'm coaching a four times world champion. I don't know how many world records they broke, but. A lot. A lot. But I used to coach Noemi Alabaire up until 2021 also, I think. I don't think she won Worlds under my coaching, but. She's doing pretty well. Yeah. But a couple of months later, she won Worlds after my coaching. So, you know, there is maybe some benefits, let's say, to that. I've coached some, I've coached an athlete recently that did third place in the 57s at Worlds, 24. Most competitive year ever at Worlds. So, you know, it's what I mean to say that is not, oh, I'm a great coach, blah, blah. It's more so to say, hey, my approach works. Yeah. But at the same time, you produced also some world-class athletes and you have a different approach than my approach. So for me, the bottom line is not, hey, this approach is better than this approach. It's every approach has its strengths and weaknesses. But there are, like we said during the EPC, you want to go from point A to point B. You have 20, 25 ways to get there. Which one do you choose for which athletes at what moment based off of your, like, system of belief or thinking and also the athletes. Yeah. And at the end of the day, like I said, for me, I want to practice powerlifting the way I want to practice it. Yes. And again, if you tell me, hey, Pada, you should change everything. I'm like, hey, I'm not going to do it. Otherwise, I don't powerlifting anymore because then that's not the sport I enjoy doing. Yeah. For you, it's not powerlifting. Yeah, it's not. But at the same time, you also do evolve. You do change. Oh, I definitely did change my approach since I started up. Like, if you take one of my older programs from, like, let's say 2019 and today, it's completely different. The approach, like the approach itself didn't change. I still believe a lot in practicing a lot of your squats, your bench, your deadlift, very minimal accessory work. I won't say zero accessory work. I would say minimal accessory work. Yeah. But the way I prescribe, like, load management, volume, exercise selection, it really, really evolved. Yeah. For sure. But that's a cool thing. Your philosophy hasn't necessarily changed. Yeah, exactly. But the way you express that philosophy through the acute training variable has. Yeah. And I think that that is, that's, that's like, that's pretty standard, I would say. Like, you, even like the godfather of individualized training, like Mike T, you can tell there's a Mike T program. Oh, there is. You know, there's certainly a certain approach. But he will, of course, follow individual patterns and modify it over time. And if something is very different to his norm, but it seems to work, he'll follow it. And I think that's the mark of a good coach. And you are self-coached. So I would like to know with, with how things didn't go the way you wanted and you weren't able to be on the platform at your strongest, but you know that you're only a couple of meets away from totaling something ridiculous. What has changed for you or what have you done to get yourself where you know that you're in that position? To the degree you feel comfortable sharing. So what did I change? Yeah. What have you learned from this career and what are you trying to implement that's going to make you succeed? Okay. So first, and that's a very big one. And I think we kind of discussed about it during the conference is it's very easy to do too much. Yeah. And given my persona, my, my mindset, my, how can I say my background with a lot of anime, I don't really know a lot of stuff. It's the more you do something, the more you hit yourself against the wall, your head becomes stronger and then you can actually do a hole into the wall with your forehead. Doesn't really happen in real life. Anime is all about leveling up. Exactly. So actually one thing that I learned is managing better my load, but also volume. I think I was doing a bit too much on given days. And so what I did right now is actually what I was doing on during one squat session actually divided into two squat sessions. Gotcha. So I increased a bit the frequency, but I keep the pretty much, I can pretty much the same volume. So my recovery is way better. It's much easier to go from one session to the other than because before I was like just crossed by first session. And then I'm like, oh, I still have three left. Right. What I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I would say that's a big one. The other one would be also, so the movement I'm the least comfortable with and the least technically repeatable is squats. Okay. And so what I did was I took the anime approach. I suck at squats. What should I do? More squats. So that's actually what I did. That's actually the program I'm currently running is much more squats than I used to. And it works well. Like I just squatted at the night of the EPC 260 2.5. So if you ask me why I didn't squat 260 and 260 2.5, it's because John Haag had benched 260 the day prior. Yep. So I was like, there's not a single world. John Haag may be the GOAT. He won't bench my squat. So I squatted to 62.5 out of pure ego, but it worked. That's, that's the main takeaway. So what I mean by that is I used to, it's not that I didn't used to focus on squats, but it was more so, I was like, you know, yeah, obviously squat is not the movement. I'll be number one. So let's, let's, you know, focus a lot on bench and dead. And so our worlds, we, so us three, like the podium, we totaled the same number, 707.5, but I was the weakest squatter by 7.5 compared to what the first did. And 20 something compared to the second. Right. It was like a squat special. But what I mean is I was much behind on squats, uh, from what they were doing. And so in my head, it's very simple. If I just, if I just had squatted five kilos more, I would have won worlds. Right. And a five kilo, um, five kilos more on that squat at worlds is very manageable for me. It's very doable. So it's like, from a programming perspective, I changed some, some things, but also from like the way I approach the sport, I changed some things. I'm like, I need to get my squat stronger because right now that's the only thing that's preventing me from becoming much stronger, uh, much more competitive as an athlete. Right. So my approach and whenever I'm going into a heavy, uh, squat set, like, especially when I went into the 262 from last Saturday, I'm like, if you miss that, you miss worlds. You won't, you won't end up on the podium at worlds. So find a way to make it happen. Obviously doesn't work always all the time, but like we said, sometimes, uh, creating, um, a psychological state can help you. Yeah. You're, you're creating a high pressure environment and you've shown to yourself that you actually thrive in those high pressure environments. We talked about this a bit, um, at some point in EPC, I can't remember, we've had so many good conversations that athletes achieve the peak of good athletes know how to achieve the peak arousal state for themselves. But that looks very different to different people. 100%. Like I, I shocked everybody when I was sharing with them that Ellis McLean listens to standup comedy. That's, that's any jokes with everybody could put them in the right mental state, you know? But at the same time, like if, uh, let's say, uh, me personally, I need to get a bit angry, a bit, not too much. So if I get too angry, then I do, I mess my technique up. I, it's, it's bad, right? But if I'm too relaxed, too cool, then I'm not like tight enough. And then the bars will feel like much heavier than they should be feeling. And then that will also mess me up. So, but like you said, for instance, Ellis, probably if he gets angry, it, it, it will mess him up. And at the same time, if I'm like jovial and making jokes, that will mess me up. So that's, that's a very good point. And I think sometimes we, especially with like social media, you see somebody, you see a high level athlete you like, you're like, oh, he's getting crazy before getting under the bar. So that's what I'm supposed to do. Or on the contrary, oh, this guy's making jokes. So let's, let's do the same. And I would say, again, we all lift for different reasons. Yeah. And we have, you have to find, uh, the way to express the reason that you live for. That's the most suited for you. And for me, it's getting to that like angry-ish state. Right. Um, not always, not all the time. Uh, but for instance, so sometimes I'll think about my dad just for a heavy lift. And sometimes I know if I, if, if I think about him, I'll tear up. Yeah. And I won't be in the mood to go under a 260 kilo squat. So it's really, really depends on how you feel, how your emotions are on the day. And don't try, don't, so, you know, it's easy to say at the same time. So don't copy the best athletes. You shouldn't copy the best athletes to some extent, but take what you have to take and be willing to change the things in you feel and you think you need to change. Yeah. The one thing you do want to copy from all elite athletes is knowing thyself. Yeah. You know, and, and it's kind of a bit of irony there. It's like, if you, you, you are not LeBron James, you are not Panna. You are not. Not LeBron James? Come on. You mean, you look a lot higher. Yeah. But, uh, yeah. I'm going to start. Exactly. It has a jacket. Same height, everything. Same height. Yeah. But like, you want to take what they have learned about themselves, which is going to be fundamentally different from you. Yeah. And I think that that is something that maybe sometimes younger athletes don't quite get and then just go with the pure emulation route. I agree. But yeah, good coaches, they understand that. Good athletes understand that at least about themselves. They know what works for them. Um, so is there anything else that you feel you've learned from, from the, this year or prior years, which you're bringing in to try to like maximize yourself for the, this coming season? Yeah. So I would say never be afraid to experiment and fail. Um, right now I'm, I'm experimenting actually after worlds. I was like, okay, my squad is too far behind. I mean, obviously seven and a half kilos, it's not the end of the world, but at the level I'm at makes a huge difference. Right. Yeah. So I was like, what can I do? It wasn't all let's, let's just rerun the same program, but just this more weight, more load. It was okay. I know that my current, uh, strategy on squats gets me to that level. I want to get the next level. How can I do that? And I think it's very easy to get too caught up in your, in like your, um, routine. Yeah. Uh, whether you're a self coach like myself or whether you're working with an athlete, it's like, oh, we did that. That worked pretty well. So let's just keep it that way and not change too many things. I don't want to disturb him or whatnot. And I'm like, yeah, but you know, worst case scenario, you lose a couple of weeks. You lose, you lose three weeks, a couple of months, depending on your strategy. But at least in your head, you're like, okay, we tried it. Didn't work. Let's try something else. And I think, um, to, uh, Greg Knuckles, uh, presentation that he did at the European conference, if a guy as knowledgeable as Greg or as yourself, you're like, Hey, I think that will work. I'm not too sure about it. Let's try it out. And if that doesn't work the way we want it to, then we'll, we'll try something else. So if guys like you are willing to do it, then why shouldn't the rest of the world be willing to do it? Yeah. Challenge your beliefs. Uh, I personally challenge a lot, um, my beliefs and my strategies and at a given point, if that works wonders, then yeah, obviously don't change. If that doesn't work, then what do you have to lose? No, you're right. It's, it's a tough thing, man. Like with how competitive the sport has gotten, I've been in positions where someone who is already an extremely high level athlete says, I want to work with you. And you have to find that balance between being innovative, but also acknowledging what seemed to work well and then trying to figure out, okay, then what stones have not been overturned and which stones have been, and we should probably keep them turned, you know? And it's, that's hard to do in a totally neutral environment, like where there's not client pressure and when there's not like 10 other athletes who could be right there. But if you add all of that and the social media pressure and the fact that coaching is becoming more competitive, I've talked to a lot of coaches in the current environment and they're a lot more stressed than they were like back in the day. It's a pain in the ass. Yeah. It's like, you know, a coach chief, right? Mm-hmm. The other years, she definitely did have some competition, but definitely not that close. Yeah. This year, I knew her main competitor from the US, Jess Espinal, was going to come ready. Yeah. But you know what? I warned Tiff. I said, hey, I think that if this year we don't bring our A game, you're not going to win. Mm-hmm. And so we were willing to, so actually we had to try different things because so she couldn't really deadlift that much Tiff because it was irritating her back a lot. And so we had to be inventive. We have to find ways to make it happen. And she was trusting the process. She was willing to make it happen. I was also willing to make it happen. So, you know, you always have to, you cannot take risks. As we said at first, things that are meaningful, like winning worlds or podiuming at worlds or even making it to the world team, they're hard to do, man. And they won't happen without taking any risk. It's like making a lot of money. Like if you have a business, you want to make a lot of money, you have to invest a lot. Otherwise, if you don't invest, then your thing won't be able to grow. And I don't see why that would be any different for powerlifting or coaching, whether it's powerlifting or, you know, bodybuilding or. Yeah, it's not. And it's, but it is, it is intimidating. Oh, it is. So it's like, it's high risk, high reward. And if you take no risks, you, you have to remind yourself that, well, we know what that produces. It produces the person who's right in front of you right now who believes that we need to do something more. And if that, what we're currently doing is not producing more, which you've already established, I have to do something else. And I think that tension sometimes leads people to either be too or not experimental enough. I do think it is a balance. Like sometimes people can abandon everything and they find out like, oh shit, like actually a lot of what I was doing was working. So anyway, I just, I just think it's, it's always impressive when someone who is self-coached is able to do that. Cause I think it's another layer of not having, it's hard to be objective, right? Um, like one thing that I think really worked well between me and Bryce was, and just for, for, for those who don't know, I worked with Bryce from his very first powerlifting competition to his very last over 12 years and when he retired. Okay. Crazy. So we innovated a lot, but there was a certain point where the innovations were smaller deviations because we had really figured out what worked for him. And one thing that Bryce did extremely well as an athlete was that he recognized his inability to be objective in certain scenarios. So he would come to me and he would have feels, strong feels. If anyone who knows Bryce, he has strong emotions, but he would be within three or four weeks and he's like, oh, I had a bad session. And I think if he acknowledged that he's like, I might, my, my decision-making skills right now are not where they should be because I'm emotionally invested in my own success. So let me, let me contact Eric and I want to borrow some of his confidence or his thoughts. And sometimes I'd say, no, we're good. Other times I'd say, we know we do need to change something like that. It shouldn't be like that. And that is something that I think it's easier to do with a coach than without. Yeah. So I think, um, do you have any advice for people who are self-coached or for maybe who want to take that path? Cause some people, I've talked to some people like their style, the way they want to power lift is they want to figure it out on their own. And I think that's fine. Yeah. I think it's good to remember that, you know, most athletes do have good coaches and this is a sport, but that's not to say that if that is the way you want to express yourself and the way you want to do it, there's anything wrong with that, but you do need to know it is a, it's a steeper hill with unique challenges. Exactly. So my first advice, the biggest one for me, and that's how I got there was find good information. So be a subscriber to us, follow Eric Helm's work, follow Mike T's work, follow Greg Knuckles work. And you know, I'm, I'm not joking. I'm like, I'm very serious about it. I'll PayPal you later. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. For sure. Go with better. No, there's no good better. There's no good better. But no, in all seriousness, um, you need to have good solid foundations. You need to have good base. And I think honestly, that's very, very accessible. Um, just takes passion. You just have to be willing to understand, willing to, um, invest, uh, time and also money. I would say, uh, the best, uh, investment is investing in your education. And even if you're an athlete that's coached, I think that's still valid. And I think that's still very valuable because then you'll probably be able to give better insights, better feedbacks to your coach. So even if you're an athlete and you're invested in your success, hiring a good coach, obviously nutritionist, whatever, but also you should invest, uh, into powerlifting. Like you should listen to podcasts. You should watch YouTube videos. You should like take courses online. Um, like again, uh, mass subscription, I would say, I would say also the Mike T's, um, uh, classrooms. Classrooms. Yeah. They're awesome. I learned a lot through them. Uh, uh, thought to that first, know the basics, know the foundations. It doesn't mean you have to be a scientist. I don't, I don't definitely not consider myself any scientist or I don't think I'm at the peak of like research on science, strength, hypertrophy, but I think I know a couple of stuff, uh, enough to make it work. You know what I mean? So I would say that's number one. Um, then number two, I would say is, man, don't be afraid to fail. Yeah. I probably failed more times than I succeeded. And that's fine because like yourself, it's, it's, I don't want to say it's a marathon because it's not a marathon, but it's not a sprint. Right. So you don't want to be like, oh, in 10 years, I'll be so strong, man. You don't want to think like that when you start a sport. Right. Right. But you also don't want to say, Hey, in six months, I'm going to be world champ. Take your time. It will happen, uh, eventually, but there are like layers and steps and, um, you cannot be afraid because if you're afraid, you won't, you won't progress. You won't, uh, make steps anymore. You know, it's like almost you're walking in the dark. The only way to get from point A to point B is still to walk. Right. Like you, you'll maybe, uh, encounter a couple of obstacles along the way. You'll like hit your toes against like the corner of a table. They're not comfortable at all, but the pain will like slowly fade away and then you'll be able to walk again. So I would say that, and then third, um, be surrounded, um, whether it's by friends, family members, uh, gym bros, powerlifting friends, whatever, be surrounded. Um, and you know, I would say for instance, if at the moment I'm, um, I'm like a willing to be coached, it would be more so like collaborative, like what you said. Like if at a given moment I like feel I'm not in a good place, I'll call that coach. I'll call that person and be like, Hey, here is where I'm at. This is where I think. Can I get your two cents on that? Yeah. And I think, uh. You're self coached, but you're not closed. You know, you're. Oh yeah. Yeah. Which, which I think is an important distinction. It's, it's not an, it's not an ego thing. It's. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's more so, so to, to say it's, so I've been thinking about it lately and I would say that I feel that if I'm coached by someone that will reduce my ability to be creative, uh, with, with regard to program creation. Right. I would feel that maybe that would put me in a, in a, in a box. Right. And maybe I won't be able to like evolve from that box, especially if the person that I hire is somebody I look up to a lot. You know what I mean? Cause then you would have, you, you, you'd struggle to tell them the things they would, that you, you, you, you need to say. Or I would be like, Oh, he knows what he's talking about. Let's follow it up. And then maybe I think completely differently and I'm like, yeah, but if I say that, or if I do that, but then I'm like, um, undoing what he's trying to do. Right. Yeah. So yeah, I think, um, I think it's, it's not, it's not an extreme, um, thing you, an extreme thought you should have. It's not, Oh, I'm never going to be coached or I need a coach. Yeah. You need to be involved in the process. Right. Whether you want to do it yourself, that's good. You have the information, you can have the resources, do it. Or you, whether you want to do it through somebody, you need to be involved. Yeah. And that's, I would say the biggest, the biggest thing. And you know, man, at the end of the day, you remember how many times, I won't waltz. You don't know how many times I lost waltz. That's right. So it will always even down. And, you know, that's very corny to say, but to me, that's the absolute truth. You should be focused more on the process than the results. No, that's some amazing advice. You, you brought up being a student of the sport. Yeah. Being involved in your own training. And I know like that's going to look different for everyone. Not everyone is going to want to research to a heavy degree, but I do think you need to understand the whys and the hows behind what you're doing, or you won't even be able to be as effective with what your coach is doing. And I think to give people a perspective from a, from a coach, the athletes who go, yes, sir, I'll do whatever you say. You tell me what's up. It's not very helpful. They make it harder because I need the, the key is actually you as the athlete. And that I need to, to, to extract from you all the information I need to see all the available options. So when I have an athlete who just assumes that I'm a, I'm basically a magician and that they're just there to execute, they're a robot and I'm the, the controller, I'm never going to be able to control someone else as well as I can control myself. Yeah. So I have to know more about you. So the collaboration is critical and then the willingness to fail, to try and to learn from those mistakes. And the other thing that you talked about previously is the self-reflection. Yeah. And I think, like I said, that, that is probably the, one of the most important traits you have as a champion. So, um, so anyway, we, we've talked a lot. I just want to say Pana that it's been really insightful and thank you for being so vulnerable and open. I think that is an excellent example for people to understand how to do exactly what we're talking about to reflect. Um, if people want to find more about you, if they want to follow your content, cause you give great advice. I've had the pleasure and privilege of doing some videos with you and I'm like, oh shoot, man, he's dropping keys in French. I'm glad he's going to maybe start doing an English. Maybe, maybe, maybe. Well, it's a, I'm not going to, I won't, I won't say too much. I'll let you announce that yourself. Where can people find you? Yeah. So basically, uh, like you said, um, I'm currently doing, uh, more English, uh, stuff. I'm very, very soon. Uh, I'm about to open a YouTube English channel where we'll have some collab videos that I'm really looking forward to. Let's go. Uh, but, uh, yeah. Yeah. So the banash on social media, whether it's Insta, whether it's YouTube and, uh, also have like, uh, polishing programs that I sell online, uh, at the banash.app have the programs in French, obviously because I'm French, but also in English. So, right. You're interested in that. You could go there to follow my projecting programs. Awesome. Well, Pana, thank you so much for coming on. For everybody watching, this has been another episode of Iron Culture. You know, we're going to be back. We're going to insert date here for whenever we're going to be back. And if you liked this episode, there is one rating that I would advise. And it is the top of the rating because you want to be a top champion like Pana. Yeah. And that is a five out of five rating. And remember that that's the bare minimum here because I have a fragile ego. So also write a review that is glowingly positive. And then there's no way for me to misconstrue it as negative. So thank you for coming on. I hope you enjoy this episode and we'll catch you in that next episode.