 trexler, trexler, helms. We're going to be talking about fish oil. We're going to be talking about fish oil. And that has often been one of the staples, I would say, kind of in the fitness communities supplement list that's not necessarily related to performance, but just kind of has the halo effect around it, right? Like, this is a good thing. You know, it's kind of like vitamin D is in some cases. But, I think interestingly, there has been some criticism, some questions, some thoughts about the veracity of the data. I, that I would, that, that, I would, I would, I would!! it, of, of, of, of! it's, of, of! it's, of, of! it's, of! it's. it's.! it's. it's.! it's. it's.! it's. it's.! it's. it's! it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's hashtag debunked or anything like that. But the impression I get is that people are a little less hot on the almost cure all kind of magic elixir that we used to view fish oil as I don't know if you you would you would agree with that tracks. I would agree. Yeah. And it's I've covered fish oil a few times in the hallowed pages of the mass research review. And yeah, I think you've covered it as well many years back, I believe. And yeah, it does feel as though the tides have turned a little bit. And my personal view of fish oil supplementation has shifted from a supplement supplementation strategy where you seek benefits like like creatine, for example, like better than baseline or better than normal type benefits. And over time, I've kind of moved more toward, well, if you don't eat any fat sources that are really high in essential fatty acids, maybe you throw it in there just so you get to where you ought to be. Right. So going from a a very different frame of mind in terms of supplementation of like seeking out some kind of boost versus just getting what I really should be trying to get from my diet anyway. That makes sense. Yeah, I think we're on the same page there. And and the cool thing about this one is I don't think it's just a changing of the data. I think there's actually some potential mechanistic reasons and product formulation reasons, even in the supplement industry side of things, why that tide might have turned and why things might be the way they are. It's a little bit more complex of a question. And for that reason, I'm very excited to welcome for the first time, soon to be Dr. Ryan Anthony to the podcast. He's joining us out of Australia right now. He is in probably the final year, would you say, Ryan, of your PhD specifically studying omega-3 fatty acids and fish oil supplementation in athletes? Correct. Yeah. So hopefully this will be my last year of writing up and then that's it. So yeah. Awesome. So I've known Ryan for more than a decade, from way back in the day when he was more involved in the powerlifting, natural bodybuilding scene. And he, you know, he's had an academic career since then, and now he's doing like important stuff, which is great. And it's just great to have you on, man. And we had a really, really good chat about some of your data and some of the work you're doing. And I found it just fascinating. Some of the the assumptions we have baked into the way fish oil supplementation is done, what is sold, and some of our, the disconnects between the findings and the more applied literature versus the mechanistic, I think are really interesting and the listener is going to enjoy it. So I guess to kick things off, Ryan, if you could tell us just a little bit more about yourself, your research, and then get into what are omega-3 fatty acids, where does fish oil come in there, and what are some of the basic understanding we have of that topic? Sure. So I've been involved in the omega-3 field for probably about six years at this point. I did my M-fill in older adults with omega-3s, and then now I've extended it more to athletes and skeletal muscle function. Our lab has basically been running for the last 30 to 40 years solely on omega-3s. So started with a lot of animal and rodent models, where you can sort of pick apart the mechanisms, it's a lot easier to take muscle biopsies and separate out muscle from a rodent than it is a human. Humans aren't generally too keen on that. So they've, my supervisor and his supervisor and our lab has basically been able to clarify a lot of these mechanisms. And that's sort of where we've come in, in the human side of things to say, some of the data that we're seeing is potentially skewed or a mixed result because of these reasons that weren't followed. So just to touch on what omega-3s are, you've kind of got your classical alpha-linolenic acid, which is ALA. That is your 18-linked carbon omega-3. Now, what we know about omega-3s is the form, sorry, the function of whatever they do in the body is related to how much they get incorporated into the phospholipids of the muscle. So whatever organ system it might be, it might be neural tissue, heart tissue, muscle tissue, wherever you're looking for an effect of omega-3, it sort of only occurs once that phospholipid has taken up EPA and DHA. Now, the problem is ALA doesn't really have a strong effect in, it doesn't exert that effect within those body systems. It's only really EPA and DHA that does. Now, the problem with ALA, and this is where I think a lot of vegans get a little bit unstuck, not to knock vegans, it's just what we've observed. In humans, the conversion of ALA to EPA and DHA is incredibly low. So looking to ALA to DHA, it's something like 2%. So you could consume a ton of this ALA and you're probably not going to see much conversion to DHA. It's a little bit different in rodent models. They have the enzymes that can convert it, which is where a lot of this started from, is we sort of had all the pathways laid out in animal work and tried to take that over and say it's the same as humans. It's not exactly. So we do have to consume these preformed EPA and DHA. Now, obviously, a food first approach would be ideal. So if you were to have, say, a large salmon, that's roughly 2000 milligrams of EPA and DHA. Now, the recommendations is to try and have roughly two fatty fish meals per week. At least that's what the recommendations that we're trying to push in Australia are. What that typically gives us on a daily amount is about 500 to 600 milligrams of EPA plus DHA. And I think we'll probably touch on a little bit on the differences of EPA and DHA in a second, but for now, we'll just sort of put them together and say roughly 500 to 600 milligrams per day combined and you're good to go. Now, when you look at the supplement industry and how that has sort of progressed over time, it sort of starts from the pharmaceutical side where you had Lavazza and his prescription omega-3s where they started saying, well, this might be good for, I think initially it was triglyceride lowering, cardioprotection. They came to market with what's called an ethyl ester omega-3. Now, what an ethyl ester form of omega-3 is or EPA plus DHA, it's they break apart the individual fatty acids and re-esterify them back together. So you can then change the composition of say EPA and DHA. So you can have more EPA versus DHA and vice versa. Now, when you do that, it changes the form of when it enters the body and how our body can actually, our enzymes in our body can break that fatty acid up and then it enters circulation. So our lipases, which break down the fats, don't do so well on the ethyl ester form because it's basically an alcohol. If you were to eat a piece of salmon, for example, that's coming in a form of triglyceride. So you're going to have most of those fatty acids in triglyceride form. Our body's great at breaking that down. You get awesome bioavailability. The other form, we kind of see it in krill. It's called the phospholipid form. So that actually comes bound in a phospholipid. You typically have a slightly higher concentration of especially DHA in that form. But long story short, you kind of have this weird situation where pharmaceutical companies came out with the standard dose was 180 milligrams EPA, 120 milligrams DHA in an ethyl ester form. So not the best bioavailability, but then supplement companies sort of jumped on the back of that and just copied whatever was out there. Now, the funny thing is, if you look at most fatty fish, you actually have a higher DHA compared to EPA. So if you were to look at like a profile of salmon, you're going to have more DHA than EPA. Most fatty fish are like that. It's not universal. There are some fish that have a slightly higher EPA value, but for the most part, in nature, you kind of see that DHA dominates. We don't see that in the supplement side of things, unfortunately, because everyone's just kind of followed suit with what farmer brought out with LaVar's on the prescription omega-3s. So I think it's a good thing you brought up vegans, ALA consumption, fish oil. One of the things that my wife does, because she, A, is mostly vegetarian, but B, really doesn't like the taste of fish. And if she has a fish oil burp, basically her life is over for the day, you've ruined everything for her, is she takes omega-3, which is the actual source of where fish get omega-3 in their body, which is actually from a marine-based algae. Is that accurate? Correct. Yeah. So that's one of the supplement arms in my PhD study actually used algal oil. So if you go microalgae, fish eat the microalgae, we eat the fish. So that's kind of the sequence of events. Now, this again also does vary a little bit in that you can get different strains of microalgae depending on how they're formulated. But almost always, it's going to be a higher DHA composition if you look at an algal oil. So again, going back to nature, it's sort of that DHA that dominates. So here's kind of the theme coming forward is our lab is really focused in on the DHA component. And that's the way that we tend to see this in nature is higher DHA from the very basic precursor to the fish that we actually eat. But you're right, for vegans, the only way that we've seen reliable increases in blood values of omega-3s is through preformed DHA through algae. So it is doable. It is becoming more available in like supplement shops and chemists and those sorts of things. It is quite a bit more expensive at the moment because there's just less of it out there and it's more expensive to produce. But the more it comes to market, the cheaper it is becoming. Gotcha. So the kind of the premise that I pitched to Trex that he agreed upon when we kind of introed this episode was that the data started really favorably for fish oil and it kind of came like this cure-all kind of halo effect perception supplement and it started to wane. Is that a characterization you agree with? And if so, why do you think the data has followed that pattern in this area of research? Yeah, I do and I don't. I think there's, it's always that case where when there's a negative outcome, it'll get run with. So whenever you see a study that doesn't show an effect of omega-3s or it goes against the large body of evidence, that sort of gets the media attention. We've seen this mostly in the cardiovascular side of things. When you look at the large population studies, and I'll just introduce something now, it's called the omega-3 index. Now, what the omega-3 index is telling us is how much of that EPA and DHA are circulating in the red blood cells. Now, it's a biomarker that we can use for other tissues, which I think we'll probably get to in a second. But where a lot of this research originally started was looking at if we take a large population and we track them over time and we can do blood values for omega-3 index, sort of a scale that goes from in a theoretical range 2% out to about 12 to 14%. If you break them up in quintiles or quartiles, and you look at death from cardiovascular disease, so primarily coronary heart disease, risk of sudden death in large population studies, we typically see people in that higher omega-3 index range, so above 8%, have the lowest risk. That's about a 30% risk reduction for most of these variables. Now, what I would say with the large body of evidence is most of the trials point to this in the large population studies. There are some trials that don't show much of a benefit. It's usually not showing a negative effect. It's just either no effect or positive. There are some reasons for that. A lot of the trials do use a ephilester form. The other one is in some of these trials, they've used what's called a free fatty acid form. Now, there's some speculation that when you have a free fatty acid form, it does cause a mild inflammatory response in the gut. So it doesn't get absorbed the same way that a triglyceride form would, for example, and it can actually cause a potential reaction in some people. So whether that is an underlying cause for why there was no effect, I'm not really too sure. I would say that if you took the large body of evidence and actually look at the trials that have some kind of biomarker, they line up pretty well. Um, I think Harris said, Bill Harris is kind of the formulator of this omega-3 index. He's done tons of research in his field. I think it was 2017, he collated 10 cohort studies, um, with like 20,000 participants in some of them. Um, and how to look at what is the relative risk reduction and does it line up with omega-3 index? And almost universally it does. So I would say, yes, the body of evidence, especially around cardiovascular disease, there are trials that don't show a benefit, but it generally, they're the ones that get attention and that people tend to run with to say that omega-3s are kind of the bone. Um, but one other thing I will say on that, just as a quick cure-all, um, when we say that like this cure-all of omega-3s, it's not necessarily unfounded in that omega-3s do get taken up by pretty much every body system. So if you look at brain, it's kind of DHA in the brain. If you look at the nervous system, muscle, heart, all of these, um, body systems have a phospholipid membrane and if you feed DHA, and again, you kind of have to rely on animal research for this, but their membranes, those phospholipids, uh, membranes do take up the DHA. And we know once it's taken up into the membrane, it exerts an effect. So it is like, I obviously care about the media-3s for scolio muscle function and it's cool around the heart, but it's literally every body system, maybe aside from adipose tissue, uh, it gets taken up into an exertion effect. So, uh, I've got a little follow-up question. So definitely, um, you know, a lot of the headlines you see about fish oil lately, if there's a big trial where it falls flat, you know, it gets a lot of attention. Usually it does kind of take that form of, we gave them the pills, don't worry about any kind of biomarker indicating tissue uptake or anything about that. Uh, and it didn't do anything, right? But there was one paper within the last few years that I, that I believe indicated, uh, I was a bit skeptical of the findings, but there's a paper that indicated an actual adverse outcome from, uh, uh, official oil trial. I believe they had linked it to, uh, increased risk of maybe atrial fibrillation. Does that ring a bell? Um, do you have any, uh, any retort for folks who got a little bit nervous when that paper came out? Yes. I don't know. I will say this isn't my wheelhouse specifically. Um, Bill Harris talks a bit more about this. He's fantastic on this matter. Um, the actual increase in AFib, the, the relative increase was quite high, but it was something like going from, I think one or one and a half percent to two or two and a half percent. So it was relatively like a, quite a big increase, but still overall quite a low actual increase in AFib. Um, we haven't typically seen that replicated. So I don't know if it was sort of an outlier finding. Um, I don't want to speak too much on that just cause it's not really my expertise. I will say the actual, the absolute risk was quite low still. So relative to Omega three, it was quite a bit higher. The absolute risk was still quite low. Um, and not something I would be overly concerned about. Yeah. I, I didn't want to put you on the spot there cause it is kind of a niche finding, but, uh, I remember when it came out, that was one of the papers that fueled a lot of, uh, fish oil skepticism, a bit of a revolt against this, uh, you know, uh, ingredient that 10 years prior was kind of held up as this, you know, panacea that kind of like, like we said, kind of a cure all. And I remember when it came out, I looked at it pretty closely and was very unmoved by the data. So, uh, I, I agree with your general sentiment that it's probably not worth worrying about until we see that replicated, uh, in additional data sets. But, uh, but yeah, as far as I can tell, uh, by memory, that is probably the only actual negative outcome that really comes to mind for me. Like you said, it's usually people who are just underwhelmed, uh, by studies, which, which may in fact be attributed to just ineffective dosing protocols, whether that's the amount given the form given or the duration of supplementation. Yeah. And I guess the other thing to look at as well is if you're, if it's a fairly short duration study, um, and let's say people are in their sixties or in their fifties and you start supplementing them for 12 weeks or 16 weeks, and you have a factored in the, the prior 60 years of what their life has looked like. It's kind of like, you can't, um, just give them a pill. It's not like a prophylactic where you give it to them and it's a beta block out there, you know, they're going to see an effect immediately. It really is something that we've tried to push as like a lifelong thing. If you have, um, DHA in those membranes over the lifespan, that'd be a fascinating study to see. But I mean, obviously no one's going to fund that. Um, but that's kind of our approach as well. It's not just to look at, okay, 12 weeks supplementation, 16 weeks supplementation, uh, how many people died at the end? Like, okay, well, what about prior 60 years? You can't give something to them in their sixties or seventies and say, Hey, this, uh, you know, people still died on this. So there's a lot that goes into those large population studies. Um, but yeah, I will say generally the body of evidence supports Omega-3s, especially for heart health as protected. So Ryan, I know, uh, you're an author on a review where you talked about some of the methodological issues, which you've touched on a bit, uh, just in, in the last few minutes, uh, that are pretty rife in this area and basically concluded like, you know, as a general field, we're not doing a great job methodologically, um, which may be the result of some of the variability in the findings. Could you get into that a little bit? And also, like you said, it seems to be relevant to talk about the distinction between the physiological effects of EPA versus DHA, right? Yeah. So the review that we've done two reviews on this, where we've looked at the methodology for papers specific to athletes. So we've done one on eccentric damage models. So where they give Omega-3s and say, what happens after you damage muscle tissue? Um, and the other one was more of a broad, we don't really care what the intervention was. If it was done in athletes and you had some kind of athletic measure, uh, what did the studies look like? And in that larger paper with just Omega-3 and athletes, I think there were about 46 or 49 papers that were included. And what's interesting is if you plot those on, um, like a publication date, you get this massive surge from about 2015 on. So it's really the last 10 years that this field has just exploded. And it's good that it's getting the attention, but it's kind of that hot topic now for athletes that, uh, it might do something and it's an amazing supplement. So let's everyone just study it. And some of the limitations that we've really identified is the big one is not actually using a biomarker to say, what has the intervention achieved? Now biomarkers, there's a range of them and anything is better than nothing. Um, but what we tend to go towards is whatever your hypothesis is, and this is another point is few of these papers actually say our hypothesis is, this is what Omega-3s are doing. They just, here's an Omega-3 supplement, let's test them at the end. Um, this your hypothesis is that it's getting incorporated into muscle membranes. Uh, and then as a result of that incorporation, it's an, it is exerting an effect. You have to measure something that represents that, that pool of tissue. Now, if your hypothesis is it's circulating in the blood and that acutely circulating Omega-3 is exerting an effect, there's another biomarker for that. So what we've identified is erythrocyte, uh, EPA plus DHA, which is the Omega-3 index, correlates the best with muscle phospholipids, which is where we think most of this mechanism is actually happening. The reason erythrocytes are our preferred, uh, biomarker and what the research indicates is it's not as rapidly turned over as something like plasma. So if you were to measure plasma, which you, it's basically the, uh, watery part of blood. Um, if you ingest EPA and DHA and then measure your Omega-3 index six hours after you've just had that bolus, you're going to see that plasma level rise quite rapidly. Now, that doesn't actually reflect what's happened at a muscle because muscle takes time to increase. Whereas red blood cells or erythrocytes, they turn over every 120 days, give a day. Um, and if you were to have a bolus of EPA plus DHA measure erythrocyte, EPA plus DHA, you're not really going to see it move at all because it takes time for that to change. So again, work from our lab, there's, um, Peoples, Henry and, uh, McCartney. They, between the three of them, they've done quite a bit of, um, incorporation work with rodent models and to say what dose gives you the best bang for your buck, essentially in, uh, skeletal muscle phospholipids. And there's a graph that I've put together, which kind of, uh, plots all their data with equivalent human intakes. So what you can do in a rat model is say, this is the certain percent energy in a rat diet, which equals roughly this much EPA plus DHA in humans. Now, what they've done is that there were three different doses that they use as almost a dose response study. One was about that five to 600 milligrams EPA plus DHA human equivalent. One was about two and a half grams. So quite a bit higher. And the last one was, um, something like 16 grams. It was a huge dose. Um, and then they, they fed this to the rodents. And then they had a look at, if you actually take out the, they use the gastroc muscle, which is sort of a mixed fiber model. Uh, what does the percentage within that, that tissue look like? And I don't know if you've ever heard of this, uh, Pareto principle, but it's the, all the 80-20 rule. It is very much applied to the skeletal muscle. You get 80% of the outcome from 20% of the dose. So that very low dose, which is roughly two fatty fish meals per week, you go from about 10% in a rat hind limb up to about, so yeah, 10% out to about 20%. So you double the content of that skeletal muscle phospholipid. When you go up to the two and a half grand dose or even the 10 grand dose, you do still see an elevation, but you're going from like 20% to 24% and then finally at the 16 grand dose, 25%. So you kind of reach this cap for what the muscle consume, but it's that very small provision that you initially see this big uptake, uh, in skeletal muscle phospholipid. Um, so that's our hypothesis, which again links very tightly with erythrocyte EPA plus DHA. Um, that was one of the main issues that we found in most of these athletic papers is that they either didn't even have an hypothesis. They just kind of went with it or they didn't have a biomarker. So that was probably 0.1. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so the, the, one of the main issues is that without necessarily knowing if there is an actual increase in the mechanistic physiological outcome that we think would result in a positive, uh, performance increase or reduction of muscle damage, probably as most common in these studies, if we don't actually know that the intervention is causing the outcome we care about, we're kind of two steps removed with the black box of knowing if it's actually going to result in what we're, we're trying to accomplish. So in an ideal world, what you would do is you would screen people for their initial levels of, uh, urethrocyte EPA DHA content. And you go, okay, this is a, the population that could benefit potentially from, uh, fish oil or, or, you know, algae oil supplementation. And then we're going to confirm at the end of the study or throughout the study that, okay, we are seeing this higher red blood cell content of EPA DHA, which we think correlates well and represents the uptake in skeletal muscle. Okay. Now that we have confirmed that, do we see an improvement in X, Y, or Z performance or recovery marker? Is that, that's the ideal way the research should be done? Exactly right. Um, and you brought up a very good point of that, um, screening before the supplementation trial starts, uh, very, very few studies do this. Um, they'll just reprove people. Now, typically that works okay because if you look at population studies, most people in the population, if you just take one person out, they're going to be somewhere around a four to 5% omega-3 index, which is quite low. And you've got a lot of room to improve. The problem is you don't confirm that with a biomarker. And then you're just guessing that everyone's low at baseline. And this hasn't been the case. And there's a series of studies that were done in athletes that represent about 10% of the total pool of omega-3 and athlete research. And if you look at their, their baseline levels, they start at about 7%. So linking back to that dose response study, we know that to get, you know, your index into that seven to 8% range, which is roughly where we suspect you want to be, uh, it takes about 600, uh, to 800 milligrams of DHA. Now that links up pretty well with the omega-3 index. And this group of studies that represents almost 10% of the field, they started people at about 7%. So if there's no effect from that, like you, you give them omega-3, they go from 7% to 9%. Okay. We know on this dose response curve that they're probably saturated coming into the study. So how much further benefit are you going to see? And it parallels quite well with the, uh, vitamin D research. And I tip my hat to some of these guys that, um, published these vitamin D studies. There was one paper they taped out and they just straight up said approximately 100% of ongoing RCTs, uh, 70% of previously conducted RCTs should be considered research waste. Uh, and they, they list out all the papers. Now I don't think I'm far along enough to be able to, to make that claim, but it is very much the same situation with vitamin Ds. If you're not screening people coming in and that was one of their big criticisms were most of the people entering these vitamin D trials were sufficient in vitamin D. So it's very hard to see a further benefit if you're already sufficient or in the optimal range coming into the trial. So that's a big one is try to find a population that's low, uh, confirming that they were low entering the study. Whatever your dose duration, et cetera, at least then confirming that that has made it into erythrocytes. Um, now we know that there is a dose response. Um, typically if you're going with a lower dose, it takes longer to get into those membrane. Whereas it's a bit like creatine, you can kind of load it initially, um, and then sort of go on a cruise dose. Um, how much benefit there is to that? Maybe for a trial setting, not a bad idea, but if you're an average person, we don't recommend this as something like a prophylactic where you just take it and you see an effect. It's meant to be lifelong. You want to try and have this in your diet over time. So it's less about take it now, try to get your levels up as high as you can. And then you don't sort of misses the point of what we're actually trying to achieve. Uh, the other thing I will say is on the EPA versus DHA, this is where our lab has really drilled into what gets taken up into membrane. If you look at, um, myocardial membranes, if you look at skeletal muscle membranes, it's mostly DHA. So if you look at a rat muscle, at baseline, no supplementation, you have roughly 10% resting DHA in the, the skeletal muscle and EPA is generally not detected. So it's, it's such a low amount of that relative proportion. It's not worth talking about. Even when you look at that dose response, uh, where you see 20% DHA with that low dose, 25% of the super high doses, when the supplement was given, it's roughly a one to four EPA to DHA ratio. So you're still getting a decent amount of EPA in that supplement. And what you see in the actual membranes of skeletal muscle is it doesn't really take up a lot of that EPA. It goes from like not detectable to 0.1 or 0.2%. So it goes from basically nothing to like, oh, we can now see it. So it's really not getting taken up into those membranes. And from a mechanistic perspective, we really think it is the DHA that's actually exerting the effects on whatever the outcome is for our interested skeletal muscle function. Um, there's a lot more evidence that it's DHA that's actually performing its role as opposed to EPA. You know, we, we talked a little bit all the way at the bat, at the beginning about vegans taking ALA instead of, you know, a preformed DHA or EPA. And you mentioned, well, they're not really going to get the effects that they're looking for. And we've talked a little bit about effects in a very, uh, general sense, but I think it's worthwhile to kind of nail down, like what effects are we actually looking for here? You know, for someone who apparently is specifically looking at DHA as something that's going to have physiological effects. We've talked about how DHA is taken up in this wide range of different body tissues. Um, but according to, you know, the, the high quality evidence that seems to check a lot of these methodological boxes, what would a fish oil supplement DHA supplement, uh, consumer actually be hoping to do, uh, with, with any degree of success here? Limiting it to muscle damage. So let's say, um, we're looking at the studies that have specifically done like an eccentric damage protocols. They've done drop jumps or they, in our lab, we've built an eccentric, uh, cycle egometer where they ride this bike backwards and it causes muscle damage. Um, most of the studies, if you actually look at them, what you'll see is a reduction in muscle soreness. Um, and this is quite universal. If you, out of the 15 or 16 papers that are out there, most of them are either no benefit or they do show a benefit. There's no real studies going the opposite way. And I'd say 70% of them show a reduction in muscle soreness. So that's one. Uh, the other one is a recovery of, um, force after that damaging bout has occurred. So in our lab, we've done isometric mid-thipal and counter movement jump. So the actual physical function recovery profile in the 24, 48, 72 hours following that bout is improved. Those are the two most consistent effects that we tend to see. Um, there is a little bit around inflammation, um, which we have it, that it's mixed. The, the inflammatory response to exercise. I think one of the challenges is that it's quite challenging to actually create an exercise stimulus in a single bout that causes this pronounced inflammatory event. Um, and that's actually measurable. When you think about how many cytokines you've got, and most of these papers will report on one or two of these markers. It's, it's, it's a lot more muddied in the waters in terms of you don't have a full profile. So the effects that we typically see is it's physical function improvement and reduction in muscle soreness. Where DHA has really come into its own is from this field is a group of, I don't know if you've heard of them. They're called specialized pro-resolving mediators, SPMs. Um, they're, they're very downstream metabolites of EPA plus DHA. Um, they're called resolvins, protectins, and murecins. They're tiny little molecules that sort of act on the resolution of inflammation. Um, so when you think of an inflammatory event, let's say it's a training stimulus, you see an increase in pro-inflammatory cytokines. So there's something has happened, um, inflammation goes up. Typically people think of that sort of as just dissipating, so eventually that inflammation will go away. We now know it's not just a passive process, it is active. So the pro-resolving effects of DHA are important in that resolution phase. So these are the molecules come in to basically pull inflammation back down, um, and bring you to baseline sooner. So that's the other effect that is very hard to quantify in humans because these molecules are tiny. So measuring resolvins, you almost need a drip in someone, um, and just tracking their blood continuously to actually see where do these appear and disappear. So we haven't had great success in humans with actually quantifying these. Um, but we do know that they are present and you can, they can be measured. It's just, no one, no one's really done it in an exercise context. One other area that, uh, I know the good Dr. Helms is going to be interested in. Um, if there's two things I know about Helms, one is that he enjoys the process of trying to get as jacked as possible. Uh, the other is that he suffers from a disease we call being elderly. Um, and I have seen research, uh, indicating or suggesting that omega-3s can have positive effects on body composition. And a lot of that research does tend to be carried out the stuff that I've seen in elderly populations. So, um, do you have any read on that literature? Cause I've seen some stuff talking about fat reduction. I've seen other stuff talking about facilitating hypertrophy even. Yeah. So I'll, I'll get to the fat reduction part first. Um, a lot of, um, people do think that omega-3s are beneficial in that aspect. Um, we've not seen an alteration in metabolic rate, um, as a result of omega-3s in the positive direction, at least. So, uh, some papers seem to indicate that there is an increase in pressing metabolic rate and you're going to burn more fat having omega-3s in those membranes. What we have seen quite consistently in terms of contractile fatigue is it improves oxygen efficiency. Um, so if you're looking at an improvement in oxygen efficiency within a cell, it's not actually, uh, um, an increase in metabolic rate, you're making that cell more efficient. So it goes the opposite way. Now I'm not saying omega-3s are going to make your fat and make your metabolism slow, but I've not seen anything pointing towards, uh, a strong effect for actually increasing metabolic rate. Um, and there's a surrogate measure. If you sort of look at heart rate or resting heart rate, one of the most consistent effects in trials with omega-3s is a lowering of heart rate or resting heart rate. So if you use that as a bit of a surrogate to say, well, what's resting metabolism doing? Um, there's really no indication that it's, it's making you less efficient at increasing metabolic rate. If anything, it's reducing it. And when we talk about effects, if you want to look at almost any trial that's measured heart rate and done omega-3s, you're going to see it come down. There's quite a few nice meta-analyses showing that it's somewhat dose response, but consistently you see about a two to four beat, uh, drop after omega-3 supplementation, which is kind of profound when you think about how many times your heart beats over the course of a day. And if you're dropping it by, let's say two beats per minute times, however many minutes in a day times the life cycle, you kind of get an indication that as a lifelong treatment, this is, it's your heart is working less to do the same effect. That's one of the reasons I don't do cardio is because I'm worried about running out of heart heartbeats. I don't want to really tempt my faith there. Um, the other question was, uh, hypertrophy. Um, and you know, much of the work I've seen in that area has been done in the elderly. Um, and there's some mechanistic justification for that. And so perhaps, you know, um, it's always tricky because, you know, if you're getting funded, uh, if you're getting funding for research to look at hypertrophy, it's often done in elderly populations and kind of wrapped into the field of sarcopenia research. So younger, younger adults, older adults, hypertrophy, uh, what, what's your take on that literature? Yeah. So I'm going to jump around a bit and just go back to the inflammatory thing. So one thing that a lot of people get concerned about with omega trees, and we've seen this with, um, certain athletic groups, um, mostly team sports is they don't want to take it because they think it's going to blunt this inflammatory response. And they're not going to see an improvement in, you know, that they know that the inflammation is generally good. They associate it with, uh, something's happening in the cell and it's, it's a positive effect. What we don't typically see with omega threes is a reduction in the peak inflammatory response. So let's say you do an exercise bout and you have a hundred percent increase in a cytokine. It's just a hypothetical. We don't see that, um, that delta from baseline changed with omega threes. They still get that benefit of whatever's occurring. Now this is specifically DHA that I'm talking about. Where we see the effect is with the, um, resolution of the inflammation. So it comes back to baseline sooner and you start from a lower point. So you generally see the overall inflammatory profile as lower, but you're still not losing that, that peak inflammatory response. Then tying that back to as like a, another layer of evidence in older adults, we do either see no effect or a slight improvement in hypertrophy or skeletal muscle, um, and especially strength measures. So when omega threes are given, we don't ever see, I don't want to say don't ever, but it's very rare that we'll ever see a reduction in, um, skeletal muscle mass, uh, or strain. So kind of the practical side of things says, we don't blunt that response. If there's an intervention given where we're looking at muscle mass, um, and mechanistically, we kind of know that it's the resolution of inflammation that's important. Um, yeah, on the older adult research, you're right in saying that most of it is done in older adults. And there's a few great, um, authors in this area that have done a lot of research. Uh, Chris McBorrey, uh, in the States, um, there's a couple of papers from Smith, Radacki and DeBoite that have done, uh, work in this field. I wouldn't say that I'm overly convinced that there's a strong mechanism for an improvement in, um, skeletal muscle mass, but in terms of strength, there does seem to be a trend that, especially in older adults, if it's mixed with an intervention that there might be something there. Um, where I did my M fill in older adults, we looked at oxygen cost of exercise, um, and heart rate, as well as some skeletal, um, strength measures. We never saw any effect on the strength measures. We never really saw too much with the oxygen cost. This was probably because they were quite high functioning older adults. So we took them in as, they were people that basically hiked, they're probably fitter than I was at the time. Um, so that might've been a reason we didn't see an effect. Where I think it's important in an older adult context is if it is improving oxygen efficiency, and we know that part of sarcopenia is you're not doing as much exercise. Um, your tasks of daily living are more challenging. So you tend to do less activity over the course of a day. If you can improve the efficiency of those tasks from an oxygen consumption perspective and skeletal muscle function, um, output perspective, you might be able to accumulate more overall work for an older adult throughout the course of a day. So their muscles are contracting more. That might be where you're seeing it, but yeah, I'm not overly convinced there's a direct hypertrophy link to skeletal muscle, especially in healthy muscle. Yeah, I'm with you. I've been a little bit, uh, with the, the fat loss and the hypertrophy stuff, I've been a little skeptical. Helms, please jump in. If you feel completely usurped. I know I've grabbed the wheel here, but I've had a lot of questions on my mind about omega-3. So I want to throw one more Adam, if you don't mind. Uh, back in the day, um, I, I was looking into the paleo diet, uh, which man, you don't, you don't hear a lot about that anymore. They, they've really kind of rebranded. It got kind of swallowed into the whole like primal carnivore light animal heavy Paul Saladino. I eat animals and then I guess fruits now and all sorts of stuff. But anyway, um, back when the paleo diet was really big, people were talking about omega-3 a lot, but they were also talking about omega-6 and they were saying, it's not just that we want to eat more omega-3. It's that we want to also limit our omega-6 because these Western diets have gotten out of control with the omega-3 to omega-6 ratio. And, you know, in a Western diet, it is true that it's, you don't have to go very, very far. You don't have to work very hard to get plenty of omega-6s into the diet, but omega-3s can be a little bit harder to come by. Right. And so when we talk about omega-3s, uh, kind of, you know, especially in the context of DHA supplementation, increasing their relative contribution to the cell membranes and in this uptake into tissues, um, they're replacing something, right? You know, we, we've got all these other lipids in the membrane there. Do you need to actually think about, you know, how you're replacing those lipids within the membranes or is it simply enough to have adequate intake of DHA and it'll just shove all the others out? Yeah. So this is a topic of contention, um, with a few people, uh, in our field. I am very against the omega-6 to omega-3 ratio. I, a lot of people say that that is the standard. You need to try and decrease omega-6s. Um, and that will be their, their point of context is they drop the omega-6s and try to increase to a certain extent omega-3s. Um, I don't think that's the way to go about it. You're trying to reduce omega-6s in the diet and doesn't have a great effect on actual blood values. Um, and you're kind of going as far as you can, uh, I guess to, to make it as difficult on yourself to see the smallest reduction in that membrane. Whereas we know very small increases in omega-3s will shift those membrane lipids. Now, when we talk about what gets displaced, you have arachidonic acid, which is your main, um, pro-inflammatory omega-6. That does tend to come out of the membrane as DHA goes in, but your main omega-6 that tends to come out. You do also, uh, move out some monounsaturated fat and it's, it's not the same in every membrane. So, uh, erythrocytes will be a bit different to muscle and heart and other body systems. Um, but the, the idea that you're chasing a lower omega-6 intake is, it's not amazing. Like you, you really don't see much bang for your buck trying to do that. You're much better off trying to increase omega-3s. Um, and then you kind of set, like that sort of sets the membrane up perfect. Yeah. I mean, I've, you know, looking at, um, outcomes, uh, related to, you know, what we associate with, you know, the benefits of high omega-3, you know, I've seen studies where folks try to look at the effect of limiting omega-6 intake and it just doesn't seem to impact those outcomes at all. Um, and if anything, you know, omega, omega-6s actually look pretty great in the diet when you start to look at how they kind of correlate with, with a variety of different outcomes. So um, yeah, I, I've seen some pretty compelling arguments in the literature that the benefit of having a high omega-3 to omega-6 ratio in terms of dietary intake is purely just the benefit of having adequate omega-3 in the diet. And really what we're seeing in the, in the instances where a low omega-3 to 6 ratio is correlated with negative outcomes, it's usually just because those individuals are not eating a meaningful amount of omega-3 and, and fixing that would really fix the problem. Yeah. A hundred percent. So yeah, good point there that, uh, you can have a fantastic ratio and have basically no omega-3s in the membrane. So if you just eliminated all your omega-6s, um, firstly, there's no strong evidence that omega-6s are bad. They kind of get a bad rap. Um, but as you said, if you look at, uh, little egg acid, so you made a media six, um, that's the precursor to arachidonic acid. Um, in the correlations, um, and you look at the larger population studies, it seems to be protective. Um, not saying go out and try and eat more of it because we'd probably get enough of it through diet. But if you look at blood values, it's protective more than it is detrimental. Um, and touching on the arachidonic acid thing, Eric and I had spoken about this before, um, back in the day, the bodybuilding forums, um, a lot of people were actually supplementing arachidonic acid and they saw these, well, most people would have a positive effect from it, uh, whether it be strength or muscle mass. There's some evidence in humans that there's an effect that it is actually improving, um, cell signaling. Uh, the downside is you get really sore. Um, I remember everything started hurting when I used to take it, joints hurt, muscles hurt, um, saw a positive effect on body composition, but it was like, I couldn't train. So it was sort of a trade-off with like, yeah, okay, the supplement might be working, but I was that sore on my joints hurt that much that it was limiting. I'm guessing you were the same, Eric? Yo, story time folks. Back in the day, bodybuilding.com forums, uh, the X, I believe the supplement was called X-Factor. It was an arachidonic acid supplement that was like all supplements in this mid-2000s to 20, early 2010 era, um, promoted as just as good, if not better than anabolic steroids, uh, or, or competed with them, but doesn't have downsides. And the whole pitch was it increases this pro-inflammatory signaling that results in hypertrophy and then really good marketing campaign. Uh, I want to say Patrick Arnold might've been involved. I can't quite remember, but it had big names behind it and it was very science heavy in the pitch. And I remember being convinced in my relatively early days and I took X-Factor at like the highest dose it recommended. I shit you not guys. Um, I did not have my wisdom teeth taken out yet at that time. Never caused me any problem. I ended up only getting a few of them taken out because they were largely impacted. Not all of them. I still have some of them each time reliably that I would take X-Factor. I took it two or three times. I think I've, I at least got a placebo effect. I felt like I was doing better in the gym, but I also noticed more doms. And every time my wisdom teeth would hurt during taking it. And it was a reliable, repeatable effect where I would take X-Factor and be like, fucking hell, my gums hurt. And it was making me wonder, it's like, is this going to, is this going to cause my, my wisdom teeth to come in? Like what's going on here? It was pretty wild. It's an important, um, part of the process for, for muscle building. Um, and this is where a lot of people get concerned that, uh, if you are pushing arachidonic acid out of the membrane, um, that you're potentially losing some of that signaling. It's quite a small, um, shift when you actually increase DHA relative to AA. So it's not like if you add 10% of DHA into the membrane, it's like 10% of arachidonic acid leak. Uh, it's mostly, uh, in skeletal muscle, some monounsaturated, a little bit of saturated and a little bit of, um, arachidonic acid that get shifted out. Um, but yeah, having enough of it in there to do its effect, um, is important. We don't lose that enough, um, with DHA supplementation. So an important point that, um, DHA is not necessarily pushing all the arachidonic acid out of the membrane. Where you actually see a bit of competition is with EPA. Um, so EPA and arachidonic acid are both 20 carbons long and they both compete for the same enzyme. So that COX2 enzyme and where we think if arachidonic acid is doing anything, um, it's probably acting on that, uh, pro-inflammatory pathway. So you're getting these downstream metabolites and you're creating an inflammatory cascade. Um, EPA can interfere with the arachidonic acid pathway, um, by competing for COX2 enzyme. Now again, in muscle, there's not a lot of EPA. So even if you are taking a higher EPA supplement, you're probably not shifting a huge amount of the actual skeletal muscle membrane, which is where this is occurring. So don't we talk about this kind of vague, but you kind of think about where these, um, these cascades and inflammatory responses are occurring. If you look at a muscle membrane, there's not a lot of EPA and mostly DHA. Um, so yeah, that's just my two cents on the whole. DHA is going to abolish the effects of AA. Um, but it's important for inflammatory response and it's, it's not all bad. So I got, I got a couple of things I think are worth highlighting that you have stated, but I think we should point out. So EPA is having, first off, it's a minimal worth, uh, minimal part of the phospholipid layer in skeletal muscle for one. Um, two, even with very high dose supplementation, it doesn't change much. So it's potential to change is, is rather minute. Three, if you were able to change it, it would actually potentially problematically compete for that Cox two enzyme with arachidonic acid. And then earlier you stated that while your lab focuses on DHA and that's what you're primarily supplementing with, and that is what is in algae and in fish and the way it is operating in nature, the actual supplements themselves, just because of habit tradition and what was first to market, they're actually primarily EPA, not DHA. Is that accurate? Yeah. So pretty much everything you said there is mostly correct. I will make a few caveats here. First is a lot of the work that I've spoken about is in rodents. We do see similar, um, patterns in humans. There are some differences. It's a lot harder to have large data sets on human skeletal muscle because of biopsy. It's just a practical limitation. If you go to athletes and say, can I take some of your muscle out of your quad? They're going to say no. Uh, they want every inch of that. Um, so that's one thing just to keep in mind. There's probably from the limited evidence that we do have in human biopsies, there is a little bit more EPA, but there's some methodological challenges with having this translatability. Do they isolate the phospholipid or do they just take out a big chunk of muscle and break it up? In that case, you've got intramuscular triglycerides, you've got other components of that tissue. So I'll just preface that by saying most of what I've spoken about is in rodents. It's probably the best that we've got at the moment. Um, in terms of high dose EPA supplementation, if you do provide enough EPA, it will eventually make it into the muscle. Um, but it's got to be sort of a, a bit of a silly dose to, to really have a profound effect in skeletal muscle. So yes, you're correct in that. Um, and then the third point on what most supplements are currently available as, yeah, it's mostly EPA and it's mostly in that FLS to fall. So when we spoke about in the beginning with absorption, uh, you to get FLS is to absorb efficiently. You have to have it with a high fat meal, um, which places some limitations around when people take, I mean, we recommend you take omega threes with high fat meal regardless. Um, but FLS start outside of a high fat meal has really poor absorption. So you're probably not getting much of it to actually get the plasma and then making its way to red blood cells and muscle. Um, try glyceride forms. When you see on the back of a label, they'd probably say like from derived from anchovies or tuna or salmon. Um, if you look at most of those natural sources, you're probably going to see a higher DHA. Um, it's just harder to actually find those sources because most of them is the standard 180 milligrams EPA, 120 DHA. And from a practical standpoint, one thing to keep in mind that I remember back in bodybuilding days when I was prepping, my fats got really low at some point. And each of those capsules, if it's a gram capsule, that's a gram of fat. Um, and those very unconcentrated, uh, ethyl ester formulations, you've got 180 EPA, 120 DHA. If you're trying to get, and my goal is about a thousand milligrams of DHA. If you're trying to get a thousand milligrams of DHA at roughly a hundred to 120 milligrams per capsule, that's 10 grams of your daily fat gone. You're taking 10 of those capsules a day to get you to that thousand milligrams. If you look at some of the more, uh, normal sources or stuff that's sourced from sardines or anchovies, um, and brand that I tend to gravitate towards and I'm not sponsored or anything. I wish I was black mores brain as a fish oil. It has 500 milligrams of DHA per capsule and a hundred milligrams of EPA, which is pretty much a ratio we use in the lab. Um, two of those is two grams of fat track that as your macros, uh, and you've hit your thousand milligrams DHA and you've got a little bit of EPA. So just for a practical standpoint, it's probably worth looking at how concentrated each of those gram capsules are as well. Um, especially as you get deeper into a, if you're a bodybuilder or a physique athlete, um, and your fat macros get quite low and you're trying to keep these essential fats up, probably important to look at what is actually important out of this capsule and do I need to take 10 grams of it? Cause yeah, when I was grabbing 10 grams of fat, it was a lot to me. Absolutely. Yeah, no, I think that's, that's really helpful, practical consideration. So, so I think we, we, we've clarified some important things here cause there is some fears around, I mean, this is a similar story about antioxidants, right? Trex like, Hey, I don't want to take these things that might interfere with the adaptive process to training. So I think you've done a good job of laying the fears by explaining like, listen, you still see a peak in a similar peak in terms of inflammation and response to exercise and these damaging protocols, but your baseline inflammation level is lower and you return to that baseline faster. So it is more about, like you said, the, the name of these molecules, resolvents, it has to do with resolving inflammation rather than blunting inflammation, uh, per se. So it, it might enhance the recovery arc, um, which, which is potentially helpful. Um, and then of course, just like skeletal muscle is muscle, heart muscle is muscle taking up, uh, more DHA into the actual myocardium potentially has these heart protective effects, cardioprotective effects, beneficial effects on health. So let's talk a little bit about, um, the research you've done in your PhD. Uh, if you don't mind what you can share, I know not all of it's published yet. What things have you found knowing how to do this methodologically in a way that is effective screening and then actually having an intervention and a target hypothesis that you're actually testing? Um, what have you observed in your research? Yeah. So what I have observed is firstly, the screening process was a lot harder when you're actually trying to apply criteria. So we wanted to have a fairly homogenous group of trained people, um, which is not always easy to do. We also wanted to have people who didn't, um, have either an omega-3 supplement or consumed fatty fish in their diet. Um, and this is where it really becomes challenging because most people will have, and it's like any other, um, nutrient that you're trying to study. It's in the background diet. So you can't completely eliminate it. You try to limit as much of that, um, like stuff that's not coming from the trial. Um, same with vitamin D, same with omega-3s. Um, so in our screening process, I think we started with something like 89, uh, participants and going through various sets of screening, roughly 25 or 30 of them, uh, were removed just based on not having, uh, met the inclusion criteria for omega-3s. They were taking some form of omega-3 or their intake was too high. So it goes back to the point is you can't just accept everyone, or if you don't even have that as a criteria point, you're going to have mixed results because you're going to have some of these people in there with high, uh, levels. So that was the first challenge was actually realizing it's actually quite tough to track these or to get these people into the study that are low. Um, because they were also motivated and I'm sure you've experienced this with, uh, studies. The people that tend to approach you to take part in research are quite motivated to begin with. Um, the next step that we did was we wanted to make sure background diet was as stable as possible throughout. So we tracked, um, dietary records over 12 weeks every four weeks. So we had four total records of three-day food records. Um, and the big point there was back to the methodological considerations. Very few papers, especially in athletes, will have any form of dietary, uh, tracking. So you don't really know what's the control group, what's the intervention group done in terms of protein intake, were they equal? Did one decide to get all motivated because they've now entered a study really hard to know without tracking. So we tracked that over the 12 weeks and we also tracked bloods, uh, each of those time points as a biomarker. Um, and at a hard dose, we saw, um, by about week eight, they had reached their, their peak and we kept them there for an extra four weeks to make sure that we optimized what happened at muscle. So while erythrocytes are probably our best, um, measure, and they are, uh, we know that it's a slightly quicker uptake in erythrocytes versus muscle. So muscle follows slightly behind erythrocytes. So once you get to a point that you want the cobalt to be at, keeping them there for an extra four weeks or however long just kind of guarantees that muscle is caught up to that and you've really saturated that membrane. Um, yeah, in terms of what we actually did, we, we did this eccentric cycling protocol, which I think I mentioned to you in the past, Eric, I think you you're familiar with an eccentric bike for people who aren't, it's a very strange machine. You've got a big motor that sits in front of you and the pedals go in reverse. So you have to apply pressure against each of these pedals. Um, and if you kind of think about the number of contractions you perform, um, if it's spinning at 60 RPM, it's basically 60 contractions per minute. Sure. They're a smaller range motion, but 60 contractions over however long the protocol was, which was 12 to 15 minutes. Uh, it did cause quite a pronounced soreness effect. Um, and yeah, it's just for anyone who hasn't experienced an eccentric bike, you will be surprised at how challenging that is. Um, so what we had a look at was, um, soreness. So subjective, a lot of people would sort of knock that as a subjective measure and whatever. It's the best that we've kind of got, um, and it's not completely useless. So we had a look at muscle soreness. Uh, we had a look at inflammatory markers, uh, and we had a look at, um, uh, functional performance. So we had isometric mid-thigh pulls, so basically a static deadlift and counter-movement jump and associated metrics. Um, the, the big takeaway was quite consistently a reduction in muscle soreness, um, over the full 48 hours. So we tracked them over 48 hours. It would have been great to go out to 72 or 96. So you can really see that recovery curve. Um, I guess it's just a limitation with funding and it's quite hard to keep people engaged for 12 weeks, uh, and then have them come into the lab eight different times. Um, but we saw a reduction in soreness, slight improvements in those, uh, functional measures. So jump height recovery was improved and peak vertical force on the mid-thigh pull. No change in the peak inflammatory response, like I'd mentioned. So if you look at time point versus time point, there was no difference, but when you take that profile as an area under the curve, so you factor in the baseline for when they came into the lab, the immediate tree group, um, or the DHA group had a lower area for most pro-inflammatory markers, um, which kind of supports that hypothesis. Again, the limitation there is we don't measure resolvents or we didn't measure resolvents because of the nature of it. It would have been awesome to see if that area under the curve was down because we saw an increase in resolvents. So was it because these tiny little molecules are actually pulling the information down it's hard to say, but that's our inference from a mechanistic perspective. Um, and part of how we think this is happening is the, the DHA also makes it into neural membranes. So, um, brain being one of them, but then also in the peripheral nervous system. Now the interesting thing with saunus is it doesn't actually correlate that well with muscle damage. It's quite a pull metric. Um, and it's, it's more related to one of the hypotheses now, especially with eccentric contraction is you create pressure inside the cell and it's cell swelling that basically pushes on the nerves within a cell, uh, or in the muscle cell. And that it's a nervous pain response that immediate threes have a function in because of those resolvents that again, animal models. But if you look at some of these mechanistic links between, uh, nociceptors or pain receptors, um, and some of these, um, pathways along how that signal is sent, resolvents act directly on those. So where we're seeing, and this is in research quite consistently, probably similar to the heart rate response that we see in most papers, you'll see a reduction in heart rate. Um, most papers that measure soreness, they see a reduction in the omega-3 group. And it's probably because it's acting on those nervous cells and almost always those, um, the, the dose is given at least meet the minimum threshold. Like I was saying that, that 80-20 rule, you kind of get most of your uptake at the very low doses. They've probably achieved that at the very least. Well, I have some really powerful empirical support for you right now, everything you said. Um, and that is my Fitbit and my subjective experience of training, which I think is probably better than any meta-analysis. I have a very low resting heart rate. Right now, just sitting here, it's, uh, 53. And, uh, when I sleep and when I, you know, rest it, according to my Fitbit, which we know is the gold standard for measuring heart rate, it gets into the low 40s. And this is me, you know, way after contest prep. I also don't stay very sore for very long, and I do a lot of volume, and I train to failure a lot. So I recover quickly when I do get sore. Hashtag, I am the evidence. That's all I have to say on that. No, but in all seriousness, I think that's really interesting. And it, it's interesting, I think, to put stock into findings when there is a clearer link between methodology, hypothesis, mechanism, and then applied outcome. Um, and a lot of sports science falls short on at least one of those, in my opinion. Um, so this sounds like really good science and Ryan, I'm really excited to see some of your research get published. Do you know when we're going to see the next paper, uh, with, with, with Anthony at all, uh, as the tagline? Yeah, probably later this year. Um, I need to finish it as a thesis chapter first and then, uh, send it out for a year. Very cool. Very cool. So I guess to wrap this all up, I think, um, what would be your recommendation for strength athletes, bodybuilders, lifters, as far as what they should potentially do, maybe dietarily, or if that's not an option for them, they're vegan, they don't like fatty fish. Like my wife, she only likes, the closer the fish tastes to chicken, the more likely she'll eat it. Salmon, she'd probably rather eat worms, to be honest. Um, nothing against people who like to eat worms. So for her, the option is like the Ovega supplement. For me, I love fatty fish. I am primarily pescatarian. My fish consumption is gotten at times to the point where I've been concerned about my mercury levels. So I'm, I'm, you're preaching to the converted. If I took fish oil, it would probably be too much. I don't need to two fatty fish meals a week. Ha! Sometimes I get that in one day. So what would your recommendation be? Is this even worthwhile supplementing for, for strength athletes, bodybuilders, et cetera. And then if they were to do it, how do they avoid some of these potential pitfalls where there may be not getting the best formulation, et cetera? Yeah. So the first point of that would be like, um, risk benefit analysis. The risk is so low, um, whether it's worth it for an athlete, your real risk is, um, or your downside is the cost if you want it to supplement. So there's no real downside to it, but there's potentially quite a bit of upside in terms of recovery and just in terms of general health. Like I know as athletes, we think about muscle and we want to improve recovery. Um, but going back to that cardiovascular work, a 30% reduction in coronary heart disease, it's quite important when you get older. Um, so my recommendation would be, yes, you need to take it. Um, it's worth checking your blood levels. If you can, the company we use is called OmegaQuant. They, it's a fingerprint. You'd basically put blood on a little card. They can check your levels. That is it. I was just going to say, Ryan has sent me, uh, the, the specific cards to check this. And as an athlete, who's going to check his levels, I'll be participating in, uh, in one of his PhD studies to see if my dietary intakes correlate with my actual levels. Right? So that's, that's cool. Science right here. Well, for those joining us on the video, you got to see a plastic bag for those who are foolishly just listening on Spotify. You missed out big time. And for me, I know I'll personally be contacting the ethics board about this disclosure of, uh, participation. You know, your, your privacy has been breached, uh, very, very publicly. But I have personally decided to disclose my own participation in this study. Ryan didn't do it. I hope you know. So. Okay. Fair enough. It was a self breach. That's right. The recommendation would be if you can afford to get your blood levels checked, check them and then have a look at what happens when you supplement. Not everyone takes up supplements the same way in terms of absorption and actually changing that index. We've actually seen this in some of the groups that we've tested. People that take a supplement, their index is still kind of on the lower side. So it's worth checking if you can. The recommendation for dose from what I would safely recommend somewhere between 500 to 1000 milligrams of DHA, uh, per day. So that can either come in the form of whole foods, which if you can have two large salmon meals that gets you pretty much there. Um, most people, myself included, don't like fish. I don't like salmon. Uh, it's ironic that I'm a, an omega-3 researcher. I don't like fatty fish. So my, my route is, uh, supplementation. Have a look at what the, the back of the label says on the supplement. So again, not sponsored, but here's a, an example of one that I take. This is actually so what you need. It's number on that. It'll, it'll list out the EPA plus DHA in milligrams. Try find one that per capsule gives you at least 400 milligrams of DHA. Um, it's going to be your best bang for buck. It should also say on there what form it comes in. Uh, you've got ethyl ester, triglyceride or phospholipid. If you can try and choose the, uh, triglyceride form, it's going to be your best absorbed. Phospholipid in theory is better, but it costs a bomb and it's, it's quite hard to, um, actually concentrate down to get enough of. So broad recommendations for most people is somewhere between 500 to a thousand milligrams of DHA per day. Um, if you can have a blood biomarker done to confirm that it is actually making it into your own blood cells, that would be the next recommendation. Take the supplement with a high fat meal if you can to get absorbed better with fat. Um, and yeah, it's, it is probably worth taking. I think that's a great recommendation. And then the only thing I would add is our, our resident alarmist related to all things supplements is, uh, that ideally, especially if you're an athlete who is, is, is tested, especially if you're buying your supplements in many of the markets, including the U S primarily is get them from high quality supplement suppliers who do third-party testing. Um, there's actually a great recent article on granttinsley.com. He wrote about third-party testing and supplement safety. If you want to read about that, it was a great article. I just recently read it. Shout out to, uh, iron culture, frequent guest, Dr. Grant Tinsley talking about those seals, which ones he recommends, what they mean, different parts of third-party testing, et cetera. And I know I've talked about this ad nauseum, but seriously, it's important. Um, and probably some of the reasons why some people don't have a good supplement response, maybe more related to the supplement they're taking and it's low quality rather than necessarily their physiology. Uh, although I'm sure that is at play as well. So, uh, no, this has been really, really, uh, interesting, informative. I think it helps us understand that there isn't necessarily just the overhyping of a fish oil, but also a rash of poorly designed studies that are probably muddying the waters and reducing that effect size we see in the literature as well. So yeah, I'm really interested to see your research come out. I think it's really good that you published that methodology paper, um, that is going to hopefully highlight this issue and the research so we can start having a better ability to gauge maybe why these null findings are happening. Um, is there anything else, Ryan, you feel like we haven't covered that you want to touch on the, on this topic? Um, cause I know we've bounced around a good bit. Probably not. The last thing I might just suggest is there's emerging evidence around traumatic brain injury. Uh, so the whole concussion story, um, we're kind of now moving into that field, but if you're a contact athlete, again, going back to that risk benefit, um, analysis, it might be worth considering having this in your diet, um, free game. So like making sure that you're, you're banked with, uh, omega-3s and those membranes, um, long before the season starts, there is some decent evidence supporting its effect on the brain nervous system, especially if you're getting head knocks. So if you're a contact athlete, it might be something to consider is try having this in your diet. I think that's great. No, that's, that's fantastic. Great summary. Uh, Trex, is there anything that you think, uh, we to, to, to, to circle back around to, or that you wanted to cover before we wrap this one up? No, I am completely satisfied. Uh, I think we covered a lot of ground here and wrapped it up with some really good practical tips for picking out, uh, you know, uh, a good supplement option. If you're like me, or if you're like Helms, then you will hide in your room with your tinfoil hat and, uh, be a supplement alarmist as we love him to be. Tinfoil hat while I'm eating my salmon. So no need to, uh, to, to go ahead and expose myself to the risks of alien brainwaves that are sent through supplements that we all know are the case. So yeah, while I'm getting little traces of anabolics from my supplements, you're just getting good old fashioned mercury poisoning. Exactly. Well, that's, that's actually maybe, maybe one thing we should touch on it is how to avoid having a high mercury content in your diet. Ryan, do you feel comfortable speaking on that? Yeah. Real, to an extent, what I would say is from what I've seen with the whole mercury risk, uh, it's mostly, I want to say from shark, um, most of the sources of omega-3 that contain high mercury, most people don't typically eat. Um, if you are in one of those very, very small minorities that eat like shark and high mercury sources of fish, it might be worth checking, but you really have to be on the extreme fringes to be at risk of high mercury. Yeah. And it's usually stuff that's like higher on the food chain, right? Where, where you get a lot of that, uh, mercury accumulation. Yeah. Yes. Salmon is, is very, very low in mercury generally. Um, the, and he actually chunk like tuna is as well. I think albacore tuna tends to be a little higher, but when I, so I mentioned earlier that I would get a little concerned about my mercury levels. I was consuming salmon, I would say six out of seven mornings, sometimes having a white fish for dinner. And then every single lunch I was having a can of chunk light tuna. So my average intake at this point was two servings of fish per day average. Um, and I was like, you know, this is probably a little unreasonable. Like even though chunk light tuna is not that high, it's not devoid of mercury. So I got my blood levels checked, uh, almost about a year ago now and the reference range, and I don't remember the actual, um, units was zero to 50 and I was at 51. So that's, I'm obviously wasn't going to die, but I, I would just barely exceeded the reference range by doing what is probably a highly abnormal degree of fish consumption outside of people living in traditional island communities or fishermen communities. So I just simply replaced my, uh, my chunk light tuna with a plant sourced, uh, protein middle, middle of the day. And I need to get rechecked, but I'm almost positive that I'm probably below that threshold. So it's, it's not too hard to avoid. Yeah. Helms, you are the extreme case. I think, I don't think I've seen someone have the weekly recommendations per day, the two fatty fish meals per day, uh, consistently. So as an extreme case, that's actually quite useful data to see what actually happens when you are, uh, at the extreme, that's just going to come back and say, you are a fish. That's what that test is going to show. Hey, people have been calling me Chris Evans, Captain America. They start calling me Aquaman. Yeah. And Helms, I think you forgot to, uh, declare your weekly cheat meal that you were doing, which was just a small shark, uh, roasted much like, uh, in North Carolina, we do whole pig barbecue. Uh, Helms was just smoking a small shark and eating it in its entirety. And I think that's probably where a lot of your mercury came from. Yeah. It's a good thing. I cut that out. Um, also like getting those sharks, uh, because I didn't trust the, the, the food industry, let's just say I have a lot of scars. So, um, you know, gotten the way of training a little bit, but I did notice that I recovered quite little, quite quickly from the wound healing. I don't know if that's related to the Omega three content. All right. Mercury. All right, folks. Well, this is devolved into very stupid dad jokes. So I'm going to wrap it up and say, first off, Ryan, thank you very much. If people want to follow your research, do you have a research gate profile? Is that probably the best place to follow your, or anything like that? Correct. Yeah. So on research gate, I don't actually know how you search people on there, but Ryan Anthony on research gate should find me. Hey, that's what we have Kai Homer for big shout out to Kai. He is going to have your research gate in the pro in, in, in, in the, in the show notes on this. And, um, yeah, Trexler and I just want to say a huge thank you to coming on. Um, this has been enlightening information. I think we, we got a couple of layers deeper than the typical deep dive that people do on this topic, not knowing about, uh, you know, cellular membrane uptake of DHA versus, versus EPA. What is actually in supplements? What is the mechanism of action? Uh, Omega six versus Omega three fatty acid balance, where the ratio of Omega six to Omega three can be guiding you incorrect. Uh, and whether that's actually really a concern and all the potential protective benefits and even future research coming out, uh, even on the methodology. So I just want to take a second to say, thank you very much. And I also want to say everyone, if you like this episode, go ahead and click like, because that's exactly what helps us understand that you like it. And we can do more of these awesome things. Give us a rating, give us a review. If you're unsure of what type of rating and review to give, they need to be glowingly positive with no even minor hint at anything negative or neutral, or I will be personally hurt, offended, and depressed for multiple days. And if you're not sure as far as what type of star rating out of five, um, you can follow the trend and that it would be the, the highest, you know, evidence-based formation of what you should do is just copying other people. We know that lemmings are the most successful species and they generally give us a five star rating. So if you're unsure, go with that. Um, and then finally, I would just say, thank you very much. And we will be back every single insert date here. We'll catch you in that next episode.