 n Next time you hate her. No, but in all seriousness, we have been having a great time. I've been down here or up here, I guess. I'm coming from New Zealand. Up into the left here for a good week here in Colorado, hanging with these boys. And what have we been talking about? Of course, the sport that we all love. And that's natural bodybuilding. The three of us are going to be getting back on stage, probably along with a few other of the 3DMJ coaches. So we're really excited about natural bodybuilding. We found ourselves talking and debating about who in the male natural bodybuilding division is like the greatest of all time. We've been talking about some upcoming battles that are going to be happening this season. And it turned into basically an NBA-style ESPN show debate after Worlds last year and a couple times, you know, here on this trip. And I was like, hold on. We got to save this for the cult. Because some people just don't know the depth of talent that's out there because there's unfortunately too many shows. And there's also too many federations. And there's too many eras to really compare. And shame on us as a collective community because we also don't do a very good job of record keeping. So what I hope for is that this episode can help people understand just how deep it can be. Learn a little bit of history and also learn a little bit about the kind of cool battles that are coming up in the future. So for those who don't know, I'm here with Brian Meyer, one of the 3MJ coaches. He's been doing his thing long before that. He has also began his career in bodybuilding back in 2012. 10. 10. My goodness. I stole two years from you. It wasn't much of a showing in 2010. But that's all right. None of us do well at the start. So Brian, if you want to give the Iron Culture listeners who maybe didn't hear your old 20, I want to say 18 episode where we talked about progressive overload. It's been a long hiatus. But you're back. I'm back. Yeah. So give us a little bit about your history as a bodybuilder and as a fan and coach of natural bodybuilding. Yeah, so I've been competing on and off since 2010. And I have done three seasons, 2010, 2012, 2017, and hopefully next year. But yeah, I've always enjoyed the sport. Started with the intent to bodybuild, got into powerlifting for a while. Still enjoy it. But yeah, I've been a fan of the sport for a long time. I'm not the history book that you are, Eric. But it's good. It should be a fun conversation. I think it'll raise a lot of controversy. That's what we want. We want people to hate us, love us, and be addicted to the drama that is natural bodybuilding. I don't think you're going to hear that much, though. But awesome. Birdo, now I know the people know who you are. You've been on Iron Cultures over times, but let's pretend they don't. Give us your resume as well. Why do you get to sit at this table and talk about natural bodybuilding? I've been around the sport for a very long time. I think I have this big fascination with where did we come from? What are our ancestors? And maybe not beyond a certain era because you're much better at that part. You know who was doing what in 1940, 1950. But to me, once I found out there was, okay, you could do tested, untested. I was like, all right, there's something about the test that appeals to me. Let me get inspired. And not necessarily because it's like I have to be the next great thing, but because it is inspiring. Because all these people, they got great genetics. You know, it's bordering on looking human at times in certain images, but they didn't start out that way. That's not their baseline. You know, they still made significant progress to get to that point. So to me, the sport of natural bodybuilding, I think relative to the enhanced side, it's like I hardly look at the enhanced side. Yeah. To me, it's no disrespect. It's impressive in its own way, but it's almost like the geared or the equipped powerlifting. Yes. Where it's like, well, that's really impressive. That's a lot of weight. But when you see someone, like we're discussing John Act squat, you know, you're like, this makes no sense. Like this is a human hydraulic system. So it's like a human doing that. It's like when you see anything world class human, like whether, like we can't jump as high as other animals, run as fast. But when you see a human doing their thing and it's like the peak of what we've been able to achieve as a species when it comes to athletics, like it's, it's just, it's captivating. And that's the thing about like natural bodybuilding. When I see that, it's like, wow, that's a human being up there. Like that's just a human being, right? It's again, it's like an equipped bench. It's 800 pounds. That's impressive in its own way. But someone similar dimensions who's doing 600, it's like, it touches me somewhere else. Um, so as much as I love competing and I am competitive and, and, and all that, I think long after my bodybuilding career is over, like I'm going to be just being nosy about, I'm gonna be a sports fan when it comes to natural bodybuilding. So yeah, no, a hundred percent. And, um, I think a couple of things, cause, uh, I know you don't like to give yourself all your own flowers, but this is your, uh, WBF universe title winner. That was the last time he was on iron culture. This is a NGA title winner. Uh, you have pro cards in three different organizations that you got in your, not your rookie season, but your first real season where you knew what you were doing. I would say. Yeah. Uh, and I think also to both of your guys' credit is you've coached a tremendous number of athletes over the years. You brought probably triple digit number of competitors to the stage each, I would guess. Yeah. Um, I think about the number of athletes that I brought to the stage when I was a full-time coach in 2010 to 2015 ish. And I'm thinking, okay, they've got another 10 years in your case on that and close to that for you, Brian. So, um, you're very familiar with looking at the physiques. And I think, Berto, I actually think you know the contemporary bodybuilding history from the nineties up for natural bodybuilding probably better than almost anybody I know, um, which is pretty cool. And some obscure ones. So I'm really glad you're here because, because I'm, I'm not going to be bringing up people from the, uh, definitely drug-free era. It's so hard to compare when the conditioning standard was that different. Yeah. Yeah. You know, there, there were some notable standouts where I could guess, you know, if we got them peeled, they'd be competitive. Yeah. Uh, and maybe I'll bring up some for fun. Um, I mean, it's like Jesse Owens dirt track, Usain Bolt. It's like both gray, but it very different context. Exactly. And like, there is actually a really cool sports science article where some guys tried to figure out what would Jesse Owens have been on a bounty track with the good cleats. And they're estimating it was a reasonable, like nine, eight, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, which is amazing. Um, but it's also still just an estimation. Yes. And I, just like, I don't really want to disrespect Jesse Owens. I don't really want to disrespect, you know, like Steve Reeves or some of these guys that were around before anabolics, uh, existed or being used. So there's going to be three parts to this discussion. We're going to start with who we think the greatest of all time was, and that might end up exploding into a very long thing. And it might be all we talk about. I was going to give that as a potential outcome. Uh, but then we do plan to also talk about, um, what's coming up in this coming year, um, where we think some really interesting battles are. And this is just more of just our personal interests. Um, this won't be debated and we're just kind of sharing cool stuff that's going on. And then finally talking about some things that could make natural bodybuilding better for spectators. Uh, the reason I say that is because of what you brought up, Birdo. Um, I think there are inherently different fans who watch like the Olympia then, and not that there's a crossover, but there is not a complete overlap at the Venn diagram. People who pay attention to natural bodybuilding and enhanced bodybuilding, and I do think there are a lot of people who are not even that serious about their fitness who watch, uh, the Olympia. Yeah. Because it is a spectacle. Um, it is very much a, some, some degree of almost like a variety show, like a vodule act, like kind of a circus thing. Um, and I don't mean any disrespect by saying that. It is just incredible. It's like, you don't see humans like that. It's the extremes of what's potential, even with the intellectual pursuits of man into chemistry, you know? Um, and I think there are parallels in strength sport as well. Like fans of raw powerlifting, all lift weights because it's not that exciting to see. Like if you don't, if you squint, oh, that's four res, not three. But it's the number on the bar and the fact that you also squat and you can relate to it. And either is going, that's inspiring or, oh my God, that guy's squatting twice what I am at the same body weight. This is insane. I got it. Is this real? But those fans, a lot of overlap, but not precise overlap. Let's say those who watch strongman. And it's like, did that motherfucker just pull the plane? You know, like that's kind of the same thing as when you see a giant move objects that should not be able to be moved by anything except, you know, machinery is similar to, I want to see somebody who's 5'10", 300 pounds shredded on stage. And I think natural bodybuilding, raw powerlifting, those are appreciated in a little more of an aspirational and inspirational manner rather than a sheer freak factor. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, so with that said, well said. Oh, thank you very much. Yeah. Thank you. So with that said, I think we're going to try to debate here and see if we can come up with, at the very least, our own individual top three. Want to go top three or top five? I like Mount Rushmore plus one. The top four. Five. Yeah. And you know, most like tribes. There are four people on Mount Rushmore. Yeah, Rushmore plus one. For some reason, I thought three for a second. Yep. So top five, which is what we've established, at the very least, each of us is going to come up with the top five. We may fundamentally disagree. I think we're going to struggle a bit on this one because we have been debating for years, Berto and I, on who's the best and we don't always see eye to eye, which is the beauty of a subjective sport. Yeah. And Brian, I had the logic into accepting some of the things I said and he did not agree even by the time I left, which just means he's logically inconsistent and I'm right. But we're going to try to get the top five that we all agree on. Yeah. I doubt that's going to happen, but at the very least, we'll have our own individual top five lists. Now, the way I've kind of organized this in my head and to make sure we're having some fair comparisons is I've taken some of the most impressive titles in natural bodybuilding. And I'm including people who have competed only across federations where they have similar requirements. So if someone has never competed in a polygraph tested, like seven year plus kind of drug free organization, they're not going to be on my list. And that's not to say that they aren't actually 100% lifetime natural for all I know. It's just that, um, I don't know, you know? Yeah. Yeah. And, um, that's, that's one of the other subjective aspects of natural bodybuilding is some of, some of the federal, some, some of these, some of these competitions, like the team universe, um, a couple of guys are going to get urine tested. Another year, a couple of guys might get polygraph tested. Um, but there are a lot of team universe winners who also are WBF, uh, world winners or OCB slash previous IFPA Jordan cup winners or PNBA Olympia winners. Um, and the PNBA largely just does urine testing, but a lot of them crossover and do polygraph tested feds. So, um, I've got DFAC worlds. I've got the more recent Mr. America, which has attracted a lot of the top talent. Um, I have WBF worlds. I have the team universe. Um, and as well as other folks in the IFBB who's crossed over and done some interesting things. Um, and I've got PNBA natural Olympia, uh, the pro pro title winners. And of course the IFPA OCB Jordan cup. Um, now titles aren't everything. There are some freaks out there who just have not necessarily won those things. And a few people I've snuck onto my list, but I've got a long list. I don't have necessarily a very clear top five. I'm thinking about it. Do either of you have your top fives? No, not clear. But, but I think it depends on what we're like, what metrics we're using. So if we're, if we're going off of titles, then titles alone, just hardware, the person I would put at the top of my list might not be there. Yeah. So how do you, that's a really good point. And I'll give an example for the listener. Um, one of the most decorated folks is a very, very good bodybuilder might be on the list, but I don't think is the greatest of all time. Yoshi Moody has won six natural O titles and he's also won his weight class at team universe. And I want to say he might've won weight class at Jordan cup. Mm-hmm. And I could be wrong about that. And I think Yoshi Moody is excellent, but there's people who he's consistently had trouble with. Mm-hmm who I also don't even think are necessarily at the top. Another example, um, who is on my list, but I don't necessarily think is at the top of my list is Philip Ricardo Jr. Mm-hmm. Um, I think the era he competed in, he brought a level of conditioning and detail that was unmatched, changed a little bit in the last 10 years. Um, his structure is good, but it's not the perfect. And he is an example of someone who needs to be in the conversation on titles alone, but also just because of his physique. Like he's, he's won the Jordan cup twice and he's won the natural O four times. And he's also placed well at team universe. So both of them are, are, are probably like the top of the list. I think is the, is there any other massive title winners you were thinking of? Not that wouldn't be in the top five. Yeah. Well, maybe one like Siobhan, Siobhan, Siobhan has actually won, I think nine world titles. Yeah. Yeah. So Siobhan Cunningham would probably also be in the conversation and he's excellent. Very, very good. Fantastic. Fantastic physique. Um, and those all might end up being on the list, but I don't think it's because of their titles. I've been titles are because of how impressive they are. Um, it's okay. Brian, you're asking what should the criteria be? In my mind, the way I was thinking about it, I kind of had like a threshold, like you haven't competed consistently enough or shown to me that you're, you can bring it anytime if you haven't won a world title. So if someone doesn't have the equivalent of a really top tier world title, um, I have only like one exception and that's Mike Ashley. Actually, he technically does have a world title. He did won the IFBB amateur world, uh, world championships. We'll talk about that in a second. You're like IFBB. I'll get to it. Internet. Um, yeah, basically if you're on my list, you've won a world title, but that, but how many after that? That's, that's, that's inconsequential. Then it's about who were you competing against? Was it the peak era? What did you look like? And if I put you both at your peak against other people's peak, who would win? That's for me, my criteria, but we don't have to make that the criteria and we can even disagree on criteria. So what do you think? The way I look at it, if we're not using like a quantifiable scoring system for not categories, they don't even use that. Like just to drop the hair. I don't know. That's not true. They do. But the way I look at it is sort of how I look at other sports. Like two decades from now, who am I going to think of is like the, the goat, you know? Yes. And so that, that goes beyond titles for me. So the, the physique has to be something very memorable. Yes. You have to consider both. And I think that's where we have some disagreements. I think that's fair. It's not an easy list to sort out. That's for sure. Not at all. I think it's an extremely challenging to sort out. Bruno, do you have any system? I know you like to go by kind of feel on a lot of things. So you probably didn't think of a flow chart to develop your list. You're more so thinking of like who at their peak would be their best. Is that what you're thinking? Yeah. No potential. Like if they would have done this differently or been in this era. So none of that, just what they have, what they've demonstrated at their best. And I'm taking it from a betting man's perspective. Ah. What would I put my money on? We have these, you know, this group of monsters there. Who do I think is most likely to come out? He's basing it off of the physique. Just, just. Which, which I think that's a separate conversation in some ways. Because there's a few that I know I will have in there just because generally speaking, I appreciate certain aspects of, of this artwork. Right. Um, and it could be something silly. Like I just really like this one particular pose. Like it's just, it's, it's just locked in my mind. Um, uh, but, but generally speaking is how effective can, can I predict you being? You know, how minimally flickery were you like across your career? Um, who have you beat? Right. But also like just what's in front of me. Right. Right. And just trying to do my best to, to predict what these outcomes would be. Okay. I like that. Yeah. I, in my mind, it's basically who clears the threshold of having done something notable in the sport, a world championship. And then, then after that, it's, I put you guys side by side at your best. Yeah. With, but that's a good point though. If you're rarely at your best. Yeah. You know, if you had to have like the, the, the, the peak of the gods and then I could actually see you at your potential. That does knock you down a bit for me. Like there's some people on this list who I think all men, if they had just brought peak conditioning, they could have been the best. They're not going to be on. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Well, think of like on the enhanced side, like Lee Haney, does he, does he still have the record? He is tied. Tied with, with Ronnie Coleman. Throne. So with that said, like I wouldn't, like Lee Haney obviously had a very impressive physique, but I wouldn't put him in my top five best all time. Well, it's really, it's actually. If we're basing it off of physique. So I think it's almost impossible to do this in the enhanced world. Yeah. Because. The technological advancements. Exactly. True. It's, and, and that's why it's like, so like it's frustrating in powerlifting in the, in the non-RAW division. Like for example, Ed Cohn did get his, some of his records eventually toppled, but by people who had like much better single ply. Yeah. He was wearing ace bandages basically back then. And no bench shirt. Well, some would argue on the enhanced side, like the nineties, early two thousands was like the peak. And now it's almost, they're leaning into advancements too much and causing other problems. Yeah. There is probably a threshold where you, like an era you can compare, but I would, with, with the enhanced side with Lee Haney, you have to be like, all right, if I think Lee Haney was alive today and did all the things that the best athletes do, do I think he'd be at the top? And my answer is probably yes, because the IFBB is also another advantage against the disadvantage. The advantage is it's so competitive. What if you almost can count Olympia titles because of the number and sheer number of competitors and talent that's there? Well, we're trying to look across six different titles. So I think, I think we do have our, I guess my only point was that the titles alone don't dictate who's on our list. Yeah. Even less so in, in natural bodybuilding. I think you could make an argument of, of doing that and enhanced and then just assume that if they took more stuff and better stuff and different stuff and timed it better and knew how to use it, that they would be a similar potential as others. I think, I think I have my top five. Do you have yours, Berto? I think so. Hold on. Yeah. All right. Berto, make it. Go ahead. Why don't you make it, do you want to give him an order? No, no particular order. I'm just going to pop them out and, and there might be some people who are there just because I, I, I enjoy their physique. There's something unique about them that has been not replicated in some way. That's allowed? Um, yeah. So I'll kick it off. Um, all right. Just, just because I, I, I left him off a list and, uh, and on a previous podcast and the UK fans like really, you know, they gave it to me. Observingly. So I just find it, he was really cool about it. He was just like, he's like, oh, it's just, you know, put someone on the spot and there's so much talent out there and he's never seen me in person, but David Kaye. David Kaye. David Kaye. Yeah. I think, um, I've never seen him in person, but I can kind of predict what he's going to look like. And he just has this quality of muscle that like no picture in the world's going to do it justice. Like you need to have good seats, find a way to seek into the pump up area and just be like, whoa, like this is, this is just different. This is, this is, you know, this much weight, this much body fat, but it just, it's, it's the density, the muscle maturity that this looks like, uh, like animal muscle, uh, sort of deal. And he just has no gaps in this game. Like you, you can't count on him. He's one of those guys to get in his own way. He's not going to make a mistake. He's very consistent. I would agree with that. Yeah. Um, so David Kaye, of him, um, I'd say kind of on the other side, uh, cause he was too young to see him. Like we didn't get to see what he might turn into, uh, it'd be Kai green. I think. Kai green. Uh, he, he didn't have access to a lot of the tools. And when it comes to information from what I've heard, even like from economically speaking, like, you know, just putting scraps together and now his can of tuna that he can get, um, can I act as a narrator here for a second? Yeah. So I know there's some people like Kai green, what are you talking about? He was second place at the Olympia. He's, you know, bigger than he's a comparable size Ronnie Coleman. We're talking about natural body. Well, history lesson time. Okay. By proxy, we beat him. Kai green in 1996, one WNBF worlds. And I want to say he was in his early twenties. It's a 94. He was either 18 or 19. He got his pro card. That means he was yet 20 or 21 and one WNBF worlds overall. Um, so that's polygraph tested, urine tested the whole nine yards. And once he'd done that, he went, okay, well, I want to go to the next biggest title. And that is, he was looking to chase down a IFBB pro card. And he did that through the only drug tested pathway, which is the team universe, which kind of stopped in the late teens. They still have the universe now. Uh, but for those who don't know, uh, the IFBB and the NPC 2017, they split. But prior to that, that was basically the amateur NPC, the amateur arm that was actually registered with the IOC along with the IFBB international. And if you wanted to send a pro team to IFBB amateur world championships, which is an IOC recognized sport, uh, bodybuilding was actually in the world games until 2009, I believe, and got kicked out for drug failures. Um, but anyway, world championships and international IFBB shows, um, were inconsistently drug tested depending upon the host nation. Okay. But IFBB world championships is a drug tested. I wouldn't describe it as a natural show team universe, probably a little closer to being a natural show, but still probably classified as drug tested. Um, Kai green won his pro card at the 2004 team universe. And then he decided now I want to be competitive as a, as a pro people probably didn't believe that he was drug free at that time, but guess what? His stage weight increased by literally 60 to 70 pounds. Yeah. So if he was on a, even a reasonable amount of gear, there's nothing that he could have done to actually put that amount of weight on. So, um, that is the, the Kai green background. So we're talking about pre enhanced Kai green. You see is one of the greatest natural binders of all time. Yeah. Yeah. There's so many, I love the shape of his, uh, his lower body, how the quads tie in, especially from, uh, from the side. I think his quads are among my favorites, like side on relaxed poses, uh, with low lats. I feel that if you are going to ride low lats, like they, they better be good. Like they better be really low because there are some benefits to slightly higher lats in some cases because they help with the, uh, symmetry poses in particular. But with him, his lats were so low and full and it wasn't a rector fullness, like down the middle. It was literally lats. Um, you can, the only real thing I can knock on him is, you know, maybe his arms are a little underdeveloped, uh, but everything from, uh, just, just the art he put out there to, um, like when I think of Kai, it's like, dude, it's like, you're an artist at heart. It's like, you're on this permanent mushroom trip. Yeah. Like the way he, he viewed his bodybuilding was something that, um, uh, just, just admirable. It was his, it was his own twist on it. Like he's an artist and it was just an extension of, of, of him. So, um, yeah, amazing, amazing, like just athlete in and out. One that I'd, I'd like to meet in person at some point. I can't say that about a whole lot of folks, but he's, he's one where, dude, I'd take you out of breakfast. Um, next up would be Martin Daniels. Martin Daniels. I think, um, genetically speaking, he is probably, uh, the closest thing we have to Ronnie Coleman. And when I look at like the amount of muscle he carried, uh, I, I, I vividly remember his first pro show. It was my first pro show. I got last in my class. He won his class and the overall, but I, I had never seen anything like that. Like he had wet. 2008. Mid America. Mid America. Yeah. Yeah. I remember like webbing like here, the skin was fighting for space, like with his pec right here in this trap, uh, just lats it like they were pulling on the skin so hard that it looked like he's going to get stretch marks. Uh, but the thing that made him unique was like how small his waist was relative to how big his bone structure was probably the overall, the most developed biggest legs I I've ever seen on a, uh, drug free bodybuilder. Uh, but it was, it was that taper. It was that waist that, that it looked like it belonged on a lightweight. Um, so Martin, uh, has to be up there. Only thing is he could always have gotten a little bit tighter. Um, but I, I know what those physiologies are like. It's, it's like they, they don't give easy, right? His muscle is going nowhere, but like to get those type of bodies to be dialed in, it is, it's a totally different experience. Um, so, okay, I got three. Um. So when, when do we start interrupting each other and yelling? Cause this is like ESPN. Is that something we're allowed to do? Yeah. Yeah, I think so. Okay. Um, Martin Daniels didn't make my list. No. Even though I actually think he is right up there in terms of muscularity and potentially at the top of the list, like you said. Um, I remember when we did some of our earliest seminars, when I was trying to help people contextualize, uh, what natural bodybuilding is when people are starting to get a little incredulous as to what was possible. And I used a picture of Doug Miller and a picture of Martin Daniels. And they'd be like, no, who are these guys? And I'm like, they are polygraph and urine tested multiple times world champions. No, you're, no, you're not going to get this. I'm not saying this is your natural potential. Sorry, buddy. That's not the way that works. This is an elite athlete, but this is, you know, maybe take some blinders off and, uh, and realize the human potential that's out there. Um, you mentioned he has a similar kind of genetics as Ronnie Coleman. The difference with Ronnie Coleman and Martin Daniels is Ronnie Coleman walking around nearly shredded all the time and had no issues with conditioning. And I have a really tough time giving it to Martin Daniels, um, because he's won one world championship. And even when he did, he brought enough conditioning. Yeah. But if Martin Daniels, I will say this, I mean, this is all respect. And I do think Martin Daniels is the man. If Martin Daniels was able to overcome that and get shredded semi-regularly and even just slightly more shredded on the list of questions. But I think the conditioning holds him back too much considering some of the names that we're talking about here, like a Kai Green, for example, I would say is just as muscular as Martin, maybe not quite as muscular as Martin Daniels is peak. Yeah. Um, but God lean. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He may have ended up bigger than Martin Daniels is a natural bodybuilder. It's hard to say, you know, like 2004 Kai Green would have been, let's see if he was 1996 world championship and that would have been, he was 21. So then, uh, eight years, he was late twenties when he got his IV pro card, which is pretty insane considering Martin Daniels. I think one is world title in his forties. Mm-hmm. So yeah, we, we didn't get to see a fully peaked out natural, um, Kai Green, which is, which is insane. Yeah. So anyway, I, I, I, that's, that's the, that's the first person on your list. I take issue with Birdo, although I do have a tremendous amount of respect. And I think if we went just with muscular potential. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, and symmetry. Like I couldn't draw a better bodybuilder. Forget muscular potential. Potential period. Yeah. On Mars. Yeah. I got, you can't drop a, it's probably in my opinion, the most beautiful physique I've seen when it comes to just symmetry. Yeah. And, and, and muscularity. His waist was just. Every line. It's like, whoa, that sounds like a great idea. Why didn't I think of that? Right. There was this something else to see in person. Yeah. That's fair. So that's your, that, that's three. That's three. You want to stop at three? Are you, are those in order? You got to put an order to it. No, not necessarily. In an order for mine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We'll work towards that. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Let's, that's his three. He's got two more. Yeah. Come back. Yeah. Yeah. You got three, Brian, or should I do my three? Three. I've got three. Let's go. I think, and I'm approaching this again from the perspective of 20 years from now. Yep. Do I think, like, who am I going to be thinking of first? So Doug. Doug Miller. Doug Miller. And I'll just say, I think he's at the top of my list. After that, I think it's very debatable. Yep. Doug, I think, has brought something that no other bodybuilder has been able to replicate. Like, he, he's very good in all areas. Yes. Um, and I mean, there's, like, not every body part of his is, is strong. Like, there's people with better individual body parts. But, like, the sum of its, the sum of his parts, he is the best it's ever been. And, and, he hasn't competed as much as a lot. I think the last time he competed, what, 2014? That sounds right. Mm-hmm. Well, no, he, he came back, I remember he won a, uh, a regional NPC. It was 14. I thought that was 14. I think it was the end of the season. Right. Um, but his, I mean, he's won the Yorton twice. Yeah, yeah. Because he won it in 2014, didn't he? And then he won it in 2009, I think. 2009, 2014. Um, so he's got two world titles. Not as many as some. If he competed more frequently, I think he would win every time. I would say that no one has more than two Yorton titles, though. Not Yorton. I'm just saying we're world titles. There are people that have multiple ones. Yep. But just to put it out there, he is, you know, if you want to talk about titles, he is only one, he's one of a few people who have two Yorton Cup titles. Sure. Sure. But his physique, I think, makes up for 100%. Um, I think Babakar is second or third for me. That's it. Yeah, he's, he's very impressive. Um, and then David Kaye. David Kaye. So that, that's my top three. After that, I have, and I, I think Kaye and Bob, should we, should we stop you at three? Yeah. Do you, do you have any issues, you got any issues with this top three? Or, or those? I think, I think, yeah, I guess I shouldn't say that's my final ranking. Doug is at the top, but Babakar and David Kaye, Hood, they're on your list. Could. Yeah. I mean. Be interchangeable. They're both. I will say all three of those gentlemen are on my list. I, I am struggling to constrain it to five. I'm going to. Yeah. Yeah. It's hard. It's hard. But those are, we're all the same reasons I agree. Just to rewind a little bit. Yeah. When we were at Worlds in this year, last fall, to be clear. USA, you go ahead, you go ahead. You speak, you speak. You, I, well, I guess I don't want to, I don't want to misquote you. Okay. Yeah. But you, you had alluded to the fact that Brian DaCosta was one of the best. I think what you were referring to was one of the best physiques you've seen. Is that fair? What I was getting at is a, who do I think could, could win and would beat? But that is a slightly different conversation than greatest of all time. Because let's say Brian competes again next season and he's off. That is a mark against him. I'm not right. So I was one of the people I am struggling with is Brian DaCosta because just looking at him, he kind of looks like similar size to Doug Miller, like actually the same height and stage weight. Yeah. But just blockier. And then I hadn't seen him get as lean. And then at Worlds, he got as lean and he stood next to someone who I thought was going to be the second coming. Doug Miller is just a little young, which, and he very clearly handled the other two people in the overall. Who were the other, it was Dirk and what was the middle? So the middle league winner is Ben Schuster. Schuster. That's right. That's right. 21 was bringing the kind of back double bicep that we had only seen slightly less thick in Doug Miller. Yeah. And I actually thought before I saw the overall that Ben was going to beat Brian DaCosta. And it was a pretty clear. It was a landslide. Yeah. Yeah. Like Brian. I shouldn't say landslide, but your eyes immediately went. There was just no question. Yeah. He brought a level of conditioning that was sufficient. And the funny thing was that Frederick was basically like the thicker version of Benjamin, but not quite as lean. And Frederick was a very similar condition to Brian. Mm-hmm. And then Brian blew away him. So I'm like, okay, well, he would have obviously toppled Frederick. Like this guy is a notch above these people who I thought would beat him. Brian's physique is one that because it's a bit blocky, it's very, very impressive and big on its own. Mm-hmm. But you don't realize just how big he is until he's next to other people. And then he's making more symmetrical, more bubbly bodybuilders just look small. And those qualities are just not enough to overcome his mass. Yeah. So Brian DaCosta, I will say he could be the greatest of all time. I agree. But I need more data. He's on a very promising trajectory. Yes. Not enough data points. And that's exactly where I'm at with Brian. Because you would have probably thought he'd make my list based upon the world. But last fall, you were holding pretty... You're smoking crack. Last fall, I was saying he might be the best bodybuilder ever. Sure. But I'm not... But the greatest of all time is a definitive declaration of knowing, looking at someone's career. Yeah. Right. So you don't consider the best bodybuilder and greatest of all time the same thing? He would become less of the best bodybuilder if next year he competes, he's on. Right? Right. So you're saying he's clearly the best last year. Yes. Okay. But were you saying he's the best ever? I don't know if he would beat Doug Miller side by side. I don't think he would. I don't think so either. Like Doug Miller is more exy and slightly leaner. And I think at worst, maybe slightly smaller. Yeah. But I think... I don't think he would look outmassed by Brian. So were you two to three? Okay. My three. Jeez. Quit pushing me around here. My top three. Or just three. I'll give you three. So Kai Green is on my list for exactly the same reasons. I... It's just hard to... It's almost undeniable. Um... Doug Miller is at the top of my list. For the same reasons that you brought up, Brian. I think he's completely undeniable. I'll bring up a third that we haven't talked about. Um... Rob Hope. Rob Hope is the... The only reason I don't actually rank him the same level as Doug Miller is we just have less pictures. Yeah. I've got maybe five or six pictures I can find of Rob Hope. They're all bonkers. There's that one iconic back double bicep. Yes, yes, yes. Where you think that back double bicep is the only one that can beat Doug Miller's. Yeah. But it's one shot. It's one shot. You know, so if I had a side tricep, if I had a side chest, if I had all the symmetry round, it is possible that Rob Hope would be the best. But based off of the five pictures alone, I'm very confident he's on the main right. So I take issue with that. Well, you could be wrong. The... By that logic, Kai Green shouldn't be in the top three. Because we have so much... He has... Well, he was a teen. Well, no, I'm going off his... So I'm... Here's one of the assumptions I'm making about Kai Green, and it could be wrong. Mm-hmm. That once he jumps from WMDF, Team U, he was still... He could still have competed in the WMDF, but he was choosing to compete. I'm thinking he's an addict. I just feel like there's limited data points on Kai Green. I think if he would have... There's a ton of pictures of him in Team Universe. In Team U, there is? Team U, yeah. Okay. Now, if your argument was, is he Team Universe natty, or is he WMDF natty at that point? How did he compare to when he was in the WMDF, his look? It's slightly bigger. I mean, like he went from being 21 to 26. I think, if I had to guess, that he did not go half natty. He stayed natty. Okay. And no one's fine. That's fair. That's fair. I could be wrong. I could be wrong on the data points. And here's another pushback. Yes, do you know what data point Rob Pope does have? He's one of a handful of people ever to have won two WMDF world titles. So, Rob Hope won two world titles. Bada Lakan has won two world titles. Baba Kar-Nyang has won two world titles. And I think that's it for WMDF world titles. Yeah, no one else. I don't think there's any male who's won three WMDF overall pro bodybuilding world titles. So, I think that alone is just saying something for Rob Hope. For sure. You know, like it backs it up that those pictures aren't just like, you know. I was just pointing out what I felt were inconsistencies in your evaluation process. But you know what? You cleared it up. Okay, good. Good. I cleared it up. So, those Rob Hope, I think actually are my top three, but I don't know what order. Rob Hope, Doug Miller, and Kai Green. We had mentioned Siobhan earlier. We did. And what does he have? You have the stats. He's got 2013 WMDF Worlds. He's got the Yorton Cup 2017. And I think he's got a lot of defect titles. There may be another one. He's very well decorated. Yes. Resume. One of the most. His resume is maybe top three. I think Siobhan, Kiyoshi, and Philip Ricardo Jr. might be our most. And I think I'm trying to sort through this in my head because I actually love Siobhan's physique as well. Yeah. But I think I'm going back to just that. Like, it's not like leaving a stamp in my brain, you know? Siobhan is extremely well-rounded. Very, very impressive. I remember when he was placing fifth in a lineup where I think it was his posing wasn't quite good yet. We're talking like 2008 and 2009. Remember that? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I looked in the magazine. I was like, this guy was fifth? What happened? And it was like a hands-on hit most months because it hit well. And then I saw some other pictures. Like, oh, he's not that seasoned yet. But, and back then I thought this guy could be a monster, you know? But that was also before Doug Miller came on the scene. So Siobhan is, he's chomping right at this. I wouldn't argue. I would, I originally didn't have him in my top five, but logically I think he has to be. Well, here's the thing though. People have beat Siobhan. So Cleveland, Cleveland Thomas. Cleveland, I guess Cleveland is a great example. Like Cleveland and Siobhan at their peak, Cleveland took him out. And I'm not sure, I'm not sure Cleveland Thomas is on my top five. Interesting. I think you could make an argument for it. Yeah, yeah. Here's a question for you guys. Do you think David Kaye, is it, David the tough one, because he looks incredible by himself. He's perfect symmetry. He always brings conditioning. It's super, super consistent. He's big. Do we think David Kaye could beat Cleveland Thomas and Siobhan Cunningham? I do. I do too. Okay. Okay, cool. So we all agree that I think David Kaye is on the list. Yes, yes. Do we all agree that Doug Miller's on the list? I believe so. He's not in mine so far, but I have a feeling he'll be there. All right. We're going to talk you into, not in yours so far. So far, I've only said three. Well, the fact that he wasn't one of your three is, I think he was just trying to be gone to her. Bananas. Yeah. Yeah. He's trying to be edgy. Yeah. He does that sometimes. So here's one that I keep wanting to put in my top five, but I think when it comes to peak, peak, peak, probably wouldn't be able to hang is Philip Ricardo Jr. Yeah. So, well, I kind of need to tweak my list, but my list is Philip. Philip initially was in my top five. Same. And I think he structurally has some weaknesses. Yeah. He's not perfect structurally. His quads. And we're talking at the world-class level. Eric's getting mad because I, Philip Ricardo Jr. is my aspirational physique. Yeah. Because he has done something, I mean, four times natural O champ, two times Jordan Cup champ. He's a legend. He's amazing. The reason I have him in that, potentially in that top five is he kind of ran that first four minute mile. You know, like he is the first person to just really come in. He came in right. He won the Jordan Cup right before Doug Miller did. Yeah. I honestly don't think Philip Ricardo Jr. can beat Doug Miller. No. I don't either. Yeah. And that's all up to Philip. But he's, yeah. His conditioning. Conditioning can, right? Yeah. His conditioning was something that had never been seen before. Exactly. And I'm a fan of that side of the sport. Yes. So I have him in the mix there for sure. Yeah. I would say someone we have to talk about, Brian Whitaker, the first person to have unified the title, 2015 Yorton Cup and WMBF world champ. He's an example of someone with very, very good symmetry and proportions, but no freaky X factor or massive amount of muscle. Just like very, very good at, at two things, symmetry and, and, and the, the threshold level of muscularity, but a conditioning that took him above and beyond everybody else. Yeah. And I would say if you look at Philip Ricardo Jr., he is similar in conditioning, conditioning that's going above and beyond everyone else. It, I think. But we, I'm a good condition. I'm a good condition. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Muscularity that was on par with the best in the world, but not as good as symmetry. And then not as good at conditioning as, as Brian Whitaker at his peak, but for the era of the mid 2000s to late 2000s, his conditioning with head and shoulders above everybody. Yeah. Yeah. And it still would, like, there's, like, I don't think it, I don't think anybody's gotten leaner than Brian Whitaker from, like, 2015. I, I would agree. Like, there are limits to how lean you can get. Like, he lost all subcutaneous body fat, right? And I think Philip Ricardo Jr. nearly is lean, definitely in the conditioning top five of all time. Mm-hmm. But I think the way his muscle sits and where he carries body fat and where his vascularity is, the fact that he has massive glutes that are, that are very delineated and he has, like, veins you can see from the nosebleeds of his quads and very, very prominent abs. And he's just very, very thin-skinned. Like, he, his conditioning is always going to look good, even when he's, like, not at his best. Mm-hmm. So I think his era is playing a bit of a role with why he was so dominant. But I actually think if we're just talking peak physique versus peak physique, I think his structure holds him back. So he's, he's not on my top five. He was at the start and then I changed it. And with structure, again, this is against world-class guys because it's almost like, I'm not talking about, like, your coach times your 40-yard dash in high school. I'm talking about, like, like, legit 4'6 is a very fast person, but in the NFL it's slow. Yes. Right? For certain positions. So he's got the gift of symmetry. It's just that other guys are even more flowy and, and, and musical than, than his physique was. Yes. I would agree with that. All right. So, so I think we're actually starting to come to a unified list here. We all agree on, on David Kaye. Mm-hmm. All right. We all agree on Doug Miller. You got a case against Doug Miller? Um, no, I, I think, um, one thing about Doug, like, okay, I'll save my next two. Okay, go for it. You live, let's get your, let's get your. So, because Doug is in there. Doug is definitely in there. Okay. Um, it's crazy. So he's got the, a very similar FFMI to Lane Horton. Mm-hmm. They're about similar heights, um, similar contest weight. That very, the, about one. Doug's shorter. No, Doug's shorter. Doug's like five, nine. Five, nine. Yeah. Doug's five, nine. Lane's five, ten and a half. So close. They're, they're just like out of that year. You look jacked because they're short. Right? They're like right in that zone of average height males. But the difference, like what the physiques look like, just kind of go to show you that like, wow, like Lane, yeah, you might have some haters that are like, oh, he's not an ad. But I mean, these are. Which, oh, I think only made sense in 2012. Yes. Now no one would. Yes, exactly. And, but Doug is like, no way. No way. No way. And it just kind of goes to show you how much, um, uh, symmetry and symmetry again, not left to right. Attachments and muscle shapes. Like his, his arm, it's not even the size of his arms. It's the shape of his arm. They're like, no, no, no. I'm definitely not steroids. And I'm like, don't think steroids give you different arm attachments. I understand what you're seeing. And yes, they're mind boggling, but you, if, and that's, that's, that's genetics. Yeah. Yeah. Which people don't understand. Yeah. Well, it's, it's, uh, and there's, there's a certain part about bodybuilding. I can be just around it long enough. Like it's crazy. Like my mom has developed a pace for it. Um, you know, like when someone hits a baseball up in the air and like you kind of know where it's going to land and you move to that spot, that's a pretty complicated physics equation, but your brain runs it really quick and you figure it out. And the same thing when it comes to some of the more subjective artsy, but there is a mathematical formula of some sort when you're looking at a physique. Like Brian DeCasso, what makes him unique is just like, I'm like, Oh, it's, it's, it's like your clavicle length relative to your humerus, relative to your forearm, uh, relative to how long your pec comes down. It's all these things. And your, your brain's like crunching these numbers and pumping the span of like two seconds very quickly. Like, I like that. I don't know why, but I like that. Right. It's just pleasant to look at. It just sounds good. Same deal. Right. Um, that's what Doug has. And that's why his like five, nine, one 90 something looks so different from lanes five, 10 and a half, one 90 something. And Brian DeCasso is five, eight. And he's, I don't think he's quite at 200, but he, somewhere in there. Yeah. Right under 200. I believe right under 200. Yeah. Which is bonkers. Insane. Dance man. Uh, although Martin Daniels, he might be a little taller. He's five, 10. Uh, no, he's shorter than me. Martin Daniels is? Yep. By a smidge. So the unfortunate thing, we've never seen Martin Daniels in true, true stage condition, but he competed at over 200 pounds. Yeah. He's like two 10. Yep. At five eight. Now, if he got his field as Brian DeCasso, I think similar stage weight. Yeah. But sometimes the numbers don't tell you everything. No, they don't. They don't. Again, I do agree Martin Daniels, if he could be just like, better condition, would be probably because. It's still to this day across, you give me anyone in the IFBB, even in the classic, it's the most. By the way, Martin Daniels in his forties, late forties, he's playing that game. He got his IFBB pro card, as still was drug free, exact same stage weight, physique, everything. So he's in the IFBB now because of that. He's in the perfect shape. Yeah. Just the most beautiful piece of music I've ever heard. Like visually. Yeah. He's, he's insane. So we've agreed on David Kay and Doug Miller. Yes. Yes. Yes. And who's your fifth? Uh, man, that, that one's hard. I only have one spot. We're going to add Bob, but I'll go ahead. No, let's, let's, let's each get our, I'll go. It's hard to get the, I'll get the fifth on lockdown. Um, are you ready, Brian, to bring out another one? My fifth? You've only brought up three. Yeah. And do you want me to go first? No, I bet. I'm having a hard time and they could go in any order the last couple. All right. So I've, I've mentioned David Kay, Kai Grain and Doug Miller and Rob Hope. Mm-hmm. I, cause I, I dropped the bomb that I agree with you on David Kay. So, so I will put that out there. Um, David Kay, for everything you guys said, yes, he's on my list. Um, Rob Hope, I made a case for, and he's definitely, he, he is potentially as good or maybe slightly better than Doug Miller if we had more pictures, but we don't. Um, so my list also includes Rob Hope. So that means I would actually give you my, my last one. Should I be doing that? You guys ready for my very last one? You can just do it. All right. Babacar. That's your last? Yep. That's my top five. I, I was, Mishak, Ochiang is almost there. Um, but I was looking at his physique and how he lines up and I actually think you're right. He is, I think his height does hurt him just a little bit. And the fact that Bada, Bada Lakan has actually occasionally beat him and Babacar has beaten Bada. Um, and it's like, you know, a couple of steps removed, but when I look at Babacar, there's really nothing wrong there. I don't, I don't think there's anything that could be fixed, nothing that could be critiqued. And Mishak, I think his height also helps him. He looks like a ball of muscle, but the height also can hurt him against a taller bodybuilder which was fully, fully, fully. Well, we saw that with Chris and his boob. We're like, why are you winning? Why are you winning? You look like an NFL wide receiver. Yes. Well, he was so tall and long and like his clavicles were so wide that these guys that on their own look like they'd, like, you know, Chris would have no chance again. So like, Chris hits that last breath and you're like, oh my God. Yes. You look like you're his kid. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's, I think there, there is something to be said for kind of, um, the Arnold next to Franco effect. Right. You look at Franco on his own, like, wow. Then you're like, ah, you kind of look a little, a little weird on your own. So, um, yeah, I, I was bouncing around who I wanted to be my fifth bot and I don't actually think it's ranked five. I don't have a ranks on these. Um, except maybe Doug Miller or Kai Green or Rob Hope in the top three, which is not a rank. That's three people tied for first. I don't know, but I know that they're above the other two gentlemen. Um, but so I got those guys, David Kay and Babacar as my top five. Are you going to rank them at some point? I don't think I can. I think you have to. I think that that's why, that's why it's, you must. But the thing is, is I, I need to see some of these gentlemen against each other. Yeah. But you can't. No, we're, no, we're making them out in Rushmore. That's it. We, that's the best we're going to do between us. All right. So my top five and I'm pretty partial, I'm partially influenced by your case for Martin Daniels, actually largely because he wasn't on my top five, but. I mean enough. I have Doug. Yep. David Kay. Babacar. Martin Daniels. Martin Daniels. And then with the comeback. Siobhan. Siobhan. Okay. All right. So how can you have Siobhan on our list if you don't have Cleveland? I like his physique better. Okay. So his greatest of all time, like good people who Brian like, basically. That's where Donalyn. You know, well, you said, you said earlier, what was the comparison that, um, Meshack has lost the Vata. His last car has beaten Vata. Did you know? So did you not? So actually I have Alberto Nunez on it because he and I both, and I'm just being humble. So I'm placing him instead of me. He beat Craig Toth. Yes. Who beat Kai Green. Those are, uh, strong points. But it wasn't Kai Green at his peak. It wasn't. All right. Um, yeah, I, I, I have my list. So yeah, for me, I don't think Siobhan or Cleveland can beat any of the members of any, any of the gentlemen on my, of my top five list. So again, you, I think either one of them could. But you're, but you're going back to like the physique alone. So why, why even look up titles if you're going to default to that? Well, they've all, they're all world champions. Everyone on this list. I know, but, but so does, does Kiyoshi Moody's, what was it? Six year run? Six natural O titles. In a row. And one or two team universe weight classes. Kiyoshi Moody has lost to some of the gentlemen we're talking about. Kiyoshi Moody lost to Philippa Curtis. I guess what I'm thinking, I, I'm sort of your pop fly analogy was very good. I, I'm crunching these numbers. I don't really have a, that's okay. Find formula here. Well, we're going to, but what are you until we get there? That's fine. But yeah, I got Doug, David Kaye, Babacar, Martin Daniels, Siobhan Cunningham. And that wasn't what I started with. Okay. But I think that's, I'm, I'm, it's, it's tough. I think Siobhan got leaner than Cleveland. I don't know about that. I think he did. I don't know about that. I think smaller Cleveland, when he was a little smaller, was leaner. But 15, 14 onwards, he wasn't as lean. Well, Ben, even with Siobhan being leaner, Cleveland, he lost to Cleveland then. Is what we have to admit. Because Cleveland, when did he lose to Cleveland? 2014 World. Cleveland won the overall. No, I, but I was just wondering what year. So 2014? 2014. And that was one of the most competitive middleweight divisions we had. Jeff placed fourth. Jeff Albert, shout out. Third was Levi. Second was Siobhan. First was Cleveland. And Cleveland went on to beat the heavyweight in the light. And I agreed with those placings. I do think it was tighter in, within the weight class than it was in the overall, though. That is one thing I actually thought is, no one would have complained if Siobhan had beaten Cleveland. Okay. Come back to me. So, I, I, I, don't get your hopes up. That's all right. Birdo, um, did you get your fifth? Yeah, it was, it was a, it was three people. So, they were kind of battling for this one. Um, Kiyoshi Moody. When, when he was at his, like, tightest, like, also, like, from a leanest perspective. Uh, it was really good enough. And he, he had this, uh, huge discrepancy from a size perspective. Um, it was really round. Yeah. And a lot of, uh, all his tie-ins were very similar to Kevin LeBron. Yes. His, his, his hands class most muscular was very Kevin LeBron. The tie-ins between the traps, the shoulders, the pecs, like, everything. The way it sat was just, um, just that one pose. Like, you could, he would, he would sneak it in during front relaxes just to remind the judges. Like, oh, like, look, look what I can do. Yeah. Um, so he, he, he, he wanted to put him in there. Uh, same thing with Babacar. Yeah. Um, but, thing with Babacar is that, um, during a lot of his reign, they're just, the heavyweights have been kind of depleted. Yeah. Um, I remember heavyweights at the Yorton Cup and Martin Daniels lost that year. Like, it was, and say, Donovan Strong was up there at Abraham. It was just, it was like, you swore the stage was shaking when they walked in, you know? Mm-hmm. Because they get more, you see the lights and you're like, whoa, these are lights. I forget how, well, what that looks like at this level. And then the middles are like, whoa, this is crazy. And then finally the heavies come in and you're like, oh my, like, it's, it's, you understand why, say, like, in boxing, the heavyweight division is the most prized title at the end, right? Yeah. Because there's no weight classes in the jungle, right? Yeah. Kind of like here. Um, so, he just hasn't been challenged the same. And, and, and, and when I think of who's not going to get in their own way, like, who's a horse I'm willing to take a risk on? It's Rob Hope. Yeah. You know? Um, yeah. Of all the talent in the world. But, uh, he was, he was, he was a nerd when it came to this stuff. So, fifth place, my fifth spot has, has to go to, and it's not that he's like fifth in my list. It just has to go, go to Rob. He needs to be on the list. Yeah. That's kind of how I felt about it. How, how could he not be on the list? And he just had that, that, that look, uh, you know, again, like Philip Ricardo, it's not, like, Philip Ricardo didn't look lean. He just looked like he had no body fat, like no cells in his body. Yeah. He wasn't born with it. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I, I'm trying to think like, Babacar has faced some pretty stiff competition. Maybe not quite the most stiff, but I want to say. He beat Kendall, but Kendall was like 22, 23. He beat Kendall, not at his peak. And by the way, Kendall probably should be in. Yeah. You just mentioned him. It's, it's, it's, there's so many guys we need to mention that. So, yeah. Okay. So, so Kendall Richmond, obviously. Yeah. Needs to be mentioned. His career is not over, far from over. Yeah. Um, some of the best symmetry in the sport. Abs, tapering down, big legs. Um, I think he needs to be mentioned. I think Badalacan obviously needs to be mentioned. Yeah. And Babacar has beaten Badalacan. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, which, and, and Kendall, like you said, not a peaked out one. Um, but still a very, very impressive physique. There is, in a similar vein to high green, there are two different, athletes. One, I think that you made me aware of, and one I think I made you aware of, that are both IFBB pros from the nineties. Uh, one is Bernard Seeley. Mm-hmm. So, Bernard Seeley won a 1992 WBF Worlds, and then he went on to win his IFBB pro card. Yeah. At World Championships, which I mentioned earlier, is a drug tested, but not a natural show. And he did okay. Yeah. With IFBB pro, placing top 10, but in like the lower. Sometimes top 10, sometimes did not place, but sometimes top 10, six at the Master Olympia. Yes. 5, 8, 1, 76. Yep. So, just, just think about what type of symmetry, and then look him up. Bernard Seeley, he's, um, amazing physique. And I almost think that if he had, um, been in the modern era and competed in these drug tested feds, he might be the very, very top of our list. But we're, we're thinking of him getting compared to the guys in the nineties. Yeah. Yeah. Like Flex Wheeler. Yeah. You know? So, it's very challenging when you're, when he's being compared against people with similar talent to him, but who are also enhanced. The other one is Mike Ashley. Yeah. Very, very, very similar resume. He didn't spend time in the, uh, the drug tested fed ranks, but he did go the IFBB tested route. And the reason why I believe that he is lifetime natural, um, and he actually is drug free is if you look at his competition history, that he always claimed drug free. And there was one very interesting incident. And then he also got his pro card at IFBB worlds. His, his body weight makes sense. He was a heavy guy for his height, but not nothing crazy compared to someone like a Brian DaCosta. Yeah. The one year where they decided to take the Arnold classic and drug tested because they were having some of these issues actually with diuretics and being very dangerous. He moves up from being middle of the pack or bottom to winning and beating Sean Ray. So Arnold classic, all of a sudden, everybody gets worse except for one guy when they drone test the guy who was claiming natural. So for, so I, I don't feel comfortable putting Mike Ashley on the list just because he doesn't meet the criteria that I started with. And Mike, if you're listening to this, I do believe you're a lifetime drug free. It was great meeting you at NSCA. He's a student of the sport and all the things make sense. Like he's, he has attended FAU classes that Dr. Zerdos has taught to learn about programming. He still wants to keep getting better. He's a trainer. He's committed to the craft. Uh, looks amazing even at this. Um, and, and I think, I think his sixties. So like he, he has all of the qualities of someone who's been a drug free bodybuilder forever, but he, he, I only know of his resume in STEMI drug tested. Right. But I think that, that Arnold that he won, uh, that Arnold classic title puts him like, he'd be at least deserves an honorable mention. Yeah. And I honestly, it just gets to a point now where if you're around the sport for over a decade and you, Nick, you really love this, like I, I'll grant you some like a natty or not goggles. Cause you, you, at a certain point you can tell, like if there's this very, like everyone, no matter who you are, you just spin around in a circle. Just, just, I just see you in 3d. There's a point I'm like, Oh, gawky, weird, stringy. There's a split second, Brian DaCosta, but I saw it. Like you look natty. You got depleted. Yeah. It was just, it was just one angle where the belly didn't look like, you know, like the equation of like pie. It's very brief. It's very quick. Some guys, real high level guys like hardly have it, but you will catch it and you're like, Oh yeah. Okay. Yeah. This, this does not look, uh, I guess like inflated, swollen, bloated almost sort of look. Yeah. I agree with that. Um, another one you guys brought up who I hadn't really followed much, but I was aware of, uh, Nathan Williams. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Who I think you're arguing is probably the best person competing right now. He, he needs just to get up there some more. Cause he's been paired to like, he was great and he's gotten better since. Yeah. Uh, he just had a baby. I know what that's like, but, uh, but it's like, bro, get, get up there because if there's one thing I personally, I regret, I miss competing with like the Cordova's and the Sean Claritas and I should have just gone in there and like, let's do it. You know, yeah. So, so for those who don't know, Nathan Williams, he's at the 2016 DFAC world, world champion. One of the thing with the DFAC guys, like DFAC's awesome. Yeah. They poly, they air and test. They actually, uh, were started by someone who used to be associated with it. Yeah. Great organization. And Vicky. Vicky plays a big one. Yes. A hundred percent. And he had respect over there. The, um, the only thing is they, they tend to be a little insular as far as where they compete and they're all like UK based. And I think, um, a lot of the UK national bodybuilding fans put them on a pedestal that is maybe, I'm sorry, UK bodybuilding fans. They haven't been tested against a more international field. And I would like to see that happens because comparison is so critical to deciding who's best. Like I would not be surprised if a David Kaye or a Nathan Williams could jump into WBF worlds and win, but I haven't seen it. Yeah. You know, yeah. To add a name to that list. Um, we haven't, I don't think we've talked about a Richard. Gozdacki. Oh, Richard Gozdacki. Yeah. Yeah. Excellent point. And you know, we were bringing up how Chris and Ms. Buga would just steamroll people. You would think about it. Yeah. Richard Gozdacki looks like someone who's just been zoomed in on. And I think he has a one world. He's got one. I just said, yeah, yeah, yeah. He's got 2011. Yeah. He's a 6'1", 2'3". Then he won heavyweight. He won heavyweight 2012, 2013. Yeah. He's over six feet tall. Yeah. He's a big boy. Um, and just very, very, very big. He didn't make a lot of noise after that era. Mm-hmm. Um, and his conditioning was very, very good, but it wasn't insane. Mm-hmm. And his symmetry was very, very good, but it wasn't insane. But the size, maybe one of the biggest natural bodybuilders of all time. Yeah. Yeah. He's a freak. Yeah. He's definitely a freak. I think he would probably lose to some other gentleman on our list from a symmetry perspective. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just a wall. Yeah. He's just, yeah, exactly. He's a huge, humongous, also from the UK, by the way. Yeah. That's what I said. There's a lot of rare, very good bodybuilders coming out of the UK. Some other honorable mentions I think are worth talking about. Um, Robert Thompson. He won the Mr. A and he, you know what? Someone who's gotten close to the level of conditioning that Ryan Whitaker has. Mm-hmm. Robert Thompson. Like when you see some of the pictures of him, like the lighting, like the, for the, for the pictures from the Mr. A, the lighting did not do him justice. When you saw some of the pictures of him when he won DFAC worlds, this is all 2023. And you're seeing cross striated rectus from Morris. It makes no sense. Um, he was peeled. And I think Robert Thompson is very, very, very, very, very, very good. He's muscular. Um, I know he had lost a lot of weight cause he got sick from going to worlds. So I think if anyone saw him compete at WNBF worlds, you were seeing kind of like a very depleted version of him. But at the Mr. A and also at DFAC worlds, he brought a package that very impressive. Maybe not the greatest of all time, but I think he's worth being mentioned. And he has won multiple world titles. Where is he from? I believe he's from the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands. That's what I thought. Yeah. Um, and so there's some very impressive athletes out of there. The, uh, I'm forgetting his friend's name. Apologies. But the, the gentleman who won the amateur world title. That's right. And ended up placing, I want to say fifth or fourth. And then WNBF Middles with me, he was also from the Cayman Islands. And I think he's either coached by or works closely with, uh, Robert. So Robert, Robert Thompson, very impressive physique and definitely should be, be mentioned. Um, trying to think of anyone else on our list who we haven't talked about. Oh, Valentin Azuga. I think Valentin is someone to be mentioned. Incredible symmetry. Maybe just lacking a little bit in the size department compared to everyone else. But he did actually win a 2013 Yorton Cup. Mm-hmm. Um, snuck it in on a year that Doug Miller wasn't there, to be honest. Yeah, yeah. Um, probably smallest waist you'll ever see. Uh, maybe, maybe Nathan Williams, similar. Yeah, it's a smaller downsides of his name. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, yeah, I, that covers pretty much everyone who we brought up. Do you have your fifth yet? Yeah. You already mentioned, I mentioned, I think Siobhan just made him. Siobhan is your list, even though Cleveland Thomas has beat him in the building. I just looked at comparison photos from the 2015 Yorton. And actually, I don't know who won that. Oh, I know Whitaker, Brian Whitaker won the show 2015. But it was a photo of, it was Brian, Siobhan, and, uh, Cleveland. Mm-hmm. And, oh, Siobhan beat Cleveland on that show, didn't he? He might have. He might have flipped. To be fair, I do think it actually flipped from Yorton to WF. Mm-hmm. It did. But I just like, they're both very good. Yeah. They're both outstanding bodybuilders. I just, I, I, yeah, I just like Siobhan's Zeke a little bit better. All right. So, we do have three people we agree on, though. Where are you at on Rob Hope? I'm not familiar enough with Rob Hope. Okay. But from, I would need to see more photos of Rob Hope. So, you don't agree on Babacar for top five? I think, uh, Hope and Kai kind of edge that up. Where are you at on Kai? He's out of the top five. Not in the top five. Okay. Just, just, there's too many potential questions. Yeah, yeah. A lot of what-ifs. So, right now, the only ones we agree on are actually David Kaye and Doug Miller. Mm-hmm. I think those are solidly the top two, in my opinion. Are you good with that? Yeah. All right, folks. We've thus far only been able to agree on two. David Kaye and Doug Miller. I can't get on board with Martin Daniels because of the conditioning. I think that's too, too, it's kind of like, yeah, I'm a really good baseball player. Sometimes I forget my glove. And I'm like, bro. Now, it's not like, it's like he's not trying. But I, I just can't get on board with someone who doesn't consistently bring a high level of conditioning. Um, and as, because like, we're talking about people who are at least getting a few glute deaths. And Martin Daniels, for most of his career, didn't even bring a, a glute striation. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, it's just, you know, he, his freak attributes, even at that level. I think, I think he's just, yeah. I think it's just the bottom line imprint that he's made in my brain, seeing his physique. I, I agree. Um, I don't know that we're going to get better than a top two that we can all agree on. Yeah. No, I think, uh. My list is, is Rob Hope, David K, Doug Miller, um, I Green, and Babacar and, uh, Niang. Mm. And I, I, some of them I could be talked, talked on, but like, I feel like Babacar would beat the people who are on your guys' lists. I have Babacar. On my list. You have Babacar? But Berto doesn't have Babacar. He's falling short there. And then that's, that's something we can talk you into, is it? No. No. Okay. You'd have to, you'd have to take Kai's or, or, uh, Rob's spot. Yeah. You can't do that. I, I think you can take Kai's spot. How can you take Kai's? Because there's too many, the, the team you is, who knows? Like, it's, it's not as a strict drug testing policy. I'm not saying he wasn't natural. No, he's a genetic mutant. That's it. That's fine. Like, I, I can't base my decision off of. 1996 World Championships. W, WF World winner. I know, but I'd seen those photos and I don't think, I mean, he's obviously ridiculous. He's five at the time. Yeah. He's so young. He just, I mean, there's, there's other guys that would have beat him, you know? Um, I, I, you know who I could be talked into? Bernard Seeley. Bernard, um, if you see him in video, he had that cockiness that we talk about. Like, you could take anyone who sees a picture of Bernard Seeley, they're like, no way. And then they see a video of him posing, they're like, oh. But do you think you could be talking to him being in your, your, your top five? It's just hard to make this list if you're not heavyweight. Yeah. Yeah. That's fair. That is, that's fair. That's. Yeah, it really is. It takes a very unique athlete to be in the 170s. All right, folks. So, so guess what? I don't think we're going to get any closer than this. We have all agreed on the top on, on maybe, I don't know if I would put David Kaye in my, in my top two. He's probably like, if I had to rank them, David Kaye is not in my top three. He's probably fourth or fifth. Like if I'm going to try to rank mine, I'm going to try. Um, I'm going to do the best I can for you, Brian, because I know you want that. I'm trying to give the people that they will. Okay, I'm, I'm going to give you what you think the people need or something. Um, in order, my top five are Doug Miller. Fuck. Uh, no. Rob Hope. Doug Miller. Ty Green. Babacar. And David Kaye. I, if, if I was to bet, you're talking about the betting man tonight? Yeah. I was to bet. I, I think Babacar might be able to beat David Kaye. Okay. My list, um, it's going to be Kai. Uh, one. No, fifth. Yeah. Okay. We're going to be fifth to first. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's a first. I think Kai, uh, then Martin. I think, you know, he's softer. He's just, again, it's just. Smart days. It's a midway that's from some other planet, man. He could tell you he's 240. Like, you're 240. Sure. Yeah. I, I would. Um, so Kai, Martin is for, Kai fifth, Martin fourth. Okay. Uh, I probably would have, uh, this is where it gets incredibly hard. Um, just cause I don't have enough data. Yeah. And I don't know if it transfers over his conditioning to that. I'd probably have hope. Awesome. Third. Uh, I can respect that. I need to see more like the, the hope photo I immediately think of is that back double bicep. Yeah. And that's like the most ridiculous photo I've ever seen. Yeah. But, but I've never, but I, I haven't seen enough of the rest of his physique, like with quality photos, you know? That's fair. And then, uh, it's going to be David Kayo, Doug Miller. And I really liked those two because they, none of them is going to come off. Like whatever they did last time, they're going to get better. Like there's, there's, there's no like, ah, you know, Doug was a little off, you know, David was a little off. That's just not in their personalities. Um, so I'd say I'd probably give it to Doug. I think Doug would, would, would edge that edge him out. Yeah. Um, the only thing it is like muscularity. I think they're pretty similar, but Doug's arm attachments are just out of this world. Um, but they're very similar. I think conditioning, uh, Kay poses his glutes like a little differently, but he's just as grainy. And he has that animal muscle. Uh, I think it's, uh, the, the symmetry is close. It's really close. Uh, David Kay's waist is smaller. Yes. Um, but I think the, sometimes the, the clanging of the physique, like the, the noise, uh, like the, like lack of symmetry is like that freak factor. It's like, Oh, like whatever that was, the arms just, it just make it work out. There's one thing to have like disproportionately like huge. It's like arms. A hundred percent. It's when you think of Arnold, what do you think of? It's like, his arms are way bigger for the rest of his, he's just a big dude. Yes. Um, so I, I think Doug, just cause we've never seen anything like that overall, like a physique, uh, and temperament, like those two things, he's, he's going to be better than last time maybe he competes. Yes. Which is freaking scary. Yeah. No, I think that's, I think that's all very good assessments. So I found some more pictures of Rappo. I'm going to try to make a case here. Okay. Now you, you, you, you listeners are not going to see this. Not even you viewers are going to see this, but there's the X range at this world. There's that front double bicep. This picture is a little far away, but it shows just how big it looks. Yeah. You know? Um, so he had a, uh, like he's, he can flex his abs down in a front double bicep and this is fine. You know what I'm saying? And, um, go to that most muscular right there. Yeah. The most muscular I got for you. It is right here. And the detail and the graininess in his delts, I think it lets you see that the conditioning that he brought from the back also applies to the front. Yeah. And, um, and then of course his riddle biceps are just bonkers. Yeah. That was guest posing in Believe 2. Yeah. That's another thing to consider is that some of his pictures, is that him right there? No. No. Um, that's another thing to consider is that there actually are some pictures of him where he was guest posing, where he looks like he would be a world champion. Um, so I'm not actually sure that, I think that actually was Stane's condition. But, um, yeah, he's, can we talk into Rob? I think I might be able, I, I, you can talk me into Rob. So I'll bump Siobhan to 6th and I'll put Rob Hope in 5th. Actually, no, I'll put Rob Hope in 4th. Okay. So I go Martin Daniels. Yep. Rob Hope. Yep. Babacar. Yep. Kay. Miller. Okay. So folks, we've got our top three greatest of all time bodybuilders, and we have managed to argue about this to the point where we're actually not going to talk about the future. Maybe we'll do another one. Yeah. We could have a second episode. David Kaye, Rob Hope, and Doug Miller. All three alive as well, um, which is pretty cool. I will give a massive shout out to all three of these gentlemen. I hope they hear this. We think among us, not, we don't have all of them in our first place. Actually, do we all have Doug Miller in our first place? I do. I have, I have them. Yeah. Yeah. You know what? I'm actually more comfortable with that. I was looking at the pictures of Rob Hope, and I'm like, I just need more data. And I had Doug Miller in second. So Doug is our first place for all three of us. For me, Rob Hope is second. But I can understand not necessarily putting anyone else there. David Kaye, I don't have in my top three. And I just need to see him against more, more bodybuilders. Uh, it, I'm not saying he couldn't be there, but he's on my top five. Greatest of all time. And we're peer reviewing here. Subjective. David Kaye. Rob Hope. Doug Miller. Congratulations. You've just won the Iron Culture. We three guys think you are really, really good award. Um, I expect you to maybe take a screenshot of this YouTube video and maybe replace some of your world titles with a picture of the three of us talking. I think that this is, this is as good as a good thing. We need to send him a medal. Yeah. So we have to, you know, at least a signed, assigned, assigned handwritten, you know, piece of paper that says like, great job. Jeez. Yeah. I'll tell you what, like, this makes me want to play the lotto every week because if, if I just come upon $30 million, I mean, I'm going to do all the responsible things, but you know what my side gig is going to be? We're going to make it so that talents like this, like they, they, they can all compete in the same place because it's, it's, you know, it's, it's so frustrating. Could you, could you imagine just like our top, let me say we had a top 15 list. Yes. Like how amazing, like they'd be up there for an hour to like sort this mess out. And so one of my dreams at some point is when I'm in a position to, I'd love to just have an unsanctioned show where like we draft here, you can be in this year. Okay. You come in, you come in, you come in, but that's in the future. But I'd love to just proudly show the whole world. Like, again, like this is what the human body can do. Like that, that, that is a human long jumping 29 feet. Like that, that is what some people are able to do with their bodies. It's no, it's, it's, it's, I'm partial to it. It's like art meets sport meets science. And at this level, it's, it's hard for it not to touch you. I totally agree. And if anyone wants to get a little bit of a historical context here as well, I did go through back in, I think 2018 or 2019 on my Instagram. You do have to dig into crates a little bit. I covered all of the drug free era of the Mr. America winners. And a really important thing is sometimes we focus on Mr. America. Like now it is a, a, you have to be a WMVF pro or sorry, it's an amateur and a pro show, but you have to be a pro in an organization to do it and to win it. And yeah, those are like peak of their career winners. Back in the day, the Mr. America was the, the highest level amateur title and they go on to do the universe or go on to eventually do the Olympia. And in the like 19, I think I covered from 1953 or 54 all the way back to 1939. And there are some standout physiques who you look at and you go, God dang. Steve Reeves is one of them. Steve Reeves at his peak was symmetry on par with a David Kaye, symmetry on par with, with some of the guys we're talking about, not quite the same level of muscularity and obstatic conditioning, but just an incredibly pleasing and beautiful physique. And then someone who I think is a little more built like the modern era mass monster freaks is John Grimmick, who won the, uh, the 1940 and 1941 Mr. America. And they had to make a rule of saying, okay, you can only win the Mr. America once and you got to go on. He actually beat Steve Reeves in a universe contest. So, um, John Grimmick in 1941 was five, eight, 210 pounds on stage. Um, how much, how much? 210. 210, Paul. Now, granted, he was probably what we would consider. If I had to guess, I 10, 10, 15 pounds over stage weight, but he would have been in the 190s. Yeah. Yeah. And the interesting thing about, um, that year is that they didn't require the same level of participation in the, I think the, the weightlifting meet the day prior. So he let his body weight go up. He had been competing in weightlifting and he was very seriously going after like a, some pressing records. So he was constraining his weight. Yeah. So he was competing, I think in the 190s in the prior year. And he was like, screw it. I'm just going to get as big and I'm not doing Olympic weightlifting only. I'm primarily a bodybuilder. And his weight ballooned up. So he was no longer holding himself back to try to get a certain underweight class overhead press title. And he went to the Olympics in 1936 and he had, um, he was one of the lightest guys in the heavyweights and he was pressing comparable weights. But anyway, I do think John Grimmick would have potentially been on this list if he, you know, brought conditioning, was born in a different era. But, um, yeah, he's like kind of the mass monster. And then Steve Reeves is kind of the, the cemetery monster. And I wanted to give him both a shout out. But, um, but folks, that's all we got. I think I want to say a huge thank you to Brian and Berto for taking their time for us doing our research, for sitting here talking with who we think, who we think is the, uh, the male natty bodybuilding goats. Um, and as you can see, it's pretty subjective and that's part of what I love about bodybuilding, but we were able to get to a top three. So, um, big shout out to those gentlemen. Please at us, argue, yell, claim these folks are actually not natural. Um, hopefully we didn't forget somebody. I'm completely, completely obvious. Alas, I lost all respect for you, Eric Holmes. I'm going to get a lead from those comments. Yeah. I guarantee you we did forget some people because there are like at least 600 organizations. Yeah. And that's so many. So many. And there's eras where we're, we just aren't as well read, you know, I'm sure there are some people who are like, we're, we're in our forties. Yeah. Um, Brad, are you 40 yet? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we're, we're old, but we're not that old. And, um, we're also primarily aware of the American title winners. So there are probably some folks in Italy or Spain who maybe haven't crossed the pond, but are just slaughtering everyone in that part of Europe. Um, fortunately those people don't speak a lot of English. They're not going to add us that much. But no, in all seriousness, um, these are by no means a definitive list. We've done our best. And what we really want you to do, look up these physiques, check it out. Um, give more shine to natural bodybuilding. And our community is one where no one's going to do it for us. If you're a part of the natural bodybuilding community and you're like, man, I wish we had more unity, man. I wish someone would catalog all these winners, man. I wish the, uh, the federations would get their stuff together and be able to have a list of all the contest winners of every DFAC World's Yorton Cup. WMVF World's, et cetera. Um, I'm just going to say it. The federations don't do a good job of that stuff. And I keep bringing it up. I talk to them and I know they're well-intentioned, but I am disappointed with the federations themselves who want their title to be the main title, but they can't even get a list on a website. Mm-hmm. So we have to do it ourselves. Um, if, if you want to create some type of cool website or. We need an open powerlifting for bodybuilding. We do. And there are people working that. We need an open bodybuilding where we can have like the title is one, how many people you beat, where did you place? Like filter by show, see past winners. Yes. And actually links to each one of those years, the stage pictures that exist. That would be an amazing thing for us to do. And it would make these types of podcasts far less potentially errored, if you will. So it boxes away. And I will say, thank you for tuning into this episode of Iron Culture. Um, we will read ratings and reviews when Omar's around. I, I totally neglected the kind of banter and normal initial starts we have. Um, but despite that, I would ask that you please like rate and review. If you don't know what rating and review to give, we accept nothing less than reviews that don't threaten my ego at all. So if you want to leave a review first, leave a high rating. What's a high rating? Most people leave five star. And if you want to follow suit, I think that's just the most evidence-based way to go. We have like probably 99% five-star reviews. And, um, as you know, the 1% is the raw type of review. And then if you leave a review with that rating, that is anything that I could even construe as mildly negative, it'll break my heart. So, uh, so don't do that. Just, just, just think about how do you want me to feel and how do you want that to impact our episodes? And if you want a good episode, you don't want to have my very fragile ego crack, shatter, and splinter on the floor because you managed to say something that could ambiguously be perceived as negative. So please do leave a five-star rating and review, and we'll catch you in that next episode. Insert date here.