 adetietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietietieti in-person episode where he was physically there with Danny Lennon. And we've got hearts from Connor. For those who have been following the show for a long time, you know that, well, my lawyers have advised me to say that I should not say what I'm about to say. So on advisement from my lawyers, I'm only going to say what I'm going to say, which is, Cliff, I'm glad you're still here. And that that episode concluded with everyone being alive, which included Danny Lennon. And I'll leave it at that. But nonetheless, last time you were here, we talked about carbohydrates. Connor, last time you were here, I don't remember, you're on here a lot, but I'm guarantee you it was about history. We talked about lifting. You're a historian. So we're not actually going to do what people think, which would be the history of carbohydrates. No, no, no. We are actually talking about another cool topic, which people don't even know that they don't know about. And now they're going to know about it, which they didn't know. And that is all around lifting. So folks, if you thought that it was just power lifting, weight lifting, bodybuilding, strongman, and who I must include CrossFit in the mix. Now, there is even other types and disciplines of lifting. And it actually has a very interesting history. So everyone, please welcome. And by everyone, this is not a live show. I don't know who I'm talking to. Just essentially shouting into the void. Please welcome back on the show, Dr. Connor Heffernan and Dr. Cliff Harvey. So everyone knows about carbs. You're not talking about carbs, unless that somehow comes up tangentially related to all around lifting. There's no point. You know, the history of carbs is quite short. I invented the carbohydrate back in about 98. So. Nice. Well, Connor invented the deadlift. The question mark. The question mark. Wow. The question mark. Well, you know what? Steve quotes Austin Powers reference if anyone gets it. That's an important thing to invent, or we would not be able to even question whether or not you invented the question mark. So, folks, where do we want to start with this? I think perhaps we need to walk ourselves through history so we know how we got to where we are today, where no one knows about all around. It's probably before we do that, Cliff, can you explain what all around lifting is? Because I was going to call it a smorgasbord. And that is one of my favorite words to say. It's up there at Onomatopoeia. I've tried to teach that to my two and a half year old. Not there yet. So, we'll work on it. But smorgasbord is probably doing a disservice to what all around lifting is. How would you describe it in the beginning? Maybe talk about the fact that this is actually the origins of weightlifting and bodybuilding and literally every type of iron sport that we have. Really, all around is feats of strength. You know, and obviously, it becomes a point at which those feats of strength, people want to see, you know, who had lifted the most over history, you know, over time. So, you start to keep records and there are, you know, particular rules so that people are all, you know, conforming to that and completing the lifts in the same way. But in reality, it comes from those very early days, you know, which stretch back not just hundreds, but probably thousands of years of two people challenging one another and lifting something really heavy and seeing how they could do that. And then, you know, various variations of that. Smorgasbord's probably right in some respects because at last count, I think there's at least 140 sanction lifts, probably closer to 200 now. So, there are a lot of lifts and, you know, as Eric alluded to, or you alluded to as well, a lot of people don't realize that this is actually weightlifting. This is where weightlifting came from. It's where bodybuilding came from, powerlifting, every strength sport basically sprung from what was then just called weightlifting, which is now called all-around weightlifting. Wow. So, you're saying that the original claim to fame of weightlifting is not weightlifting, but all-around. Yep. I'm going to say that. Come on, Cliff. Go after them. Go after the IWF. We don't give them a nutstick. I'm a very big fan of everything. And it was really, you know, what we now call physical culture as well. Yeah. You know, those earliest days, physical culture, it was about people challenging one another. And that's why, you know, we could get into this a little bit, I guess, a little bit later as well. But the early days of weightlifting are also entwined with, you know, other tangential forms of weightlifting like club lifting, mace lifting, you know, calisthenic exercise, catch wrestling, you know, big crossover there. A lot of people don't realize those early great weightlifters like Goerner, Saxon, Sandow, you know, that they were all wrestlers as well. So, they would lift and challenge each other in lifting events, but then they'd also fight. And, you know, that was a big part of it. Now, obviously, those things have diverged and people don't really think of that as being the same. They don't realize, a lot of people don't realize, similarly to all-round weightlifting, a lot of people don't realize the influence that catch wrestling, and particularly all-in catch wrestling, had on the development of all sorts of sports. Professional wrestling came from that. You know, catch wrestling was real wrestling, real fighting, but professional wrestling, as we know it, came from that as well. One of the forerunners of modern MMA was catch wrestling. You know, especially the all-in version, where they would strike. They would strike in a very specific way, so as not to damage their hands. But, you know, these were typically working-class, hard men, you know, a lot of them from the Midlands in the UK, who competed in weightlifting. They competed in catch-as-catch-can wrestling. And they were all very much intertwined. A lot of the bodybuilding element came from these guys basically just saying, look, this is what strength training will do to a body. And you strip down, you put on your leopard skin panties, and you disimpose it. Yeah. The leopard skin panties are harder and harder to get these days, but definitely check out... They are. They still manage it, though, Eric. You can find it on Amazon, but you just have to keep looking through different regions, and you've got to use a VPN, and it eventually gets shipped from somewhere. But... Like the dark web, you have to know where to look. Yes, exactly. So, I think, Cliff, for... We had a little bit of a historical understanding, it's a little bit which we're going to get deeper on, of course, but give me the experiential feel. All right, Cliff Harvey, you've just entered an all-around competition. What is the format like? How does it differ from a powerlifting meet, or a weightlifting meet, or does it? Is it just different formats? You enter, what's the day look like? It's very similar in some respects. The main difference being, you know, with some of the smaller competitions, especially virtual and postal competitions, it's generally only just a couple of lifts. So, it's very, very similar to an Olympic or powerlifting format. With the bigger lifts, the world champs, and, you know, the largest sort of regional events, typically there are a lot more events. So, nowadays, it generally tends to be about six events in a major comp. And they tend to, just because of the evolution of the sport into, you know, powerlifting and weightlifting, they tend to, to some degree, mimic those disciplines, but differently. So, you might have more of an Olympic-type day on day one. Let's say you're doing a one-arm snatch, a two-hands clean and reflex press, and maybe a strict press. So, similar in some respects to the old-school Olympic weightlifting. On the second day of competition, you might go in and do three lifts. There'll be a squat bench dead variation, but you might do, you know, a front squat or a Steinborn. You might do a pull-over and push, a really popular lift in all-round, which is, you know, basically a floor press, but you're pulling the bar from overhead, popping it over onto your chest or belly, and then using a hip thrust to drive the bar up. And then something like, you know, one-hand deadlift, or maybe a Jefferson lift, or otherwise known as a straddle deadlift, a hack lift, you know, all these types of things. So, in many respects, it's very, very similar, but there's a greater variety of exercises. There's less specialization, obviously. You know, a lot of times people will look at the records for certain lifts that mimic Olympic lifts and say, oh, these guys aren't actually that strong, but they don't realize that those guys also do 20, 30, 40, 50 other lifts, you know, and are very strong across the board. Gotcha. So, a couple of questions. So, it sounds like this is sometimes a two-day competition, and it sounds like there are some, I'm sure there are referees, probably three. You probably have, I mean, and of course, format can change a little bit, even between weightlifting and powerlifting meets. Like, for example, weightlifting, it's a rising bar, and for powerlifting, it's a rising bar, like, within lifter. So, you'll never follow yourself in powerlifting, but you absolutely will follow yourself if you're weaker than everyone else or stronger than everyone else in weightlifting. You know, if everyone else is snatching in the 140s, you're snatching 100, you might go 100, 103, 105, and go, thanks team, sign off, and then all the stronger people get to go. But that won't happen in powerlifting. You'll just be the first in each flight, but people will follow you. So, how do those some, how do those intricacies differ between all-around and powerlifting and weightlifting? And last question, you mentioned some single-hand lifts. Is it always a barbell in all-around, or are there actual dumbbell lifts? The format is very similar to Olympic weightlifting, you know, in terms of how, the weight categories are slightly different. That's every five kilos is a weight category. So, 70, 75, 80, 85, etc., all the way up. Age classes, you know, up to 40 is open, and then it's five years for various master's categories. But the lifting format is very similar to Olympic lifting. So, you know, you've got a platform, it's identical to Olympic lifting platform. You can follow yourself. So, if it's on a rising bar format, you can follow yourself. So, in that respect, it's virtually identical to Olympic lifting. And yes, there are other implements used. They typically are restricted to barbell and dumbbell, but there are a lot of dumbbell lifts. You know, one-arm dumbbell snatches, dumbbell swings, you know, were a very common feat of strength back in the day, and that's one of the foundational lifts of all-round. So, yeah, a lot of really cool stuff. So, you're basically looking at barbell and dumbbell lifts, but there's a huge array of them. Very cool. And there are some obvious similarities to CrossFit and Strongman. So, Strongman and Strongman competitions have, you know, five or six events, sometimes do take multiple days. But, of course, they get outside of barbell and dumbbell lifts and sometimes, you know, include your very common gym-based lifts, like pulling a train or, you know, pulling a plane. Holding a stick full of sausages. Absolutely. You know, carrying a fridge, which, you know, after... Deadlifting cheese. Deadlifting cheese. Absolutely. You know, all your standard stuff, World's Strongest Man gyms. No, but in all seriousness, like if we look at kind of what has become a little more quote-unquote standardized in the more sporting side of Strongman, not necessarily the World's Strongest Man, but maybe the Arnold and the amateur leagues and the various weight class-based things, we typically see like a carry event, an overhead press, a deadlift type event, sometimes a grip-based event, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Essentially, my point is it extends outside of lifting barbells and dumbbells into other feats of strength. And then in CrossFit, of course, it is... I don't know what I'm going to be doing until pretty much immediately before the competition. And it can include things like a 5K run or, you know, other types of fitness events that extend outside of what we would classically describe as a feat of strength. So in all-around, how much in advance do you get to know what the lifts are going to be in the competition? Because I would imagine training for all-around with, you know, it sounds like hundreds of lifts that you have to prepare for. It forces you into being a generalist. You have to be pretty strong. But do you also have to be a generalist all the time? Or are you given months in advance to go, sweet, I can focus on these six lifts to compete? Or is it, I just kind of have to always be lifting everything all the time? That's, you typically know a year out or more. So the, you know, the lifts for the next world championship will be decided a year or more in advance. And so, and, you know, the major competitions and big postals and virtual comps and stuff, you'll know easily a year in advance. So typically, you know, a lot of athletes will train, they will train in a general fashion, but it's also about, it's not really general per se. It's more about having transference, not specificity. I've heard. You know, and this is one of the key things that we used to talk about a lot when we're training athletes. You know, as you know, I used to be VP of human motion in Canada. We trained a lot of really high level athletes. And at the time, the mentality was very much around specific training. And so you'd have tennis players who are, you know, strapping a tennis racket to a pulley machine and doing this. I don't know if anyone can hear me or see me doing this on an audio podcast, but, you know, basically mimicking a tennis swing with a pulley. And they tend to predispose themselves to overuse injuries. And the pattern wasn't anything like hitting a tennis ball anyway. And so we really, I think, were one of the units that at the time were pushing back against that and really talking about transference rather than specificity in terms of get strong, get powerful, you know, be more resilient through strength within your body. A lot of those concepts are very much what you're doing all around as well. So a lot of guys will train very similarly to powerlifters, or they'll train very similarly to Olympic lifters or some sort of crossover between them. But working on those things that are the fundamental movements within weightlifting. Snatch, clean and press, clean and jerk, bench press, deadlift, squat, you know, those types of things. And you typically find that you get a lot of transference. Now you can start to be a bit more specific leading up to comp. And then that's where you're getting that just little nuance of, you know, the specificity there, especially with things like grip strength or weird movements like a hack lift where you've got to get a particular dynamic through your sort of knee and hip bend. Yeah. No, it totally makes sense that when you're dealing with literally 100 plus barbell and dumbbell based movements, that you would want to look for what's the biggest bang for my buck for being potentially pretty strong on all of them and having minimal decay on all of these various lifts, because once they do announce the six lifts that I'm going to do in this big comp, then I need to specialize. And you want to specialize from a point where you have, you know, the least kind of distance from your peak potential that you can achieve in say that year of a specific training. So I think it's a really interesting paradigm. And if you were to think about, you know, how would you train for the quote unquote challenge or problem of being really good at all around, you kind of have to maintain that all that all around baseline strength on some of those fundamental barbell and dumbbell based movement patterns. So that's really interesting to me as someone who's competed in strongman, Highland Games, weightlifting and powerlifting and bodybuilding. And in 2020, I probably should have just done an all around competition. But, you know, my goal was to try to do all of those, at least the strike side of it, minus bodybuilding in the same year. And it was reasonably successful. I don't know if you guys heard of COVID, some comps got canceled, but nonetheless, for those who are newer to iron culture and weren't following us, you know, many years back, I did a powerlifting meet, a weightlifting comp, and I also did a Highland Games competition in the same year. And that was a lot of fun, but a huge challenge to train for. And I was kind of thinking through this same process of, okay, I knew what was going to be in the, initially, the Auckland powerlifting champs. And then that got canceled. And I obviously knew it was going to be in a weightlifting meet and a powerlifting meet. So I kind of had all these, these, essentially, 11 different movements on rotation that I was doing. And then all of a sudden, you know, I had to switch and start doing some, some Highland Games stuff, like last minute. So it was a, an interesting challenge. And I, some, some, and to some degree, I'm thinking now, like, you know, I should have just done an all around comp, you know, like, like, although they are few and far between, like you said, sometimes they're, they're postal. The, I think what's, what's kind of unfortunate in my mind is that there is definitely a demand for this, but all around, I don't think is benefiting from it. CrossFit has exploded. And in many ways, the people who have joined CrossFit and have found, you know, I don't really want to do anything on the assault bike or the rower or run a 5k or swim or do kipping pull-ups. But I really did like that snatch and clean and jerk stuff we did and the pressing and the squatting and the, and that they then filtered into, and we've seen a growth in both weightlifting and powerlifting. But I don't think it's probably found its way to all around just because all around is not well known. And there's even people who love the super total, the idea of doing squat, mince, deadlift, snatch and clean and jerk. And in both New Zealand and actually all around, no pun intended, uh, the globe, I have seen a number of cases where the IWF and the IPF or the regional affiliates will get together and host back-to-back competitions. So people can have these unofficial super total, uh, records. And, um, that's something that I've always thought was really cool. And it almost seems like reinventing the wheel when you consider that there is an existing all around federation that is essentially doing something similar to that all the damn time. Hmm. But there's a trickiness as well, because, uh, like, if you think about the proliferation of strength gyms, and what I mean by that is strong man or strong woman gyms, and a lot of them are doing like thick group deadlifts, which is an all around lift. A lot of them are doing heavy farmer's rocks, which, you know, the Gurner stroll is a factory, a heavy farmer's rock with two, two barbells, you know, even the rogue record breakers, they do the Steinborn lift, you know, they've got, so there's this tension between the world's strongest man, Arnold's rogue record breakers, world's strongest woman, which uses a lot of the old school lifts, which are used in all around and people gravitate to these things because they're cool, but they're gravitating them to them in the context of all around lifting. And even it's funny. And to Cliff's point, there was a re depending on listeners ages, when kettlebell became very popular, a big talking point for Pavel was the anti-fragility of the body. And this is a big thing with the body is, you know, it's an, we need to think of the body in an anti-fragile way. You can move in ways that aren't just squat bench deadlift or just using machines. But again, like all around is here. And I think it is actually really interesting to conceptualize all around as that starting point from which a lot of these tributaries move. And I think a lot of the things, and I can't remember Cliff, it was on air or off air because it's been that long a day, but you mentioned all around is sort of like play. And I think that things that people gravitate towards when they go to a CrossFit box, when they go to a strongman gym or a strongwoman gym is they talk about the community, but they also talk about the playfulness of the lift. And even likewise, it's stone lifting. People talk about the playfulness of it and lifting the stone and trying to figure out the catch on the stone and negotiating the stone. the best way to lift it or people who train with sandbags, like the sort of playfulness of it. And that it's not a really rigid, okay, I'm going to do the deadlift. It's going to do the exact same, you know, as I did it the other day. Like it's a challenge based on the weight, but it's not a strategy element to it. And like all around has all of that. So like, it's quite an interesting paradox because all around has the playfulness and the fun and the challenge that a lot of us gravitate towards when you've been lifting for more than five years, you know, because the first five years lifting is just like vanilla. I love vanilla. And then, you know, from like five plus, you're like, celery ice cream, that could be interesting. You know, you want to try something else. And this is where all around fits in. So it is a weird paradox where a lot of people love the ethos and playfulness of all around, they do all around lifting, but they don't associate it with all around, they're associated with more recent sort of phenomena within the strength world. Yeah. Yeah. And a lot of those guys, you know, who are legions in all around weightlifting, and even now, you know, families that are well known in weightlifting, like the Cheva Tonys in the States and the Gardner family in the UK and whatnot, they compete in everything. Like they do Olympic lifting comps, they do powerlifting comps, they do Highland Games, they do stone lifting. You know, Steve Angel, my good mate, lifted the Denny Stones 20 times. He did 20 repetitions with the Denny Stones at the age of 40. Like it's stuff that's unheard of, but it's play, it's fun. You know, they just want to lift heavy things and see what the body can do. Yeah. Yeah. It's, I feel like we're probably just, I almost feel like with the modern social media age and the awareness in the fitness and strength community more broadly, that all around is certainly not keeping pace with that. And it probably has to do with who is involved, the size of it, and the dominance of these other more recent phenomena in strength sport that are maybe a little more in line with the way our current cultural awareness is, which is primarily online and even more so on social media. I feel like we're, we're either going to see it slowly die out, which it would be very unfortunate, or we just need a few like influencers or people just with a reasonable social media size who are actually participating in it. And people will be like, wait, what, what is this? How cool is that? Because to me, I look at it and go, all right, there's people loving all these other disciplines, the same commonalities and aspects of interest and elements of play and community. And, um, I think like you guys were saying, you know, when you're an early lifter interested in strength and, and in some personalities, I think are going to gravitate towards weightlifting or powerlifting just because they like the specialization, they like the repeatability. Some people like the same thing all the time. Um, like bodybuilders do with nutrition. Like I eat the same lunch every single day. I don't even think about it and it's all good. And my wife, exactly fish in a rice cake, classic internet meme. People, some people just cannot live that way. And don't want to. Um, but I think, um, there are different personalities and strength and some people who might be attracted to the diversity in say, uh, a strong man or a CrossFit, but really enjoy kind of gym based barbell dumbbell stuff would be a great fit with all around. So I think it would be good to get a little more shine, a little more attention. And, um, I think for people to appreciate it, it might be useful Connor, if you could talk us through the history, because like Cliff did mention all around could stake a claim as kind of the quote unquote original, uh, weightlifting that became the, as I understand it, the sportification of the vaudeville era strongman kind of one-on-one informal competitions to actually becoming formalized. And there's some interesting geopolitical stuff, you know, differences between the U S the UK, um, and then the formation of, uh, the IWF and the IPF and then kind of taking off and unfortunately leaving all around as almost a, like a third step child or something like that. So, so can you walk us through that? Why is it the third step child? Because there's no reason. So three. It's a really interesting point. And I suppose the, the starting statement that I'll make about all around lifting is all around is simultaneously the origin point of modern lifting. And it's also now the repository or the library of lifting history. So it, it serves a dual role. As Cliff mentioned, we can think about all around as an ethos or as a legitimate sport, you know, with the Federation, I think I'll, I'll speak to the ethos element. All around lifting is born from necessity. And what I mean by that is if you look at some of the lists from that, you know, 200 odd list, as Cliff said, like a Zurcher squat, for example, a Zurcher squat, which if you've had the misfortune of doing it, use a thick grip or a thick barbell, you'll have less self-respect for yourself, but it will be easier on you. Um, but a Zurcher squat is born from necessity. It's how do I squat a heavyweight without a squat rock? A Steinborn squat is born from necessity. I want to squat. I want to squat flat footed. I want to squat with a lot of weight. How do I get this bar on my back? A continental clean and press is born from necessity. I want to push the heaviest weight overhead. What is the best way of doing that is by dragging it or resting it on my body and then pushing it up. The pullover and press is Cliff mentioned. The, you know, the origin point of the modern bench press, it's born from necessity. So a lot of the all around lifts are like, if you look at the evolution of lifting in general, the all around lifts are a process of men and women figuring out all of these different lifts, figuring out how to lift these weights in a variety of different ways. So that goes back to the early origins of lifting in general. That goes back to Biden and Greece in the sixth century, lifting a rock overhead with one hand. There's people looking at a weight and figuring it out. Now, the more recent history of all around lifting in the 19th century is born in the German, French and Austro-Hungarian, you know, beer halls and the turn-round gyms, where it's people lifting dumbbells and kettlebells and barbells and people figuring out new and interesting ways to lift a weight. Like if you look at someone like Arthur Sachsen, one of the greatest weightlifters, you know, in history, there are stories of him doing a bend press with kettlebells on the barbell because he's, you know, he's maxed out all of the plates in the gym. So, yeah, throw on a kettlebell or let's tie some dumbbells on this, it's on string and figure this out. Some of these lifts are a process of people one-upping. So there's a sporting element to this, someone in the gym, oh, let me see if I can do this. Well, let me see if I can do it with one hand. Oh, you did a clean and press. Let me see if I can do a clean and press and stick my heels together. Like the lifts themselves are such a testimony to the strength of human or human love for lifting and the figuring that process out. So there's a sporting element to that. And I'll return to that in a minute's time. There's also a performative element to this, right? So the early strong men and women, so Felice Napoli, one of the first strong men in the mid 19th century, invented the Roman chair. If people are familiar with that particular lift or is at least credited with the Roman chair. These were individuals who used odd lifts or, you know, all round lifting to impress people enough that they would leave their homes or after work or, you know, in between after college, whatever the case may be, part with their money to go and watch someone lift weights at a time when that was not a common thing. So there's a performative element to all round lifting as well. So we have the sporting element, people in beer halls and turn round gyms and athletic clubs, one-upping each other in like very legitimate ways, measuring out all the weights, all of these things. And then there's also the performative element, the strong man or the strong woman, you know, lifting a bag of sand overhead and cleaning it and throwing it over themselves. Or it's someone, you know, doing a Roman chair holding weights overhead like Sandow. There's photos of Sandow doing a Roman chair holding a barbell overhead. So you have that performative element in it as well. And I think the more, and you still see that, let's be honest, the performative element is still there in World's Strongest Man, World's Strongest Woman, because they do hark back to the vaudeville days and the music hall days. So they use a sporting form of performativity. Yeah, that's a $10 word. But the sporting element is fascinating because the early history of weightlifting and the early history of powerlifting have their roots in all round lifting. If you look at the 1891 World Weightlifting Championship, this is the first on record world weightlifting championship that the IWF claims is part of its lineage. It's also, it's actually really part of all round lifting lineage, but we won't go into that. That's a series of one-handed lifts overhead, something called a deadlift that didn't go over 190 pounds, not quite sure what the hell they did with that, and a number of odd lifts. 1896, the first ever Olympics has weightlifting in it. It's one-handed presses overhead that are judged both by the weight, but also by the style and grace. From 1896, the first Olympic Games, to 1914, before the outbreak of the First World War, you have a number of world weightlifting championships that the IWF lays credit to. Each of those championships had a different set of rules. Each of those championships had a different weight, also a different form and style to lift those weights. So the IWF claims, our history goes back to 1891. Like really, their history goes back to 1928, when they codified around the snatch press and, or the snatch that came to jerk clean and press, or the 1920s when the originator of the IWF comes about. So like there's an interesting historical tension there, because weightlifting didn't become formalized until the 1920s. And when I say formalized, I mean, everyone said, right, it's the clean, it's the press, it's the snatch. We're doing nothing else. Up until 1928, you had people doing one-handed lifts. You had people lifting with different styles. And we'll talk about the geopolitical element that you mentioned already, Eric. So the early, early doors of weightlifting was people doing odd lifts. And eventually it was, let's get rid of all of the noise and just focus on three. And this was such a monumental change. This was the birth of Olympic lifting, as we've known. But even in odd lifting today, and I was looking through the rule book earlier, we still have those early Olympic lifts, for example. In the 1900s, 1910s, the biggest debate in weightlifting was if you are French or continental in your cleaning. And what I mean by that is, a friendless press in the in that period was very strict form. The bar is on the ground. It goes up to shoulder height. It goes overhead. Minimal to no touching of the bar on your body. Continental press, people who watch strong man and strong woman shows will be familiar with this. You're dragging the bar up, depending on the rules, you could rest on your knees, rest on your stomach. You're effectively dragging the bar up and pushing it overhead. There was an unmitigated disaster when they said, well, let's go with the French lifts going forward in all of our competitions. And then it's like, let's go with the German or the continental lift in all of our lifts going forward in the 1900s, 1910s. Edmund Devonnet, who was a French physical culturist, he said that the continental clean method was for people of lower descent, and it was a vulgar lift. These were the debates and the emotions that rang out when it came to early Olympic weightlifting. But if you look at the odd lifts today, a lot of the odd lifts were things that the IWF claims were international weightlifting competitions. So where is the lie? Or where is the line in that? So I think the first thing is, you know, odd lifts go back to the early origins of strength and the beer halls and the turn-friing gyms and the athletic clubs, the performativity. It is the foundation from which Olympic weightlifting holds its name. Olympic weightlifting takes all the odd lifts and then smashes them into just three. But powerlifting has this in it as well. Well, the first, I suppose, recognizable effort to host a powerlifting competition in America, and Perry Rader, the editor of Ironman Magazine, has talked about this, was a one-lift competition. The lift for this early powerlifting competition was a continental clean. Because Perry Rader said, you know, Olympic weightlifting in America in the 1940s was a dominant paradigm. We wanted to get people to do something slightly different. So we went with the continental clean. You know, powerlifting then in the 50s and early 60s, as it's beginning to become a force, has a tension around what lifts do we choose. BALA, the British Amateur Weightlifting Association, had 42 lifts. If you type in BALA 42 lifts, you can still find the rule book online. In those 42 lifts for the squat, bench and deadlift, okay, happy days. But a lot of it was one-handed press, continental cleans, you know, odd lifts, a variety of different techniques and approaches. Powerlifting even has this element in it in the 50s and 60s, where the British and French and the Europeans, powerlifting for them meant squat, deadlift, curl. And the Americans in squat, bench, deadlift. And, you know, again, these things were sort of ironed out when they decided to have an international powerlifting federation. But the script, like the very script that Olympic weightlifting used, the very script that powerlifting used, and absolutely the very script that strongman and strongwoman used, was the odd lifts. And so this is where we talk about the odd lifts as the origin point of history. And now it's also the library or the repository of this history. And Cliff mentioned this, I think, when we were sort of offline first. Like, the odd lifts sort of save and preserve a lot of this history. Like, if you look at the lifts, you know, you'll see Jackson presses, James lifts, Arthur's lifts, the Reg Park bench, like the Reflex Clean in Jericho, the Reflex Clean in Bush Press, the Steinborn lifts, like the Zurchers, all of these amazing lifts that at one time were so important and so pivotal, or sometimes solved a really difficult issue in lifting. And they die away if odd lifts isn't preserved. You know, these are things that don't fit into the very niche structure of strength sports. And this is something that we have done as a species, is we've over-specialized, in many respects, all iron sports. Like, I know we've talked about bodybuilding used to have an athletic component and a personality component. The personality component arguably was used as a racial gatekeeping mechanism, but we won't go into that. But the athletic component is a very interesting thing. And I often say one of the ways to save more bodybuilders is to have a clean and breast as part of the bodybuilding show. Because this is, you know, in an instant, we don't get the same leanness and maybe we need to focus on more than just that. But, you know, powerlifting has specialized around three sports, or three lifts. Olympic weightlifting is specialized around two lifts. Even strongman or strongwoman has specialized around certain movements. It's very rare in strongman or strongwoman to get something that's completely edge of left field. It is oftentimes a variation of the squat, a variation of a deadlift, a variation of a carry that's a minimal variation. It's more often than not, you know, it's a squat, but we're loading it differently. Like, you know, we're using big flat-sheet boulders as opposed to a barbell, or it's a squat machine, or, you know, it's a rock deadlift effectively, but we've put really cool things on the side of it to make it look a little bit different. Whereas with odd lifts, there are still things in odd lifts that you see and you're like, I don't understand how my body will do this. Then yet, somehow it will. You know, like there's a really interesting playfulness that is born in the turn-round gyms, the beer halls, the athletic clubs, with that sprinkling in of the vaudeville and music halls. That's very different. The variety in odd lifts is so out of tune with even the variety of a CrossFit or high rocks or strong man or strong woman, certainly out of kilter with powerlifting and Olympic weightlifting, which have really honed in on two lifts and three lifts respectively. And for me as a historian, that's why odd lifts is so interesting because it sees the body, like at its very roots, odd lifts sees the body in a different way than all of these other sports. And the way it sees the body is probably the most in tune with the history of lifting, where people figured it out. And sometimes, let's be honest, some of these lifts are born from dicking around in a gym, you know, where someone is saying, oh, I wonder, could I smash that with one hand? Oh, cool. I wonder, could I do that sitting down? Oh, wow. Okay. I wonder if I could do that sitting down, you know, my heels together and my knees together. Like there is that element to it, right? But that's because lifting is meant to be fun. And lifting is meant to have that communal element. So I think the history and evolution of iron sports is so intimately tied to the history and evolution of odd lifts. But we are very bad as a community in service to that history because what's happened is we've taken five lifts, for example, and said, these are the most important lifts for determining strength, bar none, squat, bench, deadlift, clean, snatch. And that's actually not how people, that's a really recent phenomenon. That's only been around since the 70s when powerlifting was formalized as a sport. So like, this is the fascinating thing. It's only, you know, from the 70s, we've decided that there are five important lifts. In the 50s and 60s, Bala had 40 something, you know? So like, this is, this is something and there's a recency bias around the privacy of that. And we've pushed to incredible weights in the squat, bench and deadlift in particular. And likewise, with clean and pressing snatch, let's be honest. But there are other ways of evaluating strength. And it is that point about, you know, what is strong. And oddness probably tests the body in the most holistic way, in a way that's born in history. It's not born in a faddishness. And it's a way that's born in the playful competitiveness that sprung forth all of the different iron sports we love, whether you're a crossfitter, powerlifter, bodybuilding, Olympic lifter, whatever the case may be. And kettlebells as well. Let's throw on kettlebells. You know, I have some interesting philosophical thoughts on this, or even maybe just social cultural observations, because it probably doesn't reach the level of philosophy if it's coming out of my mouth. So the first thing I think of is that people love playing horse, you know? Like, all right, off the rim, left eye closed, right hand shot, you know? Like, no jump allowed from the three-point line, right? And it is that kind of playful competitiveness that I think is exemplified in horse. And that's sort of how I think of how things might have been in some of these instances. And that's a little different than, right, we've got a five-on-five NBA game, right? And I struggle to view specialization as a good or bad thing, Connor. I think it is something that comes with costs and benefits, because you don't reach elite levels of performance in a specific task without specialization and specificity. It's just the nature of it. It is the way it is. And there is a cost to specialization. And there is also a, and some of that, sometimes that cost is, is it for the individual? Like, like I think we've talked about quite well, with like with the emergence of steroids and machines or diet specialization, or, okay, if we want to push the appearance and the visual strikingness of the physique, that means you got to get really, really lean and really, really big. And those concessions are going to impact life outside of the sport, right? And if I want to get incredibly strong in just two movements or three movements, that means it's going to impact my training, the decisions I make, et cetera. But I think there's also a tension and an inherent eternal disagreement between what does society actually want and how do we view what is strength? So I'm not surprised now knowing the history that CrossFit emerged or that strongman became more popular. And I'm, I think it makes a ton of sense that we'll even kind of see this, this vacillation and push and pull because there's a desire to have relatability, something that people can understand. Like I think people watch different strength sports for different reasons. Um, people, there are probably the most number of spectators in enhanced bodybuilding and is, and strongman competitions at the highest level, like the Arnold classic or world's strongest man who don't participate in the sport. However, when we look at powerlifting, most people that raw powerlifting are, who watch it, I would say 90% are performing the squad bench and deadlift on their own. And visually I have to squint. If I'm looking at a stream to tell if someone is lifting one 70, two 20 or two 70, because three, four and five reds, depending upon the size of the place, their color, they're just, you know, slightly different red extensions on, on this barbell people can relate to, Oh shoot, that person just benched two 70. That's crazy. That's more than my deadlift because they see the number and they've done it. But enhanced bodybuilding is what am I looking at? That looks bigger than the Hulk. This is amazing. Do I want to look like that? No. Um, but cool. Right. Um, that's just, this is, this is like seeing some type of circus act. No, no offense to the competitors. And another thing is, is, is similarly, did that guy just pull a plane? Oh my God, that's incredible. Some of the events in strongman you can relate to that are like deadlift squat or press variations, but it is the implements themselves that are visually striking and they are quote unquote common objects, but they're uncommon. If you consider that they were moved or lifted. So it's also a spectator sport. And I think while there's a much more similarities between bodybuilding enhanced and bodybuilding natural in terms of really, it's just one difference, you know, what you're pinning yourself with, the spectators are quite different for natural bodybuilding. Most people, they view it in an aspirational and inspirational way because it is not so out of touch. It doesn't seem beyond what is humanly possible that it tends to inspire in a different way than the fascination, um, that is created from enhanced bodybuilding. So I think I don't see us like ever being able to contract to having only one answer to this. Like, oh yeah, we're just going to have all around everyone likes that or, oh, we're just going to go, you know what? We all agree that strength is the squat bench and deadlift. Or maybe if we just added, you know, a press to that, then we'd be good. And we wouldn't need to have both weightlifting and powerlifting. I think there's going to be people who want to have a definitive, clear, well-structured, sportified version of strength where you go, right, give me three lifts. And I think this represents strength. And, and the history shows that that's going to keep happening because it did happen and it's still happening with the emergence of these new, uh, you know, federations in sports. I think it's really interesting that people wanted to be able to codify this is strength. It's squat bench and deadlift. But then across the pond, they're like, no, no, it's, it's not a bench. It's a curl, right? This, this bench press thing is a, is a new contraption. I want it always to be something that is a, you and the barbell, right? Um, or the weightlifters going, you're not going to have something overhead. That's an iconic part of human strength. Of course, we're going to have overhead lifts. So I think those disagreements are, are, are not going to necessarily end and they, they might update as our history changes and our culture changes. But I think there's going to be people who want to see general strength, uh, common man strength. Uh, and there's going to be people who want to see codified sports specific kind of versions of strength. And there's going to be people who want to see performative, uh, strength because all of those elements are kind of baked into the original physical culture and they're not going to go away. That was an emergent, you know, phenomenon from, from being human rather than something that was totally constructed. I think that the constructed stuff is more modern now. I don't know if you guys would agree with that. One thing you alluded to there, which I think is really interesting is that with specificity comes, you know, the, the, the extreme expression of that. And, you know, if I look, I'm a relatively strong person, but I'm not under any illusions that I could walk into a powerlifting comp and do well. Right. I know that when I look at the elite totals, it's like, that's just beyond me. Uh, I also know that, you know, I've competed against power lifters and Olympic lifters who were, you know, world champs, uh, Olympic medalists, et cetera. And in certain all round lifts, they just dominate. Right. I remember competing at the world champs and winning it, coming back and doing the New Zealand champs and competing against, um, Richie Patterson and Mark Spooner. And I came third, right. Because those guys are just crazy strong and they're the, you know, genetic elite and all that kind of stuff. But with generalization, I think it opens the doors to accessibility as well. Like if you've got someone who's looking through all of the various, you know, world records for all around weightlifting, they might say, well, that's crazy. That's crazy. Actually, I'm, I could maybe train towards that. I might actually be in the vicinity. Right. And I think it's alongside that accessibility. There's also very much a, a sort of silo that we create as strength and conditioning coaches where we see strength development for athletes, not people competing in strength sports, but for athletes as being defined by those five major lifts. And I remember when I was training some members of the, um, age group members of the Canadian, um, women's basketball team, I found that to teach the Olympic lifts was quite difficult. And I don't think it actually had the greatest transference because there's a, you know, there, there is a, even though it's one pole, there is a delineation between first and second pole and say a snatch, right. Whereas with a dumbbell snatch, it's one pole. And so in terms of a jumping dynamic is probably more transference. And so I found we got greater benefit with a, an easier learning curve for those athletes doing an all round lift and one arm dumbbell snatch rather than teaching the dynamics of a barbell power snatch or a barbell power clean, which was more difficult to teach with possibly less transference for that particular element. Now it's not that we didn't teach those things as well. It's just that we had a bigger arsenal of things to, to use. And I think that's where it goes beyond sport because I think strength and conditioning coaches could, could get a lot of value out of stepping outside of just the power lifts or the straight Olympic lifts or the, you know, basic variations like a power clean, um, and, and see that there are other lifts that can provide, you know, enormous benefit for particular sporting outcomes. Cliff, you just became my spirit animal. Um, so congratulations, we're now tethered forever into eternity. This is whenever the odd science and it's a great privilege to talk to S and C coaches and exercise scientists and strength scientists. I always bring up Thomas Kuhn's paradigm idea and also the biases that we hold towards what we know. And a big thing for me, and I promise I, this following sentence will not be political. COVID shone a light on a lot in the lifting community. And what I mean by that is a lot of us were without access to our traditional gyms, without access to our traditional lifts, without access to the weights, maybe that we need, that we would typically use. There were two, I'm going to say generalized. There were two very interesting reactions to the closure of gyms and the inaccessibility towards the weights and machines that we're used to. Some people saw it as a huge problem and throwing the towel. Other people saw it as a solution to be found. And for some of us, you know, we lifted sandbags, we did kettlebell work, we found lifting stones like David Keown in Ireland. We found interesting ways to break away from, I need to squat, I need to bench, I need to deadlift. Not only do I need to squat bench and deadlift, I need to squat bench and deadlift in a very rigid way. I will only ever do a low bar squat. I will only ever deadlift on a deadlift bar or a trap bar or whatever the case may be. I will only ever bench with my back arched, you know, and in the power lifting way. Or I will only ever do a shoulder press in this very restricted movement. And one of the things I love about Odliss and Eric, like specialization rocks. Like let's be honest, a specialization didn't occur. Half Thor is not beating Eddie Hall's deadlift record, which is the way I'm choosing to phrase that. That's a joke. But you know, like without specialization, we don't get Liam Aron squatting over a thousand pounds in the very early era of power lifting. We don't get the Ed Cohen's and the Rose-Dee Boltons, etc. We don't get Vasilio Laksia pressing 500 pounds overhead. Although, Ed Cohen did a lot of non-specialized training. A lot of high bar, deep squatting, you know, utilize a lot of, ancillary bodybuilding, you know. I would put forth that specialization exists on a continuum and in reference to what you're used to. I think it's funny that power lifters would be like that West Side stuff. Like they would benefit from so much more specialization. But you ask your average person just looking at like, yeah, they're all doing squat bench and deadlift. Okay, they got some bands. I don't understand what the, so I think. But I think that's the point where specialization exists for high level athletes. But I think for the vast majority of the lifting public, you do yourself a disservice when you have a very limited toolkit. You do yourself a real disservice when you anxiously and furiously hold on to the idea that I can only use these lifts. It's actually a very narrow way to interact with your own body and a narrow way to interact with the hobby that you love so much. And I'm not saying that everyone needs to a piper squat or a hack squat or a Fulton bar, which is a thicker bar. It's not. But these are cool things to bring into your... Oh, Cliff, like I drank the Kool-Aid on Adelis so many years ago. But these are really cool things to bring into your lifts. But also sometimes these are really important things because, let's be honest, life sucks sometimes and it gets in the way where you don't have access to your premium property. You don't have access to the time necessary to do the lifts that you traditionally want to do. The more flexible and varied you are in life, the better your outcomes will be, I would say from personal experience. When my toddler was born, for example, I could have said to my wife, the bleary-eyed and minding a small child, well, you know, I'm off to the gym, see you in two hours. Or I could train at home with a sandbag for 40 minutes. I'd absolutely gas myself out, you know, and have a hell of a lot of fun doing it. And then when the time came that I could do my traditional lifts coat or coat again, I was the same strength, they're not stronger. But there's a way of, you know, looking at your lifting in an open and expressive way and being curious. It's that old Walt Whitman quote, you know, don't be judgmental, be curious. Or it's about looking at lifting in a very narrow way. And S&C coaches and exercise scientists and strength scientists tend to look at the world in a very narrow band of acceptability. And I think that does a huge disservice to the variability of human bodies, but also the desired outcomes. And that goes back to Cliff's point about, well, the dumbbell snatch seemed to work a lot better in terms of transferability than the quote, correct lift or the proper lift or the traditional lift. So I think there's an educational piece to a lot of the odd lifts where, well, actually, this might be a better tool. And lifting should be about what is your overall outcome? What are the best tools to get there? And you mentioned Ed Cohen, and you're right, he was relentless in using other things that might help him get to where he needs to get to. He had a very clearly defined goal. Now, if your goal is to be a better athlete, maybe a traditional squat isn't for you. Maybe it's not even a front squat. Maybe it's a zircher squat, you know, or if you're a basketball player or someone who's a baseball player, maybe it's a lot of one, like a dumbbell swings or dumbbell snatches or kettlebell snatches. Maybe this is far more useful for you than a bench press, for example. And I think there's a bravery that's needed if you're coaching athletes to not use the traditional lifts that they think they need to use. And there's also a joy from this when you get to do that and challenge people. So I think specialization is just the way of the world. I collect wrestling figures from the 90s. There's a specialization in that and we've graded it on insane gradients for plastic toys that a lot of children just broken through with markers on. It's just the way the human psyche seems to work. But not everything needs to be specialized. I think for me, that's why I'm so interested in the odd lifts and things like stone lifting and club swinging and maces and everything, because it opens out what you can do and it makes you less restrictive and less controlling. I know, Eric, you've talked about this in other days where like, you know, Thursday is leg day. What am I going to do if I miss it? I was like, well, do it on Friday, my brother or sister in Christ, and then show up. But sometimes all the squat raps are taken, what am I going to do? Do something else that you know can target the same muscle group and just figure it out. So I think there's an ease that we often deny ourselves. And there's a fun that we often deny ourselves. And there's an efficiency that we often deny ourselves. Because a lot of us specialize when we don't actually need to. It's something that I think is a problem. I think, Eric, I love when you say that, you know, specificity is on a spectrum. Because I think this is something that's missing from SNC at the moment. There's there's such a desire to be evidence based, which I obviously agree with, that people take evidence that really looks at relatively small effects. And where there's also a huge array of inter-individual variability, and they make that the gospel. So you must use X amount of sets per week, and you must use end range partials, and you must do this and you must do that. But when we look at people who have developed incredible strength through history, the variability in how they trained is, it's crazy. You know, the difference between someone training twice a week for an hour versus someone training three or four hours a day, six days a week, and being at a very similar level. I don't think we can say, and I know that you hear this a lot, that well, if that person training in a non-evidence based way, according to my bias of evidence, imagine how good they could have been if they trained differently. Well, I don't agree with that, because I think people find a way of training that's conducive to them. You know, I don't believe for a second that Mike Mensah could have been, you know, so much better had he done more ball hit, right? Or Dorian Yates. Like, could he actually been better for the era if he did more volume? I don't think so. You know, it's just that there is a huge amount of variability, and that's something that again, like the exercise selection, I think the concept of all-round, even if we're not even considering it a sport, can open the doors too. You know, I know guys that are great all-round athletes who basically just do overhead press and deadlift, and others who train on full-on high-volume Olympic lifting planes. They're not all that different. It just depends a lot on the psyche, the psychosocial milieu, you know, cultural biases, all sorts of stuff. It all plays into it. We talk about that a lot in nutrition. Why don't we talk about that enough in strength training? Yeah, and those conversations do happen, but they're certainly not what are the dominant conversation by any means. I blame you for doing research. It is my fault. I blame them as well. Yeah. I am... Are you coming forward? It doesn't matter. Just doing research because it puts weird ideas into people's heads. Yeah, you don't want to research things. Don't ask questions. They make me uncomfortable. I don't want to have to rethink my worldview, even on things like lifting a weight off the ground. That's going to make me feel insecure, and I need to yell at you online. So, no, I totally agree. Understanding the way that evidence and science is often communicated gives false impressions about things. And we don't do a great job of delineating between what is sufficient for a given goal, what is quote-unquote optimal or maximal for a given goal, and then what is the difference between a average response and a relationship over a large population versus what is the constraints for a given individual and what seems to be what works best for them considering all those factors. And a big one is that a lot of the times in sports science, we are looking for small effects or that that's all we are going to find, and they're there. But the fact that a higher volume program produces a smaller but still notable and significant average population effect over a moderate volume program doesn't necessarily mean that when you consider all the rest of the context that therefore everyone should be doing a higher volume program, right? And it also doesn't answer the question of, okay, well, if I do want to do a higher volume program, what other concessions do I need to make for intensity, frequency, life, and how my shoulder feels, right? So, I think those are all things that people make assumptions about and don't necessarily really think about in context of the greater whole. And just like specificity is necessary for elite and extreme performance, objective answers to questions require very narrow questions, and therefore the answers are only applicable within the reductionist nature by which we ask them. So, it is a challenge to produce these studies that are quantitative, reductionist, and highly narrow, and then integrate them back into the whole. And it requires someone who is relatively good at not only the scientific process, but also the practice of what it's trying to inform, and has an understanding of meta-science, the philosophy of science, and then the ability to integrate all those things, and then communicate it effectively. So, yeah, I'm not at all surprised that we struggle with these concepts. That's the whole reason Iron Culture exists, is to try to bring all those threads together. And I really appreciate both of you guys shedding some light on all around, because one of the really useful things about anecdotes is that you know at least what is possible, even if it might just be for that person, or for even groups of people. And something that is lost with specialization, coming back to what are the costs, and something that I've been acutely and personally aware of, is that certain things that are thought to be possible or impossible, or just generally, quote-unquote, not done, or quote-unquote, the norm, can be lost in these silos. The concepts of what is high-frequency training is very different between a powerlifter and a weightlifter, you know. And it stems from how much of a motor learning, you know, demand is there for weightlifting. And also, how little eccentric damage you get from doing a lift where you just drop it after you're done, versus a heavy, heavy movement that you are grinding for four seconds just to get into the position before you even do the concentric, for example, on a maximum squat, or bench press. So understanding those differences and seeing what other people are capable of doing is also, I think, really important. And you know, I was on a podcast recently where we were talking about the anti-fragility component. And one of the things which I think is cool when you look at the high-intensity training camp and the Mensers and the Arthur Jones is that it's there some people doing surprisingly low volume and being successful. Also, with the cases we've talked about, a boatload of anabolic steroids, but I'll leave that for another time. No, no, no. It's all legit. Arthur Jones... That experiment. That end of one experiment, definitely not retraining, definitely not a bunch of gear. But I think, while it's interesting to see that, when, if you get siloed into, say, for example, the high-intensity training camp, they make it sound like the amount people can recover from, and what is unrecoverable levels of volume, and then what's going to injure you, hurt you, or like, hey, don't even go garden or mow the lawn in the week after you train legs. I just wonder, like, what do these people think when they watch a CrossFit Games competition? Does their head just literally explode? Like, the amount of work that people can do and can recover from, and then do it immediately again. And the types of things, the range of adaptation that the human body can make is pretty impressive. So you don't get that when you stay in one silo. You can start to think that an unnecessary level of work that your body's barely surviving is normal, when in fact, no, you're just competing in CrossFit. It is the sport of what can I barely survive and do a lot of density of training. And that's very different from, you know, competing in, say, powerlifting or weightlifting, uh, or, or bodybuilding even. And bodybuilders, in some ways, right now, at least in the mainstream, uh, lifting disciplines we have, probably have the most variety in terms of the movement selection they do, and are maybe the most capable across various lifting disciplines, but they don't care, you know, because bodybuilders are not actually trying to be strong. They're doing a variety of movements because they have to, to develop proportional bodies. Um, and I think it is, it is, uh, you know, an interesting thing that they're like by, by byproduct of their specialization, they're somehow hearkening back inadvertently and without any desire to, to the old school all around lifting. So anyway, um, it's funny. Um, and I think just the awareness of these things, even if someone has no desire to participate, can broaden your horizons. And I know my programming perspective, um, my understanding of history, anecdote have all benefited from me participating in these various disciplines. And yeah, like when COVID happened, I was having a ball for about six weeks. And then, um, I got really tired of having to take a barbell out into the middle of, uh, Western Park. Or I was like, you know what? I, I would love to press something overhead that isn't my body weight or a barbell or a single dumbbell. You know, I was, I did get to the point where I was really missing me a good leg extension or leg curl machine. You know? Um, I think when I did like, cause I only had 90 kilos of weight when I was like, all right, how many front squats after a 90 kilo clean can I get in three minutes? And then I was like, apparently a lot. I'm very sore. I don't want to do that again. And I don't want to do any more lunges. I don't want to do Bulgarian split squats, but I want to do something so that I keep my leg size. At that point I was like, all right, we need to, we need to end this whole, this, this whole COVID thing. Um, and that's just how, you know, rough it was for me with COVID. And I'm sure I had it worse than anyone else, even including people who got COVID. Yeah, exactly. No, I did get COVID, but I obviously, uh, am being facetious. No, great points all around, guys. Um, no pun intended. Cliff, I actually want to give you some flowers. Um, you've competed at a pretty damn high level. I would love to hear a little bit about your background when you were still competing in all around weightlifting, um, how far you took it and what that experience was like. And for people to understand like some of the lifts that you've done and how, um, you, you need to be a generalist to some degree, like a strength generalist to be successful, uh, in all around weightlifting, just to give people some kind of more contextual understanding. Yeah. So I came to all around after initially getting involved in bodybuilding, but not competing, it was mainly to put on size and that was for, for rugby. Uh, I had no aspirations at that time to, to be in strength sport. Uh, I actually wanted to be a landscape designer and design, you know, Zen inspired gardens and do bonsai. Um, but when the coaches of the high school, first of Dean came to me and said, if you can put on X amount of size, you're kept in the team. Uh, but if you don't put on the size, you won't play cause you're too small. I went and got books out of the library and learned about, you know, as much as I could back in the day, this is, you know, in the mid nineties, I guess about nutrition and training started training and got really into strength and bodybuilding. Put on the size, you know, played footy at that level. Then went on and studied at a uni. Um, but then I switched to boxing. And so I boxed for a number of years under Chris Martin, the great New Zealand boxing coach, but with an aspiration to go to the Commonwealth, but never managed to do that. Cause I had a bit of a soft head. I'd taken a lot of concussions playing rugby and couldn't get my ticket signed off. So eventually my coach said, look, this is stupid. You've, you've got a brain, you can obviously use it. I don't think we should continue to beat it up. So go and find another sport. Uh, and just, I guess, randomly, I saw pictures of this dude lifting a barbell with one hand and leaning down to pick up a kettlebell off the ground with the other, Arthur Saxon, right? The, the guy, probably the greatest all-around weightlifter of all time. And, um, I started looking into it more and then I discovered a guy named Steve Angel who became a friend of mine later on. And he was considered at the time the sort of the world's top all-around weightlifter. And I started looking at the things he was doing and just really fascinated me. So I got in touch with the guys in Aussie and they said, well, we've got a world champs coming up. Um, we can basically just give you a dispensation to come and compete because there's no, there's no organization in New Zealand. And so I started training up, uh, as much as I could just on my own. I was a, you know, qualified S and C coach and all that kind of stuff. So I trained for a year or so to do that, having done a lot of strength training over the previous years, went along and competed. Um, I think I came third. I got a silver at that one and then, um, came back a year later and, uh, won the world champs. Set a couple of world records, but that's, I always preface that by saying that, you know, I don't consider myself all that strong. It is a very small sport. And as I say, a lot of elite power lifters or Olympic lifters, if they crossed over, they would do really well. They'd probably win world champs, right? But there are still some very impressive things that have been done at all round. Some of the all time records are crazy. Um, some of the best lifts that I did, I'm still very proud of, despite, you know, maybe not being at that elite level. Uh, you know, I pulled at a weight of under 75 kilos. I pulled nearly 400 kilos out of the rack, uh, did a 180 deadlift. Uh, sorry, 180 one hand deadlift, um, snatched 60 kilos with one arm. So, you know, did, did some decent lifts. Is that a dumbbell or barbell, uh, one arm snatch? Barbell. That's impressive. That's, that's very hard to balance a one arm barbell snatch. Yeah. And I mean, the, the, the, that's a lift I love, you know, I love the one arm barbell snatch. I love the one hand deadlift. I love the, you know, rack pull from the knees. Those were the lifts I was typically strongest at. And when I look back now, I, I don't know if it's like this for you guys, but some of the lifts that I did at a much lower body weight, you know, even some of the Olympic lifts that I did not, except not, or not all that impressive, but a body weight of, you know, 74 odd kilos doing 120 kilo clean and jerk, 90 kilos snatch, you know, they're, they're okay numbers. I couldn't get even close to that. Now I'm 90 kilos now at a 45 year old dude. You know, I do a 90 kilo clean and reflex press now. Um, and that's nothing like what I used to do. I've done a 90 kilo strict press back in the day. So I think it's interesting when we look at our own history in sport, because it's almost like it was someone else, you know, and I don't really, I can't really fathom that person in the end versus this person now, because I feel like I should be as strong, but I'm obviously not. Well, no, it's, it's, it's, I think a really, really cool history to hear about Cliff. Um, and it, it, it gives insight that you were kind of a, um, an inadvertent modern physical culturalist who found his way towards the closest thing to physical culture all around after having already done a lot of the, the kind of the physical culture things like boxing, like you were talking about many of the strong men back in the day were also wrestlers or boxers. And there's the combat sport element. And obviously I'm a catch wrestler. Yeah. And you're a catch wrestler. So I think, and, and there's family history in that. My grandfather was a, worked on the railroads, shovelable coal, was a catch wrestler all in, um, was considered one of the best in the world. So there's that sort of lineage too. Uh, you know, there's a lot of lineage through old family lines, stretching back to the Midlands. And even on my Romany side, where we have a strong tradition of all sorts of things from strength sports through to bare knuckle boxing through to catch wrestling. Uh, you know, so it's, it's very much for me, not just a personal thing. It was things that I discovered or knew about my lineage anyway, that kind of came and coalesced. So it's very much about physical culture because all those things to my mind are integrated. You go back far enough, you can't disassemble catch wrestling, catch as catch can from early weightlifting. You know, they're very much interlinked. Well, even on that, the, the actual split in weightlifting where the IWF is founded, the big point of that is it finally splits from wrestling because up until the 1920s, wrestling and weightlifting, it's often on the same day, same competitions, the same federations, people have a foot in both camps. Like you mentioned the likes of like George Hackens, right? Like he's talked about in wrestling circles. He's talked about in physical culture circles, you know, and there are feats of strength by Gamal the Great, the Indian wrestler, you know, who people would sort of shred it among others with popularizing, um, into squats, for example, doing thousands and thousands of repetitions in these squats. And again, it's, it's a different way of conceptualizing physical culture on the body. And, you know, cliff to your point, I suppose, if you go on the USAWA website, you can look at the records of all the different lifts and like, you know, depending on the lift in general, you can look at a backlift where Steve Schmidt has nearly done 3000 pounds in a backlift, you know, for example, and then you can look at like an Anderson lift or a Steinborn squat or a bench tip or, you know, all of these different lifts that people are doing. And it's just, it's such an interesting way. And like I said, there are weights that are inconceivable. Let's be honest. There are weights that, it even says like, oh my God, like, how does this spine not just collapse? Um, there are weights that are maybe more achievable, but it's in the context of this is testing you in a different way and testing you in a way that's closer, more closely aligned to the roots, I suppose, of physical culture. I also do have to applaud you on your modesty. You're like, I have a couple of world records, but you know, like I'm not that strong. I got effectively a participation medal for competing in a stone lifting event. You best believe everyone I know had that medal shoved in their face. So like, you know, feel free to big yourself up if you actually have done something of note. Absolutely. Yeah. Cliff is, Cliff is, is very modest. Um, but I think it's just really, it's, it's interesting that, um, I, I hope that all around experiences some type of resurgence because I think there, there's something quite cool there. Um, and correct me if I'm wrong, but it's, there are no repetition based, um, or are there, there are, are there? Yeah. Which is really cool. There's like, um, you know, repetition, cleans, repetition, press, repetition, clean and press, repetition, clean and jerk. And they're all based on your body weight. So if you're competing under 75 kilos, then it's a 75 kilo. And it's really cool. Cause that's a great crossover for like a CrossFit athlete, right? I know, um, on a world record breakers day, a friend of mine, James Powers, who was an Olympic lifter, he actually came fourth. He just missed out on a medal at the Commonwealth back in the nineties. I came fourth Irish guy. Yeah. He, um, he could set a world record in the repetition, clean and jerk. Makes sense, right? For his body weight, he could do loads of them. Uh, so it's really cool because there are a lot of different lifts. And as you know, Connor said, there's like a lot of thick grip lifts, which you don't see as much apart from maybe strong man. Um, but you know, it, it harks back to the early days of like Thomas inch. That was actually my, probably my most, the moment I was most proud of. And unfortunately it wasn't captured on camera at a, um, fitness expo. I lifted the inch dumbbell at a body weight of 75, not to my shoulder or anything, but I at least deadlifted it to, to waist. Um, and that's, you know, probably the, the lift I'm most proud of and one that, you know, in reality, I'm never going to do it again and get a heart. That's something we've talked about in iron culture before is that at some point you will hit your last PR. Um, and I think there's a certain attractiveness to all around with all around lifting, um, for people who are, have been in the game for a while, you know, like these, um, having a diversity of goals is, is really, really helpful because many people struggle in the traditional disciplines of, um, body building, power lifting and weightlifting with what do I do when I can no longer progress. And for many people, they struggle with the identity of shifting to be say an M2 competitor who is trying to be the best against other 50 year olds, for example, knowing that they are actually now not as strong as they once were, or they're just struggling to maintain a peak in this very specific narrow definition of strength. Um, you know, for example, even myself, um, I'm pretty young, my mom only 41, but when I came back to weightlifting and competed as a master, cause it's 35 and over, cause it's so speed dominant. Um, I didn't get back to my total that I hit even just six years prior. My, my best Olympic lifting totals, 200 kilos and I hit like 196 in competition. I cleaned up my form, but I just wasn't quite as explosive. I did improve some things and I was very pleased with it, but I had to realize that with my mobility limitations and just my joint structure, like I am, there's nothing I can do to my knowledge, uh, to, I mean, that I'm willing to do that is going to make me a better Olympic weightlifter or a stronger Olympic weightlifter today than I have that bit. I'm still progressing in the power lifts though. And, and I know also that when I did my foray into, into strongman, like there was a ton of untapped ground there as I was learning to do these dumbbell lifts, lift stones, et cetera. So there's a lot of opportunities for someone who is really enjoys that ability to progress, um, that, that they want to explore these things when sometimes they think in their mind because of their limited exposure to what they're doing. Well, it's either that or retire, you know, and, and, and like, for example, in bodybuilding, you'll see people decide to go enhanced because they just still want to beat their old physique. If they can't quite reframe their mind and their perspective and their goal orientation towards, I need to be the best version of me that I can be today. That might not be good enough for them, or it's difficult for them to go, right. I want to win a master's pro title rather than a normal pro title, quote unquote, and not feel like that somehow less than. So I think coming to grips with your own progression as a lifter, there's a lot of ways to do that. And I think it only is beneficial to have more potential options for ways to navigate that because ultimately the last thing you want to do is when you get older to stop lifting the one, the time when it becomes the most important thing. And I think Connor, to your point, um, sure. Like the three of us have all competed in strength, sport, and bodybuilding disciplines, and we love it. And, you know, some of us are going to keep competing forever. Some not, we're going to look back on it, but we're all lifelong lifters. Most people are never going to compete in any of these disciplines, but the trainers, the people who introduce them to lifting, at least half of them do compete in something like a CrossFit or some type of fitness discipline. Most trainers are people who love lifting and half of the trainers at most gyms, like I said, are either bodybuilders or powerlifters or weightlifters or CrossFitters. And if their understanding of strength is too narrow, they're really, unfortunately, in many cases, giving too narrow of a prescription or at least options or even perspective when they're mentoring their clients into what is strength. And these are people who, you know, obviously if they're coming to get a trainer, they probably aren't just the natural physical enthusiast who loves lifting, but they might be able to become that with the right exposure to the right iteration of that activity. And I think we need to have more generalists for the general population, needing leaders to teach them how to do this stuff where we have an increasingly sedentary population and fitness, if it's expressed in too narrow of a band and in too narrow of a way, and then is commercialized, it can seem less accessible than it actually really is. So anyway, I just really appreciate both of you for sharing your both personal connection to as well as the history of lifting and helping us understand that actually, hey, it wasn't just weightlifting that then split off into powerlifting, then other things came out of that. But there was this thing that still exists called all-around lifting. Now, I know both of you are not necessarily social media moguls, and it may not even be an answer to this question. But if people do want to learn more about all-around lifting or they're interested by this podcast, either one of you have resources or suggestions that, of course, Kai can put in the show notes and we can definitely put people to click on. But if they want to learn more and maybe even participate in all-around, how would they do that? I think the USAWA website is just such a great repository. And, you know, this, again, USAWA, US All-Raded Weight Lifting Association, it has the history of all-around lifting in terms of its formalization, its sportification. First sort of odd lifting record books in the 60s, and then it gets formalized in federations in the 80s. So it has the history, it has the records for men and women that you can access for all of the different lifts, it has the rule book. So I think the first port of call for anyone, I would always say, would be the USAWA website. Now, there are obviously federations with their own websites in Australia and Britain in particular that are very good resources. But for me, the USAWA history section is just an absolute goldmine. And I think that's always the first port of call that I would recommend anyone who's interested in Otelis to go towards. Yeah, yeah, the the IAWA and the USAWA were set up at basically exactly the same time. So the USAWA is considered the the charter organization for all-around weightlifting, but the IAWA is the umbrella international body. So USAWA site has, like it kind of said, a lot of great resources, some really cool people behind that. I think Big Al, Al Myers is still running the USAWA. He's a really cool guy. Big Al's Dino Gym down in Kansas. I think it was in Kansas. I've got the t-shirt somewhere. But yeah, the IAWA website as well has links to all the world records. And you can see there a lot of the, you know, the names popping up of those great all-around weightlifters. That's a really good intro because the organization is such that there's not a lot of barriers to entry. You can basically just, you know, learn a bit about it, rock up, compete at some events, see if you dig it, and, you know, it can be a sport for someone. It can be a hobby, a pastime. It can be ancillary to other lifting, CrossFit, powerlifting, Olympic, whatever. And there's a lot of crossover between them. So yeah, it's just a matter of getting in, having a look. And if you dig it, give it a crack. Love it, team. On YouTube, again, Al Myers has a YouTube page where you can go and see what some of these lifts at the very least look like. If you're talking about odd lifts into YouTube, like it's kind of just a nice way to learn how to do different lifts or what it means when I say a piper squat or when Cliff talks about a reflex cleanature. Like if you just type in odd lifts or find Al Myers' website or some of the other people who are involved in odd lifts have YouTube channels in particular. Now, I'm not on Instagram because I understand what that would do to my mental health and psyche. I'm sure there are Instagram pages as well. I'm just not in that space. But on YouTube, that's what introduced me to odd lifting and that people were doing the thing, you know, doing the lifts that I was studying for my master's and PhD. There's a lot of them on YouTube showing, you know, like just fun, like two-man deadlifts and two-man bench presses and piper squats and fulpin bar lifts and, you know, all of these different things. So, like, it's quite easy actually, you know, to go on to IAWA or the USAWA and look at the rulebook or look at the records and just type in, oh, what's a Steinborn stroll? Or what does a bear hug mean in this context? Or, you know, what is this? It's not. I'll find it on YouTube. And then, if you're like me, an idiot, you'll try and emulate these lifts with far too heavy a wedge, having never done this movement pattern before. And then saying that clearly they use CGI to do it on YouTube. Hey, well, folks, this episode of Iron Culture has provided you new ways to hurt yourself, just like Dr. Connor Heffernan. So, you can have creative stories to tell about your various injuries and why you used to be able to do not even a 400-pound bench press in high school, but a 400-pound something that the people won't even know what you mean, which then gives you the opportunity to keep talking to them about things that they don't want to hear about and explaining the lift so that you can suck up all the air in the room. So, that's the opportunity that you've got from this fantastic podcast. I want to take a moment to thank world champion from the 2004 All-Around Weightlifting Championships, Dr. Cliff Harvick, as well as constantly injured, but truly amazing physical culture historian, Dr. Connor Heffernan, for coming on to talk to us about this. If you like Iron Culture, do us a favor. Click the Like button and also leave us a rating and review. If you aren't sure what type of rating and review to leave, well, folks, go with the crowd, just like all the crowd does, you know, all-around weightlifting. Just, you know, don't question, I just believe it. All the crowd is also leaving five-star reviews, and they're making sure that they are glowingly positive and could not be perceived as negative because my fragile ego simply can't take it. So, thank you again for watching another or listening to another episode of Iron Culture. We'll catch you, insert date here, in that next episode.