 narex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, AI culture. We are coming off the back of WMBF World, so this will be a series of episodes in the next few weeks where I touch base with some of the competitors who took it all the way to WMBF World at the pro level, competing at the highest levels, who have unique insights so you can get a behind the curtain look in elite level natural bodybuilding, the people, the events, the experience, the practice, and also the community, which I think is an amazing one. And this will be the first of those series of episodes. So if you appreciate, if you like this show, if you like this type of content, please do give us a thumbs up, a subscribe, five stars. I don't know how the internet works. Whatever things that send off bells and whistles that make iron culture do better, please, we need your help. And if you want to be one of our top tier supporters, please do check out Mass Research Review for all you nerds who want to know how to capitalize on nutrition, training, psychology, health, and fitness. This is Iron Culture supported by Mass, presented by the Mass Research Review. So definitely check that out. And then finally, we want to give a big shout out to Elite FTS, Dave Tate and co, our friends there. If you want any top quality lifting gear, definitely check out EliteFTS.com and you can use the Mass Research Review discount code for 10% off. That's MRR10. So anyway, without further ado, I want to welcome Haider Souza as well as Adal Martins to Iron Culture. These two guys had a fantastic season in 2025, culminating in both of them winning their height class in the men's physique pro division. And before that, I got to meet them both competing at the WNBF Taiwan, where I think that was probably almost just as competitive in your guys' division as Worlds itself. I won't spoil the plot as to who plays to where and what battles went down, but they both did very well. And then I also got to see Adal at the Muscle Mayhem. These guys, I joke with them, with the amount of competitions they do, especially Adal. I think we've settled on somewhere in the 60s or 70s, is our joking number of competitions he's done this year. But I will say, more mind-blowing than how often these guys competed this year, is the fact that they've been competing every year since 2022, turned pro in the same year together, and have been having epic battles in their division. They're setting the current standard in drug-free men's physique, and they've been doing it while improving. So I think that's something that is quite rare in natural bodybuilding generally, that people compete annually and don't just look the same or burn out. So I think we're going to have a really cool conversation about who can do that, how to do it, which categories maybe it's better suited to, and the methods they use. So first off, Haider Souza, Champ, welcome to the podcast. Hey guys, thank you so much, Eric, for the invitation to be in your podcast. It's really, really a big honor to be here talking a bit about all these competitions that I've been sharing with Adão in the last couple of years. And 2025, as you just told us, we met in Taiwan. You competed in your category, I competed in my category. It was a great experience, probably one of the best experiences that I had in terms of level of quality of an event. And you also were there to testify that and yeah, we met again in the world and just a week or two ago. And here we are to talk a bit about like no more relaxed, not in diet as we always have been every year with Adão. So yeah, thank you so much for the invitation. And here we are to talk openly about everything, about our diets, our competitions, our time, really good time on the backstage together and everything. Yeah. And I, it's, it's a true privileged pleasure. Thank you guys for giving up your time. And, uh, and I love that you highlighted how you approach, uh, your, your experience and time backstage. You guys are beaming, you're always smiling. And Adão, probably the man with the best smile, um, in, in the WNBF. I think that's a title you can take, even if you don't necessarily have the overall title. Adão Martins, welcome to Iron Culture. Okay. Thank you very much. It's a great pleasure to be here with you. It's an honor. And sharing this moment with Aether makes it more, even more special because, uh, we've been battling each other since 2022, but the most important thing that we developed through all these years is our friendship. So many people believe that we are like great rivals. We say yes, when we are on stage, we are, but we are really good friends. And the way we met in Portugal, it was really fun because we met during the athletes meeting and we were like, oh, how tall are you? Aether told me, and I was like, oh, probably you're going to go short. I'm going to go medium. So let's win. Let's go to the overalls and then let's go to the world. And we just made it in the first year. So since then, everything was like this. So, uh, being together again in LA three years later was really good because our first experience in LA wasn't, uh, as good as we expected to be. But after three years, we kind of, uh, or is it too? Yeah. Four years now. Yeah. We kind of understood why it all, all went through this and instead of giving up, we just made the turnaround. Um, so it's a great pleasure to be here to share all these histories and experience with everyone and learn more and more with you. How would the rule? Oh, please. Yeah, no, no, it is truly my, my pleasure. Um, I think, um, people underestimate just how much of a fan of the sport I am. Um, and I'm always shocked when people are like, oh, Eric, it's great to meet you. And I'm like, what are you talking about? You're the champ. It's great to meet you. Um, and just, uh, seeing how much respect, time, energy, and positivity you guys give out to your fellow competitors, uh, and one another. It is just so obvious, uh, that you guys have a bond and an appreciation for the community. And I think you're both great ambassadors, uh, for the sport. And I'd love to hear more about this. So, you know, feel free. You guys could tell the story together and whoever and however you want to. But so you guys, your first competitive season, at least together was in 2022. And like you said, it ended up going really well. But did either of you compete before 2022? Yeah, I, I, I, I competed in 2019 for the first time in my life. Uh, I've been, and I was 30 years old when I competed for the first time, but I've been working out for years. Because just, I just enjoyed, uh, every single year to build muscle and to look at myself and to be into, and to be, uh, skeptical about what should I develop more to be, to be looking better, to have a good, nice beach body. And that is always my goal, you know? Uh, and then, and then it just like ended up working out in a gym here in Oslo where I live that he was like a old school gym where the owner of the gym is the biggest bodybuilder of all times here in Ori with 70 years old or more. And he just said like, why you don't, why you don't go compete one day in men's physique and you, you try. And then because of being surrounded by that environment, I just, okay, let's, let's give it a try. And then 19, I competed for the first time. That was my first ever. And then second time was when I met Adam in 2022, but I actually, I don't know if Adam has competed before. Have you, Adam? No, no, actually 2022 was the first year. Uh, I started, I started competing. Um, the thing is that I've started gym in 2027 when I came to Brazil to study. But by that time, my goal was more into functional trading, uh, because I was more into football, uh, basketball and things like this. So I wanted to look good, but not looking at the bodybuilding side. And bodybuilding would be something that I would, uh, watch or see randomly. I like, I like to see the guys and things like that, but I was, I was never into it. So I, I told myself one day I want to do this. I want to live this experience. So I don't know when, so let's, let's do it one day. Okay. So I decided to, to compete or to start competing, uh, after COVID because I was basically almost two years. We, without being able to travel, uh, as you guys know, I worked, uh, offshore in oil and gas platform. So I stayed offshore for almost six months. So then I came off and I had another one and a half year without traveling. So it was not being good for myself or my mental health. So I said, okay, I need to do something where I can focus 100% on my, in myself, where I can challenge myself. So I, I just decided to, to do it. Then the first thing I decided to do was like, okay, um, as I want to do it natural, let me, let me go through all the natural federations. So I've seen many, I've spoken to many presidents and affiliates. I was studying the pros and cons. The thing is that, uh, by that time and still now there were no federation in my country, uh, the country where I work or where I spend more time, which is Angola. Uh, basically there were no shows in Africa. So I had to travel to do any other show. This was when I found the WNBF Portugal, because it was easier because I have family in Portugal. My dad lives in Portugal. My mom now is going to live in Portugal, have siblings in Portugal and like Angolans and Portuguese people. They have like this bond that will never be like killed or things like this. So I spoke to the president, Ilda. And by that moment, I was like, okay, this is what I want from me. Then I spoke to Bob. Uh, he gave me like everything I wanted and more, even more. And I was like, oh, the president of the federation is talking to me and is like answering all the questions. I'm all, all, all, all the questions, all the doubts. And I was like, okay, this is what I want from me. Uh, other federations still kept talking to me, but I was like, okay, this is the one I want. So 2022, the first competition I did was in Dubai. Uh, I didn't know nothing about posing. Uh, by then I had, uh, coach, a Portuguese one, Mario. Uh, but we didn't have the opportunity to be together. So I had to find a personal life, a trainer. So I went with my trainer by that time. My trainer, uh, he's called Perola. He, he was already, uh, he's a bodybuilder. He was African champion. He was already also European champion in other federation. He didn't have much experience with, uh, natural athletes, but we did pretty good because I don't believe I reached to, uh, conditioning as we did on the first show. I was really lean, really conditioning at the backstage. People were asking me if I was about to do like bodybuilding or things like this. And I was like, no, I'm going to do a bench. So I did the show in Dubai. Uh, the placing wasn't what we were expecting. And we were like, oh yeah. So in the end of the show, I went to the feedback. Uh, I got, you know, sometimes you got feedbacks that you don't agree, but this is what you have. So I was like, okay. And by then, uh, the next show was supposed to be in France. So my plan was to go from Dubai to France, but I was called back to my company. So I had to fly back to Angola for a meeting. Then I had to go offshore and then I had to fly back to the capital to fly back to France. So I did my second show in France and I placed second. So I was like, okay, from not placing to placing second. I was already qualified for the world, but amateur. One week later, I think we had the show in Portugal. So, uh, by the WNBF page on Instagram, people were like talking even more. So I was looking to the guys from my division or for my category men's physique. So I found Aitor and other guys. So we keep talking. And on the day of the meeting, we met each other. So we realized that we wouldn't be at the same, at the same division because he's shorter than me. And I was like, okay, so why don't we just go there? We play, we win, and then we book our tickets to LA. And I was like, okay, let's do it. Then we found João, which is another guy. He was like a bodybuilder. And he was like, okay, I'm going with you guys. And we say, okay, let's create a group. We call this group, uh, Tuga. Is it? Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I think it is. Tuga is like a slang for Portuguese. Yeah. What is it? So we create this group. Tuga is like a short name for Portuguese. Gotcha. Like, okay, like Portuguese. Yeah. Like, okay, we're, we're from Portugal. Cool. Yeah. So we create this group. Uh, we played that day. Uh, I won, not Aether won his division. I won my division and then Aether won the overalls. And after that show, I already, I, as I, as we got pro card, the pro card, I did my debut in Germany. I placed third. Uh, by that time, the top one was the world champion and the top two was the vice champion. So I was really cool. I was like, okay, I placed behind the world champion and the vice champion. So we were like excited. Uh, so then we went to LA. We had a lot of fun, but on the day of the show, things were, were not the way we expected to be because there was supposed to be a two day show. Uh, there were some problem with the venue. So they had to change the venue and they had to do like two days in one. Yep. Yeah. And I think Aether can explain it. Yeah. No, in 2022, we, we were supposed to be exactly in the same venue as we were this year, but for some reason, like one and a half week before the, the, the, the, the show, the weekend, they, they have emailed everyone and they said that we need to change the venue and that they couldn't have like two days show. They had only Sunday. And, uh, and we, I mean, it was our first world ever. And we were like, like nobody in double NBF, nobody knew about us. You know, we were like just the guys that won our pro card two weeks before that. And we traveled to LA, uh, and then we competed there. And, and that year, Chris Elkins won, um, the, the, the, the world title, the overall, I was with Chris Elkins that year. We actually shared the same height class in the world. So it was, I don't know, maybe 15 people. It was Chris Elkins, um, Pedro from Spain, the previous world champion. Also, uh, it was Isra, another Spanish that, that was competing this year as well. And he placed fifth. Uh, it was the amazing class. And yeah, we were, we, we were just like, nobody knew about us. We just gonna go on stage, do our, our best. And we're gonna pray for the better, for the rest. And, and then we was like, yeah, it was funny. It was funny. Like I don't, I was a bit more luckier than I don't that day because I, I got to be kind of like called to the first call out in like, you know, some way. Yeah. I remember very, very clearly. Like there was like, everyone went to the front. They, I think they switched one or two and then everyone went to the back. And then, uh, I think Bob was the head judge that show, if I'm not mistaken. And then Bob called like five people. And I remember very well, like a judge, like close to Bob, like touch him, touched him on the, on the arm. And then, um, he like pointed at me. He pointed, yeah. I mean, he's like, yeah, you should call that, that guy. And then Bob called me to the, to, to the call out. And then we were six and then we were like switching around and Adão was on the back. And, uh, and then Adão went to the front and yeah, we were, we were like, yeah, it's our first experience. I didn't place even fifth. I placed sixth out of those six guys. And Adão also plays good. Yeah. Well, it wasn't my worst placing ever. It's my best placing. Yeah. Yeah. Everyone that here, Aether plays sixth. I played eighth. And because of the thing that they have to do two days in one, I think they only had two divisions, right? They had, they only had the short and tall. And as Aether said, like the first call out, they spend like quite a while. Quite a long hour. And then like, we were at the, we were at the back. Uh, I'm going to talk about me. And I was like, okay, five minutes. They're not gonna, they're not calling us. Seven minutes, eight minutes. And I believe, uh, they didn't do it for, it wasn't on purpose. I believe it wasn't on purpose because there were like many athletes. Just a few time. Um, they were just trying to do the best. And basically they focus on the top athletes by the moment, because we had the world champion, the vice, the vice champion. And we had the, the champion for the main, uh, championships, uh, during the season. So those guys, they were called into the, the first call out. And when they had the chance to look at us, mainly they had it done already. So, okay. They looked at us, but Hey, we were there. So we had like one and a half minutes or something, but, but even less than this. And then it was like this. So by the end of the show, uh, we have to confess, we were not happy because even though there's the, that was our first year, we believe that, uh, we took a great physique, maybe not enough to win because we needed to, to, to improve. Actually, there is always space to improve, but we like, I believe that if we had the opportunity to be seen a little bit more, we could have found a better place. By the end of the day, we were just glad to be there. Yeah. Because it was our first year in WNBF. We managed to get our pro cars. We managed to travel to us. We managed to be on stage. So in the end of the day, you just need to be grateful for all of this. You know, even though we didn't have the placing we were expecting, but we were in the top 10 of the world, which means a lot. It does. So I think, yeah, this, I think we, we, we, we, we, we learn a lot for, from our wins, but I think we believe, uh, I believe we learn more when we don't win or we don't have the results we expect to. And because of this, uh, I believe our friendship even got stronger and our goals or the way we, we fight for our goals just improved. Mm-hmm . And by the, even though by the end of the show, we went to get the feedback, most of the judges didn't have feedbacks to give to us. Uh, we have to confess that right now they improved so much. Like right now, when you go for the feedbacks, you just need, you just give your number. Every single judge will have, uh, the appointments. Like they will tell you what they think you should improve, what, what you, what they think you did. You did great right now is way better back in the days. There was like papers and writing and things like this. And this is one, one thing that you, we can see that, okay, we are going, we are growing, we are growing, fears are getting better. So, yeah. So one of, yeah, definitely. Like, yeah, things are, things are, things are improving a lot. And we, we actually, we leave what we lived four years ago. We were exactly in the same spaces, rooms, like the feedback is, was exactly in the same room as four years ago, but it was a completely different feeling just because they like, you know, the NBF is better organized and that's a good thing. Uh, I think. It's like a deja vu. Yeah. Completely. So much deja vu. Like even the polygraph, it was like almost a gassin. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And the thing is that on the, on the first year, I helped one of the polygraphers, uh, doing the translation and this year I helped the same guy doing the translation and the name of the athlete is just the same. It was João in 2021 and it was João again. So it was really, really fun. And, uh, another thing is that, yeah, I can, I have to confess, I was really disappointed because I was like, oh, I work out so much. I did everything I could and yeah, we just came all this far, let's be like this. And like, I was talking to every single judge and Katie, she, she came, she came to me and she was like, I know how disappointed you are. I know how sad you are, but this is the sport you choose. And this is, this is the first, but it will not be the last time things like this are going to happen. And like bodybuilding is just like this. And I just have to, one thing to tell you, don't give up and work out until your results become undeniable. Mm-hmm . That's a great message. So this was, yeah, this was the first message I had. The second message I have was like one year later in the world, they were doing kind of, uh, a quiz where you just go there, you put your name and then they would like, okay, number X, you have this gift. And I received a strap saying, never give up, but I didn't know I wouldn't. And they went to Katie and they said, okay, this athlete has won this. And then it was like, Katie found me and she got, okay, you want this? And I took it. It was like, never give up. So I say, yo, another sign. So let's keep doing it. Yeah. But 2022 was like a good year because, uh, all the experience, uh, all the people we met, uh, the family, the WNBF family, it was really cool because like, we have many friends that we met in 2022. Even though sometimes we just met in the end of the year at the world, it looks like we've been talking through all year long. Mm. Uh, it, it looks like we may, we know each other for ages and it is so grateful to, to feel this, to have this energy, to share the stage, the backstage, to share the experience with all these people. Even like newcomers, when they come to the world, to the world for the first time, like I remember in 2022, me and Aether, like, because of all those things, people were like, okay, you guys need to start warm up, uh, in 10 minutes. And then Chris Elkins came to us and was like, why are you guys working, warming up now? I said, no, they told us 10 minutes. He said, no, it's going to take at least three hours. And we were like, Yeah. And like, uh, for me, it was really good because when I found out, uh, WNBF, I start looking for the references and Chris Elkins was, and is still my reference, one of my biggest reference in the men's physique division and as an athlete. And when I went for the check-in, I had the opportunity to meet him in person. And he was like, he was so kind since the first day until now, he's a really good friend of mine. And I was like, wow, he's the, he's a champ and he's so humble. He's such a nice person. And I, till now, uh, 2023, when I placed, uh, third, he was so happy for me because I was like, wow, he, I think he was a fourth or something like this, but it was sharing so much for me. And I was like looking that and it was like, wow, Adele, let's go, let's go. It was like, wow. 2024, he didn't compete. And then we had the opportunity to compete again this year. That's an awesome, he's a really champ. Yeah. He's a great history. And, and I, I was at 2022 worlds. I was, uh, I was there just coaching. Um, and I remember talking to the WF folks about how they intended to have the same venue that we had. And last minute, the venue pulled out and they had to scramble to find a place and they only were able to book it for the one day, um, and how stressed they were. And a really interesting thing happened was that, uh, for those who don't know Terrence Howard, who's a relatively famous American actor, it was his little theater and he actually handed out, he came in last minute and handed out some of the awards. I remember. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember. Yeah. And it was, it's a good theater to good venue. The lighting was good for like a small production, but certainly it was, uh, it barely was, was sufficient to actually run a world championships there. So I remember that and there was a lot of frustration and I remember the stress that all the, the people had and another, you know, interesting piece of history that you may not know, um, about Katie. Um, she actually was winning world titles in her forties, 15, almost two decades ago. And so the, the mentality of never give up, I think she is an amazing athlete. And if you look back to the history of natural bodybuilding, she really didn't start to become a pro champion until she was in her forties and then had a run where she was the dominant, uh, you know, female bodybuilder and natural bodybuilding. It was incredible. And now she gives back so much to the sport, her judging, promoting, uh, being involved in different committees, um, which I've had the privilege of, of interacting with her a bit in that regard. And she's just so warm. So some of the, um, the leaders in the WNBF space who have been athletes for years, that kind of wisdom that they can pass on, even those simple words, and also the current champion, Chris Elkins being so kind. That's the type of thing that I love to see. And then I think is a little more common in natural bodybuilding. That is unfortunately a little rarer, um, outside of natural bodybuilding. And I think you guys are doing a great job, even though your baby's in the sport, you know, um, you know, having done my first show in, in 2007 and to see you guys, even though you're, you know, you're, you're, you've been training a long time, you're older, you know, uh, you're both in your thirties, a Dow, not for much longer, but, um, you know, a lot of the, uh, a lot of the best athletes in natural bodybuilding are in their thirties, forties, and even fifties. And I think that's something that is really cool to see because it takes time to build muscle. Um, a Dow, you mentioned you started training. Did you say 2017 where you're doing like functional training for sport? 20, 2007. 2007. Okay. Yeah. 2007. So yeah, you had some training under your belt, but training specifically for bodybuilding was a bit later. Yeah. So that's, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Got it. Yeah. You guys have done a tremendous job improving year to year to year. And I just want to emphasize to everyone, you guys went from placing, you know, six and eighth to then a Dow, you moved up to third in 2023, right? So, you know, 2023 was the first year I did worlds. I placed the seventh out of ninth, um, in my, in my pro debut, just seven weeks after turning pro. So I'll switch over. Haider, why don't you continue the tale? Tell us about your experience after the, uh, the 2022 worlds. Um, obviously you stuck with it. You didn't give up either. What was the next couple of years like? Yeah, no, just continue in that matter, like about giving up. I think one very special thing about me and the Dow is that although we, we had this very kind of like bad experience in the world's 2022, 2022, we, we really left that place unhappy with, with the result and with like, you know, like not giving, not receiving the best feedback or an organized feedback that we were actually expecting to. Like we, we left LA with like a bit of bittersweet feeling about coming back, honestly, but, uh, but we, we didn't give up and we just kept going. And, and just like now, four years later, we have a bunch of titles to only in four years that we have achieved, uh, a down itself. And then also me, uh, like, like, so 2023, I, I decided to compete again because you know, like what I, I've been telling this as if two times, like I come from a very warm place in Portugal, like sort of Portugal, Aldar, and I liked always to have a good beach body, uh, like always for summer. So like my goals was like to work out in the winter where I have more clothes on, get a bit more fat and like build up like the, the summer shape. And then from April, every, every year, since I was like 16 years old, I was like, okay, let's do it now for this summer. And every single summer I was getting my body into a good body, a beach body. So like, of course I don't feel good now after competing to have like too much fat in summer. So 2023, I decided to compete again. And when, when a down was, a down was an, in Germany, 2022, I didn't go there as a pro. So he was the pro debut for a down, but it's my pro debut was in LA. So 2023, I went to Germany because at that time we didn't have that many pro shows in Europe. I think he was actually only Germany doing it. So I went there and that's, at that, those years, it was called like a European champion because it was only the pro championship in, in Europe. So I went there and surprise, surprise, I won the overall, I won the, the hammer in, in Germany in 2023. Adam was there cheering for me a lot. We were in the same class or, yeah, we were in the same class. Same class. Yeah. 20, 20, 20, what's 2023, right? Three, we were in the same class. There was two classes in Germany. No, 20, 20, 24. No, three. I won, I won the hammer in 23, 24. I didn't. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I won the hammer. Yeah. In men's physique. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So like 20, 23, we were there again in the pro Germany and then I won my class. I don't, I don't remember your place, but you, you got a small match. Yeah. I played fourth. I played fourth. I wasn't there at all, but yeah. I mean, having a tour with the hammer was like a relief from the world. So yeah, it was, we, we had, we had that feeling like of eight, we deserve better. So yeah. Like eight or one the show, but I was so happy. We were so happy. Like, oh, it was like, okay, we did it. We did it because we both from WNBF Portugal and every win we celebrate like it's our win. Yeah. So it would, yeah. Yeah. So it was really cool to have in winning. I don't know if you've seen the, the small Instagram story that the Dom published like two, three days ago in Taiwan, when I, I came with the trophy and the Dom was like jumping and me jumping. And that has been happening every, every single time that one another is like winning. So that year, 2023, we, yeah, I, I won my class and then overall, I also won against, against, I don't remember his name, but then I won the hammer and then we, I didn't, I didn't compete more in the WNBF that year, but I don't, I think you went to Seattle. Yeah. I went to Seattle. Yeah. And you went three. Yeah. I placed top three. Yeah. It was good. I only did a good job. Yeah. And then Seattle has a great venue. Yeah. Two days. Excellent lighting. Great venue. Affluent lighting. The timing was perfect. So I, I saw people missing their category because they were like, okay, normally it takes too long. And it was like athlete died. They would call the athlete like three times and then the athlete were not there. Some athletes, they would just show up and that's like, oh, it's done. Really? Oh yeah. But it was, yeah, it was a great venue. It wasn't as cold as we expected to be. Yeah. So it was really cool. Uh, unfortunately, 2022, 23 and 24, I didn't have much time to enjoy the city. So I would do the show and I would just leave the day after one or two days after the show. Yeah. I didn't have much time to enjoy the city, but the show was pretty good. Seattle was cool. Boston was cool also. Yeah. It was also cool. So, yeah. 8% will always be in my heart. Yeah. Yeah. No way. Yeah. Dr. Burti Pater cried a lot. He likes to cry. Yeah. It was for a special reason. You know, it's not every day that you win overall in, in, uh, natural bodybuilding. Yeah. In, in, in the world, in, in the worlds, but you know, um, yeah, 2024, it was so far my best year and the year that I competed also several times. So, cause I, yeah, and you know, like, I, I decided like 2024 is going to be the year that I'm going to compete more in the Blend BF. So I competed in, and, or, or yeah, beginning of September in, um, Dubai. So I went to Dubai. It was good that I went actually one week before and Kyle from Dubai, he always says to me like, you know, Dubai show, you probably had your best condition ever. And, uh, I always tell him like the same, he was probably, or very likely because of the, the, uh, the weather, the heat of Dubai one week there sweating every single day outside when I needed to walk somewhere, you know? And, um, so it was good. It was good. I won the overall also in Dubai. So coming from a overall in Germany from the year before, won the overall, the Bush Khalifa trophy. It was, it was another, like, you know, for me, it's been, this has been a dream, like winning so many times that I never expected. I just worked, I just worked out for so many years, just for the passion of like working out and building and, and looking at the mirror and looking better and trying to look better every time and, and trying to adjust exercises to build a little bit more muscle here and there to be more rounded, to be more avid, like a bear, better upper chest or rear, rear delts. That makes me better 3d looking. And then suddenly I just get on a stage. I, every single, um, competition, I learn better posing because you get more confident. You, you look at the photos, you look at the videos and you, you see, even now from the world this year, I already know what I have done that I don't like and what I have to improve for the next one. And like it, this is like a continued progress and continue learning that we, we, we, we do. And that's, that's exactly from the conversation that we started. Never give up. Like if you don't, if you don't do well in the first one, you don't give up. You have so much to learn. Like, and I've been telling this. So now we are like kind of older, like we are in our thirties, but the, the youngest guys that are 20 something that comes to the world stage for the first time, and they don't place that well, they just have to keep working. And they have like, at least now they have like us, well, I consider myself, Adam and so many others that have a bit more years in in the world and Dublin BF. We are so happy to help like the younger athletes to receive them well in the backstage, to be laughing, to be talking to everyone, to be like sharing this passion for natural bodybuilding. And this is, this is so good. And I, just like you, Eric, like you, you, you, you love this. Like we, we, when we start talking about natural bodybuilding and the people surrounding, surrounding us on a natural bodybuilding, like the presidents of each federation, the judges, the, the athletes, everyone, it's amazing. It's like, you know, and so we, we have to improve every single time. Like Dubai was amazing. I managed to win the overall, the first biggest prize money that I've earned. And so of course that also feels good. And then I went to France the week after, just like one week after that show, I also won the overall there. Um, it was also amazing. It was kind of also for me, a personal experience to compete back to back, like one weekend traveled to Norway, actually. Yeah. Traveled to Norway on Monday. I left the show at 11 o'clock on Sunday. I had my flight at 2am that same night. So I had to bring the trophy with me to the airport directly. Then I arrived, arrived to Norway on Monday. And then I traveled to France on Thursday to, to be on stage on Saturday. So it was, it was an amazing experience for me also to understand how to manage my body in terms of food, because I did this car book the week before in terms of water, because I have like, I cut the water the day before the shows. Uh, so it was, it was a good experience to me. I didn't get so much lean as Dubai, uh, as I was, when I was stepping on stage in France, but it was enough to win the overall in France. So I was super, super happy. Then after that, yeah, in 2024, three weeks later, I think I went to Germany. I didn't manage doing the, the hammer in Germany again. Uh, I'm not going to talk too much about that, but, uh, but yeah, Max won the, the dammer Max that you know, Max, Max, maybe he's going to be on the show. You mentioned Max. So it's an amazing guy. I'm super, super, really good friend with him. And Max is an amazing guy, but he, he won, uh, the, the, the hammer in men's physique in Germany that year. And so he has two hammers. He has the hammer for men's physique 2024, and he has the hammer from this year in bodybuilding. So he has two hammers at this home. Um, is he, so is he going to get, is he going to get the hammer in classic physique? Yeah, maybe, maybe he's in next year. Yeah. He's a great athlete, such a great guy. He's very number all very nice guy. Yeah. Super, super cool guy. Um, no, but the, but he was good. Like the, the, the show in Germany, the, the, the, the good thing that I have to say about the show in Germany that year, it was that if he wasn't for that show and for that result, I wouldn't have brought the same package to the world in 2024. And I very, very likely I wouldn't have won the overall title in the world in 24 because I was not in my best condition. You know, Max puts it insane condition and he was super, super shredded because he did bodybuilding at that, at that day also in Germany. So he competed, he competed in, in men's physique. And of course he was super shredded on his back. My, my biggest problem or the last place in my body where I lose my fat, my, my water retention, it's on my lower back. And so I have to work so hard to get that lean. And Max was like peeled completely. And, and of course the, it calls the, all the attention. Um, so, but that pushed me so hard to, to brought, to bring my best package to the world's last year in 2024, those three weeks. I, I, I, you know, like as when I sat in the airplane from Germany to, to Norway, I wrote a note on my iPhone to, with all the times of each day that I had to follow my schedule. So it was like 6 AM, wake up, go to the, walk to the gym, do one hour cardio, walk to work, work, come back to the gym, walking, do my workout and go home. I had three weeks to do my best ever to try to bring the best package to the world's because honestly, I knew that I would have a big rival in the world's last year, which was and under from Spain. I knew he was going to be there. I knew that he's, he's very good athlete of course, and he's very shredded and very conditioned. So I knew like, it's going to be, it's going to be now that I have to do all the effort in these three weeks. So I did all my best. I don't know how, I don't know, actually, how did I, I survive and I didn't lose that much muscle, but I managed to have a very good pump and a good carb up on that those days and everything went well and probably was my best condition ever last year on the world's. So yeah, I managed to, to win like the, the title of my life probably. Uh, and it was amazing. And here I am again, this year was Taiwan. As you know, I won the overall in Taiwan. Amazing. And then I, I, two weeks ago, one week, one, one and a half week ago, I won my class. Adam won his class finally. And we got like exactly the same feeling as we got in Portugal. I, I, I go first because it's my short division. I come backstage, Adam is like waiting for me. We like make a big, big party because I won my class and I, I tell Adam now it's you. It's your turn. Now it's your turn. We did exactly the same in Portugal. Like in Portugal was like, I won my class. Now you have to win. And then we're going to book the, the trip to LA. I love it. And Adele, you had a really good 2024 as well. Didn't you? Yeah. Yeah. 2024. Uh, it was good. Like 2022, I had a couple of competitions. 2023, uh, less than 2022 because of my job. 2024, even though I placed second in the world, but I only had the, the, the, the chance to compete twice in that for WNBF because my, my goal was like to do six or eight competitions. But in the end of the day, uh, I couldn't because like, I had to choose my priorities and I just, I, I'm just able to compete because of my work. So I was only able to do two shows for, no, I think I, I, I, I, I was supposed to do Taiwan, France, Germany. Yeah. I think you only made one. Yeah. Yeah. I only did one, but I had the chance to do random competitions here in Brazil because here in Brazil, you have many federations like every weekend there, this competition every weekend, like it's crazy. It's crazy. Um, so I did some just to see how my body would respond. And I left, I had less than five days from the day I left the, the, the platform to the day, uh, I arrived in LA. So I, uh, and including the trip. So it wasn't as I was expecting, but yeah, the result was, was the, by the, by that time was the best placing, uh, I've had. And I was like, okay, we move forward. Like last year, we placed third, this year we placed second. So let's work for the first place in 2025. And yeah, luckily, we, and according to the, to the, to the, to all the, the work we put in, it, it just happened. So yeah, I was really, really happy. Uh, eight or eight or eight. Yeah. Eight or one is, is, is, is, is division and then he won the overall. So yeah, we, we made that party again. We were like really, really happy. Juan wasn't there, but he managed to call us. We spoke to him and it was really cool. It was really cool. Yeah. I, I had to, to help me to clean his tears because he likes to cry. Yeah. So you had a, it was, yeah, you had, you had an amazing season moving from, or amazing string of seasons moving from eighth to third to second at world. And then in 2025, you got the opportunity to compete as many times as you wanted. It seems like, um, and you had a fantastic string of, of shows. I think as much as 2024 was haters breakout year winning, you know, culminating in the, the overall world title, you've had a fantastic 2025. How many total shows have you done this year? Uh, this year, I believe I did nine, I believe I did nine shows. I, I did nine shows without, without counting. Uh, because in some shows I would do like two classes, like masters and, and senior, senior, senior, senior, because in, in some federations or organizations, they start the master from 35. So yeah. Uh, it was cool. Yeah. This, this season was cool. And the thing is that every time I compete, people ask, Oh, I, aren't you tired of competing? Don't you feel like your body's stressed and things like this? And I'll be like, no, I don't. And actually I feel like my body responds better competition after competition. Hmm. And I was really concerned to have the 2024 world as my only competition, because I was like, I don't know how am I going to look because this was going to be my first and only competition. So I don't know how is it going to be. And the thing I was, when I was off four, like it was like on the days that I have to have more rest, we were having a lot of issues regarding the maintenance side. And as I'm responsible for the maintenance department, we were like, okay, whenever we had the maintenance issue, we have to fix it. And then we rest. And so things were, we're not playing against, uh, uh, against life. Things were playing against me. So I was like, okay. So when I stepped off the platform, I said, okay, the only time I have now to rest a little bit, to pull down is the time I'll be traveling. So I had to fly from, I think I had to fly from Angola to Dubai, from Dubai to US or things like this. So it was long flights. I think I arrived in US by Friday or Thursday morning, something like this. Yeah. So it is what it is. In the end of the day, you just do what you have to do. But it's, it's like a constant learning. So, and yeah, we just do what we do. And as long as you love it, it's not painful. Oh, man, I'm dude, nine shows. Yeah. So, I mean, so I'm not even aware of all the nine shows you did. I know you did Taiwan. I know you did Germany. I know you did the Mayhem. I know you did Worlds. I think you did France. I did France. Yeah. France, Germany, Taiwan, Dubai, Sacramento, Worlds. And I also did another two shows in Dubai and one in Brazil. Wow. That's incredible, man. And, and if I recall correctly, you were, you were bringing home medals in almost all of those shows, weren't you not? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I did. I did. I did. Thank God. Yeah, I did. I left there all of them with my dad. He's like my garden. He takes care and everything. Yeah. Yeah. So it was cool. I can't complain. 2025 was like a very, very good year. I was, I was like feeling confident competition after competition. And just like Eitos said, whenever I finish a competition, I just bow, I watch the videos, I see the photos and I be like, okay, I should have done better here. I should have done, I should have posed better here. And I was talking to some guys and I was like, yeah, when I look at the photos and videos from the Worlds, I said, I was like, oh, this wasn't the best posing I did through this year. So I was like, okay, for, I could have done better. But you know, we are like this, we are always gonna expect more from us. But it is what it is. And this is what we have to do if we really want to move on to the next step. Yeah. I love it. Now you guys are true craftsmen. You, I think you treat your bodies like, um, like, like, like sculptures that you're trying to constantly refine and you have an idea in your mind and it's, it's awesome to see. I think there's a beautiful art, uh, that, that kind of sits with the sport of bodybuilding. And, you know, we, we hone it through the criteria and the judges feedback and our own eye. And then we, where we can't actually change our bodies, we change our posing, you know? So I can't make my, my shoulders any wider, or at least in the bones, any wider than I can. I can't make my waist, at least the bones, any smaller, but I can kick my elbows out a little bit on the ab and thigh and I can twist. And now I look a little more symmetrical. And there's a version of that in almost every single pose that you tweak every year. Uh, and that's on top of trying to get tighter, trying to perfect your peak, trying to figure out how do I do this while traveling? How do I do multiple competitions and peak? It doesn't make me better or worse. And you guys are both very aware of that and take a lot of meticulous notes. So it's, I think at the highest level, and I don't mean this to take away from any athlete, um, there are certain talents that people have that they are, uh, that, that they have inherently that enables them to be at the highest level. But natural bodybuilding is getting so competitive that if someone doesn't capitalize on the opportunity that their talent gives them, they won't be a world champion. And what I've seen from you both is that you are absolutely the type of people who capitalize and you're meticulous and you think about it. Um, and you're doing things that a lot of other athletes would scratch their head to be like, how do they do that? How do they compete four seasons back to back to back? Uh, and Heider, you're, you're talking about, Hey, this isn't anything new for me. I've been doing this since I was 12, since I was 16 years old. Um, and so I, I think I would love to hear from you guys. Um, what is it that enables you to successfully compete and improve on an annual basis? Do you think it's that you don't have to be quite as lean for the men's physique division? Are you guys more naturally lean? You walk around and you don't necessarily get too heavy in the offseason? Is it something about your approach? Uh, Heider, one thing that we talked about in Taiwan is that you take a really similar approach that, that I do, uh, with your long dieting history of auto-regulating your energy intake. You're, you're comfortable eating out. Uh, you know, roughly when you're in a deficit, how fatigued you should feel and you change your intake based upon what's going on. And I think that is something I've seen a lot in more seasoned competitors at a higher level is they don't lock themselves into a really rigid plan that doesn't have that flexibility and the ability for them to adjust, uh, especially those who stick with the sport for a long time or who can do it on back to back years because they can, they don't burn themselves out mentally. So I don't want to spoil the plot, but I'd love to hear more about how you see your capability of competing annually, successfully and improving. What do you think enables you to do that Heider? Yeah. Um, so like I am not a big fan of bulking too much, uh, honestly. So just to give you a very clear example of that. So my stage weight last year was around 72 and my heaviest weight in my life was this season, uh, like his offseason was 79. I never been 80 in, in a scale. And probably last year or two years ago, my, my heaviest weight was 78. I hopefully can go this year to 80, but I don't want to go above that because having eight or 10 kilos, some people go straight to kilos above stage weight. For me, that's insane. And for me personally, as I know my body that well, going eight kilos, 10 kilos above stage weight is already like reaching that limits that I'm, I know that is not going to benefit me in terms of muscle growth and in terms of like the control of the food that I have and how good I feel about eating the food that I eat in offseason. Because for, from experience, you have like Eric, you, you have all the studies and, and all the reading and also your personal experience in your body and in so many bodies that you, you coach. But my, in my own, in my experience, in my body and the people that I coach also said, we don't need to be, to be bulking so much to build muscle. We need honestly to have the correct amount of food to give us energy, sufficient energy to have really good workouts. Because if we really have that energy to every single day, force in seven days in a week, we go to the gym five or six days and we pull out very good workouts from the food that we eat because we have that energy from the pro from the carbs. And then we have also the protein to build all that muscle that have been like, uh, hammered in the workouts we do in a very good workouts. That's the key to keep building muscle every single year. Uh, because if, if we are too, too heavy, we will probably be going to be tired and we're going to have too much food to process and our body will not be optimal in the workouts we do every single day. Uh, so all that food, if it's in bigger amount, in bigger portions, we'll also like, uh, decline the performance we have in the workouts we do every single day. And I'm, I'm talking about like that because I am that type of a guy that I work out like six times or seven times. Well, I work out properly six times a week. I go to the gym seven times a week. The, the, the seventh day that I go to the gym is just like to, to be good in my mental health that I go, I do my abs, I do my lower back just to improve that lack of muscles that I know that I need to improve more than others. And I feel better with myself doing that. And because I, you know, like I, I, I'm okay to put that time to do it seven times a week. Some people don't want to put that time, but like I do it. And like, you know, the, the, the relief that I have in, in myself is the accomplishments and the, the, the, what I've been accomplishing with these results and being the world champion and, and so on and so on. So all the time, all the days that I've been there seven days a week has been like proven that I've been worth for me, you know, and more important, more importantly for that from, than that is, um, all the effort that I've been doing in my life. And I've been looking at that even more now that I'm 36 years old is the health that these lifestyle that I've been having for myself is giving me. So the, the health that I have today and the health, the good health that I want to have in 15, 20 years is what is going to push me towards like the living this lifestyle, like working out, building the, the muscle skeleton that I have in my body, because I, I hear a lot of podcasts and like in terms of health and workouts and stuff. And one of, one of the things that I liked to, that I heard and that I, I love to hear that was the, the second most important organ we have in our body, it's our muscle skeleton. The most important is our heart. And then the most, the second most important is the, our muscle skeleton. And because the muscle skeleton we have in our body is what is going to give health to all, all the other organs that we have in our body. If our muscles don't work properly, the other organs will also not work properly, even our, even our brain. If, and we, you know, like when you look at someone that is very fat on the street, it's not a sign of good health. But if you were, if you look at someone on the street that is very athletic and it looks good, and you can even see from the spirit that that person brings with him, you can see that that person is healthy because like that person exercises, I have a good muscle mass. It's like psychology well with himself and with the people surrounding that, that person, you know. And I'm a bit spreading around here about what I was talking about, but it's just to show that I'm very happy to, to be, to be a healthy guy to work out many times and to compete every year because I like to compete every year. I like to compete. I like to have a good body in summer. And fortunately the WMBF shows are always after summer, which is a good thing that I, I can have a good beach body and then I go competition. I have a question for you. How long after the season ends, uh, with you putting on a little bit of weight and eating in a surplus, uh, do you feel like everything is fully recovered and you're not feeling fatigue or too much food focus? How long does it take for your sleep to get back to normal energy levels and training to come back? End of January. Let's say a couple months. Yeah. End of January. Yeah. Two months. Two months. Normally, how much rate do you end up gaining in those two months? Probably I get, I gain three kilos. Yeah. Yep. So from, let's say, let's say very, very clear example of that. The last four years I've been competing and the, the last competition is always around the same time because it's the blend beer of Thanksgiving the week before that. So, you know, like, of course, I gain some weight in Christmas, uh, as normal. And, and then like after January, I guess I will be three kilos more and my peak on in strength and weight is going to be in April. Hmm. Like, yeah, April is April, April, April is here. I managed to, to, to do like a incline bench press with dumbbells, uh, 60, 60 kilos in for a chest. Uh, he was, he was, he took, he took me five weeks to get to that, but I'm like, I knew that if it had to be until the end of April, because may I would start cutting a bit the foot and I lost, maybe I didn't lose, but you know, like it's sometimes we are afraid to, to lift heavy when it's like free weight. You always careful about injuries. If you get a serious injury, you might gonna like cancel the season, you know? Um, but I, but I felt good. And so end of April was my, my peak this year, my offseason. I was like probably 79 kilos and I felt really strong in my exercises. Nice. Yeah. That makes sense. About 10% over stage weight when you're competing back to back years and within a couple months, you know, you've gained a couple of kilos and you feel better. I think that is a great example of, um, being able to recover quickly, efficiently, and not being afraid of putting on size, but also not putting on an unnecessary amount of body fat. Um, so, you know, I, I'd say your experiences map onto my coaching experiences, my personal experiences, as well. I, I, um, I mean, I compete a little heavier than you guys cause I'm six foot tall, but, uh, I get about 10% over stage weight and then, and then cut down. And I, you know, I, I, I diet a little slower. I get a little longer and, you know, I have to get, not that you guys aren't competing lean, but, you know, bodybuilding at the WBF world's level is there's a, there's an extreme demand. I got to stand next to max and not look, uh, soft. Right. So, um, you know, for me, I probably have to drop another kilo or two from where you guys get to. Um, but yeah, so Santa and I'm heavier, so it's, it's very similar. And as a coach, I can tell you that, um, that same, those same principles apply to everyone, but some people's bodies are just not, uh, as naturally lean. Like if someone maybe grew up and they came from a family where everyone was a little heavier, um, you know, or, or they just are naturally somewhat higher in body fat, they still should be as lean as is appropriate for them. But sometimes that does mean that they're 15% of her stage weight. And, you know, that's, that's an advantage that some people have and others don't, that they can stay closer to stage weight. Uh, a lot of it is behavioral, but I do think some of it is physiological. And I think I don't have all of the gifts that, that some high level competitive bodybuilders have like the, the skeletal structure that's perfect or, um, a really, really high metabolic rate to where I can eat a lot of food. But one thing that it does seem to play in my favor is that I do pretty well, um, at a low body fat. You know, I'm, I competed at, I think my morning weigh-ins around 81, 82. And I'm right now I'm around just a little over 84. And I feel substantially better. And it's only been like two weeks, you know? So, um, yeah, uh, obviously there, there's more recovery to be had, but I think that when I've coached other people, sometimes they're, they need to be 10 kilos per stage weight and they're a lightweight for them to feel okay. And that, that does make prep challenging. And it means they, they typically, it's a really big ask to compete every year back to back to back. And I think that is something, um, that, that is not for everybody to be able to compete annually. Um, Adal, similar story for you, or, or do you get the same thing accomplished, but by different means? Uh, for me, it's basically the same thing. So the first thing I do is like, uh, my approach for the next season will take in consideration the feedbacks I've been having. So if they tell me that I need more size, then I'm going to focus on this, this thing, but I'll try to do it as clean as possible. But the thing is that most of the time, most of my prep, I am, I'm offshore. So when I'm offshore, I have a lot of limitations. So I don't have any, any low, any lower body equipment. So I have to do three weights. I don't have mainly, I don't have any equipment. I have like three weights. My heaviest dumbbell will be like 20 kgs. Then I have a flat bench and an incline bench. Most of the exercise, I will do will be like three weights. I will do pull ups, uh, push ups, dips and things like this. But the thing is, I'm just like a eater. I don't like to look fat. So I hate the bulking process. The first thing I hate the bulking is because I don't like to eat, to eat that much. I'm not the type of person that enjoys food. And I don't like to look at myself and feel, feel like I'm, I'm soft. I'm, I'm fat. So I try to keep, um, as lean as possible. And the other thing is that I'm the type of guy that, why would I target the three digits? Because most of the athletes, they are really happy. Oh, I've reached the three digits of in my offseason. I'm 100, I'm 110, I'm 120. But, and then you ask them, like we are men's physique in WNBF. We don't need to, we don't need to reach to a certain weight, but most of the other divisions like classic physique, bodybuilding, classic physique in, in WNBF. No, but in other federations, yes. Bodybuilding. Yes. So if you need to be at a certain weight, weight, why are you going to increase like 30, 25 kilos and then suffer to lose all that? So I will, in my mind, in my way of thinking, uh, I would do something smarter. So, because the thing is that the limitations I have, I have through all my season, because I'll be like 30 days offshore, 20, 15 offshore, uh, onshore, then I'll have like 45, 60 days offshore. So I have to think now, how am I going to suffer or what am I going to do in the end of the season? So the thing about like, we, we've been seeing that men's physique nowadays are getting bigger and bigger. So it means that we need to put a little bit of volume, a little bit of size, but I think we can do it without exaggerating, putting like 20 kilos and then suffering to, to lose all those 20 kilos. Because everything you put in your body, let's say, if you put like 20, 25 kilos, when you try to get as lean as possible, things will change. Maybe you will lose your V-tape, maybe you lose your waist, like you lose things like this. So my goal is like to focus on the weakest point and make my stronger point even stronger. So yeah, this is what, what I do. So, uh, basically my approach will, would be like this. So these, this year, uh, I think I had the lowest, uh, weight, uh, I've had so far. So I was 72 and I was 72 in 2022. So, uh, this season, like the world's was the, the, the, the, the, I was like 72 in the world's all the other competitions. I was like 73, 74, sometimes 75, but in the world's I, I tried to push myself as much as possible to get as, as lean as possible and then start carving up. And I, I felt like, yeah, I was okay. Sometimes we cannot fight with athletes that are like, it's their structure. They are like this, like Dario, uh, under, and even the, the world champion, uh, David Moran, they are big, Metro naturally. They are naturally big. Their structure is bigger than mine. So it's not something that if I put like 10 kilos, I'll look like them because they are taller. They have a bigger structure. Like you said, I'm not going to change my bone structure. And if you see, uh, David Moran, I told him he's half a down half aater because that guy is huge. Yeah. So yeah. So if we, if we want to beat him, if we want to win, trying to get these size, maybe it's not the, the boss, uh, it's the most, the smart, the smart choice. Maybe we should focus on other things. So yeah, this is, this is what, what I do. So basically, uh, when I finished, um, the competition season, I will take like one month. I w I would be recommended to take one month off, but it's really difficult to do it. And during, when I start the workouts, uh, I would be suggested to do like four workouts a week, which is also difficult because all my life I've been doing seven workouts. I've been going to gym seven times a week. Sometimes I would do 14 workouts a week because I would do like two workouts per day. But yeah, sometimes we do less, sometimes we do more depending on the routine. Sometimes when I'm off, I'm just, I just can go to the workouts. So I try to adjust. And, uh, one of the things, uh, I've learned through this process is not to put too much pressure on, on, on you. One day makes difference. Yes, makes difference. But the way you deal with it, it's way more important because sometimes you can go that one day, but you will not take advantage of it because you know, you're mentally stressed or you're just tired or you're just not there. So what I do is whenever I can go to the gym, I just, uh, take the, the, the, the most advantages I can from it. Yeah. So I have like four days. Yeah. So I have like those four days that I have to work out. And then if I can take adventures of the other three, I just take, if I can't, I just done. So this is why. I love it. I just want to point out that we have two world champions here. One who is auto-regulating their, their nutrition in a similar way that I would, um, not, you know, hitting like not, not bringing a food scale with them everywhere and hitting specific target macros on a day-to-day basis. And the other has access to only 20 kilo dumbbells, some free weights, body weight training, pushups, cause he's offshore and he has built the physique and impressively and an awesome back, by the way, uh, like a dow, um, which is notoriously hard to train without really good equipment. Many people think, and you are auto-regulating your training. You know, you're getting in a, you have a minimum threshold and then when you can, and you know, it'll be a good session, you get in more training. And I think that's an approach that more bodybuilders and more physique athletes generally are probably not open to because they're a little too neurotic. They're a little too nervous and they don't listen to their body. They, they listen to their, their, their fears and their insecurities. So the maturity that you guys have and the perspective you have is a great one. Um, this guy's a little before your time, but Brian Whitaker, he was a top champion in bodybuilding. He had enough genetic gifts to be a WNBF overall champion. And he was the first that I'm aware of to unify the titles of the Jordan cup and WNBF overall. And he won them both in 2015. He has multiple kids. Uh, he was in his late thirties. He is a professor of economics at a top university. Um, and he would, he came on the podcast and he said, you know, bodybuilding is, is, is I think third or fourth in my life. I think his, his family, his relationship with his spirituality and his job were first. And then, then he focused on bodybuilding yet. He was able to achieve that result, not being this naturally huge, incredibly gifted athlete. Um, but through an incredible amount of hard work and tenacity, but opt, what he would say is he optimized within the constraints of his life. Meaning instead of trying to write down on paper, what is quote unquote optimal, he looked at what's my reality and how do I make the most of every single day and every single opportunity I have. And I think that is what you both do in different ways. And it is a huge testament to longevity, the lifestyle, and that you can do so much just focusing on the now rather than worrying about what could have been or what might be ideal, which I think a lot of amateurs get caught up in. Um, I have a flexible training schedule as well. Uh, if I'm trying to get a lot done, uh, I think about not only what I want to do today and how it fits in with the rest of my schedule. Um, but also what am I trying to get done in a week? So sometimes I train once a day, sometimes I train twice and I think about the overlap and I, I'm not the norm, but it's actually quite encouraging to hear from two world champs that it's also not that rare. Um, and it looks different for each person. And I think there's so much art to bodybuilding rather than, than science because science gives us principles. And then we just apply that through the individual life. And you guys are actually great examples of that. So, uh, sorry to interrupt the doubt, but I just, I just wanted to point that out to the listener because, because it's really, really important. And I think it's undervalued. Yeah. And, uh, you, you just mentioned something really important, which is like science plays a big role. Yes. We all know. But in real life, things are not always like that because when, when you make like those studies, when you apply the science, you apply the science in a specific situation. So you don't take in consideration many aspects that in your real life, there will be part of it. So like when all those studies, uh, they will not take in consideration your mental health, your emotions, the, uh, the, the time, uh, you have available, the equipment you have available, the time you have between one competition and other. So it is good for you to have this as like, um, let's say a reference, but just don't stay to stick to it. You know, sometimes we see like athletes, you say, okay, now you need 100 grams of rice and they'll be like, okay, 95. No, I'm missing five. And no, come chill, chill, chill. Okay. If you do those 95 during a year, maybe you will have this different, but not one meal. You can have 95 now and 105 in the other, there will be 200 anyways. Yeah. So, but you know, sometimes people, especially young guys, they are more stressed with it. And the other thing is that, uh, the new school, sometimes they don't respect the old school, even though most of the experience we have from the old school is not from the natural bodybuilding, but if they got those results and ancient or not, it means that something there's something you can learn from it. So yeah, like me and Aether, we discuss a lot about the peak week and we find so many similarities. And the thing is like, uh, this year I think we shared, uh, we spent time together in Taiwan. We've been together, we eat together, we train together, we diet together. Then in France, he was, uh, he was there as a judge, but we've been together for a while. Then in Germany, he wasn't there, but we keep talking. Even, uh, when I step out off the stage for my division, then he called me right away. Normally I don't have my phone with me. So we had time to talk and it was like, okay, you should fix this. You should do this. Or you have great chances to win the overall as far as I could have seen. Yeah. And we, we talk about this is like, we're not rivals as people expand. And the same, the same way I talked to Aether, Aether and I, we talked to to Chris Harkins to even other athletes, because the good thing about bodybuilding is not, it is different than football or basketball or jujitsu where you need to sport on the other side. You just need to do you. So if you have more water in your body, it's a new, you cannot, there is nothing to do with the other athlete. You just need to show yourself. So there is no point on hating the other athlete or do it, trying to do things so that he cannot have a good performance. So in the end of the day, we all want to win. Yes. But yeah, you don't have like that rival, that, uh, that rival because he's going to do his, his part. You're going to do your part. And in the end of the day, judges will decide who's going to win. Sometimes, uh, some guy is going to win. It's not because he's like way better than you, but because the judges have decided that according to what they want from the division is what they are looking at that guy. And sometimes it's just by one point, two points. Yeah. It is what it is. That is especially when we prove we are, especially when it goes to the overalls, uh, overalls is like gambling. You never know. Well, uh, I was talking to waiter this year, uh, the overall was the highest guy, the tallest guy last year, the overall was the shortest guy. That's right. But if you see a tour and, uh, the winner, they look, they, they look similar, but he's like a bigger version of a turn because they, they, they, the shape, but the physique is pretty, pretty much similar. So yeah, you could, you could have been, uh, any, any, anyone. Yeah. This year, the overall was super, super, uh, balanced. Like every athlete was so like good. Yeah. Eric from Taiwan was like a wonderful athlete. Yeah. Yeah. The, at the highest level, there are such slim margins separating the top five, even in a weight class. And then when you get to the overall, it's the, it's, it's the people who won the top five from three, four, maybe even five other, you know, height, height divisions or weight divisions. And it becomes, it's, it's rare at WBF worlds in the modern era where there's a clear cut winner in the overall. Um, it does happen, you know, I, I think in certain divisions, some years, especially if there's less, or if you just have a truly standout athlete, like a, like a Babacar. But even Babacar got pushed, you know, by Oscar in his weight class, even if the overall was a little more clear cut, but yeah, I, the overall for you guys was cutthroat, you know, like, like you said, um, everyone was so close and the slim margins having been a judge for a long time, you know, the first competition I judged was in 2005 or six. Um, and then I, I took some time off because we got a bunch of athletes in California. So there was a, you know, conflict of interest locally, but then I came back to judging, uh, in the, uh, the 20 teens. Um, and I've been doing that since and, you know, I judged it Taiwan the year prior to competing and I judged in Spain and Italy, I think two or three times each. Um, and of course in, uh, in New Zealand and, and in Australia, a good bit as well as the States. But when you're judging at pro level events that are well attended, it is, it's the hardest thing to do is to figure out the winners. And then it's also really hard to figure out the middle placings, you know, cause there's like kind of these, these tiers where it's like, okay, I know these guys are the top three. I know these guys are probably the bottom three. Sometimes that's the easiest to do is figure out who's the guys who are, who are, who are still early in their careers or, or are still making pretty clear issues in their posing or, or, or they're not lean enough. But even at the pro level, those guys look amazing. So it's, it's, it's an amazing accomplishment, um, and great perspective from you guys. And there's a reason why I study the history of bodybuilding as well as the science. And as well as I pay so much attention to the data I get as an individual and for my athletes, as a coach, because it's all relevant. Um, and there is so much to be learned. Um, and I think you guys are great ambassadors and teachers. You're both humble. You're open-minded. You look for a lot of places to improve from, and you don't think that, um, you're above learning. That that's one thing that's super clear. And I think your attitude of going, listen, there's no defense. I can't get on stage and kick this guy. I I'm just going to have to do the best version of myself that lends to better performance, you know, because when you're thinking about other people, um, and what they're doing and what you need to be doing, you often miss out on a lot of opportunities to not only appreciate what you've accomplished, but also to improve your own, uh, your own process. So, uh, I just want to thank you both for such awesome perspective. Um, I don't want to keep you guys too late because I know you guys are in a much later times than myself and we've already been chatting for almost an hour and a half, but I do want to open the floor. Is there things that, uh, first I would love to hear what are your future competition plans? It sounds like you're both going to get back on stage next year, which is incredible. Um, and after you tell me your future competition plans, is there any final messages that you want to leave the lifting community with, uh, before we, before we wrap up? Heider, why don't you start? Yeah. Oh, well, um, in terms of the next season, I am not sure yet if I'm going to compete. Okay. Some people, no, no, like I, I always say that I'm not going to compete and then suddenly like in my, I give some tips here and there that are okay. Maybe I'm going no, but the next year, very likely I'm not going to compete. I think I'm going to be asking. The one, I don't, is not really. Yeah. No, I don't, is not believing in my words yet. I don't only believe. Let's wait and enter the world. Yeah. I might decide in October to just like pop up in, in the, in the world. No, but, uh, let's see. Uh, no, but, uh, I don't know, like a message that I love to give, like, first of all, thanks Eric for the invitation coming here to, to speak freely and openly with, with Adam and you. It's, it's, it's a really big pleasure. And, you know, we, we met personally in, in Taiwan. It was very good to have, have a dinner with you, uh, there in Taiwan, enjoy that food. And then also meet again, like basically seconds before you went on stage this year. And we, we unfortunately didn't have too much time to, to meet afterwards, but, uh, but it was amazing. And it's just amazing also to be here sharing like, like this body, natural bodybuilding passion that we, we all have. And also with the listeners that are going to, to listen to this podcast and, and, you know, like me, Adam, we are, we are friends for life. It's something that natural bodybuilding is giving us both. And, and for everyone that is really passionate about this is like, we have been making friends, uh, in so many places in the world, basically. Uh, I loved this year to be in Taiwan with the friends that I've made, for example, from 2022. Uh, and the, that's the thing about natural bodybuilding is that like, we are playing a fair game and we are always all in the same kind of boat. Like we, we, we have such a big passion for these, like enjoying the backstage, enjoying like the, the, the, the meals, the foods after the shows with people that we just met, uh, on, on that show or that we have met before. And, and that big passion is what has brought us together here. And, and, uh, I'm so grateful for that, honestly. And most importantly, like we are all healthy and that's what it matters in the end. We really hope that in 20 years, we're going to be here talking about natural bodybuilding and how, how good we feel, you know, uh, and that we're going to keep growing our like friendship and people that we got to know around these. Yeah. I'm very, very thankful to, to all of that, that has been happening in the last few years and since, since 2022, honestly. And yeah. Thank you again. Well, it's my pleasure. Thank you. Adal, what do you got for me? It's something, you know, you know, you're getting on stage and you think Hyder is Siri. Okay. Eric, uh, first of all, I would like to thank you again for the opportunity to be here and to allow me to be your friend and to get to know your family and all those moments that we, we shared in Taiwan and then in, in the world, uh, luckily we didn't have, we didn't face the same experience in the world that we had in Taiwan. You didn't knock your head anymore. And I wasn't stunned by a bee anymore. Yeah. Yeah. Taiwan will be forever in my, in my memories because of that bee. But yeah, it is life. Uh, so, uh, a message to, to every, everyone, uh, no matter if it's like, uh, newcomers or old guys, I would just say no matter how and what, just do as much as you can from what you have. So if I was expecting, uh, me to be 100% under the proper circumstances to work out, to compete, uh, I don't know when it would happen, it would have happened. So I just decided to start working out at the platform from with what I have whenever I'm on shore. Um, I'm like a gym rat and I spend most of the time in the gym, trying to take, uh, advantage of the equipment and things like this. Uh, never forget your family, never forget what is really important to you. And even though we do natural bodybuilding, it's important to state that whatever you do in your life for high performance is not healthy. So it is important for us to leave this notice that even though we do the natural bodybuilding, we do it with um, we do, we do it right. So we have the, the regular season, we have the time off, we need to balance our body, our, our, our hormonal systems and all this stuff. So it's important for us to state this because sometimes some people, they think that just because of the fact that we are natural athletes, we are like are immortal. We're not. So yeah, we try to do the most we can, uh, regarding next season. Like, um, I believe, uh, one of my role models is, uh, Cristiano Ronaldo, uh, Ronaldo Phenomenal, Spele and Michael Jordan. And I believe all those athletes, they are what they are or they were what they were because they've been doing it year after year. Uh, I don't know any football player. I'm not saying that I'm not comparing football with bodybuilding, but I don't know any good athlete. Let's put it like this, that took a year off to come and get better. Of course, if we're talking about bodybuilding or classic physique, according to the feedbacks you have, uh, you need to gain some weight, you need to come bigger. Okay. So you need, uh, maybe, uh, offseason. But the thing is that when people talk about offseason, some people don't take the offseason as they should, because it's like you have 100% of your time. If now you taking 30% for bodybuilding, when you do the offseason, you are doing the offseason for competing purpose, but you still need to keep doing the 30% even in the offseason, but you still need to focus on this 30%. The thing is that people when they take the offseason, they take those 30%, maybe they take it 10 or 20% and they focus on other stuff. So the offseason won't be a offseason at all. Like they were expecting it to be because they will be focusing more on other things. The only thing that in my, this is my, the way I see things, the only thing when, when you say, okay, I'm doing offseason, you're just not competing, but you need to train. You need to diet. You need to take it serious because this is where you shoot, where you do the most of things. Stepping on stage means like less than 10% of the bodybuilder's life because you stay there for less than one hour. If you put together the backstage plus the stage, and if you put it into, into percentage, it's just, just this because the offseason, if you take it like serious, you, maybe you don't consider like offseason, you will consider like improvement season. So this is why I don't like, I don't really like this name, like offseason, I'm doing offseason. Or you can do the barking, but I would, I would call it the improvement season where you focus on what you have to focus and then you just come back. And another, another thing that I would suggest athletes to do is like, okay, even though you're not competing, you can simulate a competition. And then you can simulate the carb up process to see how your body responds. You don't need to step on stage. You can do all this, all the simulation, because as we said here, when you step on stage, you don't touch Eric, you don't touch Aitor. It's just about you. So if you want to, if you want to know, how do you look like without competing, you can do this experience. So you can see if you can put more water, less water, if you can do one or three competition, one after another, you can use the offseason to do all those tests. And then when you decide to come back competing, you just do, because when you stay away, especially those days, like, uh, the physics, I'm talking about our division, the physics that we saw in 2022 are way different from the physics we see now. So if I decide to step off now, 2025 and come back by the end of 2027, I'll be surprised. Things will change a lot. And you can see like, uh, many athletes that they, the, they, they, they debuted here in this world. There is one from US, uh, Raymond, the one that competed also in Sacramento, the young guy. I don't know if you still remember, he was in my division. Mm-hmm. And he also competed against me in Sacramento. He placed second. Bro, this was his first, his first year competing. And he looks like pro that has been doing this for ages. I believe that in three years, he is like a potential, potential world champion because he's really, really, really good. He has such a nice physique and he's like complete. He has legs, abs, tiny waist or shoulders. I believe it's just a matter of time. And if he keeps working the way it is, yeah, within three years, he will be the world champion. And the thing is like this, I believe if you step in the game, it's way better than when you step out and you just try to turn and catch up the bus. Uh, I, I don't trust this. No, I think these are, there's a lot of good perspectives and, uh, I completely agree. Like bodybuilding is a lifestyle. Um, and it is requires, uh, consistency, focus, and being on. And I think, uh, as someone who's been competing since 07, lifting for 21 years and, um, trying to improve constantly, the, the stage is a divergence from everything that is, that is, that is building you up. And, uh, that means that you need to have, um, a true environment that, that cultivates the physique you're trying to develop. And the stage is just your opportunity to show it. And I do think a lot of people, they have a really big difference between the way they live their life in contest prep and the offseason. And many things should be the same. Obviously you shouldn't be getting fatigued and dieting and doing a bunch of cardio, but in terms of the lifestyle, it's the same. And if you're eating like a typical person living in the West and training haphazardly and inconsistently, um, and then only bringing a little of focus during contest prep, uh, you're, you're not going to get very far in this sport that, like you said, there's up and comers who are crushing it. Um, so I think you guys brought some really great messages. Uh, one thing that I both love that you guys both focused on is the fact that there's so much to be taken from the community, um, and from the relationships with others and, and health, um, that, you know, that we're going to be sharing this, uh, commitment to this art, the sport, uh, long after we're no longer competing. Although I'm probably going to be getting on stage in the, in the masters 50, 60 plus until I, they're going to have to wheel me off. But, um, even if I didn't get on stage, we would be benefiting from the hopefully healthy approach that we take to bodybuilding and that we are always trying to optimize within the opportunities that we've been given at the moment. And I think you guys are both great examples of that and, uh, you've achieved amazing things. And I know you're just getting started. So I want to say thank you both for your time, your wisdom, and a huge congratulations on both finishing your season as world champions. Uh, and I love that you guys celebrate each other's wins just as much as your own. So with that, I just want to say thank you both for coming on a huge congrats. And also thank you very much to all the listeners. I think there's a lot of wisdom here for how to handle the offseason, appropriate body compositions, and the fact that your training is where the changes are done to your physique, uh, not trying to force feed gains and that it is eating an appropriate amount to fuel and stimulate growth. Uh, and, uh, rather than trying to quote unquote bulk. So I wish us all a very effective improvement season. Uh, it's a great title for the Thou and we will see who is competing next year, but I wish you both the best, whether you get on stage or not. And for all the listeners, uh, make sure to give us a subscribe, a like a five-star rating. Don't forget to get all your lifting needs over at elite FTS with the code MRR10. And if you really want to be a superstar supporter of the show, this is iron culture presented by mass. If you want me to be able to pay my mortgage, please consider subscribing so you can stay up to date with not just the science, but how to apply those principles to your individual situation, uh, from the lens of all four of us over at mass research review, who are not only coaches, but also athletes and scientists. So thank you again for listening to iron culture. And we'll be back in another week with another really great interview with some of the WNBF champions from 2025 worlds. Awesome.