 aromasin, aromasin, Naruhodou, aromasin, tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip tip And I tell you what, hat, no hat, you look fantastic. I think they are both two distinct and beneficial looks for Dr. Trexler. And I love that you're actually expanding your, the presentations of Trex that you give to the world. Cause I know you, you tend to keep things simple. So whether you just forgot or lost your hat or whether you're going, you know what, I can, I can have a little bit of variety. Uh, you've in fact doubled the amount of looks that you have, which is saying something I'm, I'm here for it. I like it. And I just want to encourage that you're doing the right thing. You're looking great. Yeah. I hired a stylist, which was kind of the next intuitive thing. And this is what they, what they ordered up for me. So I said, Hey, that's why I'm paying you the big bucks. Uh, no, the, the reality homes, as you, as you know, since you listened to front page fitness, which by the way, folks, make sure you subscribe to front front page fitness. It's a great podcast with me and the Dr. Lauren Colenzo Semple, another mass kind of side project over there. So, um, but as you know, uh, I am historically too lazy to shave my head on a regular basis. And I, as I mentioned on front page fitness, I'm very comfortable having no hair. I'm very comfortable having all hair. I do not like being in the middle zone of having some degree of hair. And so now that I'm being consistent about shaving this, uh, ball to dome of mine, I feel a little more comfortable letting the dogs out, let, letting the skull breathe a little bit. And with these, uh, warm months coming up, it is imperative. You have to sometimes take off the hat and just let the scalp breathe a little bit. So that, that's the approach. And Helms, you know, the other revelation I had, uh, this week on front page fitness, a very jarring discovery. Uh, I always tease you about your age, which is preposterous because you're not an old man by any means. Uh, I am a master's competitor. Like it is like, there's no denying that. So listen, mastery is a beautiful thing, no matter what age it occurs at. But, uh, no, I, I learned recently and was stunned to learn that I have been completely wrong about my age for a full calendar year. Uh, I have a birthday coming up and I was contemplating talking, uh, with my wife about how crazy it is that I'll be turning, uh, 36. And to, to me, that felt like a really big number for some reason. And as I was elaborating on why that feels like such a big number, she said, that's all fine, but you're not turning 36. Uh, and I was floored by this news. And immediately my brain starts going back to like, have I put that on any legally important documents? Like, have I done anything that is actionable and wrong here? Uh, and, and I don't believe that's the case, but Helms, it is such a relief. I mean, can you imagine if someone just said, Hey, we're going to turn the clock back and give you another year. Uh, I, I feel like I've unlocked just like this bonus year of productivity. Uh, and I feel like my biological age got moved back a year and an actual biological age, not a pretend number that is completely untethered from reality. So I'm right at high based on this news that, uh, I am actually a year younger than I thought. New lease on life. And, uh, I tell you what I have actually, I actually did that for like a week once in my life. So I can relate because you start thinking about the upcoming birthday. Right. And especially when it's, uh, when it's a big one, like 35, and then all of a sudden, because you're trying to accept this transition in life, you, you, you get there too early. And then all of a sudden in your mind, you start going on. And I actually am that old. Um, I can't remember what did I, did I do that with, I might've done that with 39. Cause I was like, I'm only one, one more year till 40 when I, when I turned 39. And then for like a week, I was like, I'm 39. I was like, wait, wait, no, no, no. In April, I turned 30. Yeah. I did something very similar. It did not last. So, so how long have you been saying this? A year. Yeah. At least 10 months. Yeah. I don't know when I, it's, I have no idea when I talked to myself into this, but it's been a very long time. Okay. Well you maintained the, um, I mean, honestly, I think this is a character benefit. Like you're, you're that good at acceptance that you can manifest something that is not even actually true. Like I would be worried if, if you start considering, hey, what would it be like to be quadriplegic? Um, just be mindful if you wake up one morning and you psychosomatically cannot move from the neck down, remind yourself, well, hold on. Am I actually quadriplegic? And you might be like, oh shit, I can walk again. So I think it's just, um, you know, don't let this go too far, but, but that's, it's an encouraging trait. I mean, that's stoicism to the, to the nth degree right there. Yeah. We, we will absolutely keep an eye on it. Uh, I I've got my wife in my corner to a correct course when I talk myself into things that are fundamentally not true, but, uh, Helms, everything good with you? Everything is good. Yes. Um, yeah, I'm looking forward to, uh, us seeing each other in person coming up, uh, in, in, in a month and, in a couple of weeks. Uh, I'm also going to, uh, Singapore and Hong Kong finally got those trips sorted and I'm, I'm flying not through, uh, the middle of the country. So not that you have to, I I'm aware folks that you do not need to fly through the middle East to get to Singapore or Hong Kong from, uh, from New Zealand, but I'm also planning my trip to Oslo and I potentially have a conference in Austria. So I've been thinking about a lot of flights. That's the relevance of, of that. My, uh, ADHD brain jumped a little around there, but anyway, I've been planning my travel and seeing that I can probably solidify it. Um, got my flights booked for Singapore and Hong Kong. I'll be there, um, doing seminars in both, both locations, um, which I'm excited for. Um, and, uh, yeah, things are, are, are going well on all fronts. I've been hitting some big PRs in the gym, which is cool. Oh yeah. I hit, uh, 190 kilos or I think that's 418, 419 pounds for a set of five on pretty strict RDLs. Um, yeah, I hit, uh, 88 kilos, which is just under a hundred pounds on inclined dumbbells for, for 10, which I was pretty happy about and, uh, hack squatted, whatever the hell five plates the side is, um, for a set of five, like two weeks ago. So, um, yeah, it's pretty wild because it is basically the start of my offseason post recovery. And I'm higher than I was at the peak of my offseason last time. So that's encouraging. Um, yeah. And, and, and I am actually old and I do know that I'm actually turning 43 and, uh, in, in like two and a half weeks. And that's not a miscount yet. I'm in the best shape of my life. So I think we're both doing great as reasonably old men. I think so. Uh, and speaking of being old men, Helms, uh, we were actually young the last time that the ACSM put out a position statement regarding how to lift weights, a resistance training position statement, but that has changed. Uh, so I believe the last time they did this was 2009, a vintage year, a wonderful year when I happened to graduate high school. Uh, and I think that was probably, I think that was probably, that was peak Eric Trexler, to be honest. Uh, I was right in a high junior, senior year of high school was, you know, when people say those were the days, indeed 2007 to 2009 were in fact the days. That can't be right that you graduated high school in 2009. Cause it was like 2014. You published your first paper. Yeah. Just your, what are you do? The Houser get out of here. I'm not happy about that. Well, no, you go Helms, you finish high school and then in America you do four years of college. And then one year into your master's, it's been five years. So 2009 to 2014. Unacceptable. You have to instead go on a failed career into the military, decide you don't want to do that, get out, do a few years of personal training and then get into academia and then publish your first paper around the same time. But when you're, you know, five years older than you or something like that, I'm more than five years older than you. I'm eight years older than you because we decided you were 35. Well, you took that standard path. I took a very atypical path of going straight in, but no, this actually reminds me of we, I think we, have we ever had Grant Tinsley on the show? We must have. We, I'm not sure. I mean, iron culture has, and you might've been granted for me. No pun intended that that is canon. So, so I'm going to say yes, respectfully. Yeah. So Tinsley is awesome. But I remember the first time that I ever met him, we were at a conference and I was like close to finishing my PhD and he was a, he was already in his position at Texas tech and we're talking and I'm like, so this guy is like a professor and he's got like a mortgage and kids and stuff. And I, it was very jarring to me to hear how young he was because I think he did the kind of deal where he like finished high school a little early and then finished college really fast and then was like straight into the academic kind of path. And so like, yeah, I think he, I don't remember the exact numbers and I don't want to like dox him and give away sensitive age information on the internet. But I remember talking to him and even though I was like right on like a very typical timeline, I felt many years behind in my life. And I was like, oh, so we're almost the same age or maybe even the same age, but you're a full grown man and I'm a child was kind of how I felt. So all that is to say we take many, many different paths homes, but 2009, that's when the ACSM put out their last position stand on resistance training prescription. And they have a new one written by Brad Currier. His name jumped off the page. He was the lead author of this. His name jumped off the page for me because he's done at least one cool paper on fat free mass index in athletes. So that's of course one of my little hobby horse topics that I love, but very familiar names on here. Eric Rawson, Brad Schoenfeld, Abby Smith, Ryan, my PhD advisor, Travis Triplett, former NSCA president, Stu Phillips. You know him, you love him. And this paper is a doozy helm. So do you want to kind of give a lay of the land of how they approach this one? And, you know, basically, do you feel it was time? What is it? Since 2009. That's a, that's a lot of years. So, so yeah, why don't you just kind of give us a brief introduction here? Yeah, I would say the first thing is that this paper, unlike the equipment you might get from a lead FTS that was in 2009, did need an update. Because if you had gotten equipment from a lead FTS in 2009, it's probably still lasting and very effective. And that's why we have partnered with them and never forget to mention in our intro that if you go to elite FTS.com where the good Dave Tate and colleagues have been making top tier lifting equipment for decades, much like how long this 2009 ACSM position stand has been around, but even longer and not needing an update, their stuff is that good. You can use the code MRR10 as a reminder, that's mass research review 10. So you can remember where it came from for a 10% discount on any of their equipment. But I would say that yes, it was due time for a, an update. Well, I just wanted to piggyback on that because this is kind of insane, but now that you mentioned it, the elite FTS wrist wraps that I still use, I legitimately did buy them in either 2009 or 2000, or sorry, 2010 or 2011. So like, this is an actual very legitimate sales claim. If we include a little bit of rounding error and a little margin for error there. And also I, I forgive myself for not mentioning them in the intro, because I think advertisements are even more valuable when you sneak them into the meat of the product here. So you're welcome to lead FTS for me for getting that. But anyway, Holmes, yeah. So it was time. Certainly there's been a lot of research on resistance training that has happened in the years that have followed 2009. I don't know if you were, you, you remember this, but man, that was back when there was still like very substantial interest, to my knowledge, in like the acute hormone effect of, should we, you know, train shorter rest periods and get more testosterone and growth hormone because it's anabolic. Like there, there was a lot of, there was all this confusion about, you know, rest periods and is it intensity versus volume that's driving the show? I mean, this is before, I don't, I don't really remember. Do you recall when Brad Schoenfeld really started hitting his stride and kind of doing a lot of these like really straightforward fitness oriented studies? When did that really, when did that operation really get kind of cooking over there? Oh, now we're, now, now we're going to dig in the crates and folks thought we're going to talk with ACSM. We'll get there, but it's, it's time for, for daddy Helms to reminisce. So 2009, that was a pivotal year for a number of reasons. It was the first time I got into WNBF overalls and got a shot at almost getting my pro card thinking I'd be this close. And then 2023 came. But it was also the, when I was in my undergraduate degree, one of the very first online programs where you had to be a fitness professional to enter it. And I was actually writing an annotated bibliography as a, one of my final projects specifically on why I didn't think the hormone hypothesis held water. And I believe it might've even been West and colleagues who published one of the studies where they'd looked at performing bicep curls and arm training after a leg press to see if the anabolic milieu of, you know, growth hormone that, that came from doing that first actually seemed to enhance arm training. And this was actually Stu Phillips himself was talking about this at this time earlier in his career, but still well-established at that point. And I even remember getting a physical magazine of muscular development where they would have summaries of studies. And one of them was, I think that that study, I believe it was by West. It was right around 2010. And to directly answer your question, I want to say that it was the narrative review component of not Dr. Brad Schoenfeld back then, but a doctoral candidate, uh, Brad Schoenfeld back then. And those who are wondering, hold on, isn't, isn't, isn't Brad, uh, even older than, than, than, than Dr. Helms. He is, but he was a fitness professional for a very long time. He was a trainer. And before that even competed in natural bodybuilding in maybe the late nineties, maybe early two thousands, or I think he'd finished then, uh, and then got into doing research after that. So, um, I think this was before he was even, uh, you know, at Lehman college and his eventual, uh, you know, role that, that, that became, you know, what we all know of him today. So I want to say he published his narrative review, proposing three potential mechanisms for hypertrophy, um, of, you know, metabolic stress, damage, and tension in 2010 and even wrote, it might've almost been identical to the narrative review or a, uh, a light version of it for T nation, just to kind of give you the, uh, the feels back then. So you could, you could read about how you should take Anaconda, which is a multi hundred dollar supplement, um, of basically just what was, you know, pre-workout plus BCAAs, um, heavily overpriced, clearly market shilling. Uh, and then the next, uh, you know, one was this, this actual like peer reviewed published paper that had been turned into blog format by someone doing their PhD on, on T nation. And that was one of the, uh, the first places where we had this cross contamination of, uh, actual science next to pseudoscience, which we are still dealing with today and why you and I have an important role. The final thing I would say is that while we're talking about anniversaries timelines, it is April of 2026. We're on our 10th year of mass and we're actually having our anniversary. Now this is 2017, 18, 19, 20, 21, two, three, four, five, six. Can you believe it tracks? So yeah, we, uh, we do have, um, the cover story of the current issue that is, uh, freely accessible. Uh, you will have probably seen this for a week as we're recording on the 31st of March slash first of April in my neck of the woods on the other side of the international date line, but it will be the, I think seventh when this comes out. So. Yeah, absolutely. So yeah, but basically, um, you know, I think a lot of folks who are into like evidence-based fitness and lifting right now, they, they kind of, when you, when you ask them like, well, what's, what studies have informed your approach to lifting? They'll point to, well, there was this one. And a lot of it was this kind of early wave of studies where I, this is not at all criticism, but I feel like Brad went on a tear in the early 2010s where he was just pulling on all the low hanging fruit. And again, that's not as, that's not dismissive. It's just, there was all this chatter about training variables in the fitness space. And like, can we just do some like very practical, very straightforward studies to just test short versus long, this many sets versus that many, you know, like all these different questions. Uh, and Brad just went tearing through the literature in the 2010s. And yeah, when you think about their last position stand with the ACSM, um, it was before all that really got kicked off. Right. And so it certainly makes sense that we would take a beat to, uh, take a deep breath, reassess the lay of the land and say, okay, you know, we're, you know, uh, many, many, many years removed. So what has changed here? What, what ideas have been solidified? What ideas have received their final nail in the coffin? Um, and so, yeah, Holmes, how do you think they did with this one in terms of, uh, summarizing what we know as of, uh, the year 2026? I think for what it is, it's a really, really good paper. And, um, I, I, the, the, the reason why I say for what it is as kind of that initial caveat is we've talked about before the challenge of actually exposing yourself to scientific information where it's not typically written for the consumer, which is an unfortunate thing, uh, in our space, especially because it's actually intended for the consumer. We're not dealing in theoretical physics or microbiology, um, or, or heavily niche topics, you know, ultimately sports science, exercise science, nutrition, sports nutrition. Obviously some work needs to be done on mechanisms and things that are written for other researchers, but a huge component of what we do is, uh, translational research to actually impact the consumer, you know, public health, sports science, et cetera. It's, it's dealing with coaches, athletes, people, trainers, et cetera. And no one says like, I mean, some people do, but like I'm an applied exercise scientist. Like, well, that's kind of built in, right? So, uh, the reason why I say that, uh, this is a good thing for what it is, is because we have talked about on iron culture previously that because meta-analyses are heavily statistically oriented, um, not only are they challenging for the consumer to read, but more often than not, historically, this is, I think, drastically changed in the last five years, even, uh, they've not been done very well by people in sports science. Um, and, um, that's because we're just kind of getting our feet under us as a field and, and yourself and others have kind of led that charge and we are seeing better and better and better, uh, utilization of accurate and well done statistics. So you might come across what should be at the top of the evidence hierarchy, but not know that it is done poorly. And us, you and I communicating to the audience when frankly, I'm like 90% confident I can catch the major errors in a meta-analysis. Like I'll, I'll note if some of those effect sizes look funky and they might've used standard errors or if, uh, this, why did they use this model versus another? Okay. The, the funnel plot showed an issue, but they did nothing with it. Like some of the obvious ones that you've, you've frankly taught me. Um, but if, if that's me missing one out of 10 bad apples, if you will, uh, how can I expect the general consumer of fitness information to trust meta-analysis? So we said, Hey, instead should probably focus on systematic reviews. And unfortunately those are often going to be behind a paywall, like many articles, even though we're moving long and the long. Yes, absolutely. They're a, they're a tedious read in most cases. They are, they are, they are. So, you know, a systematic review is, when done well is, is intentionally long. Cause they go through the systematic process. They talk about, um, you know, how they actually qualitatively scored the risk of bias. And they're talking about ROB tools and, and, and all the various things. And then they have to go through, you know, point by point. Um, they, they can be really, really difficult to get through. And, and if I may homes. Yeah, you may. Another thing with meta-analyses, even if you do feel very comfortable interpreting them, they often by design, isolate everything, everything down into one variable. Right. And so they can't really represent a one-stop shop where you say, I want to figure out how resistance training works here. We're going to look at just training frequency, all else being held equal. Well, that, that gives you one little piece of it, but you're going to have to read six meta-analyses to piece it all together. Right. Well said. So what we've, we've said is, Hey, um, what is essentially a narrative systematic review that is much more public facing and practitioner oriented are going to be these position stands that come from professional organizations like the NSCA, which if, for those who don't know the national strength conditioning association, they're actually the, the, the folks behind the strength conditioning journal, as well as the journal strength conditioning research, um, or some of the stuff that comes out of the athletic training, uh, journal. And that's for athletic trainers, which is a unique kind of on field, uh, like physiotherapist, if you will, but they deal a lot with athletes. So sports science intersects a lot, or, uh, if you weren't, you weren't aware, uh, medicine and science and sport and exercise, one of the top journals in our field that actually comes from the ACSM, the American college of sports medicine, uh, which is another personal training sort of a cane certifying body, as well as clinical exercise physiology certifying body. So those along with the journal of the international society of sports nutrition, uh, where, you know, if you see someone have CISSN after their name or the, uh, the other, one of their certifications, this is for sports nutritionists. So, um, all of these position stands that you see are generally a open access and then B, uh, written in a more or less narrative format, but they follow a semi-systematic at worst, uh, approach. And you also don't necessarily have to read everything. You can kind of pick and choose. And some of these big position stands like, oh, they talk about frequency here, or Hey, you know, they talk about, uh, this supplement on this long list that I'm interested in and their position stand from GISSN. And it is still, you know, it's scientific writing. Don't get me wrong. It is peer reviewed and it is in a journal. But it's the most accessible of that type of information. And it's intentionally done so. And you and I have both been part of several position stands for different organizations. Uh, and we write it that way on purpose, right? Now, the cool thing about this one is they've really stepped into the space of not just kind of doing a pseudo, uh, you know, meta of the research. But if you look at the methods of this, this specifically did follow the PRISMA guidelines for, uh, actually doing a review of reviews. So this was a prospectively registered, um, you know, on, on, uh, review that use the PRISMA guidelines for, uh, the, uh, overview of reviews, or what is sometimes called an umbrella review. So they use the, the prior checklist, the preferred reporting items for overviews of reviews. So that means that everything in this review was another systematic review or systematically done narrative review, umbrella review, or meta analysis. And, um, you know, you can do a meta analysis within a scoping review or within a systematic review. Um, but you know, all systematic reviews have a systematic process. So what's cool about this is that they effectively were looking at reviews of reviews. So there's a tremendous number of, of participants, uh, that are represented across all of the 137 systematic reviews, whatever met those criteria, some of them being meta, some of them being systematic, some of them being systematic narratives, some of them being scoping, et cetera, uh, with a collective body of participants of over 30,000 individuals, uh, and including, you know, men, women, anyone over the years of, of 18 years, years old, but just healthy adults. Uh, and they, these are all on resistance training trials that were, at least six weeks or longer with some of them lasting a full year. Uh, which is of course a rarity in our field, but they're out there. So, um, and they were only including trials where they compared it with a group that completed no exercise or alternative resistance training intervention. So that's useful because it kind of helps us get a better idea of the actual effect size compared to doing nothing. And I think that's helpful because we focus so much on the minutia, um, as kind of like our corner, uh, I'll say my corner of, of the resistance training world. Uh, you know, where we're thinking about what can I do to move the needle just a little bit. Um, and this is, I think, a really good overview for the personal trainer or the, uh, the clinician or practitioner who's working with, uh, the general public. So you can get an idea of, okay, all my nerdy people who are teaching me stuff, um, the helmses of the world, perhaps they're really interested in like their personal, you know, bodybuilding journey and, and, and looking through the lens of that, uh, and strength conditioning, sports science. But Hey, like how much is it really moving the needle if I focus on long muscle length training or training to absolute failure, uh, or, or manipulating set structure or thinking about time under tension, or should I be wrapping my arms when doing blood flow restriction? Or do I really need to periodize my training versus some of the potential bigger rocks? And I think that is the biggest improvement on this 2026 versus the 2009 version. If you looked at the 2009, it was general to the point of potentially not being helpful to the personal trainer who kind of probably got the same information from their personal training handbook. Like I remember it was like, Hey, regardless of your goal, you should train with the one to 12 RM range and you should have progressive overload over time. And you should probably do at least a moderate volume of moderately heavy training. A moderation is key. And everyone's like, okay, I already knew that. Yeah. I mean, it's, that is one of those things with these like scoping, like really broad papers that are meant to be position stands is like, I understand why in 2009, they're like, okay, we need to just like present this extremely broad overview. But if they don't actually, like you're alluding to, if they don't actually drill into those specifics, then the question is, well, what am I supposed to do with this? Right? How can I actually apply this? And like you were saying, I think that's where this one kind of excelled. You know, they kind of a great summary of them kind of thinking very practically is in figure two of this paper, right? Where they kind of lay out all these different potential effects. Even within this circle, I know this is a audio, not exactly great to narrate a figure. But in the circle, they kind of represent like, hey, resistance training encapsulates a lot. We're talking dumbbells, machines, bands, barbells, body weight. And we're looking at several different outcomes, strength, power, activities of daily living, balance, muscle mass, muscular endurance, gait speed, timed up and go like a functional assessment, usually for clinical and elderly population. So they really tried to dig in and say, we're not just going to say, hey, train one to 12 reps with moderate everything. But let's actually like look very closely at these specific areas of the research. And I think they should definitely be congratulated for having that very practical approach. And so for example, they've got a great table in there, which is resistance training prescriptions to improve muscle function and hypertrophy. And they actually go, you know, down, you know, outcome by outcome and talk about what you can, what you expect to see with resistance training. And then of course, they get within the paper, they talk more specifically about how we actually prescribe this stuff. Yeah, I think they did a great job of it. As you look through it, you know, they have, they have a table where they discuss all of the different resistance training variables, frequency, load, failure, time under tension, time of day, rest per set, exercise order. And then the type of resistance training between machines, free weight, and like unstable and blood flow restriction. They focused on different contraction types, you know, whether it's traditional or even emphasizing, say, eccentric. And they even talked about different techniques from, you know, power-based training, partial range of motion training, Olympic weightlifting. And they also looked at drop sets, contrast sets, traditional sets, all the various set structures that have been analyzed, and even looking at different periodization forms and set structure. So I thought that was really cool. And they even acknowledged early on, you know, as like an institution, like, hey, it's been a long time since 2009. And we actually recovered 30,000 publications since then. They didn't necessarily include them all. But just saying like, dude, there's been a lot of publications in this area, this was, this was due for an update. So it was just good to see that transparency. And it was really good to see them outline, you know, they had the PICO strategy, like, which is, you know, participants intervention, comparator outcome study design. So the lens that this was drawn through was accurate, given what was updated. The methods are truly that of a systematic review, only looking at the highest quality evidence. And the ability, because of this long overdue update and amount of stuff that's been published, to have targeted advice based upon someone's goals, be they strength, be they power, be they hypertrophy, or much more functional outcomes, as you know, there's been such a focus on sarcopenia and aging, excuse me, aging populations. Now, like you said, you know, that that figure, it goes into outcomes related to gait speed, timed up and go, balance, which are all things that are highly relevant to people who aren't just like, you know, lifters, and this activities of daily living. So I thought that was really cool. So if you're someone who is working in an exercise physiology clinic, primarily with people over the age of 65, who are looking to regain function, or improve function, or they're post-operative, if you're a physical therapist, or if you're a strength conditioning coach, I think you'll, in both cases, even though you're working with very different ends of the spectrum of people that will be lifting weights, you'll actually get some useful information out of this, especially in the modern era now that we're dealing with, where it's difficult to know what is kind of a niche strategy once you've gotten all your big rocks in place that might be worthwhile. And assuming you know that it's only going to have a trivial to small effect, or something that is absolutely essential. And I think a lot of the times kind of that biohackery style approach of optimizing everything, it's infested the science communication and pseudoscientific communication world so much that people are, you know, repeating things about autophagy or other various mechanisms, or thinking about things that are going to have very, very small effects, if any at all, as almost on equal footing with some of these really big picture things, and other times even displacing them, as we've talked about a lot. Yeah. So it's good to see this. And I think they did a great job. And yeah, unless you have any other meta commentary, we can start to talk about some of the main findings. Yeah, what are the main findings? I'm curious to hear, you know, first, what are the main findings? But then secondly, I'm really curious to hear, you know, as someone who's been in the game for a while, if you were in their shoes, thinking back to where you were in 2009, and then you were saying, okay, I'm going to update my beliefs from 2009. Like, what are the biggest things that from your perspective have changed in this literature? So that's, that's kind of a juicy question we can jump into at the end. But for now, let's stay on topic. What are the kind of key findings in this paper? Yeah, so I think the big key findings was that they focused on things that had the largest effects on the primary adaptations that people are typically engaging with resistance training for. So when they focused on strength, I think they did a great job synthesizing all the data we have to date, saying that, listen, independent of volume, independent of anything else, the thing that seems to increase strength the most is lifting heavier loads. And this would not shock to me in 2009. I don't think it'd shock anybody. But it is just a really helpful reminder of the principle of specificity. And that strength is ultimately a performance adaptation, even though it is going to be influenced by the things like muscle mass, etc. But in the kind of time scales, when we are looking at resistance training studies, you know, multiple months, and maybe some longer studies, the specific amount of volume you're doing is far less important than are you actually training the specific task you're interested in. And they also noted that, you know, training the range of motion that is the task you're going to be testing on is also important. So if you're doing half squats, and you test a full squat, you're going to see less transfer than that. And they also noted that the total amount of volume you need to actually enhance strength is relatively low, you know, two to three sets in a given session seems to kind of maximize the strength response, which, you know, aligns with Pelin's recently published meta regression. And that also they noticed that, hey, you will probably want to do that at the beginning of the training session when fresh, and there is data on exercise order, showing that, you know, when you prioritize a performance, and this has been reflected in like NSCA guidelines for testing for the longest time, you know, you do power first and strength, and then endurance, if you're going to have like a battery of tests in S&C setting. And then finally, that, you know, multiple exposures to practicing the skill of strength, having at least a frequency on a given movement of two plus times per week, is going to be another thing that has a notable influence on strength that also lines up with the most recent meta regression that we saw by Pelin, where the frequency of exposure to a given movement had much more of an influence on strength than the frequency of training a given muscle group had on hypertrophy. And that that was to some degree, you know, independent of volume. So, you know, if you take the same amount of volume, and you spread it across more days, and your goal is strength, that'll be great. But if you take the same amount of volume for a given muscle group and spread it over more days, you're looking at a mild effect at best, you know, but and probably only if you're really kind of pushing the limits of what you can effectively do and recover from in a single session. So that's the main strength findings, which I would say the frequency thing is probably what was the most confusing in the 2009 era. I think that was when we were starting to, well, I would say this, high frequency, or high volume, is always in the eye of the beholder, it's relative to what, right? And I remember, if you think about the dominant types of strength training that were going on in 2009, this is the West Side era. So we're talking about enhanced, multiply, super heavyweight voices in the space, talking about deadlifting once a month, and using a very high intensity, high load approach. So they had, you know, essentially maxed out certain variables. And we're talking about high load of training that you could literally only do with a multiply suit. So the kind of systemic stress that you're putting on someone, and especially when we're talking about people who are weighing often in excess of 300 pounds, and the amount of total stress they're putting on their body, training with a high frequency is just something that even if you look at the most in shape, enhanced big dudes out there, we're talking world's strongest man competitors, they're not training deadlifts like heavy more than once a week, you know, and they need to, because they're doing stones, they're doing medleys and carries. So it is understandable that a two times per week frequency in 2009 was seen as high frequency, but we don't see that as high frequency in 2026. Yeah, and I was gonna say, like, it's, this is one of those scenarios where it actually is very valuable to use anecdotal evidence. You know, like, I think that sometimes we miss the mark in evidence based fitness, because we say anecdote is over, we're in the RCT stage of understanding the world. And I, I don't think that's how it works is a linear progression of what forms of evidence are helpful. But listen to it, listen to an interview with someone who has done an equipped, you know, squat or deadlift with 1100 pounds, they will talk about I was just listening to an interview the other day, a person talking about they were squatting in a suit, it was like 1100 pounds. And they were talking about feeling their femurs bow, when they unracked the weight. So do you really want to do that on back to back days? Do you really want to do that four days a week? Probably not, right? And so we do. And you'll hear the same thing people benching in a shirt where they feel actual bowing of their forearm bones, when they unrack the weight. And so yeah, we have to be able to contextualize that these at the end of the day are essentially fundamentally different stimuli than you doing a machine seated chest press, and you know, doing three quick sets of 10 or 12, right? So this is one of those areas where if you do say like, well, how did they feel that way? What was the context? How do I really, you know, discern the difference between the one the one and the other in terms of like, these very different training stimuli, that is where the anecdotes really help. But just like talk to a person who has squatted 1100 pounds, I don't care what they were wearing, a suit, no, yeah, 1100 pounds on your back is different. And it's going to be a fundamentally different thing than your typical resistance training. So very, very great nuance that you added there. Yeah, and I think, and the other side of that is that we just didn't have a great, people often don't do a great job. And this applies to interpreting scientific evidence, as well as anecdotal experiential evidence of understanding how to apply it outside of their context. If you talk to any high level IPF coach, and especially one who's coached across the weight classes, across the sex classes, and across the two divisions, single level, sorry, single ply, as well as raw, who've been in the game a long time, Mike T is a great example. He's going to tell you like, listen, a 120 plus, even drug free, single ply lifter is going to have a drastically different, you know, training frequency than a 52 kilo lifter who is raw, even if they are peak strength, they're squatting three times body weight, you know. And I think there is something to be said for the absolute loads and the amount of metabolic stress that's incurred and the typical state of the person in terms of what they're doing to themselves to be in those weight classes, their level of cardiovascular fitness, metabolic health, etc. And then just kind of the overall recovery arc that they might be experiencing that is related to those things. And, you know, I remember when I had a lot of experience working with even just a 105 kilo lifter, your Bryce Lewis, and he had a relatively high frequency compared to many. And when I started to work with some lightweight women, um, and, and also some lightweight men who were early in their career, my tapers were too aggressive, you know, and I essentially, I don't even taper the bench press and some of my lightweight female lifters at all, like they could hit a max on Friday. And then so long as that was in the morning, and then their competition is in the afternoon, that'll probably help them, you know, like I've observed things like that, uh, for their bench press on the day. So anyway, I think, um, understanding that we're looking at a systematic review of a bunch of other systematic reviews here and of the typical person in a resistance training study, yeah, more frequency is better. But I think if you were to look at the average, like say bench press strength, it's less than body weight. So that is useful context, right? But, um, but the general principle is what you do want to know is that this is a skill and whether it's throwing darts, benching, squatting, squatting with gear or not, um, having more opportunities to practice the skill in a higher frequency to some degree, independent of the total amount of practice you do does seem helpful. And I think that's reflected in this broad data when they say, Hey, two plus times per week, uh, along with high loads, along with full range of motion, which is specific to the task you're testing. Those are the fundamentals with relatively moderate, but not super, super low volume of just doing one set on the exercise are the key fundamentals to strength. And I don't think that's unintuitive, but I do think that is a little different than perhaps what we would have thought in 09 based upon the really dominant voices that didn't often give that context, or at least weren't interpreted with the appropriate level of context. I mean, this was an era where everyone, whether they're raw or not, was doing back work to help their bench, not realizing that what the West side guys are talking about is you need to pull the bar down to your chest, even get a press command. And until you're up with 90% of your opener, you won't even be able to touch your chest, you know? And that's why we're training our lats. It's to literally row that bitch on my chest so I can get the head ref to actually say press. Yeah. Now I did have one question about the strength. So, uh, you mentioned, uh, you know, with the Pelland, uh, meta regression, uh, talking about the kind of sets per week, uh, I believe it was to, to maximize, uh, or optimize strength gains in this one, you talked about set, uh, sets per session. Did those numbers strike you as low? Like, like from a practical perspective, they do. Um, I think less so if we're talking about highly trained, uh, sorry, untrained individuals, but the, um, I'll have two minds about it. One, I really understand why the data shows up that way because specificity is so powerful that you don't need much of it when it comes to strength in the short term. Um, you know, as much as I think I don't necessarily agree with the position stand of some of the folks who've questioned the relationship between hypertrophy and strength, one of the things I really did like was them pointing out that, Hey, if you just take people and you just test them on their one RM and you do it once a month, they get stronger for months. So once per month or once per week, just doing a one RM test makes them better at the test. And it just shows you how much there is a neuromuscular skill specificity component to lifting, right? And then you can see A-50 to 60% improvement in strength with, without hypertrophy, uh, on a complex movement task is really, really sobering. And it doesn't, uh, necessarily change the fact that I do think long-term more muscle is going to enable you to lift more, but it does really help you understand why these low volume protocols over the time course of the typical training study have a much larger signal in the noise compared to then doing it two or three times. Um, but once you get into the realm of looking at more trained populations, and I think Dr. Pack did a great job with a lot of his research here, just going from doing a single one to three times per week to doing a single plus two back offsets of triples at 80% of that single went from having a negligible impact on strength or a small impact to very notable strength gains in well-trained individuals. So that exposure to the task is, is important, but even then one plus two back offsets two to three times per week, that's a much lower volume than seems to produce a comparable amount in hypertrophy. So I would say in my coaching experience, um, my coaching experience, if I, if I didn't understand how the research was done, and I understand this pushback from a lot of powerlifting coaches, they, they just kind of reject the volume data and it's because they know that long-term it's not viable. Um, but as a coach, I also know that if we're looking to the three month study, we're basically looking at a peaking block. And I do know that if you run that type of volume with high intensity in the final two months before competition, you're generally going to get a pretty good response. Right. Um, but I can't keep it. Like, I just can't like none of my high level lifters, the highest level are still progressing on those kinds of low volumes. Um, at least not on all of us. And do you think that's because, do you think that's because you, you basically do need to be, as you're working on, you know, the task specific skill and the neuromuscular elements of strength, you do have to be nudging the hypertrophy along at the higher levels. Do you think that's why there's that discrepancy or a big reason for it? I'd say it's a big reason. I think there's probably other morphological adaptations as well that are part of that. Um, and I think, yeah, it's, it's just not enough, you know, um, it's, that's exactly been my experience. And because, yeah, you know, just to, to give context. Yeah. One of the reasons I wanted to ask this question is I, I, I teach a class, I teach an advanced resistance training class, uh, here at Duke university. And I do show my students those meta regressions, uh, you know, those, those images where from, I think it's Pelon's, uh, meta regression, but here's the one for set volume and hypertrophy. Everybody looks at it, nods their head says, great. I say, and by, by the way, here's the one for volume and strength. And I say, no, really. Right. Yeah. And you, you look at, you know, any kind of off the shelf powerlifting program and you're like, this doesn't seem to match up, you know, and, and I think, uh, you, you've pointed out some of the major things that, that I kind have explained in that class in terms of the, the apparent discrepancy. Yeah. And it's, it's just such a big confounder when we're looking at the length of studies, the relatively low skill, uh, of strength in the, in the individuals in those studies. Um, and then if we think about the time course of long-term adaptation, and this is, you know, frankly, one of the legitimate understandable critiques that is ultimately wrong of the, the volume, like from the low volume crowd who said, listen, they actually have it the other way. The volume for strength makes sense, but the volume for hypertrophy doesn't, and you should buy the strength data. And, uh, one of the biggest issues there is that there's only about a, I think a one third overlap between the studies that do both because any lab can test one or M if they can, if they can do a training protocol, they can do a testing protocol because it's one the same, but not every lab has ultrasound or MRI, right? And very few have MRI on that note. So what, what you're looking at is that when you try to look at those two curves and see how they relate, you're comparing apples to oranges. And in fact, if you did a specific comparison, I've talked to Robinson about this as well as Pelland. Um, and you just look at the ones that are actually collecting the same data. You get a much more compelling story that hypertrophy does influence strength. And you see this correlation start to line up. And I think if you were to talk to, to, to, to, to the guys who ran this study, they would tell you if anything, the volume data is maybe over extrapolating the, the beneficial nature of like sets over 20 or 25. And if anything, the strength data is the opposite. Just because of the nature of the way the studies and they're done, the participants in them. And I think we'll get a little more, I don't think we're going to see a nature of those relationships change. It's still going to be diminishing returns. And I think you're still going to see, um, the largest changes in strength and to a larger degree than hypertrophy with the earlier sets. But I think we will long-term see that they are like, we're going to see more volume being beneficial for strength and the highest volumes being inconsistently better for hypertrophy, but never worse. Yeah. And I think that gets back to this whole idea of like, well, when meta-analyses exist, why would I care about a position standard? Why would I care about this type of conversation? And it's because, well, there's many reasons, but one is with any meta-analysis, um, you know, I think there is, I'm concerned that there's maybe a growing belief that, uh, once we simply have enough data, we could just vibe code a giant meta-analysis that will just solve all training. And it was just, oh, here's, yeah, you need to do this many sets with that frequency, you know? And the problem is even with a meta-regression, a meta-analysis that was done very well and very systematically, we still have to interpret the findings based on what were the characteristics of the preponderance of data that's actually fueling this model. What is the concept? What was measured over what timeframes? How was it measured? What did these programs actually look like? Who was doing these programs? And we will still run into situations where we do a big old meta-regression. We say that was done very proficiently. However, I think I need more sets, right? And I think that is the thing that a lot of people struggle with because they say, well, but this was supposed to be it. This is supposed to be the type of evidence that tells us the end-all be-all answer for you. And ultimately it's unfortunately not how it works. Yeah. Well said. I think that's really well said. So yeah, I think to answer the two kind of parts of your question, what was the overall findings? Pretty clear. And then how would we have viewed that in 2009? I think the only thing that we would have probably been a little surprised at is, oh, like it's pretty clear that they're pretty confident with high frequency on strength. And today we would say, is that high frequency or is that just like a normal-ish frequency? But yeah, I think people just don't realize where things were at. I remember even as late as 2011 and 12, I finally started doing a three times per week frequency on bench press. Bench press, right? Yeah. But there wasn't really kind of a lift specific perspective except for even lower frequency on deadlift, which kind of came from the powerlifting community at the time. It was really quite different in the powerlifting community to be training a lift of any type more than twice a week. Twice was already high volume. And the only way you could possibly do that is doing a dynamic effort and a maximal effort day, right? So you got to go lighten or maybe you do repeated effort. But when I started training a lift three times a week, people were responding to me the way they do today is if you're doing a lift every day, right? And then... I remember that. Yeah. No, it's really fun to kind of like remind people of what that lifting culture was like and the kind of the shared understanding that like if you're training a muscle twice a week, that is tiptoeing into high volume range. And three is squarely... Sorry, high frequency. And three is a squarely high frequency program to the extent you might want to watch out with that. And like I think probably my favorite example of this, I had a buddy in college. He was one of my roommates and we were both meatheads. Like this is prime Eric Trexler. And I just remember if you want to know how ingrained bro splits were back in the day, because we're talking like for powerlifters, for bodybuilders, a lot of folks were still doing one day a week, huge amounts of volume per muscle per session. I remember walking into the gym one day. I see my roommate there. Hey buddy, what you doing today? You know, like what's on the menu for the lift? And he said, today's trap day. Helms, can you, can you fathom having a trap day? I'm going to go train for 75 minutes, traps. So to me, that's always, I'll always remember even then thinking, okay, this is a little bit overboard, but like you would actually occasionally talk to someone and say, what's on the docket for today's workout? And they would say triceps and you say, are you doing a 13 minute workout? And they're, no, I'm going to be here for 75 minutes. Uh, so those were in fact, the good old days. And I do miss them. Uh, cause honestly people, I will say this Helms, not to get too like rocking chair, you know, uh, you know, old man. Remember you're only reminiscing, but correct. But so I'm getting ahead of the curve here, but I will say at that time, people really enjoyed their training because they just weren't so they weren't so worried about doing it wrong. Like that's the impression that I got. I think there was less of a belief that there was this massive chasm between optimal and pretty okay. Uh, and, and I do think that people would just walk in and have a really good time. And like the gym was a really fun space to be, uh, for a zillion different reasons. The vibe was a little bit different. People were less worried about doing it perfectly and more, more worried about getting in there, getting a sweat on and feeling the burn. And I feel like there's, there's things we could draw from that and utilize. So I would say, I love, uh, all the updated information in 2026, but bring back a little bit of the vibes from 2009. Absolutely. No, I, I think, I think that's, will you commit Helms? Sorry. I hate to cut you off, but will you commit to a good 75 to 90 minute trap day with me in Australia? You know what, with the volumes I'm achieving, um, it's, it's not that insane. Um, I might be sneaking in some other things on top of that. There might be some peripheral supersets, but if, if, if you want to get in, you know, 10 or 11 direct sets of trap work and you don't mind me maybe sneaking in some calves and some leg extents and some leg curls, if you can look the other way, then a hundred percent. I can't look the other way. I'm sorry. It's the, the, the whole idea is saying we're going to start out with some barbell shrugs. Then we're going to do some dumbbell shrugs. Then do the dumbbell rolling shrugs that were really big back then. No, I'm not doing that. I've always hated those and they never made any sense. And I've, they never made sense, but they were all the rage you have to do. And then we'll get into the face pulls genre of the workout and we'll start, you know, trying to do all that. I mean, we're, we're looking at a good 30 set trap day and there's just not going to be time for you to sneak in all that other crap. Okay. How about this? Um, can we have a, a trap day that is anatomically respecting the full breadth of the traps? So we're talking, the traps are, are, you know, like that we got a diamond on our back. So that means we're talking scapular retraction, depression, as well as elevation, not just the elevation. Sure. That's a row. If we're trying to make you feel better. Okay. Then we're doing rows and we are also doing a high rows to get that, that lower trap portion. And we're going to do shrugs and, and now I'm on board. Okay. Well, there you go. Well, we'll see if we can get that arranged. Uh, of course I'm, I'm going to bail on you at the last minute, but, uh, but I love, I don't know, just the premise still tickles me to this day. I love it so much. And the best part is one of these two things will also happen. If you don't bail, you'll show up to the gym and I will be suspiciously already sweaty in, in, in a tank top and be like, yeah, let's start our workout. Or we'll start to leave the gym and you'll say something like, Oh, I think I left something. I'll meet you back in the hotel. And you'll see me an hour later, suspiciously more sweaty. And, uh, don't worry about what happened. You'll just say, I got locked in a very warm elevator and they wouldn't let me out. I left my lifting straps in the sauna and then I just looked for, I only found one of them. And the other one I looked for, for 45 minutes. One of our colleagues moved something heavy in front of the door, right? When he walked into the sauna. So it was a near death experience. Yep. I'll spare you the details cause it was traumatic. That's what's going to happen. Yeah. But all right, Helm. So, uh, where, where do we go from here? Well, obviously to the most important, uh, outcome of all of hypertrophy. Absolutely. And this one, I think also has some elements that we will probably be on board with, but maybe not fully. So, um, the main one was, Hey, volume is the principal thing that seems to move the needle on this. This is not claiming that volume is the actually stimulating, you know, initial thing that actually causes muscle growth, but it is the variable that seems to move it the most. And important to note that the vast, vast, vast majority of research on hypertrophy training includes people training primarily to failure or very close to it using RMs. Um, so I think that's just something that we really need to acknowledge. Anytime you hear us talking about from a literature-based perspective, that volume is one of the primary variables that seems to have the largest effect size on hypertrophy is that the assumption is, if we look at 80% of studies in our area, some definition of failure was used, whether it was a repetition maximum or the actual terminology of failure, not always necessarily momentary muscular failure. And that in studies, people are actually training closer to failure than they are in the real world, even in relatively hardcore circles because of the nature of studies and having research assistance. Um, so there is a note, and this is where I think people would be a little surprised, especially given, uh, Robinson's meta regression on proximity to failure that, Hey, failure and fatigue don't seem to have much of an influence here. Volume was really the only thing that seemed to matter. Frequency didn't matter. Load different didn't matter, et cetera. Now I think this comes down to first, this surprises me now as if I put on my pure practitioner hat or pure bodybuilder hat, this would have surprised me in 2009. And I don't think that's changed. Um, I think this comes down to largely a methodological point though. So you're thinking, Hey, Robinson, largest meta analysis on, you know, proximity to failure that's been done on hypertrophy, ACSM guidelines, it includes it. How could they come to different conclusions that it doesn't matter? Well, let's point out that, um, they are summarizing the data from all of the meta analyses and meta regressions. And arguably Robinson's might be the only one that is actually found a pretty notable and clear trend towards being closer to failure, increasing the stimulus for hypertrophy. And they uniquely did not only a continuous analysis. So it was technically a meta regression, not a traditional, uh, you know, pairwise comparison with your, you know, your nice little forest plot that you see in a typical meta analysis of failure versus non-failure. Um, but because every other meta analysis is not done that way, and they're often comparing quite close to failure versus non-failure training. In most cases, there hasn't been a clear signal in the noise for training to failure in these A versus B comparisons up to this point, whether that was the recent one done by Ruffalo and colleagues that I was a part of, uh, or whether ones that have gone back and, uh, to prior. And what would you always do see is a non-significant trivial effect size or small effect size. It's non-significant leaning in favor of training to failure, showing that something is going on here. But I think because of the way that the guidelines, the prior guidelines, PRIOR for this ACSM, um, you know, umbrella review was done, they couldn't necessarily go, but yeah, we like Robinson's analysis because it was continuous and favorite. And more importantly, I don't actually think it conflicts with Robinson's analysis because something that, that, um, that Zach did a really great job of in the whole team was saying, yeah, we have enough data because of the way we extracted it to be as inclusive as possible and to estimate proximity to failure to see this relationship. But this is coming down to the difference that we see in other fields between clinical meaningfulness as well as statistical significance or, um, you know, whatever threshold you use, whether it's Bayesian or what have you to, to come to the, the, the, the outcome of where you report this is, this is real. Statistically, we do see a difference because if you look at the actual percentage change estimates, when you compare, say a zero RIR to like a four RIR, it's not the type of thing that would be significant in an individual study or even most small sample size pairwise meta-analytic comparisons of A versus B. So to say that yes, training closer to failure does produce more hypertrophy, um, and saying that it probably doesn't make much of a difference for hypertrophy compared to volume can both be true. And that, I think it's a difficult thing to wrap your head around. And I think another methodological thing, same thing going back to the nature of who are resistance trained participants. Like I said, average bench press and even a trained group in your typical resistance training study is benching less than body weight. We're looking largely at people who are relatively untrained in the hypertrophy literature. And I do think that when the typical proximity to failure that you're used to training with is, you know, you got up off the toilet, that's your one body weight squat. And if you're really deconditioned, maybe you could only do 10 body weight squats. So you're training at a, a nine RIR, depending upon your bowel movement frequency with a low volume three to seven times a week, right? Like, so when you even go to a five RIR or a three RIR, it is a tremendously much more challenging experience than, um, you and I think of training to failure where like we're auditing ourselves. Like, you know what? I've been training in too many of my sets are a three RIR. I need to get closer to one. And here's another one of those times where it's like, if I understood the literature and I put on my personal training hat, I'd be fine. But if I don't, then this can be like, these studies are bullshit. But I remember, um, I have a distinct client in my mind, a distinct experience, put a barbell on her back and she did 15 reps. And that was the plan and racked it probably around a three to four RIR, right? So it's, we're training hard enough. And she goes, that was heavy. And my immediate exercise science, like brain went, no, by definition, that is not heavy. We are training in what is typically a muscular endurance range, you know, like, but what was she exposed to prior to that? Do you never squatted a hundred pounds before? It doesn't matter for how many reps, you know, this, this was a second month of training with me. We just graduated from doing like a dumbbell goblet squat to putting a bar on her back. Of course, it feels heavy. When has she ever had a hundred pounds sitting on her shoulders, right? Yeah. A hundred percent. And you also notice a lot of times part of that heavy is, uh, I don't, I don't know if the terminology that always comes to mind with me, because I do, I do still teach a lot of people to squat for the first time. Um, and there's a certain level of like vulnerability when you put a bar on your back and you actually hit depth. And with the, the way I often describe depth is you're going to go down to a point where as you're going down, you're saying, I feel good. I feel good. I feel good. And when you actually hit depth, they're going to say, I'm not sure if I can get up. Like, like to me, that where, where you really hit that point where you say, Oh, I've hit a threshold here where I no longer feel totally confident that I'm actually getting up from this. Right. And so I do think that even if you're challenging the same muscle groups with the same level of, of, uh, you know, tension or resistance, there is something about that barbell squat where, yeah, someone is going to look at you and say, that was heavy. And that was hard, even though you're like, yeah, but it's, I, you did 15, you had four reps in reserve. So yeah, there's a lot psychologically going on in that situation that you have to factor into programming. And it's actually something that is quite understandable from a biomechanics lens. Um, some movements have such an extreme difference in their resistance profile at different points in the range of motion, uh, that even when you can complete the full range of motion for 15 reps, the relative load, the RIR, if you were to, if you were to just sit down at the bottom of a squat and only come up to the point where you were like a centimeter below parallel, your 15 rep max has now become your six rep max, right? And it is only the fact that you're getting a little bit of an eccentric concentric stretch shortening cycle, and that you're generating momentum to get past that sticking range that you can do 15. And you know, this because you could take that same load and you can squat down above parallel and you can do an extra 10 reps, right? So if you're, you're so much weaker due to muscle tank, uh, muscle tension relationships, or sorry, muscle length tension relationships, and also just the fact that your lever arms are getting longer at the bottom of a squat that it, it feels because it is way harder once you hit depth. And I think that's something that it's difficult to understand. If you're just lifting weights, you just know, like, I don't feel safe enough to go down the first few times you train. And then us crazy people who keep training, just know that I know from prior experience, I will survive, but this, I I've, I've only habituated to feeling like I'm going to die and that's called squats, you know? Exactly. Yeah, for sure. A hundred percent. So, um, so yeah, basically main takeaways here for hypertrophy, like you said, there was this whole discrepancy, uh, or, you know, superficially looked like a discrepancy there with, um, uh, proximity to failure. Anything else jump out at you or did, did the rest of it seem pretty straightforward, pretty, uh, pretty in, in line with what you'd expect? There is one element that I think is an example of how we've gotten, uh, collectively dumber over time. Um, wow. Yeah. So they did note that eccentric overload does seem to have some positive influence on hypertrophy. I don't think in 2009 that would have shocked anybody in 2009. If anything, we were thinking that perhaps damage was a little more related to hypertrophy. So eccentrics have always been closely related to muscle damage since the eighties. When they were first studied, we noticed that, uh, eccentric overload or eccentric only training or training that emphasized the eccentric produced more muscle damage. Um, and while that was incorrect, uh, that the damage is a causative mechanism for hypertrophy. Um, what has, and I had a rant about this a few months ago. Unfortunately, this one, I was pleased to see that this largely died in the crib, but there are still some people who have a general negative feeling towards eccentric because they have the eccentric phase or eccentric focus training because they have a general, uh, I would say overzealous fear or over fixation on fatigue more broadly. Um, and the lack of understanding of how truly robust the repeated bout effect is, uh, that is lingering. And it has even crept into some people who I think are generally right and evidence-based, but it just got repeated so much, uh, largely coming from folks who have not accurately interpreted the science and have cherry picked to support a model, uh, that they have, um, and are over extrapolating in the area where we don't fully understand the mechanosensors involved. But a very consistent finding in the literature that has been around for decades is that if anything, you get neutral positive outcomes when you try to emphasize the eccentric. And I will admit that some of this could be that most training is of a relatively low volume, low frequency relative to what's done in the real world. And if you tried to do an exceedingly high volume of only eccentric training, that's when you might run into problems, you know? Um, but if we're talking about resistance training studies, this typically means, you know, higher load. Uh, it typically means, um, you know, like pretty high stimulus and, and it's definitely not a thing to claim that the eccentric is a negative. So one thing they did note is that eccentric overload training and volume seemed to have the biggest effects on, uh, hypertrophy. Wouldn't have shocked anybody in 2009, maybe for the wrong reasons, but now for the wrong reasons, it would shock people today because they don't actually read research. They follow infographics by people who only read the research that they want and that agrees with their biases. Yeah. I, I still remember when you first brought that to my attention that you're like, do you know, people are saying that the, the eccentric phase is bad for hypertrophy. And I was like, excuse me? Yep. When, when did this happen? Uh, so yeah, that, that is a great example of how, uh, yeah, I don't know. I, I, I appreciate that people in fitness like to bounce some ideas around and think outside the box, but we still need to stay tethered to like, you know, let's get back into the data. Uh, and, and, and also kind of the, also our, our best available mechanistic, mechanistic understanding and try to figure this stuff out. Right. We, we shouldn't just like throw spaghetti at a wall and be like, that is now my training philosophy. Yeah. Um, I need to move along because as you, as you know, this, this is something that, that this drives me. And I've never seen you, I've never seen you more emotionally hurt by a training topic. Uh, it, it really did. Like I, I will respectfully move past this. Um, because, uh, first of all, I don't want to see you in that state. Uh, but, but also because I did think about something, you know, we've talked about this, like 2009 versus today, you know, what was the perspective and I don't want to backtrack too far, but going back to that idea of train to failure, this is another one that's been a little bit of a seesaw where, uh, in 2009, at least in my, my circles that I was running in, uh, pretty rough crowd, by the way, uh, failure was assumed. Like we, we didn't really stop to think of, should you train to failure? The, the, the idea was, well, training makes you bigger and stronger. And if you could do more reps, you do the training, right? Like the, the, the training is what does it. And theoretically, it seems like the hard stuff is particularly good because I watched the Rocky movies and I know the harder it is, the better it is for you. Right. Uh, so failure was assumed to the real question in 2009, again, in my circles that I ran in was what is the utility of going past failure? That was the only debate people were having. Right. And so 2009, this was the heyday of drop sets and drop set, you know, drop, drop sets and drop, drop, drop set, you know, just running the rack was a common thing, right? You started out with the, with the sixties, you worked your way down to the tens and there was just a scattered mess of dumbbells left in your wake. Uh, so yeah, I think that's an interesting, uh, an interesting little case study because we never even really thought about that question. It seemed intuitively obvious, which is not all, that's not how you want to do science is just do the, the intuitive thing and assume it's true. But in 2009, that was the perspective a lot of people had, especially for hypertrophy. And then we got into, uh, I think more people embracing, well, if you're doing three or four reps in reserve, you're essentially close enough. And then there's, you know, additional, like you said, at meta regression say, well, maybe there is a couple little extra drops you can squeeze out going to failure. So it's been interesting to see that kind of seesaw, but I think by and large, I think people are a lot more comfortable now stopping a few reps shy of failure than they were in 2009. I don't know if that's your impression. Yeah, I would say just a big up. You and it went even before 2009. I remember specifically, when I started training in 04, I was still in the military, my workout partner and I trained together. And the way we were trained to train was from a bodybuilding lens. And then we got into powerlifting and we kind of were doing, you know, proto era strength and hypertrophy training at the same time. And when one of us would get deployed or go on leave, um, we were begrudgingly accepting that we couldn't get the same out of our training because we can no longer do four streps. Um, and we were literally training to failure and doing four streps on every set. And the first thing that actually convinced me to maybe not always train past failure, if you want to accept that as something you actually can do, um, was Alberta Nunez actually pointing out that across four sets, I might get more total reps by not going to failure and leaving one to two at most in the tank on the first couple sets. And I just did the math. I was like, yeah, if I hit my 10 rep max, then I'm probably going to get nine, then seven, then five. And, but if I do eight on each one, I'm actually getting one or two reps more. And I, and I, I, I, I, and I didn't just take his word for it. I had to do it. So I went in one day and went to failure with, you know, was it 185 or 205 or whatever my strength level was a year into training. And I counted up the total reps I got, if I stopped what I thought was short of it. Uh, and I got two more reps and I was like, okay. Um, now, cause now I'm actively pitting failure against volume. Right. And I'm like, it still felt hard, you know, it looked good. And, uh, so yeah, I guess more total work. I'm, I'm on board with that, you know? So like, yeah, but that's what it took. You show me that I'm actually somehow hurting long-term what I can do. And then Berta was also like, also next time you train, um, you might actually find you, you can, you can hit it just as hard and not have to like, you know, you can train it again two days later. And I was like, Oh, so this was like my first exposure to realizing that, uh, if I focused, if I just took one step back and looked at sets instead of set, and I took two steps back and I looked at sessions instead of set or sets that maybe I could, I could get a little more out of me. And that was what it took to convince me. And then because, and only because I was both a dual sport strength and physique athlete, I started to see that there was a discrepancy between the two, but I also created a firewall pretty early. I'm like, sure. Well, if I'm training for strength, then maybe I don't go to failure because strength training is about load and percentage of one RM. And, you know, it's just like Shika was getting popular back then, not just one side. So like the value of, it was novel, but it was seen as a different style of training. Like I go in and I have to do all of these sets of five, three, two at 70, 75, 80%. And it just doesn't matter how close to failure I am. I'm building the skill of strength. And I think that was correct at that timeframe, but I think there was probably too much of a firewall between the two styles of training instead of thinking of them conceptually. And it took me getting exposed to Olympic weightlifting and took me getting exposed to more literature and just trying to do higher frequency training and then realizing the necessary changes that would occur to volume, frequency, and intensity when you manipulated one of the others. And it was probably right around like 2013, which feels like I'm embarrassed to say that because of how long I had been lifting at that point. It was almost nine years into training. And I had been a personal trainer for eight years at that point. And I was into my, my, my, my master's and early PhD. And I've been coaching bodybuilders for a couple years before I, I finally had that aha moment of seeing all the stars align and connect. And I've only had what I would describe as important, but still refinements, not complete paradigm shifts in my thinking of training since then. But it took all of that exposure to kind of deprogram me from the way things were even in the, even though I was working across silos, I was still heavily influenced by those individual silos. Yeah. I mean, I, I, I still remember the first time I was doing like a very kind of bro split bodybuilding type thing and the, and tons of volume per session, you know, per muscle per session, everything to failure, final set, almost always, you know, quote unquote, past failure with different intensification techniques. Uh, and the first time I tried a Shiko program, when I started dipping my toes into powerlifting, I was like, wait a minute, when I follow this structured plan and I don't just push everything, you know, you know, gas pedal all the way down. Uh, I seem to be getting better every session that I come in and at that, which is on, that doesn't sound like a very profound statement, but I had been lifting for a pretty long time. I was long past the days of getting better every time you step in the gym. So, uh, so I felt like I had this kind of, I was like, I feel like I'm having beginner gains again in terms of my strength progress. And I, that was really eyeopening for me. And I remember, you know, really that hitting, I, I, it took me a minute to piece together what exactly is causing this. Uh, but, but it was a very big revelation and something that I certainly carried forward with me. It's not to say that the Shiko programs were these magic, you know, completely optimized one size fits all for everybody, but it was just a like, Hey, have you tried not like doing a triple drop set on your second set of five? And have you thought about like, what if instead of just trying to get a pump of the moment, the moment you step in the gym and then keep it for 70 minutes, what if you actually tried to like, you know, move more weight over time? And it turns out that's a pretty substantial thing. Yeah. And every time I've gotten mired in one kind of a dogma, it's, it's bit me in the butt one of the other two ways. Like I saw that success when I tried structured powerlifting programs. And I essentially leaned into what was common then what was a relatively low volume, relatively low frequency, but relatively specific style of training. And it did wonders for the muscle groups that I have that seem to not quite for whatever reason, need as much volume. And I essentially peaked my bench press strength and then just maintained it for years tracks. Uh, I was like benching right around three plates for a solid five years. And I thought I had tried everything, but I only tried everything that was acceptable within the dogma of the time. And then boom, like I said, I tried three times per week. And of course that also resulted in increase in volume and there, boom, I'm hitting a little more than three plates. Try four times per week, try five times a week. Then I shifted to, I'm going to bench every time I step in the damn gym and I'm going to do, you know, back on like, and I'm still doing bodybuilding work in the background. And that's when I actually had a three 63 touch and go. So I, within the span of a couple of years, put 50 pounds on a bench when I'd already been training for over 10 years. And I was like, yeah, okay. And that was really, I think when I started to think more conceptually and be more willing to experiment, um, which was a huge benefit to my growth as a thinker. So a scientist coach and lift for myself. Yeah. Yeah. I, I had the same experience where, um, I was amazed what happened when I, I jumped from, I was benching twice a week and I jumped straight to four. And, uh, I think, and I, I I'll admit, I was doing the, I did the small of the base meso cycle. It was going around, it was going around. I did it once. I took like a week or two to kind of, you know, switch things up, um, little transition, uh, little micro cycle. And then I did it again. I went right back to the well cause I was hooked. And I remember bumping my touch and go bench from, uh, man, uh, across those eight weeks. I think I started right around the 300 ish range. And I, for my final post testing, after the second wave of the base meso cycle, I did a touch and go with three 55. Cause I misloaded it. I thought, I thought it was lighter and that's still, uh, my best, uh, my best bench press that I've ever done. Um, right after I did that, I, uh, I got hit by a car crossing the street and that derailed my bench press a little bit. Yeah. And then I was like, it, the hit it, getting hit by the car was very consequential because as I was focusing on building my bench, I realized that I should probably go ahead and compete in bodybuilding while I'm able bodied and like healthy and good. Cause like, you don't, you know, you don't know how long that's going to last as a lifter. Right. Uh, not, not to be like, Oh, you know, I had this like profound thing. I was just like, you know what? I've been training in a healthy way, like no injuries for quite some time. This is a good base of muscularity. It's time to finally do it. You know? Well said. Yeah. No, I think, um, a little bit of kind of reality that anything can be taken from you at any time is a natural consequence and not a bad thing after you get hit by a car, I would say. So, yeah, well, yeah. And, uh, but anyway, yeah, the, the, the take home point though, is I was delaying competing in bodybuilding. I was like, Oh, I'm totally into bodybuilding, but I'll do it someday. But every time I was about to say, okay, now's the time to cut down and do it. I was like, well, I should probably bring up my quads a little bit. Then those come up and I was like, well, I should probably fill in my chest a little bit. It was always something right. And that was the thing that made me realize everything's fine. Like I've been training with no injuries for a long time. All my muscle groups are reasonably fine. It's time to do this. So, yeah, I don't want to act like it was this kind of like life is so fragile, very profound contemplative process. It was just like, you're fine, dude. Like you don't need to add another 30 grams of tissue to your triceps before you do this, you know, and you're an idiot. So you're probably going to get hit by another car. So, cause it was totally my fault. I, uh, was not paying attention and walked in front of a moving car, which had the audacity to be driving, uh, down the road. How dare they? Yeah. Yeah. All right. Uh, where do we go from here, Helms? I think we've covered, uh, the, yeah, I think we've covered, uh, the, the, the strength, the hypertrophy, getting hit by a car, small of, and Shiko making me feel, uh, very, uh, man, just reminiscing about the good old days of fitness between 2010 ish and 2014 ish. Uh, uh, I do miss it. I, you got, you're going to have to cut me off here before I go too long on this, but I do wrong old man to cut you off about the heyday brother. I really deeply miss when fitness happened on the forums and it wasn't on social media. Uh, cause social media was frankly, not all that interesting back then there. They didn't really have the whole idea of like, here's your newsfeed or here's your grid or your, your for you page or discover page or whatever. There was no algorithmic element to it. Really. It was just kind of a, a thing where you messaged your buddies, uh, and posted a status when you were feeling, you know, like, Oh, I want to tell everyone what song I'm listening to. So fitness largely was happening on these forums. You went there for it and then you left and, uh, it didn't follow you around all day and, uh, the forums that it was just, it did lead to these fun little, uh, social contagions as they pertain to training where everybody was like, Oh, maybe I should do small off. Maybe I should do Shiko. So it is funny because in that timeframe, everybody was basically trying the same things. Cause there was not this huge diversity of ideas. Everybody's kind of getting funneled into a few kind of key, uh, key, uh, you know, flavor of the day in terms of training and nutrition. But man, those, those were really fun days. Those in my book, the heyday of evidence-based fitness kind of getting its feet underneath it. Well said. No, I'm there with you. Um, to go back to your first question, I think, uh, what do we want to do to close out? I have basically two comments. One that I think is a really good thing that I like about this position stand and one that is not, that is, uh, exemplified in this position stand, but it's something I generally have an issue with in the literature on power. So we'll start with what's really good. And, uh, they acknowledge something that I really like. Uh, and it's a bit of how the 2009 position stand, in addition to being really, really general, when they did get specific, it created, um, confusion because I think they were focusing on the limited studies they had and what kind of optimized things. And they reported on like, what's the best approach for optimizing say, strength, power, hypertrophy, et cetera. And also like, what's the general guidelines. And, um, you could basically only get something beneficial from one or the other. So they noted that people have actually gone and looked at the recommendations for strength, hypertrophy, and power and what the recommendations specifically were in 2009. And that if you wanted to, um, follow the guidelines for all of them simultaneously, because it didn't have a whole lot of overlap, it would require about 20 hours of training more or more per week. So it created kind of this Frankenstein idea where maybe a trainer who is trying to achieve general fitness would be like, I can't follow these guidelines, which I was really glad that they acknowledged that. Cause I do remember that paper when it came out, um, and some of the critiques of just the issues with the ACSM guidelines back then. And what they acknowledge in the present one is that there's really low participation rates. And then if we want to increase participation rates, we really need to think about, uh, minimum effective doses and functional effective programs that will create an adaptation, not necessarily the best possible adaptation. And that you do get a lot of benefits from training, uh, generally that, you know, crossover and other, other, other adaptations, like just because muscular endurance, hypertrophy, strength, and power are sometimes envisioned or even listed in your textbook as separate things. Any resistance training is going to prove them all. You get stronger, you can do more reps with a lower weight, right? If you're training for strength, you're probably going to get bigger, especially if you're not untrained. If you're training for strength and you're lifting heavy, you're trying to move the load as fast as you can, because it's heavy, it doesn't move fast. You're probably going to get more powerful. So, uh, it was really cool to see them acknowledge that and point out how, um, they've tried to improve upon that and that their stance, uh, for encouraging, uh, participation in resistance training is much more focused on, uh, like let's, let's get good gains, not let's, what's the best thing from a scientific perspective. Um, so yeah, I, I really liked that. Uh, and, and they note how this is a important change, um, which is cool. And they even talk about like injury risk and things like that. Some more practical stuff, which I think is much more appropriate for position stand. So they, they discuss not only that a minimum effective dose will enhance participation. Um, but they also discuss things like injury rates and, uh, safety risks and things about adverse events. So they're, they're very practically focused on, on what will be the things, uh, that are relevant in the real world, not just what in the literature is associated with the highest effect sizes for these specific outcomes, which I think is really important for a practitioner focused position stand. Awesome. Yeah. And then you said you also had something to say about power. Yeah, this is a quibble I have. I think the way, um, many, um, papers are written that aren't highly specialist are, they perpetuate the idea that power is a thing. Like it's a very distinct adaptation, which, which frustrates the hell out of me from a biomechanics perspective. And then the only other papers, if you want to read about them, they require a level of understanding of biomechanics. That's probably above the, the, the terminology or, or the understanding of the typical trainer. And like power is not a specific trait like it is for maximal strength, or it is for hypertrophy, which is that physiological adaptation. All things have power work over time or, you know, force times velocity. Right. And when people think, Oh no, Olympic weightlifting, that that's power, but powerlifting ironically is strength. And I'm like, well, not really. In both cases, the movement constraints are dictating the speed and what is going to be a maximal lift, right? If you have to drop as fast as you can underneath the bar that you can only pull up to here, it's going to be faster, right? Power rates are going to be higher, but it's not like you're training for power. You're training for Olympic weightlifting. And yeah, you are trying to move a max deadlift as fast as you possibly can, but because of the constraints of the movement and the resistance profile, it's only going to move slow and you will see a 10 second deadlift sometimes. Right. But they're not, not trying to train for power. Like they're not issuing that, you know? Um, so I think, um, the way power training is written, they go, Hey, it's best done training from 30 to 70% of one RM. I think that that that's not untrue as a statement, but it doesn't help a trainer understand the overlying general principle of what power training should be. Right. So what is the task that you care about? Because training power in a football lineman or training power in someone throwing a javelin are going to look different. Right. Um, so I think, I think people just need to understand that all human movement has an associated velocity, um, and that velocity and load have an, you know, inextricable relationship. So if you have someone who is wanting to train to move their body through space with as much combination of force and velocity as possible, then the way you train should be relevant to that. And you also need to think where they start. Are they quite weak? And maybe we need to focus on upping that force side of that force times velocity comparison, or are they a big bulky dude, but they just don't move very fast. And we need to focus on more velocity based training. So that's something that I think is, is kind of lost as a pretty practical application of power-based training is that it is kind of seen as this distinct thing. And it's not like everything has power. And I, I like it a lot more when people, even though it's a harder concept people to grasp, they talk about impulse or they talk about just the velocity of training and viewing that from the lens of specificity. You know, like if you want to train specifically, you think about the joint angles, the muscle groups, the vector, and the speed of the movement from like an S and C perspective. Right. And then you think about the weaknesses of the strengths of the individual. And that collectively, I think is a highly intuitive, common sense based perspective on how do I, I train it. And then there's some degree of considering, okay. Um, when I'm close to the competition, if this is a skilled movement, do I want to be altering that specific motor pattern? Right. So like if, as an example, um, you will get some people who are far to the other side of it and they're like, Oh, I would never do a weighted sled for a sprinter because it changes their, the way they run. It's like, well, of course it does. They're pulling a sled, but it doesn't mean that's going to mess up their, their, their running speed unless that's all you're doing close to competition. You know, from that same angle, we should never put chains on a bar, never put bands on a bar, never lift less than a one RM because it's going to alter the, uh, the mechanics of the squat. So like, I think I I've seen this in various fields where people will go way too far and they're doing like weighted bat swings, you know, or things like that. But I think all of those things can apply in a given context, depending upon that athlete or person's needs baseline, how much of it is making up of their total training load, where their deficits are. And when do you do it relative to when they're actually going to be competing? So I know this isn't an S and C paper, but I often get frustrated by the overall overly generalized thing of like, Hey, we get it's, it's, it's just math. Like if you multiply, you know, force times velocity, it's going to be somewhere in the middle where you get the highest number of both, where one doesn't necessarily drop the other, right? If you, the heavier, the load, the slower it's going to go. So obviously if you go really, really heavy or really, really light, you can't maximize the product of those two values. So of course power's in the center, but does training to maximize the power output actually result in the functional outcome you want? And now if you measure force times velocity as the outcome metric in a study, and you train with the highest combination of force and velocity in the middle, that will result in that. But that's not the same thing as performance, right? Rant. So what you're saying is, you know, you, you need to take it, correct me if I'm wrong. I don't want to put words in your mouth. It sounds like what you're saying is when we talk about, you know, the actual applications of where people are usually kind of, uh, you know, prioritizing quote unquote power, we need to be thinking, you know, basically what is the task being completed? What is the optimal velocity for that task? And how do we get the athlete there versus I am going to modify this lift in the gym to maximize that, that product of those two values? Even if it puts me at a velocity that doesn't actually carry over to the task I'm training for. Yes, a hundred percent. And I think, um, it doesn't, I think it's actually easier to explain. I think it's an easier concept that fits nicely and with specificity and it's more directly connected to what should I actually be doing, um, as a coach versus trying to think about this specific metric. And the interesting thing here tracks is that if you look at this systematic review or this, this position stand, they note that quote unquote power training also seems to help the most with many of these functional tasks like jumping activities of daily living, change of direction, a bunch of various outcomes that were included in this review. You'll see, Oh, power training seems to be good. And again, why? Well, lifting weights, it moves slow doing other things like just moving your body is faster. If you train lighter, because that enables you to increase your power, you're just training more specifically. And there, you know, there's some classic reviews that show that, um, doing Olympic weightlifting or jump training, both improves jump similarly. And it's like, well, well, like no shit, right? Like the, the constraints of a jump aren't the same as the constraints of Olympic weightlifting. Both are going to generate a lot of power, but you don't need to therefore teach someone how to do the third pole or get the flexibility to do a clean or have a deep squat position. So I think we just get sometimes too caught up in certain styles of training, whether it's Olympic weightlifting or, or, or, or concepts of this fits into power because my textbook says I have to train for one to five reps at 30 to 70% of one RM for it to be power. And it's like, that's like, what are you trying to accomplish? Right. Specificity. Yeah. So anyway, well, I am going to have to, I don't often, uh, disagree with you, but I am going to have to take issue with one thing that you mentioned there. So you talked about how, um, you know, training at some of those higher velocities have better carry over to activities of daily living. You've never watched me get up out of a chair, uh, because my, the speed of movement as I get up out of a chair is not dissimilar from a world record setting, uh, one rep max squat. So there are some caveats to keep in mind. And frankly, between the, um, grunting you would see during maximal squatting and the grunting, as I get out of a typical chair, there actually is overlap there as well in terms of specificity. So, uh, that's my only quibble, uh, as someone who's 34 going on 36, uh, things are slowing down for me in activities of daily living. Well, that was actually going to be my question is, has that changed now that you've had this existential realization that you're actually a young spring buck? Have you found that the psychosomatic effect of gaining a year of life as it had you springing out of chairs, or at least the equivalent tracks and maybe getting out of chairs without quite as much groaning at more of a normal pace? I I've actually been trying to really restrict my velocities in activities of daily living. Cause now that I know I'm young, I'm afraid I might push my body beyond what it can handle. You know, I'm going to be thinking, Hey, I can tap into this explosiveness, explosiveness that's been gone for 12 months, you know? So I'm trying to just keep a, I'm trying to, you know, work my way back up to getting out of a chair, like a 34, almost 35 year old. So it's all about that kind of graded exposure over time. And, you know, basically following all the principles in this paper. I love it. You know what? I think that's totally understandable. And I remember when I got my hip surgery and, uh, people were asking me like, how do you feel like, like you're squatting the depth now? And my, someone even said, must feel like you can squat like a baby now. And I said, well, you know what? Not quite, but I will say I can squat like a 27 year old again. And they were like, how old are you? And this is like 2017. I was like, I'm 34, but it's, it's, it's a great improvement, but let's not, let's not be crazy. I don't have like a soft spot on the top of my head and I'm just, you know, learning object permanence again. Like, you know, I'm still, I'm still a beat up body that's been lifting weights for, you know, 15 years. So. Absolutely. Well, I, I'm feeling pretty late. I haven't had a surgery in a while, so I want to keep that streak going. I got to tell you, man. All right, Helms. Uh, I believe that does it for tonight. Anything else that you want to say to the, the good people before we wrap up here? No, just as always much appreciated for you, us following, uh, you following us along. And I'm super stoked that it is another anniversary birthday of the mass research review. And if you are interested, please head over to mass research review.com as a nice little bonus feature. Uh, you can read my article for free on the pseudoscientific myths in pop science, which will hopefully make your critical thinking razor of a brain sharper and sharper, sharper and sharper. Even if I can't speak English, I know that you will still, uh, sharpen your blade as I slowly slip into dementia in my forties. And if you go to mass research review.com, you read that free article and you say, you know what? I'd like to see what else is going on under the hood with this whole mass operation. Well, you can become a member of the community and you got all sorts of stuff. I wrote an article this month, uh, comparing and contrasting nitrate versus creatine supplementation. Uh, very fascinating looking at how stacking supplements that impact similar outcomes, but via different mechanisms, how you can kind of think through how you might want to approach that. I also talked about one of really a very minimal number of papers, actually looking at longitudinal effects of pre-workout caffeine on its own. So not in a pre-workout supplement with beta-alanine and creatine and amino acids and you name it. Right. So, uh, that's just a sampling of what we've got in store for you in this April issue of the mass research review. We're 10 years old. There's this huge stacking of mass's birthday, your birthday and my birthday all within a couple of weeks here. So, uh, if you want to give us, we've been in operation for nine years, but this means we're actually, so, you know, cause we started in 2017 and it's 2026. So we're not 10 years old. You did it again. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, run that back by me. So we turned one, even though we started, we were born in 2017, but we turned one in 2018. I think this is why I got my age wrong is because of all this anniversary math versus birthday math, cause they're different. It's hard. I'm not going to lie. You know, we were faced with a lot of challenges in life and I know that, you know, you've mastered meta analysis. You're only just one additional step of mathematical learning before you get, um, Oh my God. I can't believe I did that. Okay. But we're at our 10, our 10 year anniversary, uh, with all sorts of various birthdays, who knows what age we are. It's not, we'll, we'll crunch the numbers later. We'll put together a spreadsheet, but if you want to give me and Helms a combined birthday gift and become a member of the mass, uh, mass community, uh, that would certainly be a lovely way to do it. And Hey, you might enjoy it and learn something along the way. What could be better? Uh, all right, Helms, I appreciate you. Uh, another riveting episode of Iron Culture. Thanks to everyone for joining us. And as always take care, we will be back with another episode in seven days.