Hey everybody, welcome back to the Iron Culture podcast. It is me, Eric Txler, joined I was going to say as always, joined uh as occurs on occasion uh by the Dr. Eric Helms. Uh I feel terrible. We we had the countdown going. I had to cut you off. We were just talking cats and I was so enthused about hearing more about your cat. We'll have to have to chat about that after the episode maybe. But uh Helms, it is so lovely to see you back uh on the Iron Culture podcast where you belong as one of the original founders of the culture itself. Uh Helms, you've been away a while. You've been doing things. You've maintained your love for the iron and the culture for which it stands. So, I'm not going to disparrage you, but I do want to hand you the floor and the microphone and say, "Helms, what in the world have you been up to and what are the updates?" >> You know what? This is one of those episodes where it's good vibes only and uh any banter is going to be good naturatured. And I like that we're not even keeping the pretense up of there being this uh this problem, this this fissure in the cult because we are we are united. And I want to first express that while I have been away, I have greatly appreciated that you have held down not one but two solo episodes as we had some scheduling issues with guests. And I felt bad, but I was also just impressed at how well you did and your willingness and your calmness with rolling 100% solo on episodes because it's not easy. I've done it a few times and kind of monologuing and talking about a topic. Uh, it's difficult to do to make that still feel conversational and like a fireside chat with a listener. And buddy, you pulled it off. So, first off, excellent work. >> You know what's Well, I appreciate that. But you know what's really amazing to me, Helms, I don't know if you've ever like, >> you know, some people, it usually just comes down to like what your occupational history has been, but like if anyone has ever engaged with like >> daytime news and politics radio, there were >> like NPR. >> Uh, yeah. NPR, Rush Limbbo, you name it, anything in between. But there will be these personalities. So, like for example, uh >> I remember at one time just crunching the numbers and I was like, "Wait a minute." Uh this was when like Sean Hannity was like all over everything, right? He would do like a 4-hour radio show solo. It's just I'm Sean and I'm talking to you, the camera or the microphone because it was a radio show. Um but they would have video elements too, right? So he would do like four hours of that and then be on Fox News for like four more hours across two different shows. And I'm like, "Bro, are you okay?" Like, it's one thing to say like, "Hey, I got to like do a a 75minute podcast solo, but like I I mentioned him. I I probably could have had a less divisive uh example to bring up, but but it goes like across the whole I don't know if this is like just an American thing, but across the full political spectrum in America or most of it, most of the middle of it, you know. Um, you will have these personalities that have a daily 3 or 4hour radio show and a nightly like 2 hours worth of TV spots that they're doing. And most of it is completely solo. Uh, and I just fundamentally can't fathom, first of all, how a person would do that, but also what temperament and mentality it requires for you to just speak at people into the void for 6 hours a day. So 75 minutes is is a very small task relative to uh the legends out there, we'll call them. >> Yeah, they're legends of something, brother. But um as much as people may think that we love to hear ourselves talk and that we can pull that off and I mean I do do probably a daily podcast on average when you look at all of it and my my history maybe like maybe I'd say three a week if we kind of average it all out. Um, that's a whole another level of you know what person, I'm not even going to necessarily put a negative spin on it. I don't need to. Um, I'm going to reserve my judgments. >> If nothing else, we can acknowledge they got a lot to say. >> They do have much to say. Yeah. >> And in some of the examples you gave the same thing a lot, but that's okay. >> Um, >> well, repetition Helms is a literary device. It's it's a device for other things that societies have used to accomplish goals. Um, but I will just say this. Uh, it's amazing how some of the people we've talked about have so much to say, yet everything they say is entirely predictable. And I know what their position is without necessarily needing to listen to them for seven hours. And yet, the American culture is one where people want to hear that comforting predictability. Tell me what I already believe for seven hours and I will feel supported, safe, able to maintain my worldview and not at all challenged and justified in all of my beliefs. And I'll leave the negativity there cuz like I said, back to good vibes. >> Yes. >> First off, it's lovely to be back. Uh apologies to everyone for my absence. And um you know what? I got stories to tell. I got fun things uh to talk about and I had an amazing experience. uh for the most part in Taiwan. Um and it was my true prodebut at what I think is easily I'm not even going to say in natural bodybuilding. I'm going to say in the sport of bodybuilding probably among the top 10 best ran shows in the world. WNBF Taiwan >> does it right. And I've been to a lot of shows. I've been to go I've been going to I've been attending shows since 2006 almost 20 years. I've been to big ones. I've had clients at the highest level of at least the natural bodling side of the sport, but I have friends and fellow coaches who have been at the highest levels of the enhanced side of the sport as well. Olympia, Arnold, you name it. We've had, you know, Chris Bumstead on this show. You know, we have had people who have competed at the highest level on this show. So, uh I say that in all seriousness, WBF Taiwan does extremely well. two-day event. Uh a full grand hall, largest um banquet hall of of what you have in a very large upscale hotel booked out. Um over between 350 to 400 competitors. They do it twice a year. This is their 11th year doing it. Uh media event on the first day, similar to what you'd have at a Arnold Classic or an Olympia. Bilingual interviews with all 30 plus pros who were there, which I got to experience. They gave us pro alete jumpsuits to wear. Uh athlete trading cards, tracks. I've got a baseball card with my face on it and I was signing it and giving it out to people. >> No way. >> Um it was incredible. And uh some of that is just the unique nature of the the folks who run it. Shout out to to Een, the president of WF Taiwan, and the whole crew. But some of it's also uh the unique culture in Taiwan which is really cool where bodybuilding is mainstream. um not to the same extent as like say a basketball or a football in the US but certainly I would say maybe on the level of like being a a sprinter in an Olympic sport like you know it's a solid individual sport that is respected and people are interested in it and you know who is winning the the 100 the 200 things like that and has a very large but niche following and it is on like the equivalent of ESPN type of level of popularity there and because it's a relatively conservative society and just the timing which organizations got a foothold at different times. The more normalized society acceptable and kind of default setting of what people see as a normal bodybuilder is drug-free. So, um that's not to say that there aren't, you know, big enhanced shows and IPB pros and people aren't aware of that, but um it's probably not as it's not the same way as it is in the US where it's like, okay, you guys are in the farm leagues kind of thing. Um, yeah. So, it's a really interesting experience and >> I didn't fully get it until I experienced it firsthand. And I have two stories that I I want to start and then I want to hear your thoughts on it having you know competed in in the states almost exclusively and you know both of us having coached probably mostly clients in the states. But last year I got to judge at the show which is my first experience. It was really really cool. And uh we went to I think we were either in Tao Yen or Tao Xang, it doesn't matter, but we were outside of the main Taipei area at a night market and we met up with WBF world champ and also Taiwanese champ Zack Chow, amazing men's physique athlete and bodybuilder as well to be honest. Um and in the middle of us talking to him, he's just chilling on his moped. Uh somebody comes up and asked for his autograph and I was like, "Oh." And I was, they were telling me that this is bodybuilding is a big deal here. And I had seen this after I had judged this 400 person show. I'd seen how people were were being treated and but I just thought it was like a really big production like and if you if you go to the Arnold Classic and or if you go to to the Olympia similar kind of vibes and you think you're in your community but being outside of Taipei 3 days after the show and having someone come up and get an autograph just on the street randomly I'm like oh wow what are the odds or is this normal? And I thought, well, this is also the hometown hero and a world champion. So surely this can't be just the sport in general. So I kind of filed that away is cool. It's bigger in Taiwan, but it's not another stratosphere. So fast forward to this year. It is day two of the show. I competed on day one. I'm watching the men's physique lineup, which by the way is probably the most competitive men's physique lineup we will see this year in the WNBF besides at Worlds. the vice champion champion both competed as well as two top level athletes from Asia who gave them both a run for their their money. It was incredible. Anyway, um so it's really fun to watch. I'm I'm between shows intermission and a guy comes up to me and he says, "Hey, were you in the pro body division?" And I was like, "Yeah." And he's like, "Can I can you can you sign your my autograph?" me, you know, he has the card and I'm signing it. And um my thought is this is probably because I have a social media profile. You know, I am I'm I'm not just, you know, some like the biggest followings that some of these other, you know, influencers and bodybuilders have who are really really good bodybuilders and influencers because of their bodybuilding influences in a similar range to mine. You know, 100 to 200,000 followers on Instagram, you know, if you spend time, you know, showing your physique. Um but people like me more for my brain, right? that that's that's probably a fair statement or at least has been for most of my career before this moment tracks. And then, okay, I sign this card and I say, "Thanks, man. I really appreciate uh you know, you you follow me." He's like, "Oh, are you on Instagram? Can I follow you?" And I did a double take and I was like, "This person has no idea who I am. They are only aware of me because I'm a WNBF pro bodybuilder." And that means something to them. And I did well in this show for me tracks. I placed fifth, but it was fifth out of sixth, right? I got a pro medal. And it was a highly competitive, very, very good pro class. And I did get some third and fourth place votes. It's like I was in the mix, but I was no means like I wasn't the Asian champion, you know? I wasn't top three. I didn't win money. >> So that means I don't mean to cut you off. >> Actual friends. >> Yeah. That was one thing that me and the rest of the cult were hoping for was that you were going to come back with a big giant novelty check that was going to fund our new recording studio. So, um, I guess we're not getting a studio is what you're telling me. >> I got two more shots. I'm competing at the Mayhem, competing at Worlds. >> I think there was up to a $1,000 US check on the line for this for this competition. >> That'll get us cords. That'll get us cords for a new studio. >> We're getting there. If I win, if I Okay, listen. Listen. If we find out, and this still could happen. I don't know. I know that they're they're still debating as judges and looking at the final tally that maybe they added up wrong and I actually wasn't in fifth, I was in first. And then I go on to win the mayhem, you know, beating Alberto Nunees, uh, you know, beating, you know, Sergio Whiteitman who's, you know, one of the top bodybuilders in Spain, beating potential for former world champions like Sam Okanola, who are going to show up anyway, assuming I beat all of them, which I think is a safe assumption. Yeah, if we do, correct. It's a team effort here at Iron Culture. Um, and I collect another probably roughly thousand dollar check. And then I go on to Worlds, which, you know, slightly higher bar, and I beat, you know, everyone, and I win the overall and my class, we're looking at about 10 grand in total probably. >> Okay. And if if we also just let me take the hit on all the expenses then and that goes all the way completely into the studio, we might have something going on. >> Yeah. The other issue, small issue is are we going to put this thing in New Zealand or North Carolina? >> Okay. So, shipping costs, I was thinking New Zealand. See, I was thinking North Carolina. That was more my speed. >> So, we need two studios is what you're saying >> probably and then maybe some Maybe just line some cable between the two locations and we should be fine with an Ethernet. >> Yeah. Just a big one big cable. >> One. Yeah. Yep. >> Put up some tape and say do not trip on this. Yeah. >> We'll need to consult some some techies on this, but yeah. >> Well, okay. So, no big windfall of cash yet, but >> nope. >> Big old pro medal, which is awesome. Um, and it's it's really cool what you were describing like uh the idea that, you know, someone is coming to you for an autograph, you know, not because you're the guy that wrote those books with a third edition coming out soon, not because you're that guy that makes the videos and, you know, has this presence online or, you know, but, uh, you know, I saw you on my favorite YouTube channel getting interviewed or nothing like that. Just like you're a pro WMBBF bodybuilder and therefore I want your autograph. U you know it reminds me of like uh you know when I was a kid being at sports events and you'd hear like oh this like NFL player is here and I have no idea who it is. It could be the six string punter on the practice squad or it could be like the number two receiver. I know it's not like you know a future Hall of Famer because then I'd know him, right? But but yeah, you would just be like, "Oh, no way. Get an autograph, dude. Like there's an NFL guy here." So yeah, it's just really cool to see that um you know that there are places where natural bodybuilding has that kind of uh um cultural uptake and prestige that that people would would be you know clamoring for an autograph. That's super cool. >> Yeah, it was really neat. And and there's multiple places in Asia like that. Like bodybuilding is huge in India as well. Uh the guy who was fighting it out uh from India, Mongol, big shout out and he's amazing physique. He actually has a pro card in all three divisions. He's just that symmetrical. So, he's got a bodybuilding, men's physique, and the new classic physique pro card. Um, got it. So, he's one of the handful of athletes who's the the triple pro. >> U making you, Mr. Dion Sanders. And does this look like >> not quite Bo Jackson? >> Going to have to get back. >> Sorry about >> you gota you got to get it. You gota you got to be going toe-to-toe. But anyway, Mongol, he is an Indian athlete, but he's from a specific region uh called Manipur. And he went back and he got picked up at the airport by his whole village, a parade all the way back, all day event, sachets from his from all the village elders, his family's up there on stage. Uh they're partying all the way into the night. By the time he actually gets to like his village, he looks like he's weighed down about 20 kilos of ceremonial garb that these these aunties and and village elders have been putting on him. Uh, and then it looks like I I don't speak the language obviously, but but watching the video it looks like potentially uh you know like maybe the mayor or the equivalent in this village were like lauding him and they had this big banner listing all of his accomplishments like now he's the you know second place Asian champion, triple pro, India's first WBF pro etc etc all this stuff and it keeps going and and like it it starts with you know either a morning or afternoon video at the airport and it ends with him guest posing at night to a live band on a stage in like this full village turnout like like ina style party and I was like wow and I know that some of the natural natural bodybuilding shows in India have between 400 to 600 competitors competing you know some of that's just because like of the population density but it just tells you like the level of of of impact is not homogeneous across regions and that's one of the cool things that I've got to experience uh you know traveling and competing in other countries and I don't think there are many natural bodybuilders at especially at my competitive level like mid-tier at best pro at this stage who get that experience so I feel very fortunate and very grateful and I want to give a big shout out to all the volunteers fans the community the other athletes and all of everyone who supported us uh you know to that I got to experience that was was something that I think should be the experience of anyone who puts the kind of effort that athletes do to get to their peak potential uh to be given that reward. And um it reminds me of kind of uh the powerlifterss, the raw powerlifters who got to go to world games earlier this year in their experience. Probably not on that same level, you know, they didn't actually have like an equivalent of Olympic village. Uh but it was something that I am very grateful for. I don't know that I'm ever going to get the opportunity again, but I tell you what, each time I do a pro season, and anyone who does at WBF Pro season, WBF Taiwan, definitely put it on on the on the radar. Um, so yeah. >> Do you still have the jumpsuit? >> Yes. >> They didn't just let us use it for the event. I I I'm wearing that to every show I do now. >> I'm annoyed that you don't have it on now, but that is okay. We will uh at the end of your season you you'll have to do an episode in the full pro bodybuilder get up. Um because that is cool that it's almost like you know like the Olympic team walking in in the opening ceremony you know with the whole matching tracksuit. That's cool. That's a nice touch. >> Yeah. So that was a really really cool experience. Um, now the second part of my story that I think is really interesting and then finally we can get to uh, you know, the competition itself is that I got a unique and very positive insight into the medical medical care system in Taiwan. >> Okay, that's interesting. >> Doesn't doesn't sound like a good start of a story. >> No. So, I had a stressful peak. We'll put it that way. But savvy watchers may notice that I have a little bit of color on my forehead. I have a slight pinkish line. >> Let me hear what happened before I make snarky jokes. I don't know how concerned I'm supposed to be. >> I am okay. All is well that ends well. So, you can make any snarky joke you want, but it was touchandgo at a certain point. And I did scare the living crap out of my wife uh the very first night we got there. So, I do you want to make a snarky joke? Do Do you need this opportunity? Oh, I was just going to say, you know, people of your age show up with bruises sometimes. You know, they don't you don't really ask. Uh it's, you know, I don't I didn't want to embarrass you, but anyway. Uh so so what exactly happened here? >> Well, this may be slightly age related because I do wake up in the middle of the night, which will make sense in a moment. Um so I'm going to start with the the what happened and then I'll give the context of why it happened and then I'll let the whole story play out. >> Okay. I fell and split my forehead open full hot dog onto the corner of a stone sharp bathtub in the hotel bathroom the very first night I got there and it wrenched my neck bled everywhere. Head wounds bleed a lot. I did not get a concussion. I did not get seriously injured or knocked out. Uh I actually woke up to this happening which I'll explain in a moment. um and needed six stitches on the very first night I was there. So that was a harrowing experience. I was fine. Peaked well. Amazing prodebut. Like I said, all iss well that ends well. Um and let's just say that uh Americans are going to be flabbergasted when I describe my experience going to an emergency room in Taiwan. Um, and people who were big fans of Sean Hannity will be resistant to perhaps me describing a more functional system and we'll need to find some other way that the country is not as good. >> One second. Not a more functional system, an alternately functioning system. >> A system that functions in an alternate way. >> Correct. Yes. It it it it worked differently. the um I didn't get to spend as much time experiencing the emergency room as I would have in the states. >> But did you get to pay? >> I did not get to invest as much into their society. So maybe >> it was a lower value service technically. >> There you go. There you go. I mean granted I needed six stitches and you can barely see a slight red line on my forehead and it was only on the fourth actually sorry the 30th when this happened. So may maybe maybe I have an infection that I don't know about that that's going to come bite me in the butt. Let let me explain something to you really quickly before we get into all your BS. >> The way that market value is determined for a good or service is whatever a person is willing to pay for it, that is the value. And so it sounds like you had a very low value >> medical experience, but I'm I'm on the edge of my seat. I I would like to know how this happened. >> All right. Well, TX, it all starts back with my experience coming back from Europe. Uh, after my trip where we talked about I did the Techno Gym, the OP Nutrition, European Parlitin Conference, I traversed three time zones from New Zealand to Bali to Western Europe twice over a two-e period. Um, and when I came back, getting off the 16- hour flight from Doha, I was very dehydrated, uh, constipated, trying to eat across sarcaden rhythms and still heavily dieted, and I got into peak condition. And that resulted in a lot of water retention and 7 days without having a bowel movement. Uh, so from like the 17th to like the 24th and now, mind you, we're inside of almost we're inside of two weeks out from my show. It's starting to concern me a little bit. Like I've done this before and I'm expecting things to get back to normal. But when you see your your body weight legitimately go up from 80.1 to 83 kilos, folks, that's nearly 3 kilos uh in in a single week, just ticking up every single day. Um I'm drinking a lot, but my urination frequency is not increasing. And there is basically a completely dormant GI tract. And I my conditioning basically backslid for 6 weeks. And I could send a picture to Berto first thing in the morning and be like, "Oh, you're shredded." for 6 weeks >> and then >> my conditioning backsled what looked like six weeks. It looks like I lost weeks of dieting. Sorry. >> I I got you. >> Yeah. Right. So, I was just looking worse and worse and worse and worse as I'm approaching my show inside of two weeks out. >> Perfect. >> So, this was a very stressful uh experience. Um but it did start to normalize and we made the decision that we just need to basically eat a maintenance because dieting on top of that is just stressing my body out. Um, so things did start to clean up, but we also knew that I had an 11-hour flight ahead of me to Taiwan, right? And we wanted to make sure that I didn't have the same issue. So I tend to be a little salt sensitive, like if I have a high sodium meal, my body weight's up for a couple days. I'm not one of those people who uh process it quickly. And actually, if I dug in when I dug into my raw data from 23 and me, that's actually confirmed genetically. But anyway, um, so the strategy to make sure that I had enough, you know, time and ability to acclimate and not be retaining water on stage was I got there on the Tuesday before the show, Tuesday evening, and on the 11-hour flight, I I controlled my sodium intake. So, I had like a relatively low sodium diet and a very high water intake. Okay. I also was taking uh melatonin and a sleep aid at the right time and a little like trying to get very asleep by the time we got there. So stayed up late shifted our schedule a day prior. >> Melatonin and a sleep aid like an over- thecounter kind of sleep aid. >> Yeah, it's actually a really good one. It's by Momentus. It has Valyan root uh melatonin as well as um well yes tart cherry extract. Okay. >> And and then I took uh Ashwagandha on top of that, which is not technically a sleep aid, but it helps with anxiety. So >> that plus sleep pressure just from, you know, having stayed up cuz like when we got there, it was the equivalent of my body clock of deep into the middle of the night. And I went to train to stay up and we went to bed at 9:00 p.m. local time, which felt like and actually was something like 3:00 or 4:00 a.m. So I was very tired when I went to sleep. but also low sodium, high water diet because I was trying to potentially prevent what happened when I was in uh coming coming back from from Europe. So that's the context, right? >> So I pop up at 3:00 a.m. after going to bed at 9:00, which is not bad. So I've clocked six hours of sleep and I'm like, maybe I can get one more sleep cycle. Should I just wake up? I'm sitting in bed. I have to pee really bad. And this is the part about being old that you were right about. and I'm fully awake, right? And I go, you know what? I need to pee. And if I go pee right now and I just get right back in bed and maybe just read a read a book on minimal light on my phone, I could fall back asleep. So, without care or hesitation, I pop up and stand up really quickly, which is a terrible idea generally during prep. And an even worse idea when you're on sleep aids, a low sodium diet, and high water diet. And I remember being fully conscious in bed. Then I remember being progressively less conscious as I got towards the bathroom. made it into the bathroom and then I lost consciousness and I woke up to smashing my head on on on the on the uh the tub. >> Oh boy. >> And Drex, it was bad, dude. >> Were you briefly awake on the way down to it or did you just wake up bleeding? >> No. Like the last memory I have is turning the corner to go into the bathroom and then the next memory I have is getting the hardest hit I have ever experienced on my head. >> Okay. and feeling my head touch the back of my neck, >> wrenching my neck and like cuz I fell forward, my body had to figure out some way to get to the ground and my neck in that position. So I like flipped and then fell onto my back and so I'm laying there naked, shredded, dehydrated. I'm and and head wounds bleed. >> Yeah. A lot. >> Yeah. My first concern is my neck got into a very strange position. Did I hurt myself seriously? >> Yeah. So, I'm laying there on the ground for probably like maybe a good one to two minutes. My wife didn't hear anything cuz it's stone, tile, and body. So, it's just like a hard thunk. She's not awake. She's dead asleep. >> And then my first thought is, tell me I didn't just like paralyze myself. So, I'm I'm wiggling my fingers. I'm wiggling my toes. >> I think I'm okay. My neck is strained and tweaked, but I don't think I actually did any damage. This is my thoughts at the moment. The the confirmation again, just so everyone knows, I'm fine. I can't even feel my neck. It was just like, ouch. And I'm like, wow, I really hit my head hard. Okay, I can move my limbs. Let me just go ahead and just see how hard I hit it. And my hand is drenched. I'm in the dark and it feels like I put my hand in a bucket of water. And I'm like, oh, Pardon my French. And I'm like, I shouldn't get up quickly. I just passed out. I don't know if I have a concussion. I'm trying to think like, hold on, because it's it all happened so quick. I'm trying to establish did I did I knock myself out or did I pass out and then get woken up by hitting my head? I'm pretty sure it's the latter, but I've never hit my head that hard. I should I should just take this slow. Who knows if I'm actually perceiving this accurately right now if I do have a concussion. So, in my most calm voice possible, I go, "Hey, honey. Sorry to wake you up, but I think I need your help. I've hurt myself. I'm okay, but head wounds do bleed a lot. And her response was, "What?" And then I verbatim repeated myself and she was like, "No, no, no. I heard what you said. Are you what?" And I was like, "Just come on in. It's going to look worse than it is." So, um, >> yeah, the look on her face when she came in and turned on the light told me everything I needed to know that I probably looked like some like crime scene, you know? I I haven't moved much. I ragdollled and I'm all again I'm shredded and dehydrated and naked. I look like somebody just like took a took somebody and put them in like a basement for for months and then shot them in the face at the end of it. That's basically what I look like. >> Yeah. God, what a scene. >> Yeah. So, I scared the living out of Barb. I feel really bad, but she was awesome. Uh we had to spend a good 20 minutes cleaning up the blood and getting it just to stop bleeding. And then it did and it was way it I mean it was bad but it wasn't nearly as bad as it looked. Um I was I got up I was fine. We had to clean it out and then I was like well you know what this is clearly going to need stitches. We got to go to the emergency room. And so this is all happening at 3:00 a.m. Trex to long story short I was back in bed asleep by 6:00 a.m. and out $120 to5. That's crazy, man. From start to finish, that's crazy. So, uh, how did you get to the emergency room? You just like, do you have like a rental car or something you popped into? >> So, we went downstairs and I just pointed at my forehead, but this is this was a middle of Taipei um, you know, foreign friendly hotel, so they spoke perfect English. And I was like, "Hey, I I just fell and hit my head. I need to go and get stitches. Where's the closest after hours or emergency room equivalent?" She said, "Oh, there's one right here. It's a small clinic, but it's open 24 hours. Um, there'll probably only be one or two people in attendance. I'll call you a cab." So, five minute cab drive. We get there, and at this point, I realize I'm out of the woods. I know I don't have a concussion. I just need stitches. I just am embarrassed, and I feel bad that my wife's awake at 3:00 a.m. And I'm thinking, "Wow, this is great start to my my my my peak week." And so, I start getting concerned with more practical things. I'm like, "Okay, I'm still competing. I'm not like that. Everything's fine, but I have a media event that I told you about earlier on Friday and I don't want to look like Frankenstein. So, we go into the small clinic. It's one guy. His English is good. And between that and Google Translate, we make it work. And I'm trying to communicate to him that I'm fortunately bodybuilding is mainstream, so he kind of gets it. I'm like, "Hey, I'm going to be on stage. I'm competing in bodybuilding." I do that. He goes, "Oh, okay. Yeah." And um I have a media event. I I able to communicate that. And I was like, "Can I get glue or adhesive?" Like, "Do I actually need stitches? Can we do something that makes this less obtrusive and I can just put a band-aid over it type of deal." And he was looked very skeptical and he was like, "Maybe if you go to the main hospital, but I'm the only guy on staff and if if you want me to do it, I'm giving you stitches." And my professional opinion is you need stitches, but you can get a second opinion. So then we walk another 10 minutes to the main hospital and go to the proper emergency room. And I'm thinking, "This is a mistake. We're going to be here for hours. I had this one guy. I should have just had him do stitches and we're going to get, you know, it'll be like the afternoon by the time we're back in the hotel. But no, there was people there. No waiting line. They spoke, you know, somebody spoke English, but they got the right nurse attendant. They immediately shut down my idea of of getting glue. They're like, "No, absolutely not. You need stitches. Head wounds aren't good candidates for that, and don't worry, we'll do a great job." Uh, they took all of my details. They asked me if I needed receipts for insurance. I figured I would cuz I thought it'd be more expensive so I could use my traveler's insurance. I haven't even charged my travelers insurance. It was so so cheap, man. I'm sure the deductible will be probably more than this cost. And like I said, they they stitch me up. Fantastic work, great bedside manner, real efficient, more as many staff as there was actually waiting. So, I got seen super quick and I was in and out and gone even though we had had to go to go to two places and, you know, traverse language barriers and back in bed and asleep by 6:00 a.m. I was flabbergasted even though I lived in New Zealand which has also a other functioning system compared to the US that is cheaper. But compared to New Zealand, this is even I would say uh uh I'll just I'm it's a much more functional system and I was really pleased. So, it was awesome. the way you hesitated. Are you in danger in New Zealand by speaking badly about the health care system? Do you feel safe? >> I do feel safe. It was more so that I didn't want you to uh derail the podcast and give me a lecture on free market economics again just because I said that I had a good experience with the emergency room. >> Yeah. Technically, it was a lesser value than an American experience. But yes, I I understand what you're getting at. >> Yeah. Let's just say the market economics are different here, you know. Yeah. >> Well, I tell you what, man. That is a heck of a story. Uh certainly a cautionary tale. I would like to hear more about your bowel movements. How you doing? >> That is the second fun and this is the slightly stupid part of the story. Tracks. This is this is where I get embarrassed. Um where I share things that the cult does not want to know, but I end up being the uh pun intended but of the joke at the end. So because of the experience I had coming back with bloating and water retention, uh one of the things I did getting back from Europe is I tried a mild laxative col. It's senna plus I think uh >> a mild it's it's it's it's over the counter uh laxative and I took the normal dose and it basically did nothing. >> Getting to the story. Okay. It did nothing. Okay. >> It Yeah. This is on day three of day seven of not having a bowel movement. So, one of the things I wanted to do while carb bloating because we had a a peak week strategy was going really well. I was looking better and better and we just kept feeding up was I want to make sure I don't get like really bloated over those three days. So, on uh Thursday I took the max dose that last still didn't go over the label claims, you know, it's up to four pills. I took four pills and I did that at lunch and then by that evening I had a really normal healthy bowel movement and I was like perfect we're going to carblo again tomorrow based upon how things are looking so I'm going to repeat that again tomorrow and I'll have a very repeatable effect and here you are smiling you're starting to see the error of Helms's weights um I didn't necessarily look how long do the effects last do they stack if you do multiple days in a row so lunchtime time. I take my my four pills. I think everything's going to be fine. Car load's going well. Swelling's coming down. I'm waiting in line. I'm checking in with 350 athletes. And the bell movement comes a little earlier than anticipated. >> Yeah. >> You know, it's like 400 p.m. It's not like, you know, before bed like it was. I'm like, "Oh, okay. No problem. I'm chilling with one of the other pro athletes. Can you save my space in line?" Barb's there. She's working on her her uh like a manuscript revision from her PhD. It's a long wait. 350 athletes. Big registration. I go downstairs and Trex, I have one of the biggest bell moments of my life and then after that I have diarrhea. So I had like a twoin one. >> Okay. Well, the product works >> and I was the product works. Label claims were met. Um and I was like, "Wow." And it was like, you know how sometimes you spend 30 minutes in the bathroom because things aren't going smoothly? This was 30 minutes and things were going too smoothly. And I was like, "Wow, I'm glad that's over. I'm going to have a hilariously low weighin, but it is what it is. And I get back up in the line and the guy who was holding my position. Uh, shout out to Alex. He's a men's physique pro from India. He was like, "That took you a while." I was like, "Yeah, there was a line." Which wasn't a line. There was a line. It was just short and it was not the reason why I was down there so long. Um, and everything's fine. I think it's all good. And we have the media event that I described earlier. Really, really cool press event. Uh, you know, signing, pictures, all that good stuff. Uh, and then we get back to the hotel, my wife and I, you know, I have my last carb loading dinner and then we're about to go to bed and I go, "Oh, I have to go again." And how is that possible? Because there's I I don't think there's anything left in there. And this I won't describe in detail, but let's just say that it was something beyond diarrhea. And it was I was concerned about electrolyte loss and dehydration afterwards. >> Helps. I just got to say, if I may, um, you began this episode by indicating or suggesting that, um, essentially things went okay, >> but this sounds like, frankly, the worst peak week I've ever heard of in my life. You basically uh you had a a substantial injury. Like, honest to God, you're very lucky you're not paralyzed. Like, that is a very genuinely scary thing. Uh, and now you are essentially you don't have a functioning GI system. Uh, you're you're you're flirting with clinical dehydration. Um, this this I from the outside looking in, I think you you could just say, yeah, that didn't go like super well the way that I planned it. But, uh, but it's, you know, hey, it came together, right? At the end of the day, that's the goal. I tell you what, I give a lot of credit to my wife and my coaches, also WBS Taiwan, which I'll explain in a moment, for the way they do their tanning, which enabled us to keep a little tighter visual on my body and myself to just staying calm through all of this and staying present in the moment. And thank God I've been competing since 20 since 2007. and I've been coaching for so long because we basically learned that if we stay calm uh trust in the process we can pull a peak out of the uh the proverbial you know snowstorm and still make it happen because like I said all's well it ends well. You can watch the videos, you can watch my stage presentation. There was a cost that did impact my my performance, but the my bodybuilding pro debut went very well and it did not seem to be negatively impacted by all this. I did have to work on making sure my electrolytes were up, drinking water, making sure I had the right number of clear urinations. Um, but man, my stomach look flat on stage, I tell you that much, stress, cuz I basically had a colonoscopy preparation that I didn't intend to have. Um, so that was wild. >> You're going to have to put that in the the next edition of the pyramids. Your your bodybuilding peak strategy is how to completely clear out your entire GI tract for uh for the best vtaper you've ever had. >> Yeah. And now you will not have another bowel movement just because there's literally nothing there and it's going to take some catchup for another week. Um, but yeah, so that was that was a lesson a hard lesson learned. But yeah, it was it was a wild ride, man. But but this is cool. So, you know how uh we used to back in the day do the dream tan thing, oil-based tan. You know, it's got built-in oil. So, it's like you don't you don't need to use uh you know, a sheen on top of it, but it is a mess to be in. But the good side of it is you don't have to get a spray with multiple coats. You just put it on, you live in your slop for a day, and you're okay. WBS Taiwan, they have a team of tanners who use this as an oil-based product and they put it on you right before you go on stage. >> So, I didn't have to have my tanner on for more than an hour, which meant that the typical issue of gauging your peak week in completely different lighting with completely different skin tone that people deal with when they go to a hotel on the last day competing in the States and then put this on that makes it very difficult to to tell how things are looking. I was able to avoid. So, we're using multiple daily videos, AM, PM, and then post-workout. Uh, using natural lighting in the AM and the post-workout ones. Me back and forth with Brian and Berto being able to really fine-tune my peak because I didn't need to put the color on till the last minute. That was critical because we were able to to assess like, okay, do do you think you're dehydrated? Do you think you're low on electrolytes? Do you think you just need more carbohydrates? Or do you just need a pump? Can you catch a pump? How do you feel? What do you see? What do you think? So, we were able to collectively land the plane even though there were some some faults, if you'd say. We lost an engine on day one, the engine comes back up, we lose the other engine on day three, but then we get it all back in order and we land the plane and the passengers were none the wiser. Uh, if we want to stick with this analogy because man, I really could not believe like I Trex, I don't know how to say this. Um, I can't believe that the physique I presented is me still. I I try to think of the the 2006 2007 Eric Helms if you showed me pictures of what I would look like in 2025 of my pro debut. The insecure part of him that didn't know they would get this far and was covering up with bluster and arrogance and just hopefulness of not knowing what I could achieve would be flabbergasted and be like, "No way. looks like a like a competitive pro. Um, and it just gave me uh it like it's it's opened my eyes to like maybe I can take this further than I ever anticipated. Um, and I saw the comparison videos. I I didn't know this until I got off stage and some of my friends and clients were sending me like were giving me like the the airdrop high high-res videos and then when I started to see the pro photos I was like my god like no no way. So, um, yeah, I just I want to give myself a little bit of credit for just believing in myself that this was potentially possible to to just keep putting my head down and putting in the work, but it's still something that to be honest, it it it I it hasn't sunk in fully and it's um it's an I think this season will be one that I'm reflecting on for a while, but that was really really cool. The one thing where I do think that dehydration and bowel craziness caught up with me is I got off stage and once the adrenaline dropped, I got really, really, really lightheaded and thought I was going to pass out again. And it got in my head to the point where I was considering, oh, maybe I do have a concussion. And I decided to pull out of the amateur uh classic physique because I would have been next. And in I opted instead to actually eat, have some electrolytes and just sit down because I was I was actually having cognitive issues. Like I was having trouble communicating with people around me. >> Yeah. >> Uh like there were some people who were talking to me and like giving me congratulations and I was like, Barb, I need to go to a chair, you know, and I'm glad my wife was with me. So the one downside, the the one hit I took was that I did not get the opportunity to compete in the uh the classic physique amateur division and fight for that pro card, which was the plan. But I will get to do that at the Muscle Mayhem in Sacramento, which I'll be doing on November 8th. And um may or may not depending upon how that goes and what divisions I decide to compete in based upon my colleagues and what they're doing at Worlds uh two weeks after that on the 22nd and 23rd in Los Angeles. So that is that is how it went. Um I want to give a big shout out to the other athletes. There were a total of six in this men's pro class. Highly competitive. Like I said, there was Mongol who ended up placing second and he had a knockdown dragout extremely close battle with one of Japan's top natural bodybuilders who is just an absolute monster freak. And I say that with complete endearment. His name is Show Cigara and I think he would have dominated the class and had no issue winning. but he has a really tough time doing a lat spread and he has not great develop back but from every other shot he is like world champion quality. He actually did place fifth at worlds and I watched that in 2024 and basically when they did the symmetry round he was in the midst right in the center in the heavyweights and then as the muscularity round continued and his lat spread looked no different from his back relaxed he just kind of kept getting kicked out. So, even with basically having one shot that he lost to all the rest of the five of us, the lat spread, he was able to edge out the win. Um, and he is just, man, he's he's also an impressive powerlifter. He's like trying to hit a 700 and eventually 800 kilo total is his goal. But he is maybe 59 and he's a similar stage weight to me. I was uh like in the low 80s carved up just so thick and big. um incredible athlete. And then um so as far as the actual for those who don't know when they when the judges call things when you have six athletes, you can kind of tell who's in first and second, who's in third and fourth, and who's in fifth and sixth based upon where the head judge is moving you around. And just in the competitor order, I got brought out in the first or second position. And I stayed there a little bit in the symmetry round, and then they kicked me out to the third and fourth spot and rotated me between them. So I knew in the symmetry round I was in either third or fourth which is great. I was ecstatic. We went to the muscularity round. They kicked me out to either fifth or sixth. And then they did call outs. They brought out Mongol and show. So clearly one and two. And they needed to figure out who that was. And they brought out the other four of us to figure out who was third through fifth. And I started in the center but I think they started waiting the muscularity a little more. And uh while I do definitely think I held my own I and I did get like I said some third and fourth place votes based upon my guests from the movements ultimately ended up in fifth and I was very pleased. Um it's pretty cool. One thing they do at Taiwan because it's a proam event is if you turn pro in the show then you get the opportunity to compete in the pro show just right after the overalls. So, two of the guys who were in our division, they gave out three pro cards out of over a hundred competitors. So, it's such a big show tracks for the amateurs that they have I can't remember, it's either the top two across six weight classes or the top three across four, but they have a 12 person overall. Wow. >> And they give out three pro cards to the top three in the overall. And then those three guys have a choice whether they want to compete in the pros. And the top two guys did. The third place guy said, "No, I've had enough. I'm good. I want an offseason. So, those guys were are are like if you turn pro in Taiwan, you're immediately competitive as a pro. And it was cool that I beat one of those guys because it tells me I actually could have turned pro in this show, which I I was counting myself out for the men's physique class. So, I'm a little disappointed I didn't do the men's physique class or sorry, the classic physique. I think I probably would have passed out on stage. That would have been bad. So, probably a good decision ultimately, but I think I probably could have turned pro in the classic division at WBF Taiwan. I'm not claiming I didn't get the comparison. It's a different class, but I'm a lot more confident now in retrospect than I was going into it. So, anyway, I had a really fantastic confident building experience on stage despite going through a very harrowing uh five days leading up to it from Tuesday evening. So, um, anyway, yeah, that's the whole story. Uh, then I had a great rest of the trip celebrating Barb's, you know, birthday in Taiwan. We went to a cat village, which you'll appreciate >> up in northern Taipei. It's just filled with cats, cat themed cafes, cat themed gift shops, and you get to pet all kinds of adorable cats. >> Um, we went to the Changhai Czech Memorial Memorial Museum, which is really cool. Uh, I got to watch, like I said, the Second Day Pro show where world champion Haidor Souza went up against Taiwan's probably best men's physique competitor toe-to-toe and also with the vice champion from Worlds. Um, just really, really awesome show. Really, really awesome experience. And uh, yeah, got back I guess it would have been just under like like almost two weeks ago. And now I'm going to be two weeks out on Saturday from the mayhem. So yeah, we've reached the point now we're starting to eat up. We had two weeks of digging after uh Taiwan to get just a little bit tighter, going from kind of like shredded to alien conditioning. I'm the leanest I've ever been and now we're bringing food up. So I'm I'm feeling good for the rest of the season, although I am a little fatigued from that experience. >> Yeah. Yeah. But uh so the the official end of the season is what uh late November. Is that right? >> November 22nd and 23rd is Worlds. Yes, sir. >> Nice. Very nice. So, you got some more opportunities to get on stage. Um, and here I'm gonna I don't like to make predictions. I don't like to, you know, call shots and things like that, but I'm going to predict that you will have fewer injuries in your subsequent peak weeks than you did the first time around. And so I think that will bode well if you can um play a little bit play it a little bit safer with walking. So now that you've had a clinical fall, you are at risk for more of them. So that that's where it's down. >> Yeah. So um at your age once you have a fall then then you're you're really concerned. So be careful with that. >> Um if you're going to do the laxative thing, try not to play it quite as fast and loose. And I mean that in literally. So, let's try not to >> try not to fly so close to the sun. >> Um, and yeah, I feel like if you do those two things, uh, maybe don't throw any experimental sleep aids into the mix. I think that's probably not a major contributor of what's going on. But, uh, by the way, did you know have you ever seen in America they have a they have a sleep aid? The reason I asked, I thought you might have been go talking about this, but um they have a sleep aid that is just a generic benadryil, >> but they call it a sleep aid, and they charge you more for it. It's literally the same ingredient and the same dose. Um but they're like, well, well, that one's benadryil, so it's cheap, but this is a sleep aid, so it's actually more expensive. And it literally is the exact same capsule. >> Um so I I was praying that you would not fall in uh fall into that. I am curious. Have you ever um is there a reason that you went with the multi-ingredient supplement blend over the do you ever use like a benadryil based kind of sleep aid? >> The thing is I actually do take benadryil the night before I compete. >> Yeah. >> Uh just because I notice that I look a little tighter. I think it's >> histamine. Yeah. You know, probably just, you know, large amounts of food, a little bit of stress, you get a little bit of anxiety response. Also, the benadryil, people don't use it anymore compared to other more modern antihistamines because it seems to have a mild drying out effect. Um, you know, you get the dry mouth feels. It just I just look better acutely when I have taken a benadryil and carb loading. And I, like I said, I'm salt sensitive. I I tend to be someone who cleans up slowly after uh carb loads. I I need a lot of carbs to fill out like anybody who gets on stage in the 80 kilo range because I have a fair amount of muscle, but it takes me longer to uh restabilize my water balance levels. Like if I drink a bunch of water tracks for like an hour or so, I look a little bit blurry. So, it's not like I need to dehydrate. I just need to give myself time. >> It's kind of what we describe as a load look. So, anyway, uh part of my peaking strategy is to take an antihistamine the night the night prior. So, on Friday, I get it. I don't It's hard for me to sleep the night before a show. I'm I'm amped up. Um, and the benadryil helps a little, but it doesn't have a major impact. So, yeah, that but that wasn't part of the fall. That was just a a normal one. Although, I was very careful getting up to pee in the middle of the night on Friday night after taking benadryil. Like, I probably looked the age that you guys joke that I am getting up where your feet hardly move off the ground just shuffling along. >> Oh, it was a shuffle. My hand was on the wall. You know, I'm double-checking things. >> Oh, man. I I have been so careful night the last probably for the rest of my life from now on. >> No, my my roommates used to tease me cuz I'm I'm a a kermagin, you know. I'm I'm an old soul for sure. And the two aren't necessarily the same thing, but I'm both. But uh I had uh I experienced a clinical fall in grad school, meaning I didn't trip. I was walking in my house and my hip just hurt and I just hit the deck. I was just walking in my room and fell. Uh and I I just like I remember going to the doctor uh shortly thereafter for some just like you know something totally unrelated and they're like have you had any falls in the last 6 months and I was like well I mean hear me out like I don't know why you're asking me this. Technically, the answer is yes, but I want you to write down no because whatever is going to happen, the sequence of medical care that I get after saying yes to this, I'm not ready for that yet. So, just put me down for no, even though the answer is yes. But, uh, >> it would it would be like if I went to go get care right now and they said, "Have you had a recent head injury?" And I'm like, "Okay, the the answer is yes, but it it should be no for what you're going to do." Like, I get it. >> Yeah. Uh, now I I was going to ask you, I mean, we are about an hour, so I think we'll probably keep this episode just like pretty bodybuilding focused and and kind of wrap it up here, but I am curious. Um, you know, I don't want to give away too much because it's your article. It's not my thing to spoil, but in the next issue of Mass coming out on the first, you you have uh an article about autoregulated approach approaches to dieting, right? Which, you know, when we think autoregulation, we're usually thinking training, right? So, >> how close to failure am I going to go? Am I going to add a set? Am I going to drop a set? Should I do, you know, power this day or strength that day? You know, all all these different changes we can make on the fly with a little bit of flexibility. We're using all these different kind of cues and some intuition to kind of guide what kind of uh, you know, changes or or pivots we might take. So, that's so common. Autoregulation, especially over the last 10 years, has become so common place in training, but you don't hear about it much in the realm of nutrition. And so you're you did something this prep and you've done it before. Um and I I've talked about this many years ago back when I pretended to still be a bodybuilder, but the the prep when I won my pro card and did my pro debut, I didn't track a thing. I didn't track my protein. I didn't track my calories. >> I just at the beginning of it, I mean, first of all, I didn't intend to do a prep. I just kind of started losing weight and I was like, I'm halfway there. I'm just going to finish. But um I just kind of locked into a diet and when things started slowing I tracked my weight. That's it. And when weight stopped slowing down or when weight started slowing down was no longer dropping at an acceptable rate. I would say oh I'm need to make some kind of qualitative shift in what I'm eating. Drop this, swap that, whatever. And so you did uh you know an autoregulated approach to dieting. And so I was wondering if first you could give us kind of a you know a simple overview of what that looks like to you. Maybe tell us why you opted to do that rather than the traditional track everything meticulous rigid regimented etc. But my big question, piggy, you know, piggybacking off of that, is I can't help but wonder if taking that approach to your prep is the reason why to me your peak week was an absolute catastrophe and yet you reported it as saying it didn't quite go according to plan, but it all worked out. Like I I think that your assessment of your >> 100%. >> I think your assessment of your peak week um I mean ultimately at the end of a show you can look back and say hey I'm happy with my placing. I'm happy with my physique. All is well that ends well. But uh I feel like 99% of bodybuilders would have that peak week and say it was a mess. It was a a complete catastrophe. Everything went wrong that could go wrong. And your assessment uh I don't think you were putting on a show. I don't think you were trying to prove a point. just wasn't that way. So, I was wondering if you could maybe reflect on that as well. >> No, I quite literally if I had used peing approaches before I had this skill, which I think is the way I'm going to position it, the set of skills actually um that it would have been a disaster. it would have impacted how I looked on stage and the agility to modify the peak week to meet insanity that I ended up dealing with would not have been there and I would not have had a good prod and I would have been very disappointed. So um the reason why I presented rather than this ultra quantitative tracked highly controlled approach is because I legitimately as a coach and an athlete think it results in superior performance. Um, >> so, so you you view this not as >> let's do a less stressful way to get the same outcome. You're saying I think we can get a better outcome. >> Absolutely. >> Um, I view it the same way as a powerlifter who buys a gymware or a rep one or a tendo unit. Uh, they want to get more precise control with less lag time to making the best decision in the moment for them. Uh, and that's the same reason they use RP. uh and the system can look a lot different. You know, you described a more qualitative approach and I would say even like your autoregulation could have been refined because you like didn't have systems to prevent overdirect. >> Some of the uh >> Yeah. So some of like so it's really like you know any autoregulatory system it's what guardrails do you have in place and then what skills do you leverage and how do you get there right? Um, and you can make a system of autoregulation that is highly quantitative that does include tracking macros. You just need to be able to modify it and keep it flexible. I was actually on uh good old Dr. Dave McCone's podcast and he was talking about he he first was like, "Now, you don't track during prep." And I was like, he's like, "That's very different for me cuz I do track." And I was like, "Dave, I actually think we're more similar than you think. Do you hit the same macros every day?" And he's like, "Well, well, no. I alter it based upon my hunger and my this and that. So the perception I think in the in the standard operating procedures in bodybuilding is that tracking means hitting specific macros no matter what come hell or high water plus or minus 10 grams if you're a wuss plus or minus 5 gram if you're serious about it and on the gram if you really want to want to take it to that next level. But what tracking really means is just quantifying your intake. And Dave to his credit and you using a qualitative approach were adjusting that intake. And then the question is based upon what? And then how do you do it? Because I did not take a food scale or a body weight scale to Taiwan with me and I ate and we bought the breakfast that comes with the hotel and I included that and I actually was eating out at dinner for three of my peak week meals. to peak and I had a peak week that despite all of the craziness that I described was my best peak ever and my best physique on stage and I had I got a fantastic pump. It wasn't just like, oh, I built a lot of muscle and I got lean and a bad peak resulted in a better physique than I've had previously. I had a good peak. I looked at my Friday morning pictures and I looked at my stage pictures and it looks like just someone walked up to me and went, you know, just, you know, blew air into all of my muscles. Um, I caught a tremendous pump. I had separation everywhere. Uh, you could see the glutes and hamstring separation. I was able to get the combination of, you know, you lose a little bit of crispness, but you gain it all in fullness. You know, I found that right combo. So, in this article, which, you know, we're still fighting right now tooth and nail over who's going to be the cover cover story, and I'm fighting for that top spot. Uh, I go over basically breaking this down because every time you start to talk about like diet, auto regulation, everything sounds like it. So, people just kind of they shift to the closest thing that they understand that isn't quite what I'm talking about. Like, oh, flexible dieting, like, oh, I use it to fish your macros, right? which is more flexible than a strict meal plan. And some people do decide to alter their macros, but they normally it's like, oh, well, I do calories and protein, not strict strict macros or I have a wider range, but they don't really have a system for what dictates where they fall in that range, right? Or someone else might go, "Oh, you mean intuitive eating?" And I'm like, I understand colloquially what you mean, but without actually constraining that and giving a specific definition, you're either going to get confused for the actual intuitive dieting, TM, non-dietary, oh, sorry, uh, non uh, goal-directed approach to healthy eating that deals with um, typically working around eating disorder symptomology. um or you mean just kind of eating what you want and having it work out or doing like a habit-based approach and both of those are probably better for a weight maintenance thing. So we're talking about goal directed autoregulation of a deficit and then what is that based on? So I go through it and I think well like like you said you don't want to go through this entire you know process in the in the five minutes that we probably want to wrap this up in. I define a central pillar of what's called self-regulation which is well described in the literature and then two pillars that it sits on and that they have kind of reciprocal feedback. Nutritional competence. So this is your knowledge of nutrition and your skill in tracking and hitting targets accurately. And then intraceptive awareness which is something that a lot of people aren't aware of what that is. And that's your ability to accurately gauge body signals, interpret them. And then self-regulation is basically what do you do with that information? That's objective goal aligned action. And if any one of these is missing, you get the predictable issues people have. Like, oh, I I accurately identified that I was hungry. Um, but I still I I but I acted on it when I would have preferred not to. Or I identified that I was hungry and I went, you know what, let me have a healthy lowc calorie snack. And you grabbed a handful of trail mix. You're lacking nutritional knowledge. that's actually higher calories than if you grabbed a piece of fruit which you thought was bad because of fructose or something like that. Right? So any one of these missing pillars can result in a failure and autoregulation because you can't get what you're trying to accomplish. But when you put them all together and you figure out what are your objective and subjective data points and if you want to use a very quantitative approach, what's the range that you're operating in or more qualitative approach, how do you adjust things? Then you know the bounds, the why and what you work on. And then if you combine that with working with the coach, you can make sure that you're staying objective. And that's what I've done this prep. Um, and uh, I wrote the article because I realized this was for most bodybuilders, especially beginners and intermediates, just a simple like it's just infathomable. Like when I talk to people about what I'm doing as far as traveling and speaking and that I went to a foreign country and ate foods that were out of my norm uh that I didn't necessarily able to to track and weigh uh that I didn't normally eat and I peaked while eating out in a foreign country and not speaking the language and and it worked. It just seems like okay that was either a fluke or you're lying or it's impossible or I just I accept that it happened but I have no idea how I would ever do that. So I went, you know what, I can reverse engineer this. I teach clients to do this. I don't think it should take six seasons and 20 years of of bodybuilding to do it. So here are the actual levers you pull and here's the process of doing it. So I wrote a whole article about it because I think it's far more accessible than people realize and it's actually quite evidence-based when you look at it. So anyway, I'm really looking forward to that article coming out and uh I am going to probably try to fight for even if it's not the cover story to not be behind a payw wall because I think it's kind of cool. Um and uh yeah, we we'll leave that teaser there, Trex. But any other specific questions you want to ask about it? >> No, I I have not yet cast my vote for what will be the cover story and I think you've uh I think you've won me over. You know, this was your big um your stump speech. you know, you you pledge your case and and I think you raised some valid points. So, I uh I'm not going to make any promises, but I do believe I'll be casting a vote uh in the affirmative. Um but no, I think uh yeah, um really great episode. Uh good to hear from you. I know this was a little bit more story time than the normal hard-hitting evidence-based fitness content that the culture has grown to love, but I mean, Helms, we're this is, I believe, episode 350 of Iron Culture. >> 350. It's It's one of those mid milestones. >> How many have you missed? I mean, it can't be more than a handful. No more than 340 tracks. >> But but I mean I think what I'm getting at here is it makes sense to do a little Helm story time and catch up. It's very unusual for you to miss, you know, a a few episodes in close succession. Obviously missed them for good reason, but I think it's good for the cult to hear from you. And what could be more iron culture than talking chaos uh bodybuilding in Taiwan, signing autographed uh player cards for bodybuilders? I mean, we we had a little bit of everything here. So, uh you're going to be here next week, right? >> That is the plan. >> Okay. So, uh Lord willing, we'll all be back next week and we'll be back to more of the hard-hitting evidence-based content that you come to the Iron Culture for. So, everyone, uh I want to thank you so much. uh for for catching this live episode here. We had uh uh people not not enthused about our explanation of market economics. Maybe we missed slight nuances. We'll look into it. We'll we'll check back in on that. Uh and Brian said that they're glad you're okay. So, at least one person out there uh is relieved to know that you are stitched back together. Uh tough time for for the hosts. I mean, you got your face stitched back together. I got my abdominal wall stitched back together recently. Uh so we are literally hanging on by threads. Um but uh >> we will be back better than ever pushing forward. So um everyone, thank you so much for joining us. Helms, glad to have you back. Glad that you uh came back in one piece. It was closer than I anticipated. I I didn't really think this was uh up in the air, but you you made it back. A strong showing at your first show of the season, and we wish you luck as you move forward. Everyone, thanks so much. Have a fantastic week and we will be back in 7 days.