 riidezidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riide of the show, of course, check out Mass Research Review. We've got an awesome, awesome issue that just came out on the 1st of November. And I say that because I'm a narcissist, because I was on the cover. No, but in all seriousness, I had a really fun time kind of reverse engineering what I do as a coach and also what I've done in the last few seasons of competing, of taking an auto-regulated approach to dieting and really trying to show both the art and the science of it and the latest issue of Mass. So if you want to check that out, that's something that the members are reading right now. And it's got a really good insight of not only my personal experience, but also the research supporting how one does go about doing that and the way you can coach and learn how to do it on your own in a far faster way than the 20 years it took me to really figure out how to do it or the better part of that. Additionally, make sure you go check out our good friends over at Elite FTS. We've got a great code and everything or almost everything that they have, you can get at a discount using the code MRR10. That's Mass Research Review 10 to help you remember it. And big shout out to Dave Tate and supporting us and doing the great work they do. So without housekeeping out of the way, I want to welcome 2024 Vice Champion in the middleweight division, placing second to the arguably the most well-lauded WNBF champion, Babakari Nyang, who is I think the only bodybuilder to have won three overall titles. And I will say this, I'm not saying everyone agrees, but I think Oscar Moskhead, who we have on, who took second in the middleweights last year, 2024, gave him a much closer run to his money than he even got in the overall. And I will say that he has possibly ever had on stage. And I don't think this battle is over because I think Oscar is not at his peak and seeing him in his peak condition against Babakar will be a great sight to behold whenever that does happen in the future. And as a fan of natural bodybuilding and a fan of this gentleman, I am very excited and appreciative of having you on Iron Culture. Welcome, Oscar. I appreciate the intro. My goodness. It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you for having me. No, no, the pleasure is all mine. And I think, you know, one of the reasons I wanted to have you on is because Babakar doesn't speak good English and you're the closest thing. So you're a really good second place option. I'm just kidding. In all seriousness, you get the bridesmaid award. No, no, no, no. In all seriousness, the real reason I wanted to have you on is not just because of your completely inhumanly impressive physique that I think stretches, uh, the some, for some people, the credulity of what can be accomplished as a natural bodybuilder, but hopefully for more people, the possibilities of what the human body can achieve. Um, but more so than that, I so much appreciate your perspective as an athlete. And, um, I think it's something that people would possibly be surprised that I connect with on a personal level, uh, even though, um, some things that you might state and I might state could appear to be polar opposites, but I think they come from different expressions of the same thing. So that is what I want to talk about today. But of course, I also want to make sure that a lot of the, uh, iron culture followers who are not familiar with you get a good introduction to who you are. Um, I will say that, you know, you're a WNBF pro bodybuilder. I want to say, and correct me if I'm wrong on your history, you turned pro in 2018 the first time. Yeah. And then you stepped away from the sport for a while. We all had, you know, COVID to prevent us from getting on stage for a bit. And then in 2022, I think at the monster mash, you got pro status again. And that was a big, at least in terms of the natural bodybuilding community, everyone was like, Oh shit. Who is this guy? You know, um, kind of made your splash. You came in great condition and you displayed one of the most impressive physiques on that stage. And then the next time you competed, was that at worlds that year or was it worlds 2024 in that season? No, I did monster mash for my pro debut 2023. That's right. Where I competed against Brian DaCosta who ended up winning worlds that year. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And then 2024, I did worlds for the first time. Yeah. So the people you've placed second to are, are, are pretty good. You know, just the, we're also a little world champion. Yeah. Believe it or not. And I, I didn't know this, but someone told me that the decisions between both were between one and two points. That does not surprise me at all. And. Yeah. I did not envy the judges in either one of those shows. Cause I think that would have been a very challenge. Neither do I. Yeah. I was not expecting second to either one. I didn't really. I didn't have expectations, but. Hey, whatever. We showed up and we did our thing. You're damn right. You did. So, so that, that's kind of my, um, you know, perspective as a bodybuilding fan, but I know you're a lot more than that. If, if you, if you want, share whatever you feel comfortable with about, um, you know, how you came to be a bodybuilder, your relationship with the sport and where you've been and where you plan to hopefully go as a, as a natural bodybuilder. Yeah. Um, I started bodybuilding, um, in 2009, I believe 2009, 2010, because one of my buddies who I known since forever since high school, I've always had big arms, always had a decent physique just because I did martial arts for, I think it was 16, 17 years. Um, and he saw me one time and we worked together for a while. He's like, dude, come to the gym with me one time. I'm like, all right, cool. Let's go. And I step into the gym. And on my first day there, I got accused of, yeah, I mean, you name it, it was ridiculous. Um, then he's like, man, you should really like consider competing. I'm like, you know, no, this seems stupid. I don't like, let's just keep going to the gym, whatever. Kept going, kept going. And I remember one time I was in the bathroom because it always happens in the bathroom. Uh, there was a gentleman there. He said, he accused me of steroids and I told him I was natural. And he said, if you were natural, you would compete in a natural show. Like, all right, that sounds cool. Did a natural show. That's 2018 when I won my pro card. And I remember doing the monster match because I wanted to do the most competitive show in WNBF or IMBF because that's whatever. And I remember Nancy Andrews, who used to run that show, weighing me in and she's like, are you Oscar? I'm like, yeah. And she pulled me aside. She weighed me in. It's like, I think you're going to do well. I'm like, all right, cool. Like I didn't, I didn't even know who she was. I just, I knew I found out later on. Um, whatever. I ended up winning my pro card and I was super excited. I actually cried on stage that day because to me it was more validation. Like, cause I, I mean, I've been here and I pretty much since day one, since I stepped into the gym and it was validation. Like I told you guys, like, I don't use steroids. I've never thought about it. I don't really care for it. Um, and it just kind of overwhelmed me, but yeah, then COVID happened. 2022 comes around like, yeah, let's run it again. Um, got my pro card again. And that one was because I was planning to do worlds 2023. Right. Um, 2023 comes around, I get on stage and I've only done the monster mash just because when I have a good experience, I'm super loyal to whatever that experience is. Um, and that's why I still compete WNBF. I have no reason not to. Right. Um, 2023 comes around, um, I compete against Brian again, close, close battle, close enough that the judges come back after the, uh, the results. And they're like, that was the closest decision we ever had to make. They had his, they had me and him posing just us two for like five minutes straight. And I didn't know what that meant, but my best friend, Hyro at the time was telling me, I think they, some people had your first, some people had your second and they couldn't decide. And I'm like, Oh, okay, cool. I guess that's what it means. Went home. I spent time with my family and I'm like, I don't really feel it this year. I'm going to skip worlds. I'm just going to stay home with my family and just kind of let it all die down and whatever. Lo and behold, I find out Brian wins worlds that year. And I'm like, I want to run it back. Let's just, yeah, I said, I'm a huge Rocky fan. And I immediately thought Rocky and Drago. And I'm like, we're doing this. Okay. Um, 2024 comes around. I shut off my social media and I'm like, all right, I'm just going to zone in and see how far I can go in terms of dieting. I went as far as I could did monster mash. I won. I'm like, that's not enough. I don't really care for that. And I looked at the stage photos and I'm like, I have to be leader. And I only had two weeks to prep for worlds. So I'm like, screw it all out, no carbs, just straight diet, like miserable. Three hours of cardio every day. I lost 11 pounds in two weeks. Oof. I, yeah, dude, that, it was disgusting, but we got on stage and I was expecting top five. I, you know, I really, I was just there for the experience. Um, and lo and behold, I saw Babacar. I saw all the other guys there and I'm like, I think I could beat these guys. Uh, like I I'm backstage and I'm looking at these people and I'm like, oh, I think I can beat them. And that's when everything just, I got rid of the weights that were on me. And I'm like, I'm just going to have fun. Who gives a shit? Like got on stage. I got second. I was actually super happy that I got second because for me and I, I don't share like my competitive nature, but it's almost like a shark when it tastes blood. It's like, oh, you guys messed up. You let me get too close because next time, like I'm, I'm, it's going to be my all time best. You know what I mean? And whether that's enough to beat Babacar or beat whoever's in front, I don't care. But I got so close that I, on something that I never thought that I would get close on. And that was enough for me to get motivated for five straight years, forget this next year that's coming up. And that's a personal thing that I have. I'll never brag to anybody about that. I'll never, oh, I'm better than I don't. I don't talk to people like that. I don't think that that's the right way to conduct yourself as a professional. It's an inner thing where I want to beat that 2024 version of myself that I thought was the most difficult journey that I've ever taken. And this next time around, I feel bad for that guy. Let's go. No, that, that is awesome perspective. And I think it's one that you thread a needle that I don't think is a needle to you, but it is to others of trying to balance and find how do I be my best and how do I still chase being the best, but put my chips, my cards and derive motivation from the former, not the latter. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Um, and I suspect not only is this maybe just part of like who you are and what you've come to as an athlete over time. Uh, cause correct me if I'm wrong, Oscar, you're 40. I'm going to be 40 in a couple, you're going to be 40 in a couple months. Welcome to the, to the, to the, the peaking years of bodybuilding, my friend. Yeah. As someone who, you know, started lifting at 21 and it took him that whole amount of time again, being alive to actually go, Oh shit, I actually look like a bodybuilder. Um, and to, to be competitive as a pro, um, on a lower level, but still farther than I ever thought I would take it. I can tell you, man, like the good news about natural bodybuilding is you get a long peak and you get to chill on that mountain and you don't know when it's going to be over. And I, I, I, it is scary in a good way that you're not at your peak yet. So I'm excited to see it as a fan. Um, and I love the mentality, but, but like I was saying, um, you do such a good job, whether it's due to your maturity as a person, uh, your background in martial arts, uh, you seem to have a perspective that a lot of others struggle with. Um, so I think I told you this before we started recording in many ways, I think it's also challenging for people, uh, with the level of talent you have for bodybuilding to develop this because a lot of the times they come out of the gate and they just win, win, win, and they don't know really what that journey looks like. But I think again, because you had that background, um, maybe that's helped you get there. But when I'm, when I'm, you know, I've done articulating myself, I'd love to hear it from, from your, your perspective, of course, but for me, I think powerlifting is a really good parallel. Um, because much earlier in my career than bodybuilding that I realize, uh, I'm only going to take it so far in powerlifting and the sport has only kept elevating and elevating and elevating and elevating. But very early on, you know, I had my pre-social media, you know, bubble pops in coaching Bryce Lewis and thinking, oh, like, you know, I'm, I'm, you know, I'm deadlifting 500 pounds back when that meant something. And then, you know, he's in his newbie gains deadlifting over 600. And then, you know, I realized, oh, this, this is what talent looks like for powerlifting. And I realized at some point in the 20 teens, like, man, if I was on every single drug on the planet and like, if, if I was even sneaking in like some single ply underneath my, my, my, my, my clothes and was literally cheating, I would still be a hundred kilos off of Bryce's total. Um, you know, this is, this is, this is someone who had nine 37 at, at one Oh five. And now there's people going over that, you know, like it's, it's just insane. So for me, when I compete in powerlifting, some people would wonder, well, why would you even get on the platform? And to me, it is entering the arena. It is saying, can I prep right? Can I stay healthy? Can I do everything so that these three lifts all show up on game day? And then someone else has to validate the refs that I've actually done this. I've made weight, I've lifted the standard, and I've shown that I have the skill and the will to put it together on this Saturday or what have you. Um, and then it is all about just trying to get the most out of myself on that day that I can and hopefully beat my previous best total and get a PR on the platform. Exactly. And to me, it seems like, and it's not that I don't care at all about placing higher nationals, but it's just like, that's not the primary motivation. And it's easy for it not to be the primary motivation because I am very aware and I have no illusions about where I stand as a powerlifter. I'm solid, like 80th percentile, which is great, but it is not what need, what you need to be, to be competitive. Um, so I, I see that perspective in you, which I think is quite rare for someone who has the potential to be on the greatest of all time list, in my opinion, as a natural bodybuilder. Um, I know that's not something that you may, you may struggle to take that on, but that, that, that's, that's just what I think. Um, so I'd love to hear your perspective. How do you maintain that balance between both being highly competitive, but not putting your chips in the actual competitive outcome? For me, it's, um, I know what's important to me. And for me, it's always been family. Like that's the most important aspect of my entire life, my wife and my kids. If I mess up that, then I feel like a failure training, competing, lifting. Those are things I enjoy, but not necessarily something that I tie emotionally to. I step on stage because of the feeling I get when I'm on stage. I'm there with my brothers, like people that went through it with me. They all know what it's like to get on stage and be dehydrated and feel like your bones are, like, we all understand that feeling. And we're sharing the stage, happy, smiling, knowing that once we get our medal, it's over and we get to go eat and we get to enjoy that. And look, I achieved this physique without cheating. I achieved this physique without help. I did it the hard way. That to me is enough. I don't, a $5 plaque or medal or the opinions of other people saying you're the best, you're not the best, you lost because of this, you lost. I don't care because in my mind that even since I was doing martial arts, a champion doesn't focus on other people. Champions focus on winning. I don't discuss others. I don't discuss, oh, what is he doing? I don't care. I go in, did I beat my last previous self? Yes, I did my job. And I want to beat him, not just by a little bit. I want to beat him by a mile. That's the guy I'm competing against because I don't know what anybody else is doing. I don't know what the judges are thinking. I don't know. Dude, you know how many messages I got after worlds? People saying, oh, you got robbed. I thought you won. I don't care. What am I going to do? Go fight someone? That's your opinion. Opinions don't matter to facts. I lost and that's it. I don't care. Did I beat my previous self? Yes. Let's move forward. Let's see what we can do next year. That's so interesting. And I think it comes from having spent a lot of time in individual sport and individual practice because to kind of look at powerlifting, a lot of powerlifters had that same language circa 2015, 2016 or earlier. And then we started to see powerlifting's popularity rise. And especially in the United States, a lot of the best powerlifters were inherited from football. You know, like if we talk about, you know, Taylor Atwood, he was just too short to be a really good football player. I mean, not to say he wasn't. I mean, this guy got a pro day, you know, in the CFL, right? But he's a 74 kilo, now 83 kilo lifter. Like he's just not going to be top tier, you know, and same thing with Russ Orhe. And then there's some legitimate like high level, you know, 120 pluses, like your Ray Williams or your Jesus Olivares. And we look at, you know, Texas powerlifting, because that's actually a high school sport and it kind of emulates the development of sports in other places. And it's no surprise that we see all of these amazing folks who love the weight room or didn't have an avenue to keep going in football, but were incredibly strong. And now we see like, oh, oh, oh, oh, that's good genetics, you know? And when you come from a team sport mentality, where ultimately you were saying like, what am I going to do? Am I fighting? It's like, well, they kind of do, you know, like, you know, uh, you know, like you're, you're actively beating someone else. There's an offense, there's a defense where in, and, and they kind of construct that and bring it to powerlifting. And they talk about getting in each other's heads. And somebody meant like me, I'm like, you really have no power over me. I mean, it doesn't matter. I'm totaling six starters, but as a coach, when I work with a high level lifter, if that speaks to them and that's their background and that's where they source motivation and makes them better. Awesome. But I also remind those who are negatively impacted by it, like, listen, you, you need to be an anchor in a storm. You need to let nothing that anyone else does impact you because frankly, on game day, it's all you, you're, you're, you're the one in the arena. You know, did you make weight? Did you get your, your cues right? Did you, did you hit your squat? Did you hit your bench? Did you hit your deadlift? Nothing anybody else does matters. And the little things that will matter, let me take care of that. I know your lot number. I can shift your deadlift. We know your max. All you got to do is go out there and execute. And if you're in tight battle in the end, all you got to do is pull three deadlifts, bench, bench three times and squat three times. You focus on that. And I think it seems like that is a much more deeply ingrained thing in you. So tell me a little bit more about your martial arts background. Were you ever involved in team sports or how is this kind of perspective manifested? So the only team sport I ever played was basketball, but that was elementary school. I don't, I don't really count down, but I'm a huge football fan. I've played football with a bunch of dudes and like, but mostly martial arts was the main thing that I did. Um, and the mentality was that, I mean, as soon as they say, go, you kill the opponent and it's, you see red. And I mean, I always tell the story and I'm, it's not because I'm proud, but because I want to show the mindset that they teach in martial arts, I had to fight a girl once. And she was the first female to fight in our weight class with boys. And it was, I guess it was a trend back then. They just, she was so strong. She was beating up all the girls and they wanted to put her in with the boys. And I remember when the, uh, the coach said, go, I one shot her in the head and it was a knockout. I felt off, but it wasn't, it literally took two seconds and she was on the ground. I had to turn around and her coach was actually the referee. So he went immediately to help her. I felt terrible, but that was the mindset. It doesn't matter who's in front of you. Go and kill. And for me, I'm not that type of person. I'm not the type of person that, oh, that's my target. Okay. I'm going to do everything I can to get to that person because now I'm fixated on that person. Yeah. My potential. And again, this is not something I say vocally to people. I mean, we're in a podcast format right now, so it's whatever. For me, my potential is limitless. I put it in my head that I am going to surpass my best every single time I step on stage. That's not sweet. That's not possible when I'm 55. You know what I mean? I know that, but it's so ingrained in my body that that's the only person I look at. Other people, oh, you, you have Doug Miller's arms and you and Babacar were so close. It doesn't matter. That future self that I look at of myself blows everybody out of the water. That's the guy I want to be. So when I step on stage and somebody beats me, I'm like, all right, whatever. What do we do next year to get to that guy up there? And it's not, I don't want it to sound like cocky or be interpreted as, oh, he's so full of them. It's that's that mental mindset that I have when I walk into the gym. That's the guy I see. It doesn't sound cocky because your, your language is about being an idealized version of yourself. And, and even if, you know, to go into a bit of the distinction between what could be argued as facilitative or debilitative mindsets as athletes, there's an interesting distinction, um, between perfectionist striving and perfectionist concerns. And this is kind of a cool area of research where you can find people with perfectionist tendencies and broadly it can lead to burnout and overtraining, but it's also presence and high level athletes. But when you try to separate these validated questionnaires into those different distinctions and the distinction is, am I striving to achieve something from a place of, uh, looking upward, outward and inward to, uh, to, to reach this idealized version of self? Because I'm, I'm seeking the pursuit of excellence, which is a different, but very related construct. Yeah. Or am I afraid of not being my best? Are there external pressures? Am I thinking about, I got robbed and I hate losing and I want to prevent losing, or am I striving towards winning? And you were such a clear example of someone who doesn't place a whole lot of value on losing. And if you do, it always just leads to, well, then what do I need to do to win? Um, and it is, I think, an example of a very facilitative perspective and it's, the cool thing is, is that you are active. It's you're cognitively aware. Like you just stated, I know this isn't realistic, but that is what I embody. And I channel in the moment when I go to the gym or when I step on stage. And I think a lot of people don't have that degree of agency or can't hold those two things to be true. They can't have a emotional drive while also having a cognitive understanding of something and hold them both at the same time. So I think that's actually quite impressive. I appreciate that. Yeah. It's, I've done enough losing in life to know that it's not everything. And I've done enough winning in life to know that it's not everything again. And it always goes back to when I get home, do I have my family's love and respect? Oh, I do. I'm winning. Yes. Like that's it. I won at life. I'm good. A trophy doesn't validate me. The opinions of a judge doesn't validate me. The opinions of followers doesn't validate me. I am who I am. And I'll go to the gym until I die because I enjoy the challenge of walking in and taking a step closer to that guy. That's it. I love it. There's no, there's no like magical. It, it's so simple for me. And I don't know. I, I mean, you articulate it a lot better than I do. I just, it's just so simple. I wake up every day and I know the guy who's posing right now and winning world titles. And I just want to be that guy. I love it. I, um, I, I, I love the perspective and I think it's the, the clear understanding of where your values are and where you're, you're, you're, where you make meaning in life and how you look in the mirror and go, I look, I've succeeded. And I I'm living the life that, that I care about and my values and my mission statement. It, it seems like it frees you to give your all to bodybuilding without, because there's no, when someone who has a really, really strong athletic identity, which can be a good and a bad thing, it's a double-edged sword. Um, you know, when they get hurt and they can't play their sport, it's not just the loss of their sport, it's the loss of who they are. Um, and you see this a lot in young athletes because they don't yet have a family. They're frankly, they're, they're not even done fully cognitively forming their brain if they're in their, their teens and their twenties and early twenties, even based upon some recent research. And you know, like they're still in college, right? If they're a U S based athlete in many cases. So an ACL tear to someone who is really only had the dream of making the NFL and being the football player, that is a loss of future self, current self meaning. And that can be disastrous. And the research shows that very clearly. Um, but when you look at masters athletes, or when you look at, um, athletes who don't have a strong athletic identity, but compete at the highest level, um, it's not like they aren't training as hard or they're not, or it's not like they, they use that as an excuse to be less consistent. I think it frees them to do this thing that is very much intrinsically part of the human experience. You know, like if, if we think of, you know, these modern domesticated versions of ourselves, the way I view it sometimes is, you know, back when gender roles made a little more sense from a societal functional perspective, you know, like someone's got to take care of the kids and we got to have 10 of them just to get two that live and someone else has got to go get food. Um, you know, the hunters took hunting very seriously, ritualized it. Uh, you would, you go through a rite of passage. This is almost ubiquitous across societies. You go out there and you're valued to be a good hunter, but the hunting has no meaning if it's not to feed the tribe. Right. Correct. So, you know, like, like, like it's, it's, your identity as a hunter is connected to something deeper. It's in service of a community. It's not the end all be all. And I think now that sport is kind of the ritualized version of many of these things that we used to have to do to survive, it's in our DNA for it to mean something. I get dangerously obsessive about bodybuilding, right? And I have to be self-aware, um, because it is, you know, I have a hyper-focus component. It's just in my DNA and I can push too hard. I can put too much into it. And it's only come with age and finding where that limit is that I've learned to, to find balance. Um, but what enables me to have a healthy relationship with the sport and honestly, what made us start 3d muscle journey was being on the other side of that because it, it's not necessary. So it's not as obviously connected to do something as silly as flexing in a speedo to life. But what I've come to understand as, um, and understand myself better is that ultimately, and big shout out to Viktor Frankl, a man search for meaning. This is, this is kind of a great way for someone to understand it and articulate it if they're interested is we have to make meaning in life. And whether you're a sushi chef, a painter, a bodybuilder, a martial artist, a football player, um, you find something to pour your all into as a vehicle for personal growth, meaning artistic, spiritual, emotional growth connection, whatever works for you. And, and, and for me, intellectual, artistic, and competitive, it's all bodybuilding. Because what I love about bodybuilding, because I do have a background in martial arts, not not, it was much more on the, I would say art side of it than martial. Like, uh, I started at five and I, traditional Okinawan martial arts, Ishinru karate. Um, I learned, you know, I, I don't think we first started sparring until I'd been doing it for eight years and I was like a brown belt. Wow. Uh, it was not a sport form of martial arts. It was kata's. It was, um, very much more kind of, you know, like Mr. Miyagi, if, if, if, if you want to put it to a, uh, more of a, uh, like an iconic, uh, cultural example, but you know, that I had that discipline until we moved and I did it until I was 12 or 13 from the age of five. So for like nine years, I did martial arts and that was, it never felt like sport and I never really was connected to sport. So, but the kind of like the idea of this hero's journey through something and the discipline sector always spoke to me and bodybuilding also connected to the fact that after, after martial arts, I got into hip hop. So I was a break dancer for a while, again, showing my age. Um, I did a little bit of MCing as well. And the, the cool thing about hip hop is that whether you're DJing, graph writing, MCing, or you're break dancing, it's an art form, but it's always competitive, which I think just came from the roots of it being, you know, a street discipline. Right. And it's the city grind capitalist nature of 1980s in this, in the city from, you know, a lot of people in low socioeconomic status in the time when being black and brown was even harder than it is now. It makes sense. It's a dog eat dog world. And it was especially at that time. So the blending of art and competition has always made sense to me. And I've loved it. Breakdance battles, you know, like, and like getting in the cypher and it turning into two, two dudes ripping on each other. And afterwards that, you know, they're boys. The best of you. Yeah. So like, but you just said some awful shit to each other. You know, um, you look terrible. Your family is the worst and you're fake, my man, you know? So, but I rhymed it. So it's okay. Um, but anyway, like I've always loved, uh, competitive art and I, I think as an academic and even in my little dabbles in sports philosophy, I don't necessarily think that the two cannot meet and someone can do it purely for the artistry. And there's many great bodybuilders who are respected, not because of how well they place like Ed Corney was a very good bodybuilder, but people know Ed Corney because he was a masterful poser. Right. Correct. And then there's someone like Frank Zane who was a multi-time Mr. Olympia, but some people are much more interested in the aesthetics of his physique and the way he presented himself than the fact that he was an Olympia. Right. Yeah. But then you have your Phil Heath who like people like do this, you know, these are win, win, win, and never stop. Right. Like that's he, so I think people can connect with bodybuilding in many different ways. You can be highly extrinsically motivated, interested in having the world tighter title, wanting to get that sand out, et cetera, and really just wanting to beat others. Or you can see it as an artistic expression. And this is me having a vehicle to, you know, show my art or anything in between or a personal rite of passage, you know, like, like I think everyone connects to, and that that's the thing you're right. And then what I love about natural bodybuilding, especially is that more often than not, because people are selecting this unnecessarily hard pathway that also gets less visibility, less money, less promotion. And it came after, you know, bodybuilding was well-established. Um, when, especially in the pro ranks too, I I've only previously saw this as a coach. And now in the last several years, I've seen it as an athlete competing in the pros. Everyone has been there, has been in the game a while, most of the time. Um, and they've pushed themselves really, really hard. It's, you know, you have some disguise who, you know, are just genetic freaks and they're there for the first time. But most of the time, it's a lot of dudes in their thirties and forties who crush themselves and been crushing themselves for a decade. And they just want to be like, yo, Hey guys, we did it. Let's go celebrate on stage together. Um, and I think that's a beautiful thing and why I love the camaraderie. And I think it's because of the crucible we all go through to get on stage. So anyway, that was a long kind of, uh, intro, but that is something that really speaks to me. And it seems like while you may be viewed as like the genetic freak who just kind of trains hard and it works out for him. And I may be viewed as, oh, the plucky underdog who uses his brain to compete against people who are, you know, just meatheads. I think those are drastically caricature versions of us that don't respect kind of the humanity and the, and the similarities between many natural bodybuilders, especially who are kind of in it for the long haul. I agree. And for me, speaking on that, when I see people that are less genetically blessed than I am, take a physique, maximize that physique and get to a point that the average person can't get to, to me, that is more respectable than someone like myself who just stepped into the gym with 16 inch arms and lifted a freaking barbell and exploded three inch. Like that's not bodybuilding is not hard for me. And it's because I was blessed by my grandfather who just genetically was a God, but I don't think that I deserve the praise and adulation and all these, because it's not hard. It's not a thing that I consider to be difficult. When I see certain people start from 120 pounds and build up to 185 naturally, that's impressive. That's like, dude, you studied it, you applied it, you, you went against something that would, the deck was already stacked against you and you still won. Like, that's awesome. I was dealt a pair of aces. Like, it's not hard to win. You were dealt to seven deuce and somehow got me out of the game. Like, that's amazing to me. Again, that's just my own personal thing. I get inspired by people who I feel are doing something that I could never do. Because if I didn't have the genetics I have, I probably wouldn't be bodybuilding. I would probably be just a regular dad who goes and spend three hours in the gym. Oscar, honestly, I, I, um, I don't fully agree with your self-assessment, but I think that that is such a facilitative mindset. And I think it is why you are going to be, and already are, one of the greats in the sport, because you apply that mindset to yourself. You know, like, you're, you're right. Maybe you wouldn't be a bodybuilder if you didn't have some talent. Um, but you're in it now and you are pushing yourself as hard as you can. And you're trying to reach the pinnacle because, like, you have the Rocky mentality and you appreciate that. I can't tell you, having been in the game a long time, how many people with incredible genetics are loathe to admit it? How, you know, and, and just don't have an objective view of, of where they're at. And, you know, the, like, you know, like, their view is, you know, I've, I've, I've overcome some, and it's not like they haven't worked hard. Don't get me wrong. Everybody who steps on a body stage is, is, is, is a hard worker relative to the norm, but they, they view themselves as, as Rocky when in fact they are absolutely right. Well, I've seen this so much. Yeah. Right. Um, and it's easier. It feels better, you know? Yeah. And I think the fact that that pathway, that door is open for you anytime. And it's easy to, to feel like, oh, I worked hard. You only, I only know my own experience and I've done well, so I must be working harder than other people because, you know, genetics are, are, are, are, are bullshit. That's for weak people to, to focus on. I think you can, you, you could do that, but you don't. And I think that's really respectable. Um, and you know, to me, I'm very grateful that I have been a coach, a researcher, and an athlete, because sometimes people will be like, oh, like they'll either underplay everyone else and act like they're cheaters and be like, oh, I'm actually the pinnacle of natural bodybuilding, which is such a clear thing about them trying to make themselves feel better about their own natural talent. Or they will see me as this, this truly plucky underdog who has average genetics because they're probably following a lot of people with insane genetics. Cause that's what, or on gear or both, because that's what the social media gives them. And I've, I think I have a relatively balanced view of like, listen, I, I let's, let's be frank. I would not be able to get a pro card and be reasonably have a chance at being competitive if I wasn't at least above average. Right. But there are levels to work of genetics. When I go to WNBF worlds, it is a different playing field than when I get recruited for a resistance training study, because you know, like I, like if, if you look at data on thousands of people, I look like I'm in the top tier 1%. But if you look at data on hundreds of WNBF pro bodybuilders, uh, I'm 50th percentile, maybe 49th, you know, something like that. I'll take that. Yeah. I think your physique is awesome. Thank you. You know? So, but I think a lot of people struggle with that and it's because they tie their identity, they tie their self worth and they don't have a strong enough sense of self that they're looking for it from others. And of course, that's very common in bodybuilding. Obviously there's a tremendous amount of people who at least at one point were insecure who came into the sport. I think we can both be honest about that. Not everyone, by any means, painting, painting with broad brushstrokes. But I think it is the, if you want to know what a shark is, in my opinion, and I can say this very confidently as someone who is trying to develop this mentality over time as an athlete, but knows what it takes from a coaching perspective, because I can be more distant from it. It is someone who actually knows their own limits and is trying to redefine them, but doesn't pretend to ignore them and doesn't put on airs of like, oh, I, I, you know, like I'm always just going to push it to the limit because that is a, it's operating out of a position of fear, you know? Uh, yes. Yeah. You have to have that rationality to know what is my limits right now? What can I do so that, cause the shark in the water is calculated. He comes at people, he goes, all right, if I, if I do this, this, and this, here's what I can realistically do. Um, not just got to push all your chips to the center, bro. Burn your, burn your, burn your boats and go in. Like you can do that if you, if that happens to, to, to, to land you in the best spot, but ultimately that's, that's, that's the one, one percent of the one percent. And for a guy like me, I need to be very clear and calculated about how do I get every bit of blood out of the stone? And then where do I place that effort and time? And then what's a realistic outcome for me? Because if I go like, yeah, I'm going to win the, uh, the heavyweight world title in WBF worlds, I'm setting myself up for an unrealistic outcome. And I'm not saying that's never on the table. I do need to have some of that kind of like crazy optimism, but I have to think of it from a stepping stone of let's, let's see if I can get top five. So all that is to say the fact that you're able to recognize your talents and also really focus on the work is what truly breeds like generational champions. Uh, because so many people, when I, man, we've had applications come through for 3d muscle journey for, for since 2010. And, and sometimes we get really, really high level athletes who come to us and we see what their training and nutrition is. And we're just like, how they're doing that. And they look like that. Like, my God, imagine, imagine if, or, or the things that I hear athletes do on their diet. Well, yeah, I started six weeks out and you know, I'll be honest between you and me. I had a binge on Wednesday before the show. I had a two large pizzas and I'm like, wow. Like if, imagine if you tried, you know, like, or if you, or if you knew, if you knew the kind of effort that you could put forth and what that would accomplish. So there are, that becomes less and less and less and less likely at the highest level. I think there's very few say WMBF overall world champions who can rest on their laurels to any significant degree, but the number of people who are high level kind of like regional champs or like in a smaller organization, they got their pro card and they just kind of stumbled into it. It's, it's immense. Um, and you combine drugs, social media with that. And, and, and you get, you get a lot of people who can get away with things and you are not one of those. Um, and I want to, I want to just give you a lot of credit for that. For one, I think that that's quite rare and it's respectable. And I also want to say that, um, yeah, I, I love your mentality in the gym, even though it, you are not necessarily trying to do what most people would expect, what Dr. Helms would value of being like scientifically optimal at all times, because I think you have the much more important big rocks in place. I'll take that. You know, I, it's funny when you were talking there, it brought me back to something I said to Sean Fury. I don't know if you know who he is, but yeah, but I just did an interview with him and he said, he thought I was one of the best bodybuilders on the planet. And I told him I'm not, I'm just one of the luckiest because I really genuinely believe that my genetics are the reason I am where I am. Yeah. I work hard. Everybody does. But to work hard means very different things for very different people. My hard is not necessarily considered hard to a power lifter or a power builder. My hard is just above average amongst the people that everybody's a lion amongst sheep in their circle. You put that lion with other lions, then you know what really hard is. And that's the, I mean, while you were talking, I'm thinking of these people that have come, Hey man, I work hard. I do this. I did. And I'm like, yeah, dude, you were, your quads are just built to grow. That doesn't come from squatting six plates. That comes from you're just genetically blessed with good quads. I don't say that. I just, I kind of let people have their, their moment. Cause I really, you know, everybody has their own idea of who they are, but I fully understand that. I fully understand that the gift that was given to me is the reason why I compete. I don't compete to look a certain way and force my body to change. I compete because I look the way I look like I didn't want to step on stage. Had that guy not said anything to me in the bathroom, I still would be going to the same gym, lifting weights and doing absolutely nothing. But the idiot in me, as soon as he said that, I'm like, okay, cool, man, let's do it. Let's just, and I ended up falling in love with just posing and the presence of being on stage. And again, I just always think back to what do my kids think when they see me on stage. And I, I know, like, I, I remember coming home from worlds and my wife was telling me that my daughter was on the couch screaming, like screaming for me. And that that's awesome. You know what I'm saying? Like, I don't care if I'm the best bodybuilder in the world. To me, I'm the best bodybuilder with four kids and a wife and a mortgage and that that's enough from me in their minds. I'm the best. And that's all I care about. I compete because I look the way I look. Let's see how far we can go with it. But that last piece is important. Let's see how far we can go with it. And I think because you're aware of the gifts you have and you respect them and what it means, and you also know that hard is subjective and you use the other people who you're competing against at the highest level or the people who motivate you, maybe they're not at the highest level, but they've done something impressive with the cards they were dealt. Correct. You are respecting the gifts you have and taking them as far as you can. And that is something to be respected because, you know, like is losing 11 pounds in two weeks, a good idea? No, the fact that you can do it and did it, it speaks to your ability to grind. And, and, and that's the currency in bodybuilding that, that, that, that should be driving respect my man. And, uh, and, and you, and you got, you got money in the bank regardless of your genetics. So I have a tremendous amount of respect for you. Um, do you mind if I share something that you posted on your story recently? Yeah, yeah, go for it. I love this book. So this was on your story. And like I told you off air, it made me end up doing, like I went off my program when I read this and I, I trained more. All right. My training split doesn't have to make sense. My exercise selections aren't meant to be analyzed. My volume isn't meant to be duplicated. I post my workouts to provide transparency, not to promote imitation. If your first instinct is to question what I'm doing because you don't think it's optimal, then please enjoy your superior training style and let me enjoy lifting. I do this because I love bodybuilding. I love pushing my limits. I love that feeling of being completely destroyed by a brutal workout. I don't give a F about stepping on stage. My thrill comes from dominating 45 seconds. The salute emoji rant over. So that speaks to me so much because as much as I, I feel that I have to optimize everything. Um, and I constantly analyze and monitor what I'm doing. And I read everything that is ever has or will be published on bodybuilding. And I also observe the sport. I read the history. There is, like I said, I've said this before. I turn over every stone, every rock and every grain of sand to the best of my knowledge. And then I ask other people, hey, do you think I missed any sand? And I have coaches. I got a team around me. Um, I talked to my wife about how did I stay in terms of my values and my humanity and as a husband, as a partner. And I still do it. Then I think as an educator, I won't sacrifice anything, but in the constraints of who I identify as, as Eric, I am maximizing bodybuilding at the best of my capability. But a key piece of that, that I think a lot of people lose when they're a little more analytical or a little more on the scientific side, especially if they're coming in from it, from a perfectionist concerns. And what am I missing out on perspective is that the engine behind all of that is passion and it's rive. And I, I could, I, it's, it's a small component of my program, not the entirety of it, but it's an essential component. I do things that get me frigging motivated about the gym and I step in there and I'm ready to kill every time. As an example, I wanted to see if under 83 kilos, I could pull two, 200 kilos for a triple conventional. And I'm, I'm not a good conventional puller. I'm much better built for sumo during this prep, because that is actually a, a lifetime PR at any body weight for me. And I have not been training the conventional deadlift. And I know like, listen, I think I've gotten a lot of size. I've done a tremendous number, a tremendous amount of work on my posterior chain. Generally, like if I've really built the muscle, I think I've built in my glutes, hands, lower back, uh, and back in general. And I'm so much more muscular and I made this progress since 2023. I should be able to do a little bit of strength focus and hit a triple. And it's not like it's not building, you know, my back. I'll just control the eccentric. Yeah. And back in August, I hit that 200 kilos for a triple. And then I went to do the rest of my workout. Is that optimal? Is that part of the, uh, of what is the best approach to a, you know, back by hamstring on paper, perhaps not. Maybe it would be better just to keep doing the RDLs, but for my soul, Oscar, hell yeah, that's optimal. And if I don't have those pieces in there that get me excited, that get that inner masochist and, and, and shark ready to smell blood and get in the water, I need enough of that to then direct myself to what is optimal, but without it, then why am I here? Right. Yep. So anyway, I would love to hear more of your perspective on your training, because I, there is the assumption, you know, you've got a lot of followers on Instagram, over 100,000. Um, you put out great content. People are, are a fan of you and a fan of you as an athlete, and obviously a fan of your mentality. Um, you're, you're public to some degree, you're on this podcast podcast. And, you know, you're a high level competitor. So I think there's the, the assumption that just by sharing that it's advice, or that it's you planting your, your, your, your flag in the ground, or this is how you could train. And exactly. I, you gotta imagine that I feel a tremendous amount of responsibility as a science communicator, a coach, a researcher, a representative, someone who's taken on some responsibility as being a leader in our space. Like, ah, should I put the triple of deadlifts out there? Do I have to contextualize this? I mean, obviously I do. I've talked about it for 20 minutes just to help people understand, but that, that must be hard to, to, to know that that's the implicit assumption people have. Yeah. And I, I get a lot of DMs anytime I post my workouts, it's, I mean, bro, that's not optimal. You're, you're ruining a Lamborghini by trying to go for a one rep max. It's like, I don't give a shit. My body, I, I don't care. Like people get so tied into the, how to get from point A to point B when we're all just taking different paths and we're all going to end up at point B anyway. Just for me, it's always been find what works for you and just do that a lot. The rep ranges, all that stuff. Yes. There's science behind it. And I take every little bit of science I can. I apply it to my workouts. I try it out. If it doesn't work for me, I drop it because I'm not like everybody else. I feel like science applies to a large percentage of the population, but there there's always outliers. Maybe I'm an outlier when it comes to leg training, but I'm not, when it comes to arm training, maybe I'm an outlier with shoulder training, but not chest training. I try everything and I only accept the things that work for me. And how do I know it works for me? The mirror will tell me within a month. Am I seeing different lines on my shoulders? Oh, okay. So I guess I'm doing lateral raises the right way or the right rep range. 40 reps is too much for people, but it works for me. I I'll take it. And when I post my workouts again, I, I don't do it. Like you said, for people to follow, I don't do it because I want people to think that what I'm doing is correct. If anything, I'll be the first person to tell you, do not do what I'm doing. I just, I trained my wife today. We didn't do anything that I normally do. I'm like, babe, all right, you're going to stick to the, between the five and eight rep range. If you feel good, aim for 10, but don't, you don't have to go past 10. Meanwhile, I'm freaking ripping 405 for like 12 to 15. Like my back hurts everything. I'm just dying. Meanwhile, she's just doing her thing. Optimal form. Everything's great. I understand that not everybody's the same. The people that train with me, they train their own way. We follow the same program, but they don't do the same reps that I do. They don't use the same form that I use. They don't stay there for five minutes, figuring out their foot position and whether you feel your outer quad when you tilt out or in. They don't do any of that. That's more of a me thing because I love that. I want to change my body in a certain way where I feel like this thing that I just did worked for me. Try this out. Let me know if it works for you too. And if it doesn't, please throw it in the trash. It's not, it's not meant to be the end all be all. It's a guide, right? You get directions, you get lost. Just find your way back and just keep going. I'm not a messiah of workouts. Like I don't care. Just information is information. Take the stuff that works, everything else, just throw it away. There's stuff that I've seen that you've posted that Steve, that Alberto have, and I try it and it doesn't work. I don't feel it. I don't feel anything between eight to 10 reps. I don't feel leaning forward on the seated hamstring curl. I don't, I don't feel that. Maybe it works for other people though. That I don't go and comment. Yeah, I tried this. This sucks. Sorry. It doesn't work. Like I understand I'm not the only human being on the planet. Dude, I just feel like a lot of people take this stuff way too personal and they think that because it's science-based, that means that it has to work for everybody. And that's not the case. It's providing information to give you insight into things that might work for you, but definitely work for the group that was tested. You know, apply it. If it works, awesome. If it doesn't, guess what? Try something else. It's not that crazy. That's how we get and move the sport forward. Well said, sir. No, I, I couldn't, I couldn't agree with you more. And, uh, if, if there truly is an area where I think individual differences are probably most obvious and least disputable, it is in like exercise selection and execution. Because I mean, we, you can just look around like, I got some long ass tibias, you know, I got some narrow shoulders. I have different range of motion, different joint structure than someone else. Um, you know, like bodybuilding, it's, it's a dog and pony show. Like the high, the higher level you get, the more you see homogeneity in, in the, the skeletal structures. And, uh, but the human race generally, man, it's like, you know, we got Chihuahuas and Great Danes talking to each other on social media acting like they should be training the same way, which makes a zero. Exactly. So exactly. No, I love it. And I think, um, ultimately what you're describing is the scientific method in action. And, you know, that, that is something that I think people forget a lot is, um, the, the methods behind science are probably equally as important to people who are interested in applying science to their bodybuilding journey as the findings in the scientific studies themselves, which provide kind of those broad brush strokes starting in the right ballpark. But then the refinement does need to come from the practice the art of it. Correct. Um, yeah. And, and I think there, there is just so much more art and style to bodybuilding training than people give credit for, because there is a very broad range of things that can result in hypertrophy. It's not a specific performance growing muscle tissue. It's like farming, you know, and to kind of carry that analogy out, you know, a subsistence farmer in a Savannah area and someone else who's doing, you know, hydroponics on a space station and someone else who's trying to make genetically engineered crops work in a, in a large farming situation, they're all farming, but they're going to be using different soil composition, different feed. Well, you know, whatever, I'm, I'm not enough of a farmer to know what the hell I'm talking about, but I think people understand what I'm saying. And that, that, that reality that we see in the research of you can grow muscle with sets of five sets of 25, uh, you can, you can grow muscle with different exercise selection. It's not the same as, okay, what do I need to do to get a one RM squat as high as possible? That narrows it so much. And you start to like, you don't see people who go, no, I don't squat. Like, like if, if someone has a, as a two, two and a half or a higher times body weight squat, they squat sometimes. Right. You know? So correct. But you can find bodybuilders. Or three times. Exactly. I don't know who it is. But, but you're going to find bodybuilders with tremendous glutes and quads who may never have a barbell on their back. And that bothers your sensibilities because you are dogmatically attached to something that is a worthwhile reminder of maybe you shouldn't be dogmatically attached to things. So I love the perspective, man. I think there's a lot of wisdom in what you share. And again, it's, it's such a rare thing for someone to have the degree of self-awareness you have, um, while having the gifts you have, and also having the drive and that Rocky like mentality with the gifts you have, and also to be highly competitive while not being emotionally or in terms of yourself worth tied to the outcome, but tied to your deeper values. And I think it is something that people just need to see and be aware of, which is why I'm so glad you are open to coming on, because I think it's a much healthier approach to the sport. And I do want to thank you for, um, for sharing all that both on the podcast, but in general, because I think it is, it helps people understand the possibilities and how they can make bodybuilding something that is beneficial and something they can do in the long run without letting their insecurities or self-worth or competitive nature burn them out, which is so, so common, unfortunately, with the type of personalities who are attracted to this very, very challenging sport, uh, that, that can fundamentally change your relationship with your body, food, and the people around you. Yeah, I agree. Oh, that last prep. Jesus. Yeah, man. Yeah. But 2026, man, we're coming back better than ever. I'm already pumped for it. I got one month to go and I'm excited. I can't wait. Wow. I, I, that's good. Cause I, I, I, I did the question for me after this season, cause I'm only, geez, I'm, I'm one week out from the mayhem and I'm, um, I'm, I'm a few weeks after that I'm doing worlds. It's a question of, do I take one or two years off? So I get to be a fan no matter what in 2026 and, and I'll be cheering you on. I'm excited for that. So yeah, I just want to say, um, enjoy the rest of your offseason. I know it's going to be finishing relatively soon. When, when do you plan to start your 2026 prep? Uh, early December. I need to get past my wife's birthday, December 4th. And then after that, it's like social media is going down. Everything's going off and it's just zoning in and he's coming. And this is the lightest I've ever been in my offseason. The strongest I've ever been in my offseason and arguably the biggest I've ever been in my offseason. So we'll see. We'll see what happens. He's coming folks. You will need to watch. Oh, let's go. Now let's go. I'm excited. I'm excited. I do honestly think that, um, the best is yet to come for you. And I know that you believe that and thrive on the mentality, which means you will manifest it. And I think you have quite the future, uh, in the sport and it's an exciting time. Natural body building is growing. There's new athletes coming in. Um, and, uh, there's going to be some true clash of the Titans moments in the future and you're going to be a part of it. It's going to be awesome. Yeah. Oh yeah. Well, I just want to open the floor to you. We we've covered a lot of things and I really appreciate your transparency, your honesty, and your camaraderie in this discussion, but I want to give you the floor. Are there any things that you feel we haven't covered or things you want to say? Also feel free to shout out anything you want. I know, uh, I think people benefit from following you. So if you want to share your Instagram or anything else, please feel free. Uh, Instagram is th three underscore professor. Yeah. Just like that. I couldn't put the, so yes, it's th three hate me for it. Um, honestly, I like having open discussions like this, because it's not something that I do often. I don't like doing podcasts, but we, I just, I get invited by bodybuilders, like people that actually have gone through it. And I feel like it's almost a disservice to not participate. Um, the longevity podcast that I did with Kenny, he's also trying to push the sport forward. That's my thing. Anything that pushes natural bodybuilding forward where that one kid right now who has crazy arms in seventh grade is watching and looking and thinking, maybe I can do something with it. Yes, you can. I was that kid. I've always been that kid. And for me, it's, it's about that. It's about someone in the audience sitting down and looking at people like us and saying, I think I can do that. And then they become to be the greatest of all time. And that's going to be a changing thing. Humanity is only evolving and we're only going to get better. And I don't know, next year it might be me. The following year might be someone else. It doesn't, I don't get tied to any of that because I know that we're moving the sport forward and everybody wins when that happens. So yeah, open discussions like this are awesome. I don't really have a lot of questions. I don't really have a lot to say, but I, again, I just appreciate you taking the time to sit with me. Um, I love your stuff. I love your perspective. I love how you communicate that. You guys are awesome, man. Like I can't even express that enough. You guys, what you do for the sport and what you do for athletes, I couldn't do. And I'm a huge fan, huge fan. I was geeking when I murdered when I met Alberto at, uh, at world. So I'm like, dude, and he's like, oh, what you're going to do for the sport is great. And I'm like, what? Like, do you know who you are? But yeah, man, I'm a huge fan. I love all you guys. You guys are awesome. I, I do. It's an honor to hear that. And I think, uh, I think sometimes people are surprised just how much of a fan of natural body I am more than anything else. Cause it, it, it blows my mind when I see like, what Oscar's a fan of me, you know? So, um, yeah, no, no. Yeah, man, I watch your training. I see what you do. Let me go. And you let me know if you ever, if I ever say I went to failure and I didn't, you know, like keep, keep, keep, I would never be that guy. Keep your boy on, except for I can handle it. You know, I could tell by the face, man. I could tell when you got to fail. I'm, I'm yeah. Yeah. Well, let's, let's, uh, we'll, we'll, we'll keep at it. My friend. I appreciate that. The respect is mutual. And I just want to say thank you again for coming on. Um, iron Colt, thank you so much for joining us on this, this, this, uh, interview. Definitely make sure to give, uh, three prep professor, the follow or the professor, the follow in all seriousness, make sure you stay tuned for, uh, the WNBF competitive season in 2026, because, uh, I know it will be a sight to behold. I'll be watching. And, uh, once again, thank you for listening. Uh, make sure to give us five-star rating, make sure to like, share, subscribe. Uh, if you're really interested in digging into, uh, not only the science, but also supporting the podcast, check out massresearchreview.com and for all your lifting needs, use the code MRR10 over at our colleagues and good friend David Tate's spot over at Elite FTS. And we will catch you next time in Iron Culture.