Hello everybody. Welcome back to Iron Culture. I am Eric Trexler, one of your dear hosts, joined as always by Dr. Eric Helms. And today is a special treat, a really exciting episode uh for purely selfish, self-interested reasons. Uh so we are joined today by the Dr. Jim Stupani. Uh, and for a little background, uh, think back to a simpler time. The year was 2004. I was a freshman, maybe sophomore wrestler, uh, back in Ohio. And I started to really take a liking to lifting weights and and nutrition and things like that. One of my assistant coaches saw that in me and said, "When the team's doing their workouts, we're going to do our workouts." And this coach was jacked. He was just a phenomenal athlete. when he wanted to be a bodybuilder, he blew up. When he wanted to get into marathons, he was below three hours by like snapping his fingers. Just a freak. Um, but he took me under his wing and we trained and trained and trained. We talked nutrition and it really set me on the trajectory for everything I've done in my life since. And the single source material that we based our workouts on that we talked about nutrition about it was all Jim Stani's content in Muscle and Fitness magazine. So for me, you know, you get on a podcast, people do all the flowery introductions. This is straight from the heart. I couldn't be more stoked and I'm excited for this conversation. So Jim, thank you so much for joining us. >> Well, thank you guys for the invite. >> Absolutely. So Helms, yes, go ahead. Yeah, I just want to to echo it with my own uh you know kind of backstory. I started lifting in 2004. Uh not as early as Utrex, but same exact era. Um I was still in the uh US Air Force kind of near the end of my my enlistment. >> Thanks for the >> Oh, no. My my pleasure. Thank you. And uh I jumped on the bodybuilding.com forums to start learning things and I was also reading all the muscle magazines because that's what you did at the time. And you know there was a handful of people who spoke to my natural skepticism and it was many of the people who were doing the kind of progenitor to the evidence-based space that we have today that Trex and I are um very privileged and have the pleasure of of being kind of embedded in. And one of them of course was you uh Dr. Stani. So um sometimes I talk about uh Dr. Lane Norton but there were definitely people who preceded that and I think for anyone who wants to walk a entrepreneurial path uh in fitness it's very difficult to do that without knowing that it's possible and seeing what has come before and having it modeled. So I I just wanted to to say you know thank you for basically doing that and taking academia and lifting and actually paving that pathway as one of the few who did that in an era where it was quite uncommon and before it was even really an evidence-based space. >> True. Yes. >> Yeah. So so Jim along those lines I think a good starting point for this conversation it's going to be wide ranging. We're going to talk about your background. We're going to talk about how science communication and the science kind of online culture has evolved over the years. Um because you're one of the few who was there from the beginning. I mean in the modern era. I mean you were there writing the magazine articles. We were talking before we started recording before forums were even really much of a thing in the fitness space. Facebook didn't exist. I don't think YouTube even existed. And YouTube existed for a while before it blew up. So um you know this was like all the way back where you know there were very few channels for for bodybuilding communication that was scientific in nature. But before we even get to you writing those articles as a postoc um one of my questions is how did you know that you wanted to even pursue education in exercise science? Um because I didn't even know it was a field until I was reading your articles. So so how did you find your way to that in the first place? >> Yeah. So it it was through the the very magazines that you know me from. It was Muslim fitness. I was reading that when my luckily my father was into weightlifting. He was a marine uh was a boxer. His father was a boxer, professional boxer. So the you know that culture uh was in my family you know it wasn't like weightlifting was some weird thing I was doing. It was very much encouraged by my father my entire my family. So, I started working out with my father in the basement and he would bring home, you know, it wasn't Muscle and Fitness then, it was uh what's it called then? Muscle Power. Um, but you know, so I I would flip through the magazines and you know, Joe Weider was having actual PhDs write articles about muscle fiber type, um, you know, lactate threshold, things like that. And so, as a 13-year-old, I'm absorbing all this information, you know, nutrition. I was, you know, I was cooking for myself even at 13. I was making my own meals because I wanted to make sure I was getting my macros, you know, way back then. But it was really through muscle and fitness, you know. I thought, wow, look at this. There are people that are actually studying exercise and muscle. And I'm like, can you imagine uh doing that for a living, you know? And so I, you know, continued weightlifting. I got into competitive bodybuilding. Um, you know, as a teenager, um, collegiate nationals, I did the Junior USA, uh, I won the NPC Connecticut, uh, East Coast, uh, and then the Coastal USA. Um, but, uh, all through I was studying, you know, exercise science. And when I started as an undergrad, I I grew up in Connecticut, you know, I went to a very blue and the Connecticut I grew up in is very blue collar. It's not, you know, your Martha Stewart, you know, Connecticut that you're thinking. It was very, very blueing schools that are 80 grand a year. >> So, I went to, you know, a normal public high school. Um, and there was really no one who could sort of lead me in that direction of what I needed to do. So, I I assumed, you know, maybe I'll go into orthopedics, you know, you know, it's the closest thing to sports and medicine and and science. And so I did an undergrad at University of Connecticut in I was either going to go into physical therapy possibly is the start right as my entry or into sports medicine which was athletic training not not even exercise physiology right or or sports physiology. It was, you know, I worked with the Yukon basketball team, which was amazing, you know, taping ankles and doing massages and, you know, cold and heat, uh, you know, contrast therapy, all that sort of sort of stuff. So, that was my, you know, intro into exercise science. But it wasn't until I took my first exercise physiology course and they were talking about growth hormone and testosterone. And then I was lucky enough my adviser I don't know if you guys know who Bill Kramer is or anybody who's listening but Bill Kramer was my undergrad adviser and so he would be talking to me about the research he was doing like you're studying growth hormone release during weightlifting what you know like I had no idea any of this was going on you know and so that really opened my eyes uh you know lucky enough to have Bill Kramer and again this is before he was the Bill Kramer the resistance training, you know, uh, expert that he is. Um, so I was very lucky to have that, you know, involvement early on. And so I went on to get a masters. Um, I went to Auburn for uh, biomechanics actually and was lucky enough there because um, Bill Kazmire, do you know the world's strongest man? He lived in Auburn and he would come into the he was one of our subjects. We would study Bill Casmire in the lab, not college dudes, you know what I mean? We were studying biomechanics on the world's strongest man. And God, this has nothing to do with anything, but he would do overhead one arm >> with a 130lb dumbbell. It was insane. >> And for the people listening, when he says overhead one arm, he's not talking about presses. He's talking about tricep extensions. >> An overhead tricep with a 130 lb dumbbell. you know, I mean, obviously he was, you know, he was altered, but regardless, what a what a freak. So, you know, I had a lot of great experiences early on. I I never thought that I would ever leave ac I thought that was what I was going to do. I was going to stick with academia you know I went on to do a posttock at Yel School of Medicine but um you know I always thought back to the magazines you know and always thought hey you know what if I can turn the research that I'm doing into applicable information for people and so I knew someone who went to Yukon with me as an undergrad and uh moved out to LA and knew Tom Deers who was the editor editor-in chief of Muscle Fitness at the time. And so I asked her, I said, "You know, if I send you a couple articles, would you mind sending them to Tom?" And she's like, "Oh, are you kidding? You know, for sure. I'm sure he would love your stuff." So I sent it to her, she sent it to Tom. He had Joey to look at. They loved the stuff. And so they they hired me on as a freelance writer. And so while I was at Yale School of Medicine running rats down in the basement, I would be on my laptop writing turning the research into, you know, like what this meant for a lifter in the, you know, in the gym, in the kitchen and and whatnot. And eventually they needed a science editor. And so they, you know, reached out to me and said, "Would you have any interest in leaving academia and becoming our science editor?" And I'm like, "Fly me out there. Let's talk." And uh uh you know, obviously I I took the job much to the confusion of all my colleagues, you know. I mean, they they sat me down. They, you know, tried to do like an intervention. They thought I was throwing my entire career away. You know, here I am set up at Yale School of Medicine. I'm in the department of cellular molecular physiology with grant money with a career you know like you're going to be a professor at Yale School of Medicine why would you give that up you know I'm like look you know this is really my calling you know because here I I'm doing research on genes and in different metabolic pathways and as I'm doing my PubMed search I would see a new article on creatine be like I didn't have time to read that I've got you know, I've got to get funding. I've got to get papers written, you know, and so all this research that I was really interested was just going by. I didn't have time. And you know, when Muscle and Fitness offered me that position, I thought, you know, this is a way for somebody to finally bridge the gap between what's going on in the lab and and what's how do you apply it, you know, because anytime you ask an exercise scientist or other scientists about their study, let's say it's broccoli, you know, they found a study that said, you know, broccoli helped prevent cancer. So, would you recommend broccoli, Dr. So and So, oh, I'm not saying I would recommend broccoli. I'm just saying this is what the data showed, you know, like nobody wanted to go out on that limb and and actually give any advice on the research that was being put out there. So, I really saw that as a great opportunity for me to be able to bridge that gap because not only did I have the the science background in the interest, but I was a competitive bodybuilder. I've been doing this literally lifting weights since I was a kid all my life. And you know, I really saw this as a great opportunity and one of the few people that could really at the time, this is, you know, over 20 years ago, at the time to really bring that information to the general public in a way that's, you know, usable and understandable for them. And so really that that's that was my start. Yeah, I had a a similar kind of a a similar set of experiences honestly. Um where I didn't know exercise science existed. So I was like I'll be a physical therapist close enough. I'll figure a way to be be interested, you know. Um and then got involved with some exercise science course work and just couldn't look back, you know. Uh and then similarly um like you were talking after your posttock kind of going into the industry route and people kind of sitting you down and saying Jim you're throwing a lot away here. I mean I I remember when I you know I I um right after my PhD um you know I'm back in the academic world now but I took like a little five-year detour when I was out of it completely and I remember people uh that conference circuit you know you do the summer conferences presenting your research. I had at least a few people pull me aside and say, "Eric, I heard some nasty rumors that you were going and doing this. Uh, and I just need you to tell me they're not true." Um, but yeah, it's it's it's um one of those things where, you know, you could almost get caught in that that trap, that kind of sunk cost fallacy where you were exploring this science because it tapped into your passion for the bodybuilding, the lifting, the nutrition. And if you're not careful, you're so busy pursuing it through that route, you forget to link it back to where you started, you know, linking it back into that passion. >> Precisely. Yes. >> I know selfishly for me, I'm glad that you did because without the work you were doing in that time period, I never I never really would have found my way into this kind of whole set of interests. So, um yeah, it's really uh fortuitous that that you did that. Um, I was curious, you know, so you you were, you know, Yale School of Medicine and you're like, I'm going to go all in on science communication. So, you jump into the uh what is now seen as kind of the old school uh, you know, print magazine industry from the academic world. What was that transition like? I mean, what in you were there in the heyday of fitness magazines in my opinion, what was that culture like? What was it like to communicate science in that era? Um it was you know it was a there was definitely a learning curve. I have AI had a minor in my undergrad a minor in English. So I had a real interest in writing. In fact my uh PI at Yale when the one of the first grants I wrote he sat me down and says to me your writing's too good. And I'm like how can it be too good? He's like you your grant can't tell a story. He's like, you know, like it's just got to be information. Like, it's too good. Like, you wrote like what you write. This isn't how to write a grant. It's very basic. And so, I, you know, I already I had I had writing skills already. Nothing compared to the writers that I that I worked with, which was was, you know, an, you know, another thing. All my colleagues that when I was at the magazines would be like, "Oh, I'm a great writer." And I'm just like, look, dude, I used to think I was a great writer, but once you've been around real writers, like people who can really, really use words, you know, properly and tell a real story and make you interested, it's you're not a good writer, trust me. We'll take your content. You're a content. I'm a content writer. That's that was my thing. Um, but it was quite a learning curve. Um because you know you're going from writing for other scientists to writing to a 16-year-old, you know, and so >> but close enough. >> Yeah. Whatever, right? you know. So, so what I would do is I would always like turn back the clock and think that I'm writing to myself as a 15 or 16 year old, you know, or I'm explaining this to my mom, you know, if my mom wanted to know what V2 max was, how would I explain that to her in simple, you know what I mean? and and and and you know, a lot of scientists get caught up in that, oh, I got to impress my colleagues and, you know, use all these big words. And it's like, no, you you you need to use the simplest, most common words. It's almost impossible to explain what V2 max is without using any of those terms that you're used to. You know what I mean? Like, what does it mean? You know, and and and that was what was really important. I had one um executive editor who was also a bodybuilder, not a competitive bodybuilder, but he was one of the few, you know, when I got to Muslim fitness, I expected it to be this campus with a research lab and a gym. And it was literally just a bunch of editors, few who actually worked out. And so, you know, one of the ones that did and knew how to work out and actually knew how to write really worked with me on on my writing, which helped tremendously. But what I ended up doing for them was teaching them how to use me better. It's like don't have me write this whole artic, you know, you've got me, you know, writing, you know, if I'm going to write an article or you got me editing some trainer stuff and the trainer doesn't know anything about, you know, muscle contraction. So now I'm fixing all his stuff. And then when you have me write my own articles, I'm involved with I have to come up with the intro to get them interested in it. I'm like, look, here's what you need to do. you need to use me as a content writer. And then you send it off to this editor who's a great writer and he's going to add the intro. He's going to say trying to build your biceps is like Britney Spears trying, you know what? You know what I mean? Like he's going to get a hook in there just like today in a video. You can't start off your video by going, "Hi, I'm Dr. Jim Stani and today I'm going to talk about muscle." It's there's got to be something creative there that's going to grab somebody. And so we finally created this system where I would write the, you know, the workout or the nutrition plan or the article and the supplements and other editors would come in after and then clean that up and make it more sensible to the average person. So it was a great great opportunity because I really learned how to make it simple and easy to understand. And I think that's the the that's the comment that I appreciate the the most. I think when people say, "You know what I love about your stuff is that it's so easy to understand." And I'm like, "Thank you. That that means I did my job." >> Now, on the flip side of that, >> that's critical, >> if I may, Helms, uh, you know, one of the things that's been interesting as the >> kind of evidence-based fitness content world has expanded and it's a lot easier to get feedback whether you want it or not, right? You know, Now, nowadays, you don't you don't print the magazine and send it out, you know. It's you post the thing and >> you don't have to write for physical letters to come in. Yeah. You know, >> exactly. So, now you you post it. There's comments straight at you. There's people making content about your content saying how wrong it is. >> So, I wonder how did you um did you run into a lot of kind of balancing, you know, because if you go like I'm going to make this as simple to understand as I possibly can. the more that you shed some of that nuance, some people who are purists, who are really into the nitty-gritty, will then sometimes uh critique that content and say, "You've oversimplified it. It's way more complicated than this, like this person doesn't know what they're talking about." How did you kind of navigate that balance throughout your career? Did Did you run into that a lot? >> Yeah, I mean, I think it's a it's a it's finding a middle ground, you know, where you know, you're you're able to explain it. um using simple terms but you know a PhD can still read it and you know appreciate appreciate it you know and you know look my audience is you know the lay person but I think it's the lay like you said the lay person who's a little more red who's a little you know who wants a little more who's who's, you know, who's interested in maybe a three minute video versus 15 seconds, who right, >> you know, has the attention span to read a little more. Um, and so, you know, I would like to think that my content sort of is in that middle ground. >> Yeah. >> You know, where it's not oversimplified. It's some of it is. You just, you know, you have to o oversimplify it for most people. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, like you said, it really comes down like I I've um I found that, you know, if I'm contributing to content on some platform, the first thing I ask them is who's this for? you know, and that's ultimately going to going to tell you >> who's how far down that that, you know, slope of simplifying do we go, you know, and sometime if you're going to give a community presentation at a nursing home >> to convince people to use the gym on campus, do a little bit of lifting, and eat a little extra protein at breakfast, like there's no reason for you to go and try to prove to everyone you're the smartest person in the room. And Jim, one of the things I I've always appreciated about your content is when you do when you are publishing in those kind of uh venues where it is where it makes sense to simplify. I I think you are really good at simplifying without totally oversimplifying and also just exercising what I view as a little bit of almost kind of like intellectual restraint of saying I could dazzle you with the details and the nuances. If I wanted to confuse you, I could, but I won't. And I think a lot of times that restraint of saying there's nothing to prove here. It's just about conveying the information at the level it's intended. I I think that's what makes, you know, a really really good communicator of science. And I mean, you are still, you know, doing excellent science communication in the industry. You've been doing it at this point for what is that going on 30 years at this point. So I I think that's evidence that you found a formula that works. >> Well, thank you. Yeah. >> I've got a question for you. You you mentioned which I found really cool and uh initially surprising but then when you think about it not surprising that you were reading when you were coming up PhDs who'd been hired by Muscle and Fitness and writing these articles. I'm I'm wondering when you were reading who were some of the the writers with PhDs and other science communicators who were inspiring you? My first thought was maybe a Fred Hatfield or I'm trying to think who else was was doing it. Probably in the I guess the 90s and 80s when you would have been reading this. >> Yeah, definitely Fred. I think Fred Hatfield stands out. Dr. squad >> as some of you may know him uh as but it would also just be random you know not anybody with a name just a researcher at you know University of California Davis you know who was looking at whatever lactate or you know muscle fiber type or you know what I mean it was it was different um you know not any known entities in the in the field just research scientists um who are known in in academia um that he would bring into the magazine to get that information. >> Gotcha. And uh a parallel question to that is, you know, we have what because you actually have a true background in academia, you can tell when someone is leveraging an academic background to use science to sell something rather than accurately representing what we think is truly going on. And I have seen even in my relatively short tenure as a science communicator phases where science has come in and out of vogue. Um have you seen that? Is is that a repeated cycle? I I would I would love to hear your your take on how >> science is sometimes uh co-opted for marketing and other times it is almost kind of like this corner thing and the bros will will like yeah whatever. We don't need that that nonsense. pencil neck geek. as someone who has always been a lifter but is also a researcher um how have you navigated that changing dichotomy and the kind of those waves and do you ever find yourself I I have found myself as an outgroup from both in times where uh you know science isn't cool uh then I I lose my lifter card and in science times when science is cool my lifter card actually hurts me because I'm not you know like oh he's just a bodybuilder builder and some other more pure quote unquote academics won't give me respect. So, it's it's a funny thing to be like Trex and I recently had a experience where we got called just powerlifting coaches when we published a meta regression on protein. And only a few weeks later uh did I get someone who was basically critiquing uh it it for not being for me just for the opposite side of it. you know, e either I'm not sciency enough for the scientists or I'm not hardcore enough for the lifters. And I wonder how you've navigated that over the years. And this >> that's interesting. Also, and also reminds me of something else where I'm not big enough or I'm too like literally I'll post something and there'll be five comments that go steroids, steroids. He's on steroids. And then there's also five comments, do you even lift? Do you? And it's just like which way is it, guys? Do Do I have any muscle or do I have too much muscle? And it's just like it's just it's interesting with the you know science is sort of out of vogue. But you know I I mean I don't I haven't really changed it. I mean I literally am I'm just an educator. You know it it it and you know when I was getting my PhD at University of Connecticut luckily they literally had a course for your PhD like a course just on getting your PhD what to expect what you do next you know a posttock and my professor said something that I still hold on today he says you have a responsibility a responsibility to share what you've learned with as many people who are willing to listen to you. That is your responsibility. And I've never ever forgotten that. And and that is all I all I work on is that I is that's my responsibility to take what I've learned in the gym, in the lab, you know, and teach people. Anyone who's willing to listen. So whether science is, you know, everybody wants the guy with the PhD or they don't want to listen to the guy with the PhD, I've never really changed how I do it, >> you know. But it's it's so interesting when you know, like you said, you see this and it's just like, oh, now nobody wants to hear from the the person with the PhD who's been doing it for 40 years in the gym and in the lab. like, you know, that's interesting. Or or there's agism, you know, that that's another thing. At 57 years old, you know, I'll get comments, oh, shut up, old man. Oh, thanks, Pops. You know, and it's it's weird because many other cultures, the experience that that person has is appreciated and they want to hear. Whereas, you know, on social media, it's like, I I don't want to hear from you. I'd rather listen to a guy who's been in the gym for two years and is on a bunch of, you know, trend. Um, that's the guy I want to listen to. You know what I mean? And it's just, you know, I it it is what it is. And like I said, I just continue doing my thing. You know, it's really interesting the way you put that um because I think it segus into kind of the way uh science communication has changed specifically within the like bodybuilding and fitness space because I mean Helms I I I don't think I'm wrong here. I feel like back in the day, if you go back a decade or two, when people were seeking out their sources of information, it seemed to me like people had a greater appreciation for well-roundedness in their information sources. So, for example, like you were saying, Jim, people would not just you would want to hear from the person with the academic credentials. You would want to hear from the huge guy with no academic credentials. then you'd want to hear from the guy who's been doing it well for 35 years cuz I feel like we generally as a lifting culture believed I'm sure this guy has run into every problem I'm running into right now you know and it seemed like people had a lot of appreciation for all those different facets but after you know this is a good transition for your kind of career trajectory you know after it was you know very magazine focused then we get into the digital age right and it's it's forums and and that took off into nowadays I feel like people really pick a lot of their fitness information based on their favorite essentially micro celebrity. You know, it's personality oriented. I want to watch the YouTube videos of the person that I find engaging and cool and I kind of aspirationally view as a peer almost. So, it's this interesting thing where there you will find people who will say, "Okay, that person has been studying this for, you know, 15 years, not interested. That person's been a good lifter for 25 years, not interested. This person's been in the gym for 36 months, is already on a bunch of gear, but man, their videos are funny. So, like, I'm all in. And however they train, that's me now, >> right? >> Um, but but I I want to I want to hear more a little bit. Um, you know, what clearly from the outside looking in, you transition from very magazine focused, a lot of writing, and then you were doing more multimedia stuff. I remember you were really big in bodybuilding.com. So, was that one of those things where the industry started moving and you were kind of a ship in that tide or was that something that you proactively said, you know, I want to aim toward the future and get in on this kind of, you know, digital media space? >> Yeah. Well, you know, the the mistake that most companies make like Muscle and Fitness is they they don't view themselves as a fitness media company. They view themselves as a magazine or a website, right? And so with Muscle and Fitness, when I was at Muscle and Fitness, my my business partner who I now uh work with, he was he was in advertising at Muscle and Fitness, but he he had a master's degree in exercise science and he was very savvy digitally. And so they put him in charge of building up the Muscle and Fitness website, but they didn't know what they wanted to do with it. They thought it would cannibalize the magazines. And so they really didn't want much content. They wanted him to just take the old content and sort of repurpose it. And so, you know, we would have conversations all the time uh in my office and, you know, he one day says, you know, would you ever consider making some videos so we can put them on the M? And I'm like, sure, you know, and so I'm like, but you know, we should bring it up at an editorial meeting, you know, because I've got a lot of articles to write. And so he brings up to at the meeting and everybody laughed or just like video like who's going to want nobody's going to watch Jim do a video on the bench press. Who the hell would want that? Nobody's going to want that. And so I took him aside later and said, "Let's just do it, you know." And so, you know, I shot my first video in my garage. There's paint cans on the shelf behind me. you know, I had like a power rack in there and I'm doing a little thing on the bench press and and the the views went through the roof. Absolutely through the roof. Um, and then bodybuilding.com contacted me. They wanted me to start doing for free, you know what I mean? And I sure, you know, I I'm science editor for muscle and fitness. As long as you make my, you know, put my credentials as Muslim fitness, you know, it sort of, you know, benefits both. >> Yeah. Yeah. A little cross kind of thing. Yeah. >> And let me tell you, this is when Joe Weider sold the magazines to American Media. I don't if you know the name David Pecker at all. Um yeah, David David Peons, you know, National Inquirer. Um you know, all those. And so they came in and they didn't want me doing anything on bodybuilding.com. They didn't want any videos up because they thought it would cannibalize the magazines. Well, people are going to stop reading the magazines, you know, and eventually we showed them that that's not the case. You sort of need to have both. But then they complained about my content on bodybuilding.com. Even though we showed them that the majority of the traffic coming to musclefitness.com was from bodybuilding.com because people would find my content on bodybuilding.com and at the end was a bio and a link to muslinfitness.com. They they wanted to put an end to that. In fact, the reason I left Muscle Fitness was they gave me an ultimatum. I either had to stop working with bodybuilding.com or they were going to fire me. And so I said, "Well, I'll see you guys later." They were they were shocked because there's no way you can tell me print is a better medium for teaching somebody how to do an exercise. That's why I gravitated. When my business partner came and said, "Would you ever consider doing videos?" I'm like, "Yes." How much easier is it to teach somebody how to do a bench press when you're actually showing them how to do a bench press versus just words? You know, you try teaching somebody how to tie their shoe with an article. >> Yeah. >> You know what I mean? Think about that. All those nuances of what you have to do with the lace and the looping with just words. It's very very difficult to do. So, a bench press, uh, you know, plank, whatever you have. I've been I've been doing that for years, writing in text and wanting a a better way and video was the better way and once you know once I started working in the video I you know I didn't even see the point of article I mean give or you know why would you want to go back to to writing so I literally quit muscle fitness because they didn't want me doing videos for bodybuilding.com even though I wasn't getting paid and it was bringing you know, traffic back to their website. And and bodybuilding.com, their mistake was they saw themselves as a as a website, not as a media platform. I I I had my my fit gym stupani fitness app on my phone in 2008. Bodybuilding.com didn't even have an app in 2008. >> Man, that's Yeah. 2008 to be having a fitness app, that is way ahead of the curve. Yeah, it is. But to not have one as you know but again I know most people who are watching right now or listening have no clue what bodybuilding.com was but it was the biggest platform >> to get any information on lifting or supplementation. You know it was a massive massive massive platform. You really can't understand how big of a platform that was. But to not have an app and to take that long to have an app. But >> yeah. Well, no. And I mean your your career uh kind of trajectory, it's it's I'm I'm kind of chuckling because it it is 100% my consumer trajectory as I was getting into lifting because like I said, I I was glued to your muscle and fitness uh magazine articles. And then I increasingly found myself going over to bodybuilding.com for video content and engaging in the forums, which is whereum where I first became aware of this other guy, this Eric Helms on the other side of the screen. Um, and that those bodybuilding uh.com forums still today, a lot of the people who are really seen as kind of the the more prominent voices in our little niche that that Helms and I are in, >> it was all from, you know, just like notable threads in the forums and prolific posters in the forums. >> Um, so so you you leave Muscle and Fitness um because of this ultimatum. At that point, do you get a a position with bodybuilding.com or do are you just kind of entrepreneurial making money with your own endeavors and then just kind of doing um I mean at that time bodybuilding.com was I mean the jackpot in terms of just broad exposure. I mean we were talking offline I mean how many millions of people I think you it was called shortcut to size the the series that you did. >> Yes. >> So so what did that look like when you transitioned out of muscle and fitness? >> So I had already had my own website. >> Mhm. you know, and it wasn't just, you know, it was, you know, you go on there w with an app in 2008 with workouts and so, you know, it was a membershipbased website. So, I was making money from that. And then I had never considered a supplement line. You know, I'm not a businessman. I'm a scientist, but it was my business partner. We started with the website. And he's like, you know, don't you think it's time, you know, you finally came out with your own supplement? You're you're teaching people how to make a pre-workout. You're telling them how much creatine, beta-alanine, and, you know, betane to put in there. You know, what if we just streamlined that for them and and made a pre-workout supplement, and I was working with a manufacturer that was going to make it for me. We pitched it to bodybuilding.com. Bodybuilding.com love the concept. They're all like, "Jesus, if Jim Stapani made a supplement, I would buy it for sure." You know, and so they were interested, but they didn't they didn't want to work with the manufacturer that I had because they had their own manufacturer, which was Century, massive manufacturing company. Um, and so we changed the the the business structure to where they would have Century do the the manufacturing and then I would sell it to them and you know over that that was an overnight success that the launch of pre prey my pre-workout was literally you know within a year it became the number one selling product on bodybuilding.com. you know, and it's because of the platform I was educating. I didn't have to sell them anything. You know, these people already knew my formulas based on what I was telling them to take. They saw that the formula was almost exactly what I was recommending um prior and it was just going from buying, you know, seven or eight tubs of products that all tasted like crap when you mixed them together and to all the same ingredients but now in a nice flavor system. So, so that's how I you know sort of stayed alive uh you know without a job if you will. >> Yeah. And and it is funny because I mean one of the recurring themes here is you know this this really pervasive fear of like we have to keep the good stuff hidden right so so for example the magazine saying well we can't cannibalize our content so only the crap goes on the website minimal crap and then we can't not not crap but the older stuff got you know but you know we want to keep the good stuff over here kind of siloed. Exactly. Yeah. Behind the pay wall content. >> Yeah. And same thing like you know a lot of people might say like well if I'm going to have a successful supplement company I can't be out there writing articles about how much you should take of this and that and the other thing and ironically it's like that the more I'm in the space I I realize not only is it okay to do it this other way. It's kind of the only good way to do it is to say like I'm gonna give you content uh because you're gonna like it and because you're gonna think this is really good and you're probably gonna want more. Uh and same thing like with with supplements. I'm going to tell you what the science says about what you ought to take in terms of supplementation because you want to use that information. You're you're going to start viewing me as a credible source on this topic. And frankly, when I give you the product, it's not like the secret Jim Stani formula that no one can ever find out about. You know, we're not talking about like IP secrets here. It's just saying, you know, you want to take this stuff because I've laid out what the science says, but like, wouldn't it be nice if you didn't have to go out and buy six ingredients and then you mix them and they That was a big trend back in the day, making your own pre-workout and they always tasted awful, you know, because it turns out the people that do the flavoring are actually geniuses and very, very good at it. Um, but yeah, it's like, you know, there there's a lot of value in giving the value first and kind of uh understanding there's going to be that reciprocity on the back end. And it sounds like that served you really well in your career. >> Yeah. You know, in fact, I remember when I did just the workout, not even supplement advice, but when I did shortcut the size, everybody asked me, "How much are they paying you?" And I'm like, "Nothing." And they're like, "What? You did. You lived in Boise for over a week shooting all that content, right? You You put it up there. It's free to everyone and you didn't get paid. You're stupid. And I'm like, I'm not stupid. I'm giving them a chance to see what I can deliver. >> Yeah. >> You know, how are you going to know? You know what I'm saying? Like if there's a cover charge at the club, how are you going to know how good it is inside? >> You know what I mean? >> You got to you got to pay just to see how good it is. I'm like this this way they can see they can see how effective my programs are and then they're going to want more. >> Yeah. And and you do see that you see time and time again, you know, individuals, companies, entities who they try to kind of silo away all their their, you know, premium stuff and they basically silo themselves into obscurity, you know, out of the public eye and and whatever brand recognition they had starts to die off. Whatever popularity they had starts to dwindle. >> And the popularity, the brand recognition, >> that's not something that you can just fire it back up in an instant, you know? That's something that builds slowly over time. and when you have it going, you got to keep it going. So, um, yeah, I think you you've had a lot of foresight in terms of how you've navigated this evershifting landscape. But I'm I'm really dying to hear, Jim, you know, we we've kind of gone through these stages of the career getting into, you know, the your your own website, the supplement line. Um, but we're still in, you know, talking about like bodybuilding.com days, the forum days, and it, like you said, Jim, people could not understand the size and scope of bodybuilding.com at its peak. It was where fitness happened on the internet, period. And nowadays, people don't I people haven't even heard of it. >> Uh, but >> what has your experience? >> Yeah, the forums the forums just recently got closed down. >> Yeah. I don't know if you guys knew that, but you can no longer access them, which was kind of like a death of an era. And >> yeah, they've been sold so many times. >> Yeah. >> Um I still have some connection with them. So, um but uh we were trying to help revive them, but it's >> Yeah, >> I don't think it's possible. >> Like I said, >> it's such a momentum thing, you know, once it dwindles, it's really hard to fire that back up. Uh but I am curious, you know, from someone who has seen it all in this industry and seen it gone through so many phases. What's your kind of state of the union right now as we've shifted into this brave new world of it's all social media. It's immediate content. Content demand has gone through the roof. It feels like if you're not publishing a video every day, you're too slow and you're falling behind. So, what's it been like for you? um you know having so much experience in this industry you know how do you assess the kind of current state of you know sharing evidence-based fitness content in in this environment? >> Um it's interesting you know the the the ch I would have never predicted so much change in just the last 10 years. You know, I I remember people come up to me all the time and go, "I want to do what you do." And I'm like, >> "Well, good luck, cuz there's not many opportunities for it." You know what I mean? You needed to, you know, you couldn't just pop up on There were a few YouTubers >> I don't know if you remember Michael Chang, he had all those ab >> uh videos and then do you remember Scooby? That guy Scooby used to wear the bucket hat and be in his backyard. >> Um, >> you know, but Um, I can't even remember where I was going with that. Um, >> you were just saying that you couldn't you couldn't imagine all the all the change in the last 10 years and then how scarce opportunities are now to kind of break through >> it. It's very, you know, like I said, there was only a few of us doing it back, you know, back in the day and now it's just, you know, like I said, I would say, you know, good luck doing what I do. You know, usually you have to have, you know, like I'm the science editor of Muscle and Fitness while I'm while I've got a Twitter, you know what I mean? Like I'm not just, hey, I'm Jim Stania. I like fitness and now I'm on Twitter. You know what I mean? Like you you had to have some cache, you know what I mean? Like you had to be tied to something, you know? And it wasn't just me going, I'm the expert. It's, you know, muscle and fitness going, "Listen to our expert." It's bodybuilding.com going, "Listen to our expert." And then you take it to social media and people go, "Oh, that's the guy from, you know what I mean?" Whereas now, you know, it's sort of the Justin Bieber path, you know what I mean? Where you, you know, you to get into Muslim fitness back in 2000, you know what I mean? You you you either had to be an amazing trainer, you know, um or you had to know somebody, you know what I mean? It was it was very hard to just go hey I want to I want to be an expert you know what I mean in whatever area whether it's law whether it's medicine whether it's training whether it's finance you know now all it takes is a phone you know and and like you were saying you know do people want to listen to the guy with 40 years of experience and a doctorate or do they just want the guy with the blest eyes the blondest hair and the best pecs, you know, and so it gives, you know, there's good and bad, like I said, you know, like we wouldn't have Justin Bieber if it wasn't for YouTube, right? Uh good and good and bad of everybody but some people love Justin Bieber, right? But you know what I'm saying? So there wouldn't be a lot of experts that we now know um if you couldn't just pick up your phone and and you know start. But there's also, you know, a lot of misinformation because of it. You know, with the magazines getting into the magazine, it was vetted. It was filtered. You know, there were other editors, me going, "No, that's, you know, that's not how a muscle, that's not the physiology, that's not," you know what I mean? Yeah. Um, and so what was nice about that was not only that allowed me to filter the information, but what I did was I turned the magazine into more of a manual, meaning like I I don't care if Men's Health has an article this month going low carb is the only way to lose weight, and then the next month they go, low carb will kill you. And it's just like, wait a minute, you guys last month just said low carb was the way to go. Now you've got a new writer in there who's saying, you know, low, we can't do this at this magazine. It has to be consistent. We have to have, you know, consistent information that goes month. Sure, some things can change, but we can't say, you know, hit the best thing this month and then next month say it's the worst thing, you know. And so that that's what I appreciated about it is we could filter it. We could vet it and we could make the information consistent so that the reader is not like all over the place like, oh, one month he said this, next month he said that. It was more of a manual. You know what I mean? >> Yeah. nowadays, not only do you not get the manual, um, but you're you're literally, so back in 2000 when you wanted to know about something, you had that thought, okay, bench press, I want to know if I bring my elbows in. Then you go to internet, right? Now, nobody does that because you pick up your phone and you're bombarded and it's whatever's in your feed. That's what you learn today. Whatever's in your feed, you don't have the time to go, geez, I wonder if a keto diet will lower my, you know what I mean? Like, you're bombarded with the information all day long. And so, you're just like >> through proactive. >> Yeah. It's more reactive than >> contemplative or you know what I mean? like >> um and so I think people are kind of >> more like fragmented not you know like I I I think it's great that there's so much information just on your phone but it's kind of all over the place you know what I mean versus you know like a place where you can kind of get a full spectrum of it you know how to train how to eat what you know what stays the same changes, periodization, yada yada, and today is just kind of like, oh, uh, you know, this guy says I should do flies this, okay, that's, you know, that's my focus for today, you know, and and so I think that's the sad thing. I'm not sure how to explain what I'm saying, but like >> No, no, I I totally get it. Yeah. >> I >> Yeah, I mean, in many more information and you can like, you know, you could AI anything. Oh, does a low carb diet, you know what I mean? And get a sort of an answer. People aren't really thinking full picture, if you will, you know what I mean? Because of the way the information comes in >> and >> and it's so much different information, you know? >> Yeah. I mean, I think you brought up a few points I want to highlight there because I I think they're so pertinent right now in the in the fitness space as it pertains to content. I mean, first of all, you know, you mentioned if someone were to ask you, how do I do what you do? How do I replicate your path? And you're like, I I I don't know. I feel like what's really ironic about it is that, you know, when you were coming up and to a lesser extent, even like when Helms and I were kind of getting into this space, there were fewer total opportunities. Um, and yet it was kind of easier to go out there and make a name for yourself. Whereas now because the barrier to entry of just saying I'm going to do fitness content is so low. It's like everyone has an opportunity now to get out there which means that the ability to actually rise to prominence a ma you with this massive amount of content out there. It's almost like there's more opportunities which makes it prohibitively difficult to actually separate yourself and stand out and rise to some level of of of notoriety. >> Agree. >> Um, another thing that you mentioned which is such a there's so many pros and cons to it. I do find it to be a net negative of if I'm showing my cards, but um you know you mentioned there used to be established entities that publish knowledge and information and there was an editorial process uh you know kind of a top-down filtering of what is evidence-based content and now I think what we see is because it's so uh decentralized and fragmented as you said with with content creation instead of being a top down approach of filtering that information. Now it's a bottom up approach >> and instead of le like kind of funneling it toward an expert to say yes or no or maybe now it's kind of just like a vote counting mechanism where it's just whatever is most engaging is going to get amplified the most. And so that's where you see like, you know, like like you're mentioning, Jim, you you're like looking at the content and one day low carb is the best thing ever, the next day it's it's the worst thing ever. And it's because, you know, we're naturally going to be upvoting, you know, metaphorically speaking, the things that are most polarizing instead of having that kind of centralized filter that says, well, you're both a little bit off base here. Let me kind of like write an article that makes sense of this, you know? So, um, no, no, it's it's interesting to see, um, uh, how that's affected content creation. And then also, Jim, the last thing I'll say as I kind of, you know, steal the mic from from poor Helms this episode, >> it's been interesting to watch how that has impacted not just content creation, but content consumption. >> Uh, yeah, because like you said, Jim, there there's been this downstream effect where people are yanked in so many directions. Everything is kind of trending towards short form and everything is very sensationalized. So, it's like you open up, it used to be Helms, you remember, you set aside 25 minutes, you open up Muscle and Fitness magazine, you say, I wonder what Jim thought was his most important thing to write in his column this month. You know, like he he had many things on the drawing board, filtered them into what he felt was most important to say this month, and I'm going to dive into this article and read it. And now it's like you open up your phone and on your Instagram grid, you see nine different headlines. They're all 60 seconds long. They're completely contradictory. And you're just like, I guess I'll just pick one today and see what happens and just reshuffle the deck tomorrow. Uh, and it's so so difficult to actually make sense of that into any kind of cohesive um, you know, any kind of cohesive uh, worldview about how all this fitness stuff fits together and makes sense. Um, but Helms, I'm very uncharacteristic. I've been hogging the mic. Helms, I'm gonna I'm gonna mute my mic literally and let you take it away from here. >> I I like that you feel the need to actually like physically restrain yourself. But I think that TX, you've done a fantastic job. I I've been loving the questions you've asked and I think because you came up in the era where Jim was coming up as in his career. Your your your questions have been spot on. Very many of the same things I would say. Um, what I find really interesting though is I think because I started my science communication career maybe about maybe a decade it probably it's a stretch before you kind of started yours. >> Yeah. Cuz I >> you were setting the groundwork. >> I I I was like uh not that I recommend this necessarily, but I said I'm going to go get my PhD and stay out of this stuff for the most part and then say, "Okay, I did my time. I I paid my dues and now I'm ready." In hindsight, that was probably a mistake. But anyway, as you were. >> Yeah. Because I I remember the first time that I started viewing you personally, and this is not necessarily a reflection of when you were capable or when you were as a content creator was sometime around 2014, 2015. And I had been a trainer and we had started 3D Muscle Journey and I'd written and I'd done my my muscle and strength, you know, videos, you know, somewhere in the decade prior to that. So, um, it it was interesting for me to kind of be coming up just on the heels while you were the consumer and I was a bit of both. And one thing I've realized as we've talked about this, Jim, is that the changing nature of information has also changed the role of the science communicator. Um, if we look at historically science communication and society from a much broader lens, if we think Carl Sean, Neil deGrasse Tyson, if we think um, it hasn't been I have to correct the record and bust myths. There's a little bit of that and that could be fun, but that was never the central role of Carl Sean as an example. and he he wasn't going out, you know, pushing against this tide of all these people saying that that the earth is the center of the solar system. I I need to go bust that myth once and for all, you know. >> Exactly. And and that in many ways and I and I, you know, I want to hear your perspective on this once I kind of paint my view and kind of what what I have seen is that you didn't start in that role either and that wasn't the role, you know, like because there were these platforms and you had to be platformed rather than creating your own. Um it was, you know, for better or for worse. And I think Trex described it as a negative and I don't disagree. There were systems in place and people vetting and maybe they weren't always the best to be vetting to give you the opportunity but that means you had to have the resume. You had to be a IFPB pro you had to be a trainer of champions. You had to be uh doing your posttock at Yale and also be a trainer or what have you. And I think that created um much more unity and and and the the role of what university and education is supposed to be is oh these are people studying this and there are educators so we're going to leverage them and there was not a narrative of this experience versus science that has come up in the last I'm going to say 15 years that is when I first started noticing it there was a period where that would be a ridiculous statement even when I started like why you know like you were talking about TX people were more quote unquote well-rounded in choosing where they got their information from. I don't even think we thought of it that way that oh I need to get the information from the IPV pro and the doctor. It was just I need information on on on how to get as jacked as possible. There's very little scientific information, but of course I would go to someone who is studying this. And of course, I would go to someone who has trained for 20 years and achieved a high level in this sport, but they aren't on opposite sides. And with the death of the expert, which I think we can trace back to many societal changes, but one of them is this exactly what we're talking about is that there is no barrier to entry. Anyone and everyone can produce content. And now because you're competing for someone's attention span, you say the most shocking thing. What you were annoyed about about the inconsistency at say uh men's health is actually now a strategy purposeful. We have rage bait as a thing. I'm going to actively make content that makes you angry, right? I am going to say something that leverages your cynicism and your your your conspiratorial problems that are almost politically rooted or culturally rooted. Um, if you look at the low carb movement, Gary Tobs's narrative, you know, he crafted a narrative of, you know, the Anel Keys conspiracy seven countries study, you know, and and the DRRi guidelines and the medical establishment all to try to keep us unhealthy. Now we have doctors hate him as the you know so >> yes >> and then so somewhere around the time I was coming up all of the people who were after your generation who are modeling the the what is the evidence-based practitioner kind of archetype they were dealing with that the initial beginnings of it they created their own platform their own websites or they were the moderators on the bodybuilding.com forums we're talking about Lane Norton Alan Aragon, you know, straight flexed was his his username on on on the body.com forums. We're talking about Lyall McDonald. Um, we're talking about this era of people who were very confrontational and the primary thing they were doing was not telling you what to do. It's not curated content like a manual that you were saying. They were telling you what not to do because there was so much content that you needed to be disabused of as as getting miseducated and the anti-guru was essentially the uh the archetype which I found really fascinating because previous to that it was the guru who also was typically evidence-based and sometimes that was marketing sometimes it actually was just these are the people we put up in society maybe too much but nonetheless um it's because of their knowledge or because of their status and it includes that and it became inverted to where the role of the science communicator was whackable. And now it is in it it's there we're we're we're so far away from being in a desert of information and not having access to good information that we are oversaturated with information that the average consumer can't tell the difference between what is actually evidence-based and what is not. So the evidence-based content creator is left with needing to kind of do all of it, create their own space, and it is very confusing. It's tough. I don't envy anyone coming up right now because you're combating misinformation and now you're actually com combating disinformation because it's a content strategy to get eyeballs on you. >> And somewhere in when you're doing that, you also have to have your own brand identity presence and you have to know the marketing strategies that have that take just as much time to learn as the science itself and then have a consistent message of actually giving people practical useful information. And I think even within the evidence-based niche, there are people who find subniches like I am the the anti-guru whack-a-ole person or I'm going to just give you the really practical info or I need to niche down on just biomechanics. So I that's kind of what I've seen and how it's changed and I'm curious how you have navigated that changing role of who is the lifter with the PhD and it sounds like you've just kind of stayed as an educator but I've also been very impressed in that you've got a huge following on Instagram and YouTube that wasn't always the case. How did you stay relevant on these social media platforms that themselves have changed since their inception substantially? >> Um, I think the biggest thing is just communicating with like you were saying, you know, before you didn't get immediate feedback. Now, you know, you get immediate feedback and I try to get all those, you know, people with legitimate questions, even if they want a debate, you know, at least a response. Um, and so I think that's critical is is the interaction with, you know, the people who want to make a comment, whether it's a question, whether it's a debate, but it's, you know, being there and showing them that you're you're paying attention to them. You're not just putting up content and going, "Oh, say what the hellever you want to say. I' I've stated my piece." But you're coming back and, you know, saying, "Oh, you have diabetes. Well, maybe try this then for this or oh yeah, that might not work for you if you've you know just simple like oh you found the opposite you know great it sounds like you know what works for you ignore this you know every individual is an individual my information is not a you know fix for everyone you know it's just giving them something and showing that you're invested um in communicating with them you know because everybody wants to kind feel like, oh, he, you know, he listened to me. He gave me a response. And, you know, that's one of the things I get all the time. People like, wow, I didn't expect you to reply, you know, to my question, but thank you so much. And so, I think that's critical. Like I said, I really haven't changed my strategies. I don't do the um, you know, here I am with a green screen of another video and I'm go, "This guy's so wrong." you know, like, you know, go do what you want to say. Say, you know what I mean? Like that that's not my role to clean it up. You know, like yes, there's a lot of misinformation out there, >> but I don't see that as my role. And in fact, you know, I've had people on my media team that have brought that go, what if what if you do, you know, I've seen these videos where this lawyer comes on and she plays a video of another lawyer, then goes, no, that's not how the law you're supposed to. What if Jim did that? And I'm just like, I know everybody's doing that. I know it's it's a strategy. It would probably get his views, but I'm like, I don't want to be that guy, >> you know? I just don't want to be that guy. You know, I I >> I I try to be positive, you know, like kind of like you were saying, like, you know, they'll they'll just tell you what not to do. In fact, we had a a writer uh at Muslim back at Muscle and Fitness, and most of his articles were like that. It's like, if your gym doesn't have these three pieces of equipment, you need to quit the gym and find a new one. And I'm like, these these aren't helpful articles. Like, we can't we need to tell people what to do, not you know, what not to do. You know what I mean? Like, oh, this supplement sucks. And it's just like, no, we don't need to tell them what supplements suck. We need to tell them what supplement will work. which ones like you know this isn't I I understand what you're trying to do but like we need we need to pro provide them advice like not just don't do this but then what do you do you know that's the most important thing and so I've always tried to stay on the positive side of the information um versus on the negative side you know every once in a while somebody Gary what's his name Brea might put out some ridiculous thing about how you can take branched chain amino acids while you're fasting. And it's just like, no, no, you cannot take branched chain amino acids. And you know, sometimes I'll have to come on and do a video on that. Somebody like Gary, I may do a video and explain why you can't take leucine and still be fasted because leucine actually tells the hypothalamus that you're in a fed state. So, >> um, you know, so, but most of the time I'm just trying to be very positive on the information. >> And it sounds to me, if if I can psychoanalyze you a little bit or or provide some commentary, um, it sounds to me like you are ultimately just kind of staying true to what you mentioned like an hour ago, which is you were told, hey, people are investing in your development as a scholar. That's what a PhD is. is usually people people or organizations footing the bill and people investing a lot in your training. So you now have a responsibility to put that put that to use and go educate people. >> And so to me that that's kind of the underlying throughine the kind of theme which is when you're talking about well I don't just post and run away. I engage with people that well that's what a teacher does. a teacher doesn't give a lecture and when someone says I had a question on slide eight they don't say sorry >> yeah bad >> figure it out >> so yeah engaging with people answering those questions uh to the extent it's reasonable obviously if you have a huge following you can't answer them all >> but um but yeah and then telling people what to actually do giving them something useful that they can go out and implement and uh you know I think what's really interesting is um content creators that don't drive themselves insane I think they basically find their mission, their calling or what they enjoy doing and they kind of stick with it throughout the all the trends and the changes in the industries. And like I know for me I'm I'm definitely guilty of writing uh a fair number of the what not to do articles, but >> the reason I like I don't do I don't go for the lowhanging fruit. Like I don't go for like someone who's clearly giving bad information and talking about why it's bad. I really like engaging with the things I disagree about from people I very much respect, like really legit peers in evidence-based fitness who have excellent content. And the article isn't this guy's an idiot and I I dislike him and you shouldn't listen to him. It's >> I wonder why two qualified people see this so differently and kind of digging into the nuance and >> I love it. Yeah, >> it does not do well on social media. No, I can tell you that. that would that does well in academia. That's what academia is. You know what I mean? We all have a respect for >> one another, right? We we respect our backgrounds, right? It's like you said, two experts, but we see differently on, you know, this one mechanism or what or whatever it is. And >> it's it that's that's playing too nice, I think, to be popular anywhere else other than academia, you know, >> and and you know, with that kind of article, you got to be about 3,500 words into it before you start to really get the feel for it, you know. So, uh, but anyway, my main point was I I think there's something to be said about finding there's a million different ways to do content and just finding for me to be in this for the next 20 years rather than the next 20 months. You got to find what excites you, what kind of intellectually stimulates you. And I think it's really impressive, Jim, just the way that you have been involved in this industry at the absolute highest of levels and stayed as relevant as ever over such a drastically changing landscape. Basically, the you've basically weathered three different industries. You know, they may all be fitness, but they are not the same industry. So, I I just think that's a testament to you finding that mission as a communicator and sticking to it. Um, and just keeping up with with the evershifting landscape. It's just super impressive. >> Thank you so much. Appreciate it. >> I I had a similar comment and I think it also goes beyond just finding what works for your personality and your values. I think that's critical. I think that's that's that's a non-negotiable if someone wants to have longevity um and be relevant with longevity rather than just yeah I do this on the side but I I've gone from 100 to 300 subscribers in the last 10 years kind of deal. Um there's plenty of those you can find. It's like oh you really love doing fun with flags you know shout out to like Big Bang Theory but you only have the 10 followers. But I think to be you know relevant and still doing what you love long term there is one other piece and that is I think some people who don't get this would have listened to your story and went oh he saw beyond like he he knew that print was going to go to video and then he knew uh that that that video and websites were going to go to apps and then he knew that apps were going to go to social media and I think less than being focused on the specific specific medium, you were always very aware of what do people need and it's practical, useful advice that is communicated in the most effective way and you weren't afraid to change when there became a new more effective way. And you also weren't afraid to just go out there and do something even if it meant that there wasn't an immediate payoff. And I think those are personality traits and a perspective that kind of actually are above the noise. the very relevant noise that you do have to pay attention to of what's the changing landscape of media communication and society in that when it comes to fitness, people are always going to be wanting practical information and want to know what do I do in the kitchen and what do I do in the gym and being told what not to do is useful and in a very very loud noisy space that is oversaturated but ultimately you're getting told what not to do and then you go okay cool but now what do I do Now you've you you've you've you've taken me out of the wrong place and then what? >> Right. >> And I think what to do >> I know what >> Exactly. >> Exactly right. And and I think the thing that you have always seen is what's the best way for me to tell them that and and communication is something that has not really changed since the dawn of of of people speaking. And um there are ways to get it through but ultimately uh whether it's the written word, whether it's a video or whether it's an image or whether it's a caption um I I think though there are fundamental principles that if you understand that uh and that that is basically why a 75year-old professor who is an excellent educator at a university will still have you completely in rapture if they're a good educator, not just someone who studied the topic. for 30 years um in their lecture. Even though you know online you might be like whatever boomer but if you sit in that chair you're in that class you'll be like oh my god this storyteller is he knows exactly how to get my attention and I listened and I think we all have memories of someone multiple generations older than us in our education who typically inspired us as an educator and that still comes across whether you're on Tik Tok, Instagram, whether you know how to communicate that via the written word or whether you had to know how to do that on YouTube and I think and I I would be curious to say like do you think it's been more that you have a good savvy eye for how the information industry is changing or is it that you've kept your eye on the ball of education or some combination of the two? >> I mean I think it's just the like you said the focus has been on educating and not steering away from that. >> Yeah. >> You know and and not sort of you know, pigeon holeing, if you will, on yourself, you know, like you said, being able to change and adapt how you deliver that information. It's still the same information, right? So, that's never changed. So, the way I deliver it, the type of information it is, I think the consistency is most important. And then the flexibility of being able to go, hey, you know, now an app, now social media, now Tik Tok, now, you know, um, you know, being there. Um, and and whatever what's what's next. I, you know, I don't really know that, you know, I didn't I I never would have predicted this many fitness influencers. If you asked me 10 years ago, I I never would have imagined the the landscape would look like this. Never. Like, never. So, no, I don't know. I'm not I'm really not that savvy. Um it's simply just sticking with, you know, who I am, like you said, my values, um my style of educating, uh and and and really not wavering from that. Yeah, it seems to me you you've always had a clear idea of what you want to do. You have a message to share and uh you're willing to go where the people are in order to share it, you know, and it may be a website, it may be a magazine, it may be Tik Tok, you know. >> Yeah. And it gets back to, like you said, that responsibility, you know, >> to, you know, share what I've learned with as many people who are willing to listen. >> Yeah. All right. Beautiful. Well, uh, Helms, I I think it's probably time to wrap this up. I want to have obviously a bunch of respect for Jim's time here. Um, like I said many times before, just such a privilege to have you on. Uh, such a a walk down memory lane and uh just coming full circle with my my personal fitness journey. So, so appreciative of your time and and I want to give you an opportunity right now. Um, you know, I'm sure a lot of people in our audience, this may be their first time hearing from you. So, um, if people want to find you, find your content, um, you know, if you want to talk about some current projects or products that you have on offer, uh, the floor is yours. Where can people find you and support you? >> Yeah, I mean all all I'll say is you can find me on any social media platform whether it's YouTube, uh Facebook, Instagram, Tik Tok, uh what else? But you know, Jim, look up Jim Stani. Um or you can go to jimstapani.com, which is uh my website uh and app. >> Awesome. And I know the supplement line is still going strong, right? >> Yeah. Oh, yeah. Of course. Yeah. >> Beautiful. >> All right. >> Yeah. But I'm not, you know, I'm not, you know, in in these formats, it's not about, you know, promoting anything. It's really just about sharing information. So, >> yeah. And we appreciate it. >> All right. >> Yeah. I just want to say I appreciate you modeling uh what is possible and and and it was really cool for me especially to hear that that was modeled to you as well, even though it was in a different format. So, >> yeah. Um, I think that's important. You know, people say this sometimes in in certain circles like, you know, representation matters. And I think it really does. I think uh to to know that there is a career path for you and to know that people like you can do a thing. Um, it opens up more opportunities, you know, sometimes for better or for worse in the modern landscape of, oh, I can be an influencer, too. But um but hey, I think Eric and I have both expressed how uh you know, you you were part of that that for us. So um >> Well, thank you. I really appreciate hearing that. So it means a lot. >> And I've never thought about that way. It's kind of terrifying. I'm rethinking all my behaviors and writings and activities of the last 10 years, thinking who who have I ruined with my the example I'm setting. So, uh, Jim, I'm I'm afraid I broke that chain of people inspiring and giving good influences. But, um, but yeah, like Helm said, >> uh, there would be no Iron Culture, I I would say, without Jim Stani doing his thing back in the day. So, uh, truly a huge honor to have you on the show. I do hope our listeners will will support you in all your current and future endeavors. Uh, and that is going to do it for episode 338 of Iron Culture. Everyone, thanks so much for joining us and we will be back next week with yet another episode. >> Thank you guys. >> Thank you.