 ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca ca and my external role with FAU, Florida Atlantic University, with our mutual colleague, Dr. Mike Zerdos. And no, it's been really cool to watch Josh's progression. You know, I was actually on his master's committee and now he has just completed his defense. And he had a really cool topic where he was investigating the concept of resensitization, something that has been promoted a lot in kind of the modern hypertrophy training space. Where the idea is, hey, if we use strategic deloads, can we potentially grow faster following these periods of doing less total stimulus from training? And the basic idea when you really think about it is, can we have our cake and eat it too? Because a lot of the concepts of resensitization or growing faster following a deloading period are actually based upon studies and models where the participants lost muscle. So they experienced atrophy. And then the question is, well, hold on. Are we actually seeing a net advantage? Or are we just seeing that atrophy allows you to grow faster afterwards? So his question was all related to creating a study design. So if we don't have atrophy, we maintain muscle. We kind of go to that minimum effective dose of training. Can we then grow faster after bringing in the old dose? And I won't spoil the plot. He is going to be probably talking about that on heaps of podcasts. There is an open attendance for this defense. And I saw none other than my revived culture or iron culture stronger. Anyway, Steve Hall was in there with me watching it. So just to show you how much of a student of the game he is. And I know he's got a lot of good takeaways from that. And I also have to say an advanced apology to Dr. Palland. Because in the episode that we recorded for Iron Stronger slash Revive Culture slash Stronger Culture Revival of Iron, I misspoke. Granted, it was recorded at 6.30 a.m. my time. And I said, Jake. And I did not mean sorry, Jake Remert, for that. And also, sorry, Josh. You guys got to be part of two different companies and not both have a name that starts with Jay and not be doing their PhDs at the exact same time and being in my email inbox or I'm bound to make mistakes with my advanced age. So anyway, all that is to say, congratulations to Dr. Palland. Really interesting data that not only challenges the concept of resensitization. I'll drop that hint. But maybe even challenges the notion of muscle memory and some of the ways that we conceive of it happening, which I think is really interesting. And if you want to talk about that more, we can. I can drop some basic hints. Or we can, I don't know, talk about the topic at hand and we can leave that as planting a seed for future episodes. Yeah, I think there will be ample time to talk about it. But ideally, you know, when that data is out there for public consumption, right? So we can plant the seed, hype people up, leave them with a cliffhanger, and say at some point in the next six to 100 months, that data will be published and we'll talk all about it. Wow. 100 months. That's a lot of rejections. And I hope that is not the case for you, Doc. Well, okay. Now that you open the can of worms, I was going to just toss that out there. But Helms, I think you've probably experienced this as well. Listen, like, there's going to be some bad papers that you submit them and they just get bounced around, right? They have a really critical flaw, but you're like, I don't know. It still is, like, worth publishing. Like, this is worth reporting. And so, yeah, it's going to get bounced around from journals until an editor can kind of see the promise and why it's valuable to disseminate. Because that's another thing. Researchers, when they publish a paper, it's not them saying, this is the best thing I've ever done and there's no flaws. It's them saying, this is worthy of communicating, right? And kind of submitting into the literature. Yeah. But so some of your crappy papers bounce around forever. But honestly, some of your good papers also bounce around forever. I think that the incentives of scientific publishing, if I'm being totally honest and not like sour grapes, I think you are incentivized to publish perfectly standard papers. You know what I mean? Like something that is just squarely within the paradigm of what's normally done. Certainly nothing particularly innovative. Because when you do try to publish something that's, like, actually quite good but different than the norm, sometimes those do get a really hard time getting editors to embrace that difference and getting reviewers to say, oh, I see what you're doing here. You know what I'm saying? No, I totally agree. So that's completely, yeah, completely not useful to talk about whatsoever. But since I threw that out there, I did want to clarify. I was not making a slight at the quality of the work that I've not even seen or read, but also just kind of acknowledging, like, it is kind of interesting how science works that way. And since this is a science podcast, that is knowledge and you can do what you will with it, dear audience. So, Helms, do we want to talk IPF or do we want to dive into the topic for the night? I think really quickly we'll just also say, hey, make sure to check out, this is not a live episode, but for those who do enjoy following a bit of the powerlifting persuasion, European championships are coming in hot off the heels of powerlifting American nationals. And there's some cool performances that are going down. I just happened to catch Anaharu Usain from Hungary winning the 83 kilo class, pulling his massive deadlift, just two and a half kilos short of his own world record of 377 in the 83 kilo class, which was pretty cool to watch. Oh, and one final thing. This is Iron Culture presented by Mass. So, if you are interested in supporting us, a lot of what we're going to be talking about, Trex and I, are based upon a couple articles we both wrote for the Mass Research Review. So, in addition to doing us the favor of sharing, liking, giving us five stars, writing reviews on podcast platforms, which we greatly appreciate if you really want to be a star supporter, do check us out at Mass Research Review. And then finally, if you're in need of some good gear, some top quality stuff that will last forever, head over to Elite FTS and please use our partner 10% discount code. That's MRR10, which stands for Mass Research Review 10 for a 10% discount to help you remember it. And with that, Trex, I think we're ready to get into the topic du jour. Absolutely. And just to solidify that little sales pitch there, I think one of the huge value adds, like the value proposition of being a Mass subscriber and staying on top of it, right? Subscribers, we have the data. We talk to our dear community. Not every reader reads every single article, but within each issue, you're going to have this grab bag of interesting articles. And the value of generally staying on top of that research, even if you're only skimming the conclusions and applications and things like that, is the real value is you are equipping yourself with knowledge that is generalizable. You can carry it forward so that when new stuff happens, you don't have to wait for people to tell you what it means, right? You are learning along the way and you can say, oh, I've seen enough close to this that I understand what's going on here. And this is a great example of this. So today's episode, we've been on a bit of a controversy kick lately. We're talking about the keto CTA study, which, by the way, an update did get retracted. So that was retracted. There are even more questions than we recorded and even fewer answers somehow. So I'll give a good update once that dust settles, if it ever will. There seems to be a lot of whatever. It's a whole can of worms. But we'll revisit that once there's more actual answers to talk about. But the controversy of the day, controversy du jour, is there's a big lawsuit, Helms. Everyone is lawyered up. The swords are out and people are engaged in battle. And this lawsuit is a big class action lawsuit. And the target is the David Protein Bar. I forget what their actual company is called. But the people who make the David Protein Bar have been served a class action lawsuit. And the real thrust, the point of the lawsuit is the claim that these David Protein Bars essentially have errors in the way that they've reported their calories and their fat content. So they're saying that the calories are misreported by about 80% and that the fat is misreported by up to 400%. And of course, they're saying that calories are underreported and fat is underreported. The idea being the David Barr label says this bar, to the best of my knowledge, has 150 calories, 2 grams of fat, and 75% of those calories come from protein. So this lawsuit is saying, not true. Your bar has way more calories than that and way more fat than that. And Helms, when we discuss this lawsuit, we're going to really rely heavily on two pretty old mass articles. These are from deep in the archive, not coming out this upcoming month. One of them was called, You Are What You Absorb, Not What You Eat. That was by me. The other was called, Can Food Choices Impact Energy Balance Even in Isocaloric Diets? And that one was more recent, written by you. So Helms, what is your level of familiarity with this lawsuit? I'm actually a little more familiar with the, I think there was some independent testing of it. It might have been Consumer Labs and some of the controversy. Because Lane Norton is actually, I think, a part of the team that makes the David bars and I think might have formulated it. And I saw his response to some of these saying, hey, the label, what we were required to do in the terms of the labeling and what counts doesn't necessarily match what is absorbed. And actually, the calories represent what is absorbed because of a, I think they used the same fat substitute as a Lestra. Or it is a Lestra that they used, which is something that I remember from, you know, my youth. And then also, they had a resurgence. I don't even remember fat-free Pringles, which were around about 10 years ago before they kind of went away. Yeah, big time. So I'm pretty sure Pringles are made. Are they made by Procter & Gamble? Maybe? I don't know. I think they might be because I'm a Cincinnati guy and that is a Procter & Gamble town. It's like one of, it's like a really, no one, some towns just have like the main employer and it kind of gives the town its character. I'm pretty sure Pringles are a Procter & Gamble product, which means that they were, it was basically the golden egg of our town. The single value proposition was the fat-free Pringles. So we were devastated as a community when it fell off. Oh man, I was eating the shit out of those, no pun intended. Yeah. And I was doing like my contest preps, I think 2009 and 11. And yeah, I don't know how much we want to get into facilitative versus debilitative laxative effects, but there is a fine line. I'll just say that. Yeah. So yeah, the, I don't know much about Olestra because that's obviously like a trademarked kind of like brand name. But in the David Barr, like you're saying, there's something called esterified propoxylated glycerol or EPC. And it is a, they call it a fat replacer. And the, the, to the best of our knowledge, your body will absorb 0.7 calories per gram of this EPC. Now 0.7 is a far cry from what you get from regular fat, which is nine calories per gram, right? So we're talking about less than a tenth of the actual energy yield. So it's not unusual when you look at some of these kind of like fitness oriented diet products to see some of these food additives that are fairly novel or kind of creative in nature, where we say, you know what? We think we can mimic, you know, kind of some sweetness and some texture, but instead of using sugar, we're going to use a sugar alcohol, which has fewer than four calories per gram. Or instead of using regular fat, we think we can mimic that texture and that consistency, but we're going to use this EPC instead of fat and save a bunch of calories in the process. So it's not unusual. You look at the back of the label and you see all these wacky ingredients that you, you've never heard of. And this actually helps, this came up a big time back when, uh, I think back when quest bars were like the talk of the town and everybody was obsessed with them. There's this huge question over a particular type of fiber product that was used, a form of fiber in those bars. And there was all this debate over basically, what is this? Uh, are we sure that this technically counts as fiber and either way, how many calories does our body actually yield, uh, from this, uh, novel type of fiber when it's actually ingested? Um, so what we're talking about here in this particular lawsuit, none of this is new. This stuff has come up time and time again. Uh, now Helms, I'm going to give a quick rundown of the kind of meat and potatoes of the story here. I think, unless there's some stuff hidden deep in the lawsuit that I'm not aware of, I think this lawsuit's actually pretty cut and dry, but it is a good jumping off point for some pretty valuable discussion. So, uh, just call in balls and strikes here. I'm going to lean on, uh, actually a nice little slot, uh, carousel of, of images from Kevin Klatt. Are you familiar with, uh, Dr. Kevin Klatt? No. He's more of like a clinical nutrition guy, but he's, he's got a, a reasonable following on social media, good science communicator. So Kevin Klatt, a legit guy. Um, he's like, like a real scientist who dabbles in industry chatter rather than like a, an influencer type, if I may, using the most judgmental terms possible. Uh, but, but so Kevin Klatt. I offended. Yeah. So Kevin Klatt, uh, put together a little, uh, explanation of this and he basically was like, listen, I have no reason to carry any water for David Barr here. You know, I, I forget if he gave any opinion on, on the product whatsoever, but I can tell you for me personally, I've never, I've never had one. I don't care. I have no relationship to the company whatsoever. And he, he doesn't have a relationship with the company either, but he basically said, listen, looking at the lawsuit, it looks like their claims about the fat being, uh, misreported by a magnitude of 400%. Uh, comes down to an analysis that they quoted in their lawsuit. Uh, and the, uh, analytical technique, uh, he referred to something called AOAC 945.44. Uh, so of course a household name, we all know it, we all love it, but basically it's a form of what he calls a gravimetric analysis. So you're estimating the amount of a compound based on its weight, but there's no actual chemical analysis happening. So you're looking at the weight of this ingredient rather than the actual like triglyceride molecules. And so, um, he kind of talked through some of the, the biochemistry behind it and how the process actually works for extraction. But basically the, the take home point was this process that they utilized really does not and should not work for a bar that is high in this additive EPC. Uh, the idea is that if you are just going, uh, based on weight with the extraction process involved, you would think that all of this EPC is regular fat, which yields nine calories per gram. When to the best of our knowledge, that is not the case. So he was basically saying, listen, they are miscounting. A lot of this EPC is regular fat based on the analysis that they used. And he thinks that, um, the, the fat claim in the lawsuit has just absolutely no leg to stand on. Um, now I read a statement from the CEO of the company that makes the, the David protein bar. I didn't read the full lawsuit because I don't know folks, if you've ever tried to read legal writing, I wouldn't wish it upon my worst enemy. It truly is unbearable. So I read the response from the CEO of David and he made a lot of, um, he alluded frequently to bomb calorimetry. So I'm assuming that the lawsuit claim about calorie misreporting comes down to bomb calorimetry specifically. Um, and with bomb calorimetry there, there's kind of a big issue, especially when you're talking about these bars that have some of these wacky additives in them. And, you know, the, the more complicated you get with the formulation, the weirder things can get with bomb calorimetry. But the basic premise of bomb calorimetry is we're going to put this food item in a box. We're going to combust it and we're going to measure the energy yield. Um, and so, uh, to understand why that can have issues when it comes to nutritional labeling, just taking that number at face value. Uh, imagine that you were on a wood based diet and Helms, that's the one fad that we haven't seen yet, but I'm keeping my eyes open. It's, it's only a matter of time. Yeah. So honestly, I bet, I bet it to Google away and we'd find out it already exists. Yes. So basically you put some wood in a bomb calorimeter, you, you burn it. It's going to release a tremendous amount of energy and we can, we can measure that energy in whatever units we like. We may indeed use calories. Uh, but if you're planning to, to grow big and strong on a wood based diet, you're going to have a problem because RGI tract cannot actually utilize the energy that is buried within that wood. We're not going to be able to digest and extract those calories and use them metabolically. So this is a really extreme example of where a bomb calorimeter would tell you a certain energy yield, but that's not what your body's actually absorbing and using. So, uh, if I had to go out on a limb Helms, I would say that we're probably going to find that this lawsuit, even though it's made a huge number of headlines, it is probably going to go away pretty quickly. I would imagine it's probably going to get tossed. I don't even think it's going to go to a settlement and I certainly don't see it going to an actual like trial. Uh, I think this is probably going to get resolved pretty quickly and they're just going to say, we labeled it the way the FDA guidance told us. And that's kind of the long and short of it. But Helms, the reason I ask you a quick question. Sure. Yeah. And then, and then like you said, you haven't read the whole thing. I remember there being early on part of the, uh, the shade that was thrown toward the David bars was in addition to the fat content. There was also, Hey, the, the proteins, uh, I think it was a consumer labs report, five grams less than it was labeled. And I think that just got corrected like in the next iteration, or at least according to, I think, I think it was Lane, Lane stated that. Do you know if that's included in this class auction lawsuit? Is it just about the calories and the fat? So I haven't heard anything about the protein in the coverage I've seen of the lawsuit. Uh, it could be in there. Um, I would, I wouldn't be shocked if they kind of took the everything in the kitchen sink approach and said, Hey, also there's this. Um, but I will say like, if you're talking about protein being off by five grams, like, uh, I've, I've interacted with people who manufacture protein products. And I happen to know that some of them actually, like, they will over formulate their protein. So like, I know I I've talked with one company that has told me we manufacture with X grams of protein because we need to make sure we never get tested below Y and X and Y are not the same number. They, they actually know that just the realities of manufacturing. It's not that uncommon to be a little bit off when you test any given product for, for any given batch or lot or unit for its protein content. So if you tell me a protein bar, uh, is a little bit off on its protein by a magnitude of five grams, I would say that sucks, but I also get it. And I understand why that would be the case. So I don't know if that's part of this, um, this lawsuit, but that is, uh, I have heard chatter about that. And the other thing I've heard with David Barr is, uh, a lot of discussion over how much of the protein is actually, uh, collagen versus how much is other sources of protein. Because obviously a lot of very muscle focused people want to get a, get an idea of, you know, how much leucine they're getting, how much essential amino acid content they're getting, et cetera. So basically David, uh, if you're David, I don't think is an actual person, but metaphorical David out there, uh, if you thought you were going to make a protein bar and then just quietly step back and, uh, engage in commerce, uh, you've had an eventful year. A lot of, a lot of drama about protein content, protein source, fat content, calories. The only, the only thing that's left is just to basically dispute the carbohydrate content. So if anyone wants to jump on that, that's really the last opportunity. Yeah. And quest already did that. And the whole net cards debate is so 2017. So I guess, I guess we're just done with that. Exactly. So, so Helms, like I said, I think, uh, if the whole episode was just about what, what outcome do we predict for this? Uh, then the episode's over. I think it's going to blow over and David's going to be found, uh, essentially vindicated against these allegations regarding calorie and fat reporting. But that's not Helms, the point of the episode. One of the points of the episode is, um, first of all, even though this particular lawsuit is falling pretty flat, at least by my assessment, I could be wrong. I'm not a lawyer or a chemist, but that that's the assessment I get from, uh, knowledgeable people. Um, nonetheless, this, we've been down this road before and we, we have absolutely seen some darling fitness products, uh, high protein blank, right? High protein cookies, brownies, ice creams, whatever. It's, it's always high protein, low calorie blank, some kind of dessert food. And we have absolutely seen scenarios where they legitimately were, were quite mislabeled. And a lot of people thought they were having a diet cookie and they were just eating a big old cookie. Right. Uh, so, so it's worth addressing the fact that that can happen. And I think the bigger picture where this discussion really gets interesting is kind of just embracing, uh, some messiness that people really don't want to embrace. And there's kind of two layers of this messiness. Number one, just getting from food content, the food content to label is actually a less straightforward process than you'd like to imagine. Uh, there is a lot of assumption involved. There's some, uh, debates over proper measurement and proper reporting practices. There's multiple ways to report certain things that seem reasonably defensible. Uh, so just the idea of saying, uh, yes, this food product you have, I'd like to know the, uh, calories, protein, fat, carbohydrate, and fiber. That's actually not the easiest question in the world to answer. And that's why a lot of times we'll look at these labels and we'll have to acknowledge the fact that that label is not like absolute God's honest truth. Like there is a lot of estimation and assumption and some measurement error wrapped up in that label. And then Helms, layer two of the messiness and complication, which is extremely inconvenient, is that let's say, let's just, uh, go out on a limb and grant the concept that what is written on that label is fully true with 100% accuracy. Even though we know that's not accurate. As a, for instance, let's grant that assumption. The second layer of messiness is just because it went down your gullet, Helms, does not mean that is the amount of energy, protein, carbohydrate, fat, fiber, whatever, that actually got digested, metabolized, absorbed. So there's the, there's multiple levels of potential error between food to label and then label to body. And I think that's kind of a good jumping off point where we can talk a little bit about really the premise of one of your articles, which was can food choices, meaning the actual selection of foods, impact energy balance, even in quote unquote, isocaloric diets. Meaning basically diet A and diet B, we looked at the labels, we added them all up and they appear to be two diets of equal caloric labeling. So do you want to give maybe just like a quick overview of that article or kind of the main points of it? And then we'll kind of, I think, take a really practical look at how we actually implement some of this information. Yeah, yeah. I think the, for the longest time, people have felt like there's a disconnect between the quote unquote calories in calories out model and what they actually observe in practice. And where this has been most tackled and kind of the online evidence-based fitness space is quote unquote metabolic adaptation, which we have really kind of done to death. And people should be well familiar with that. At least they've been following our content. And then a more minor one that people have talked about is the thermic effect of feeding, thermic effect of food, which is essentially how much energy does it cost to break down food into its metabolizable components. And one thing that people may be aware of is that protein has the highest TEF out of the macronutrients. And that is sometimes have been discussed as a potential quote unquote advantage. But generally it's dismissed as, yeah, but it's not that much of a difference. And in the context of the type of diets people follow, it really is inconsequential. And I think there are, there's more to the story as I think basically what you're getting at in this whole David Barr controversy. And the article I wrote was a, a hypothetical comparison between the typical Western diet, unhealthy, you know, processed, decently high in protein as far as compared to the RRDA, but not that high, low in fiber, and also not very high in unprocessed foods. And then I compared kind of your middle of the road, evidence-based fitness person's diet. And then I compared a relatively extreme, but still within the realm of possibility, bodybuilding diet that leveraged a very high protein intake and a very, very high amount of unprocessed foods, clean quote unquote foods. And basically, you know, doubling the recommended fiber intakes for the typical person that is agreed upon. And so what we're kind of looking at is, is a diet, all three that are right around 2,500 ish calories, you know, trying to kind of hit that median. But one is highly processed and probably getting around 10 to 15 grams of fiber and is getting around 1.1, 1.2 grams per kilogram protein per day. One that's getting you to that 1.6 magic, you know, number that is oversighted from, you know, prior meta-analyses, but which is probably pretty solidly maximizing any practical outcomes that you're not super crazy bodybuilder man trying to, you know, get every little bit out of your body that you can. And around 30-ish grams of fiber. And then I said, but what if we could try to leverage this purposely even more? And I specifically talked about some food items, you know, because, you know, we had a good discussion about this specific form or, you know, what is a Lestra essentially and how it ends up being this non-digestible fat. We talked about the prior controversies with the Quest bar. And to give some context on some of what those debates were, it's the line between what is a digestible and non-digestible chain of glucose molecules is actually, you know, is it a resistant starch or is it a fiber or is it just a complex carbohydrate? And that is something for chemists to decide. And then the various labeling agencies that dictate a given region's calorie content to figure out. And if you look at Australian food labels, fiber and carbohydrates are separate. You look at American ones, they're a subsect of carbohydrate. But ultimately what tends to be common is the calories. And that's kind of what you want to look at. So anyway, if you were to consume certain foods, you can leverage this metabolizable energy difference that differs from the food label even more. And I use some specific examples in the article I wrote. For example, whole nuts that haven't been roasted, have been mashed up, have been made into butter, often do not end up resulting in the same degree of metabolizable energy via their fat content as what is listed. Even though if you were to burn them up in a bomb calorimeter, and by the way, calories are a unit of heat, that's why that whole thing works, you would actually end up seeing a higher degree of energy expended in that bomb calorimeter than if you were to consume it. Because there is something about the actual skin and the structural components of many tree nuts, almonds being the ones that are most notable, that actually blocks the absorption of their own fat to some degree. And this is often sometimes in the realm of, say, 10 to 20% of the calories that are listed, right? And there are other foods as well. So resistant starches that you can turn into resistant starches, even though they don't start that way. So many glutinous, starchy carbohydrate sources that if you were to cook them, and then let them cool off and then reheat them or don't reheat them, depending on what you're trying to do, depending upon the source and their composition. Some of those carbohydrates become resistant starches. So most notably, and where this might happen in the real world, is if you have a potato salad. So when you cook potato and then let it cool, and you eat those potatoes cold, and to some degree, I think even if you reheat them, or it might be rice. Honestly, I can't quite remember because it is food source by food source. Some of them basically become resistant starch upon cooling, and then when they're heated, they go back to being more digestible. And I can't remember the distinction between rice and potatoes, but both of them are potentially resistant starches. And if you don't reheat them at all, you're almost assuredly consuming a resistant starch if they got cooked. You're now again having that similar effect where essentially they become more fibrous in terms of what can be digested. And you're probably reducing 10, 20% of the carbohydrate intake from that meal, and you're increasing your fiber intake. And if you layer those things on top of what happens if we really push the envelope on TEF, and also when we look at data on very high fiber intakes broadly in the whole diet, not just from these specific foods, we see that fiber can some degree block the absorption of overall net calories. Not that you should leverage this extensively because it can also block the absorption of micronutrients and a little bit of protein, but it also does have an impact on fat and other carbohydrates as well to a small degree. What does that actually result in? And when I modeled this, there was actually almost a 300 calorie difference between the Western diet and the extreme bodybuilding diet, both at 2,500 in terms of what was metabolized, and actually still around like 150 calories or close to 200, somewhere in that range. When you compared kind of that baseline, you know, evidence-based, I'm a good boy in terms of hitting my minimums for, you know, fiber and protein versus the extreme bodybuilders diet. And, you know, many people are probably in between, but I actually did kind of show, hey, look at these data on observational studies and surveys of what bodybuilders eat. And this is really in both cases of protein and fiber. And in terms of the actual meal plan that I showed, not that different. And at most, one standard deviation above what is typically recorded. And I think this does actually matter. When we're talking about real world differences and people experiencing recomposition or saying, you know, I ate healthier and this happened or things that coaches report where they see, hey, you know, I upped their protein in their diet and they seem to have a recomposition effect. Then it's, I'm actually going, or did they just gain fat slower in the offseason? But the, you know, the body weight was, was still going up because of the muscle and metabolizable content within fat tissue versus muscle mass making up that difference. So these things I think do actually matter. And we're talking about hundreds of calories, and that's probably a contrary perspective to what most people would say in our quote unquote evidence-based sphere. And then the last thing I'll say tracks is that I even came across more instances of this when I wrote our collective piece that everyone gave me a lot of really good feedback on, on the dietary guidelines for Americans. Because one of the interesting things and one of the central disagreements and changes that was a little more notable between prior guidance and now, even if the written guidance isn't that different. And what I'm saying is that there was kind of a, the, the, the pass given to whole fat dairy. So full fat dairy, not butter notably. And I did this, you'll understand why, but consuming full fat yogurt and full fat milk. And to a lesser degree, cheese was given a pass. And the question is of what's going on there? Because if we were to predict what is going on in terms of health, we have pretty good data indicating that broadly saturated fat and high cholesterol diets seem to be linked to heart disease. And then that, that range gets tighter and more clear when we isolate it to LDL and even more so when we isolate it to the APOB subfraction. Right. And we look at that causative link. We realize, okay, this is quite complex. There's different forms of saturated fat and also the amount of saturated fat and cholesterol that actually gets metabolized and gets into you to potentially accumulate or result in the accumulation of plaque is dependent upon the food source. So there's an interesting thing in dairy and it needs to be like the more processed the dairy is. So, for example, butter doesn't have this at all. And it seems to be the most closely linked dairy source to higher instances of heart disease and health risk and overall all cause mortality compared to then cheese being a little bit higher. And then full fat dairy actually, believe it or not, being quite similar to nonfat dairy, which seems to kind of be counterintuitive. So what's going on here? Well, one, when someone consumes full fat dairy, they're consuming more calories and it's quite satiating. It does slow down digestion. It provides also calcium and protein, which creates what's called the saponification effect, which is essentially creating a slurry in your gut, which blocks the absorption of some fat and calories. And full fat dairy, similar to almonds, has what's called the milk fat globule. I think it's the MFGM matrix. So there's a matrix in full fat dairy in forms of yogurt, cheese, and any type of full, unprocessed amount of dairy that actually blocks the absorption of its own fat. So any dairy product tends to have an impact where it is reducing the absorption of some fat, including saturated fat. And specifically in full fat dairy, it is blocking the absorption of its own saturated fat and some of its fat. So there's even more after I wrote that first article that you led me in on that I've learned, man, there's a lot of things in the diet. And explain some of the actual outcome data we see that actually means that what is labeled on a calorie. Sorry, what is labeled as the calories and the macronutrients on a food label may differ from the actual metabolizable calories that are in a given, you know, food item, as well as the specific macronutrients and their subfractions like saturated fat from fat. Yeah, so, you know, your mass articles about this have been, you know, super illuminating. And, you know, the one that I wrote, not to say good job with that, but here's this. But like the one that I wrote, just to kind of put the numbers a little bit differently, right, to kind of reiterate the point. It was looking at what they called a microbiome enhancer diet versus a typical Western diet. And really what that meant was they compared these two diets experimentally rather than like modeling it out theoretically. And one of them was really high in fiber and resistant starch. The other was very low in fiber and resistant starch. And they actually looked at what was the percentage of energy from this diet that was actually absorbed by the body. So they were looking at fecal energy losses. And just to put some actual numbers on it, on this diet that was high in fiber, high in resistant starch, the range of energy absorption was 84 to 96%. But in the kind of Western diet, the range of absorption, again, looking at all participants, was 94 to 97%. And so I think that kind of just puts kind of simpler numbers without getting too into the weeds on the how and the why, where you're like, listen, Helms, we both coached a lot of people in our lives. And when you're talking with somebody, you're like, but when I'm working with this client, things seem to go a lot smoother than that client. Of course, there's a million factors involved. There's psychological factors, behavioral factors, energy expenditure factors, the whole deal. But one thing that we have to wrestle with is the fact that you could look at two different people. And if all you're doing is here's your calorie target, here's your macros, fit in the foods as you see fit. I'm not going to hassle you about fiber too much. Just make it work. If that's your approach to dietary prescription, you could have this substantial variance where client A is absorbing 84% of the calories that you prescribed. And client B is absorbing 97% of the calories you prescribed. Same body type, same training, same everything, same calorie prescription. And that's a meaningful difference, right? If you talk about, what is that, 13% of your calories, that whole spread, 13% of your calories for the day vanishing, that's not nothing. You know, that is very much in line with the kind of magnitude you talk about where we're talking about not 50 calories, hundreds of calories on a daily basis. And, you know, that's in a fitness industry where we talk about how you should go try to gain a pound of muscle because it's going to supercharge your resting metabolic rate by 50 calories a day after, you know, getting so lucky as to gain, you know, a pound or two of muscle. You know, we're talking about, you know, just basically ordering same diet prescription, different menu and having a few hundred calories go away in the extreme. And so, Helms, I think that kind of leads into a very important point, which is in the fitness world, we will never escape from this ongoing fight about is calories in, calories out, BS or not? If it fits your macros, is that BS or not? And unfortunately for us as communicators, the truth is nuanced. The truth is a little messy and a little complicated. And what that means is calories in, calories out will perpetually work, but we have to always be really, really consistent in terms of what do you mean by calories in? And that's specifically as it pertains to this part of the calories in, calories out discussion, right? So when we're talking about absorption of calories from the diet, what we're looking at is, you know, when people think calories in, calories out, they think, well, here's what's in my spreadsheet. Here's what's in my calorie tracking app. That's the calories in. It's absolutely not. From a physiological perspective, that is not the number for calories in. Calories in is the amount of energy absorbed from your diet on a daily basis. Then, Helms, people act like that is the totality of the equation. Calories in versus calories out. Once we figure out how much actually got absorbed, that's the beginning, right? And so I've mentioned there's some great work by Kevin Hall. He's a legend in the area of this kind of like metabolic modeling of energy balance. But I think one of his like really good papers where he kind of lays out energy balance as this kind of calories in, calories out model to predict changes in body weight and body composition. I believe that the appendix had at least 65 equations in it saying like what? But here is the family of equation of equations that actually reflects the detailed understanding of what is calories in versus calories out. So modeling the metabolic adaptation, modeling all the different intricacies of metabolism, how nutrients that we absorb are then metabolized and stored. What is the cost of these processes? And so it's really important to understand that when we talk to people, we can say at the same time three things. Number one, calories in, calories out works and is true. Number two, if it fits your macros can be a very valuable way to approach your nutritional planning and implementation. And yet number three, the food choices you make do meaningfully matter and can have a tangible impact when you are attempting to gain or lose weight. Some of those, if you take very superficial definitions of all those terms and concepts, some of them feel like they are in conflict with one another. And when you dig into the nuances, they're actually not. Why would the food choices matter if it fits your macros is a valid approach? Because the calories in means the calories absorbed, not the calories that was handed to you by your coach or the calories that's reflected on your diet app or in your spreadsheet that you use. And, you know, the funny thing is if we look at the research on this and like if we don't actual body composition change, this may be even underrepresenting the potential differences here because it's really hard to encapsulate the entirety of these differences and understand their sources. You can either do a complex intervention and measure people over time observationally or in a controlled fashion and look at body composition in total and then kind of total energy expenditure and you can try to estimate some of these pieces. Or you can do some of these short-term studies that look at one side of the equation, either energy in or energy out. But rarely can you get all of that information. And some of that work, the closest thing we have is some of the work by Kevin Hall, for example. But there's a classic study by Barr in 2010. Remember this one where they looked at two different sandwiches? Like I think it was a cheese sandwich. One was highly processed and was made of whole food ingredients. Short-term study. And they're just looking at postprandial energy expenditure. So they were looking at essentially TEF. And there was 50% lower thermic effective food in that processed sandwich. So not only does a processed food result in faster chewing, greater mouthfeel, typically being more hyperpalatable. And ultimately, as we saw from Hall's work, an average energy intake of about 500 calories more. But it is actively, I'm not saying it's going to reduce. It's going to have a lower thermic effect in some cases compared to the same foods, same macros. Believe it or not. Maybe differences in fiber, but I wouldn't attribute it directly to the fiber necessarily. But what your body has to do to make a highly processed food into metabolizable energy is less. So not only are there differences in the body's ability to absorb it, but also the cost of doing so. So some of these food choices modify both. And we don't have good research that looks at both sides and the resultant impact on body composition in both controlled environments where we remove the impact of ad libitum feeding and the effect of that stuff on that and mouthfeel and all that. In addition to a non-controlled environment and what happens in the real world. So I think if anything, some of this stuff might be even more exaggerated when we talk about these numbers in that 10 to 20% range. And I think that actually does comport with some of the observations we see as coaches. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And the level of complication just gets so immense when you think, like I said, the error and the assumptions and the guesswork from food to label. And then, you know, you think about some of these things that we've talked about with individual foods. It's like, well, it depends how you cook it. It depends when you cooked it relative to when you ate it. It depends what you combine that food with in the meal. So you go from nutrient on the little label to now a food matrix. And then you go from a food matrix to a combination of foods that are consumed in a meal. And so all that is to say, like, this stuff is really, really complex. And I think it's when you start to gain an appreciation for how complicated it is, you start to it's hard to fight a little sense of kind of futility when people are in there saying, oh, my God, I'm under my carbs today by three grams. How am I going to get three grams of carbs and not go over my fats? And it's like, brother, you are treating this with a level of precision that is in just pure fantasy land. You know, when you're when you're playing the macro Tetris to that level and you're not actually thinking about. But how did I even get those macros from the food itself? And what do those macros even mean once they enter my body? And so I think I want to want to close with just kind of a there's some futility in the ultra precise macro Tetris, like I said, of trying to make everything fit perfectly. And yet the idea of tracking your intakes is not an exercise in futility. Right. It is still an effective practice. And so I want to talk about kind of two ways that you can view this. I want to ask you, you know, do you prefer viewing it as a B or a little of both? So one way of viewing this is, hey, there's going to be error. There's going to be messiness. I may never actually know how many calories I'm absorbing after I add it all up in a spreadsheet. But for me to lose calories over the next six months, over the next six months, I'm probably going to eat about 500000 calories. So really what I need to be thinking about is how am I going to make the big picture changes that are going to consistently put me in a deficit and kind of stop sweating the small stuff. Right. So thinking over the next 500000 calories, not thinking, how am I going to make dinner fit my little spreadsheet? Right. That's one way of viewing it. Another way of viewing it is if I am having a goal where I'm going to to quote the classic film The Patriot, where I'm going to aim small, miss small. And I am going to try to really nail everything down and be hyper consistent. It seems to me like if you if you view it with that approach, then you probably are committing to a dietary pattern that is characterized by a high level of day to day consistency where you're saying, you know what? I am going to try to actually nail on a day to day basis, having the same energy intake so I can really meticulously track these trends. Therefore, the only way I could see that really working is if you have a pretty set standard diet with fairly minimal deviations in terms of your day to day food choice selection. So, Helms, when you think of those two ways of viewing it, maybe I'm missing a big one or how do you feel about laying out those two options? And if you have kind of a front runner for how you like to view it. Yeah, I really I think the way you framed it, the way I would frame it, which is very similar, is focusing on the reliability and not the validity. Right. So if if these are scientific concepts, but they're really simple to imagine, you've got a target. The validity of of that target is represented by hitting the bullseye. You know, can you hit the bullseye? And this is estimation versus actual. Right. So in body composition, if we think, you know, we chuck you in a DEXA, how close is that measurement to if you died and then we extracted all the fat from your body and weighed it versus your total mass? That's validity. But if we got in that DEXA 10 times and it gave you a number that was in point one percent of the number that we did the other nine times, that would be a tight clustering. That's reliability. This estimation tells us the same information on a regular basis. But until we actually dissect you, we may not know that that clustering is actually on that second circle on that target. It's not actually hitting. And ultimately, from a coaching perspective and a fitness outcome perspective, you care about the reliability, because if you're actually consuming twenty six hundred calories, but you are writing down twenty eight or twenty four hundred calories, you're going to adjust in a similar reasonable range from there to get the outcome you want. Now, with that said, the problem is, is that if the reliable thing that you're doing is accurately tracking the calories on the label, but you actually have a huge diversity in terms of the foods you consume. And I think this is where the if it fits your macros style preps became a problem, especially in contest preppers, because your hunger signals while wildly vary and get much stronger in prep and you actually start to leverage and lean too much into if it fits your macros. And we'll just set aside the whole you probably shouldn't be eating more calorie dense fake foods that are, you know, leaning into your cravings the deeper and deeper you get into a diet or it's going to set you up for bad things after the prep and just being more hungry and more food focused during it. Forgetting all of that, when you are moving from maybe a more whole food, you know, based diet to a more processed diet, you're actually going to be meaningfully changing that validity to the point where you're not comparing like to like. Right. You're tracking within a 100 calorie range, but your true metabolizable energy or calories in, calories out difference, you might be reducing the thermic effect of food while simultaneously increasing the amount you absorb. And that could result in a meaningful difference, even in someone who maintains the same fiber and protein intake to potentially around 100 calories or so. And I think that is the difference between getting into elite level shape or needing to then sprint to the finish and losing muscle in the process. So that's obviously the bodybuilding context. But in the context of the real world for anybody's goals, it just means getting there slower, being more frustrated, being more hungry in the process. So I think it's totally fine to focus only on reliability, Trex, so long as you have that second piece you talked about, a reasonably consistent diet in terms of how much whole food versus, you know, more processed food you're consuming. And that you're kind of landing in a similar range of global food types. You're not going completely from a lacto-ovo diet to all of that is being replaced with substitutes for dairy, which don't have like the milk fat globule matrix. Or you're going from, I consume a whole lot of whole nuts to now, you know what, I'm just going to consume, you know, peanut butter and almond butter. It's the same. It might look very similar, but could be quite different. So I think it's important that you keep a general, and doesn't mean you have to have like a super, super strict food list, but a rotation of similar foods if you back up over the course of say a month or two, that it's basically the same diet. And that you get into a reasonable habit of consuming within a bounded range of say those big ticket items of calories, protein, fiber, and your general macronutrient breakdown and food source. If you do that, then you can have some reasonably representative and reliable data for what you're looking at, and the validity becomes less of a concern. But when you shift those things, and you think you're still tracking the same calories, then it matters that you're no longer hitting the target and you're way far off. Because now you're reliably consuming 200 calories more than you actually think, in effect, if you will. Yeah, yeah. Leaning on the term absorbing rather than consuming, right? Because consuming we can think of as, I crunched all the numbers, that's what was on the label, and it went in my mouth, right? But at the end of the day, when we're actually keeping score in calories in, calories out, it is all about absorption. And so, yeah, I think, you know, I have worked with clients in the past where I've kind of sat them down and I've said, it's always the clients who are like, you have to time this conversation carefully, I think. I don't think you want to go out and do this necessarily unprompted. But when the client really is ready to hear it and they say, Eric, in this case, either Eric, I am just sick of feeling like there's friction in this process. I'm sick of the setbacks. I'm sick of the plateaus. I want this process to go more smoothly, and I'm highly motivated to make this work right now. When they get to that level of frustration, you know, I think that's a perfectly reasonable time to come in and say, there are some rocks we haven't turned over here in terms of ways to make this process smoother. And, again, even setting aside all the stuff about cravings and hyperpalatability and how sometimes what feels like a treat is actually making your life harder on a diet. I think that's a time where you can say one of the challenges here is because of all these complicating factors of how food source actually does impact metabolizable absorbed energy. I'd like to shift to a model where we have a little bit less, frankly, chaos, less volatility, less of a revolving door of what foods are kind of entering and leaving the diet. You know, just like any scientist would when experiments are going weird, tighten everything up. You got to get down to have the fewest number of variables possible. And for us to make this work, let's just do a proof of concept and just prove to ourselves that we can instill this level of consistency to just see the weight trend to get a little smoother, right? And so I think sometimes when you really need that sanity check in Helms, we've all been there when you're working with a client. And all of a sudden, they're just saying thyroid. You know, like we start going for, you know, hormonal reasons. Maybe there's like a fungus in my house. Like you start getting to all the stuff of like something's happening in my body that's not normal. Like sometimes you do just need a good sanity check where you say, I'm not telling you to have low food diversity because food diversity can happen on a repeating 24-hour schedule, right? We can have a diet that is built of diverse food sources with tremendous micronutrient coverage while keeping it consistent on a day-to-day basis and having opportunities for flexibility. But it's a very different thing from saying, here's our base diet with windows where we can make some swaps and substitutions versus here's a number of calories. You figure it out. And every day we wipe the slate clean and try again next time, right? And I think sometimes that is one of those tools that can be that final thing where when you're looking at the numbers and you're looking at the changes in body composition, you're like, I must be insane because I feel like we've got hundreds of calories of variability finding their way into this process. You're not insane that that's really happening. And it's not in most cases, it's not the thyroid hormone. It's not the fungus hiding in your HVAC system, not to diminish like those are real things. But usually it's just we need a tighter plan where we have less volatility, less unpredictability. Like let's get reliable in terms of our food source selection so that we can actually get this thing moving in the right direction and then reassess from there. Yeah, well said. And I think this is there's two scenarios that I run into in my coaching experience. One is more the general pop experience of trying to find a diet that helps them with weight loss maintenance or the weight loss process. And the primary friction they have is social eating, which is almost always the main thing. This is harder in that scenario. Objectively tougher, but can be done with planning because the issue is not necessarily I'm running into a direct hunger problem. It is more of the social constraints of trying to have consistency in the diet. Where it is actually a lot easier and ends up being a, oh, my God, this is magic experience. It's when you have someone who, because of their hunger and a limited and probably misunderstanding of what if it fits your macros and calories and calories out is, is that they're trying to quote unquote, get away with. It's fitting a lot of these more energy dense, tastier foods that they're craving into hitting their macros. And what they're inadvertently doing is they are not only making that process a lot harder because the calorie density is going up. And we have a lot of great data from, you know, Dr. Rolls on energy density and diets. One of the more reliable things that does seem to have one of the highest effect sizes as far as subjective satiety, hormonal satiety, as well as ad libitum eating is simply reducing the energy density of the diet. So you're eating more total volume of food, but there's less energy per unit. And that co-varies with consuming vegetables, fruits, and all kinds of good things. So when I have had someone who's dieting and very, very entrenched in old school fit your macros, and I actually just go through their meal plan and we start making these swaps we talked about, and I might even increase their protein, increase their fiber. However, the experience is actually, you know what, I was having these cravings, but if I could choose either being hungrier, but having foods I enjoy eating and wishing I could eat twice as many, or being less hungry and eating a lot of foods that I'm okay with, like almonds, whole foods, lots of fruits and vegetables. That volume effect, the higher fiber, the higher protein, and feeling a little more mechanical satiety, but not getting the cravings, they take it every time. But they don't know it until they try it. Yeah. And because the kind of if it fits your macros, you know, basically message was, oh, it's so hard to follow these clean diets. Bodybuilders, old school, they're unnecessarily suffering. And forgetting that a lot of that unnecessary suffering was also because they were crash dieting for 12 weeks and doing a lot of other things. But retaining some of those behaviors that they did of eating largely whole food, unprocessed diets, maybe going higher than would be optimal for on paper, you know, body composition change for fiber and protein. But leveraging all those things, not only do they find they're more sated and the diet's more sustainable, but they actually are more consistently getting into an energy deficit and not having to do as much cardio. So I have repeatedly seen this when I've had those instances over the years, modifying the actual diet. And what we're probably seeing is an increase in satiety, even though the deficit is also getting a little more favorable. They're getting another 100 calorie deficit while feeling like they're eating 100 calories more. And it can almost feel like magic, like, whoa, that's why I guess processed foods are bad. Whole foods diets are great. And I remember a shout out to Tommy Jeffers couldn't explain at the time. And we were all way too, you know, up our own asses as evidence based, you know, if it's your macros geeks. But he was swearing along with a few others that even when tracking macros, when he would go not on as much of a processed diet and not doing the whole pop tart thing, that he was getting better outcomes. And on he was eating more calories and getting leaner. And I remember all of us kind of dismissing him and he might have been experiencing this. So, you know, 15 years late, but sorry, dude. Yeah. No, I feel like a lot of folks in the industry as athletes, as coaches, whatever, did kind of go through this thing where and we see it all the time. It's hard to resist the kind of like social contagion that grips fitness at the time. Right. We were all doing the like, you know, Wingate-esque kind of bike sprints in 2012 and just feeling like crap and beating ourselves up. But one of the things I think a lot of people notice is we all started eating clean because that was bodybuilding culture. Then, you know, if it fits your macros or flexible dieting became this huge thing. And we all said, oh, my God, this is life changing. I can eat anything I want. And it's kind of like the kid who eats ice cream for dinner when they're home alone for a week on vacation. And then after they're done eating ice cream for dinner every week, they go, you know what? It's kind of nice to not go to bed with a stomach ache every night, you know? And so there's this wave where we're all like, oh, my God, this is crazy. This has changed everything. And then we're like, yeah, but like, are we sure sweet potatoes and chicken breast and broccoli was like actually so bad? And like maybe we maybe we can't have some foods that are kind of like a good like starchy root vegetable with like a fibrous vegetable with it and then like maybe some protein source. So, yeah, I feel like a lot of people switch back and they were kind of like, you know what? I kind of like feel better in the gym a little bit. I feel like my diet is just more consistent when I'm looking at how I expect my weight loss to go. So, yeah, it's fun to kind of see the pendulum swing back and forth. And it is like a good lesson in humility, because I do remember in 2013 ish or 2011. Actually, it was 2011. I was like all in on if it fits your macros. And there was a guy helping me out with my diet for my first ever prep. And I followed it. But I think a lot of us kind of had that like air of superiority of like you're giving me a bro diet. But like I know the real science where we've actually outsmarted all this dark ages BS bodybuilding stuff. And, yeah, it's the same kind of thing like you're mentioning with Tommy Jeffers where I look back and I'm like, you know, if I was a little less smug, I could have actually learned some lessons from that. And like this guy was a seasoned pro who had been very successful over a very long career. And it's like sometimes that success leaves clues. And you should probably think of why is this person experiencing so much reliable success versus this person's an idiot and what if they knew what I knew? Like that's a really good lesson to learn. Yeah, because I look back and that was exactly the crux of it is I rejected his explanation for why. And I was unwilling to search for or admit that there is a potential reason that it could be beneficial. And I don't know why. Right. And that's probably exactly what was happening. I mean, sure, there was also probably some expectancy and bias and all that stuff. But just because he couldn't explain the things that I didn't even know then and, you know, and it wasn't a mechanism that I was fully or mechanisms, as we've discussed, that I was fully familiar with. I dismissed it based upon his rationale and then just assumed that the outcome was false, which is not necessarily the case. Yeah. So, yeah, it's tough. I think, you know, in some, you know, calories in, calories out works. It just does. And it's very valuable to place a lot of your faith in that. I'm not trying to like preach here to convert people over to a faith based system. But the reason it's valuable to have faith in that is because when things start going weird, instead of like proverbially turning over the desk and letting the papers fly all over the room and saying, let's start with a new paradigm. You can actually really take a deep breath with sober eyes and say, what is happening here? And this is where, like I said, sometimes it's a matter of, you know, finding those places. I used to use this term. It's too gimmicky. So I never tried to like really have it catch on. I didn't try to make it work. But I would call it like an energy audit. I would just sit down with a client and say, what are we missing in terms of energy expenditure, in terms of energy intake, in terms of absorption? And we would talk through you name it. And so we go through every little place where calories can show up, where calories can hide, where calories can vanish. Physiological, behavioral, you name it. And so the reason that having that faith in calories in, calories out and appreciating the nuance is so that you can think through some of these, like this is the deepest layer of nuance in calories in, calories out. Like, are my potatoes cooled when I'm eating them? Am I rotating my food sources too much and having unpredictability? What's my level of process versus unprocessed food intake? But it's good to stay anchored into that kind of major philosophical kind of, yeah, just having faith in that basis for how this stuff works so that instead of… Faith in the mechanism of calories in, calories out. Yeah. Understanding that it can play out in many ways so you can actually audit it rather than, I think it's your example, sort of buying calories in, calories out and then observing that you think it's not working. And then losing faith in like, oh, well, shit, maybe this, you know, insulin hypothesis is the go. Right. Yeah. You get pulled into some like, well, you know, you probably need to be on a ketogenic diet to unlock the power of your mitochondria. You know, you become very, very liable to kind of get sucked into some of these diets that have some kind of angle that isn't as rooted in physiology. So, yeah, like I said, bottom line, this stuff gets really, really complicated. Calories in, calories in, calories out works, but is very nuanced. And you can really say these two things can be true. There are many people for whom, if it fits your macros, is a very liberating and useful way to approach dieting. And at the same time, I think it's fair to say it's categorically true that food sources matter. It doesn't mean that there's only a select list of food sources that work, but it does mean it's a variable worth considering when you're at the drawing board and trying to figure out how things are going. So this we started with a lawsuit about protein bars and then dug into the science of how messy this stuff gets. But at the end of the day, it's always a good idea to every so often, because food is so habitual, every so often take a look at your diet and say, looking at these food sources, how do I feel about that? Is this working for me? And is it possible that maybe it's time to rethink and make some swaps and substitutions and kind of reconstitute my base diet from which I operate? So, Helms, I think we covered a lot here. Is there anything else that you want to say to the good people before we sign off for the night? No, just thanks for tuning in. And yeah, looking forward to catching you on the next episode. And big congrats to Dr. Pellan, as well as the current European champs who are doing the thing right now, which will probably be about a week old when I think this comes out. Yeah, awesome. So, and then I will, of course, you're giving shout outs to other people. Shout outs to other people. I will be completely self-serving and say, by the way, folks, please be sure if you're interested in this kind of stuff, check out the Mass Research Review over at massresearchreview.com. It keeps the lights on. It is what makes this whole operation work. So we would greatly appreciate your support over there. And, of course, we can share the love. Please do consider supporting our friends at Elite FTS. Good people with great products or great people with good products, however you want to put it. It feels like a slight either way I do it. Great people, great products. Make sure you use our code MRR10, Mass Research Review 10, for that 10% discount. Thanks so much, everybody. Have a fantastic week. And we will be back in seven days. Thank you.