nenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenenene to make me feel a bit better about this transition. Over from the obelisk, I've got Dr. Conor Heffernan, who's come to join me. He's sitting in the spot on the pyramid where normally Omar would sit there and I could look fondly over and at least I see a familiar face. So welcome back to the podcast, Conor. How are you doing? I'm good. I'm your friendly neighbor there with the sugar, the dressing gown that isn't fully tied on properly and is sitting in a way that makes you uncomfortable. I'm here to bring some of the old back into the new. And I appreciate that. No, thank you so much. No, it's great. We've got a pretty cool episode today and this is one of our pre-recorded podcast episodes where we're talking about history. We're talking about culture. We're going to be talking about science. So for anyone who was a little scared and I did see some comments on the YouTubes or they were like, oh, I hope this isn't going to become just all science, all mass, all the time. I think you're underestimating how many people like the culture and the history. Don't worry. We try to tell you. It's more just like we got some heavy hitters who are going to be here a lot on the science side. We're not letting go of what is iron culture. And I hope this episode displays exactly that because we're going to be talking about what is strength, which is a pretty cool question. And myself and Connor are not the only ones who are here today. Back on the podcast is now actually Dr. Adrian Kind. He's now got a PhD in philosophy, which is kind of redundant in some ways because a PhD is a degree in philosophy. And technically I have a degree in philosophy of sport and exercise, but did I study any philosophy to get it? No, but this man did. And so we've got some real philosophers on the podcast. So Adrian, welcome back for the, uh, for the guests, sorry, for the listeners who did not see your first guest appearance, introduce yourself a little bit. Yeah, happy to do that. Hi, thank you for having me on again. My name is Adrian. I'm a philosopher of science, mainly in the moment working in Berlin at the Charité University Hospital on psychiatric topics overall. And right now I'm on a research visit in Oxford. And I learned today because we said PhDs are redundant. Today I learned that back in the day here in Oxford, the library was so organized that everything but theology was considered arts and the only true science was theology. So maybe we're all just philosophers at the end of the day. Amen. There's a funny parallel where I met a friend who studies medieval Irish history and I told him I studied the 1800s and I went, that's journalism. So there's... Way too contemporary, Connor. Come on, 1800s. Of course. I mean, like, 1830. I mean, it's like yesterday. Awesome. Well, dude, Adrian, it's great to have you back on. And for those who weren't aware, Adrian and I strongly championed bodybuilding. And my first philosophy publication together, which we then talked about on the podcast, there was a voice coming from the darkness, the depths, threatening the sanctity of this core piece of physical culture of bodybuilding. And it said, hey, bodybuilding is not a sport. And here's why. And we came back with a fervorous, strong response of saying, hey, based upon the precepts that you put out, we don't think you can say bodybuilding is not a sport. Now, is bodybuilding a sport? We don't know. It might still not be. You could be right, but not for the reasons you said. And everyone was so pleased that we took such a strong stance against this really, really harsh criticism. But no, in all seriousness, that was a really cool experience for me, giving the opportunity to actually publish with a philosopher and kind of really thinking through things in a very logical way. I think I really do wish actually, I joked about it before that more researchers from all backgrounds and academics from all backgrounds had stronger basis and the philosophy and especially the philosophy of science. If they're doing quantitative work, I think that would probably lead to better conclusions across the board and strengthen the engine. So that was a great experience for me. And that led to some things like getting to come on Walter, your podcast. So we've got Dr. Walter Veidt, who's also joined us for the first time on Iron Culture. So please introduce yourself, Walter. Well, it's a pleasure to be here. After all, I've listened to this podcast many times. Now, when you think of philosophers, you might not think of people who lift. And to some extent, that stereotype is perhaps true, but there are some who do. And I'm one of them. And so I listen to a bunch of podcasts, of course, Iron Culture among them. And it's very interesting to see that a lot of the debates philosophers of science have about what constitutes evidence, how can we think about engaging mechanistic reasoning to use studies and to talk about how different sample sizes might be good or bad, different philosophy of science questions, epistemological ones. All of these are questions and discussions philosophers have. And you might not expect that exercise scientists engage in this as well and with quite a lot of rigor. And so I thought, well, perhaps philosophers should pay more attention here and perhaps we can do some useful collaborations. And this is why I invited Eric and contacted Adrian if he wants to keep doing philosophy of exercise science, really. And that's why we sit here all today. To ask the question, what is strength? So funny, funny thing that you guys will all appreciate, mostly Adrian and Walter. When I first posted the preprint that we put out on this paper, what is strength, which we'll have linked in the show notes. I got a question from one of my friends who is one of my more disagreeable friends. And he was like, why would a philosopher of the mind care about this question? And my response was quite literally because they lift. And there was no response to that. But the point is that I think it is interesting to me that in circles of philosophy that some of the contemporary questions we ask are actually approached and done so in a more rigorous way. So to think that philosophers only approach questions that are asked, you know, by no one, I don't think it's true. I think it is cool, though, to see, like, how do you hold a real, justifiable, internally consistent position on something is interesting. Because, like, using the old topic of is bodybuilding a sport or not? There's a lot of people who basically say no. And if you really dig into it, the reason is because I don't like it. And I think a lot of people who like to define strength in certain very narrow manner, it's because they like that definition or they don't like other definitions of strength. So the interesting thing about this paper is that we wanted to tackle this question from each one of our disciplines, because there have been questions philosophically as to what is strength, maybe even in parallel, published almost exact same time as us, as we recently found out in philosophy. And there is absolutely a question of what is strength and how that has been asked multiple times historically. And then even in science, we have asked in quantitative sports science, like, how do we measure strength and what is this as a quantitative construct? And you'd think that that would be the easiest one. But apparently, like, biology is complex. So we're going to dig through all of that today. We're going to talk about this very interesting question. And where I want to start is Adrian, Walter. You guys, tell me how this concept came to your mind and why this was an intriguing question that you guys wanted to tackle. Well, I already mentioned, I saw that Eric and Adrian published this awesome paper together on what is bodybuilding. And so I thought, oh, there's already another philosopher who wants to write in this area. Well, I guess it's useful to collaborate here rather than try to take my own path. After all, collaboration is, I think, very useful in science. And while philosophers typically don't collaborate very much, that's probably a bad approach. We can learn by taking different disciplinary views and trying to combine them here. And that's what we've done. So I've contacted Adrian if he's interested to write more in this area. And Adrian said, oh, yeah, let's do it. So perhaps Adrian can continue. Yeah, yeah, I was really happy to collaborate for very similar reasons. I think philosophers should write more together because nobody is really a genius alone, right? There are always people in the background supporting us. Maybe Conor is. The way he's looking is suggesting it. No one helped me. Road, not the bottom. Never. I think history is even more of a knownly discipline than philosophy. That might be why the personality is drawn to it. All right, continue. So, I mean, the topic of strength jumped to my mind because I tend to listen a lot to people talking in the gym and I'm not listening to music or anything in the gym. And people ask a lot of philosophical questions. For example, I saw a guy asking another guy, why should I put back my weights? And then I thought, oh, that's actually an interesting ethical question. Maybe there's a paper about the ethics of putting back your weights to write. And then the guy was, I'm not going to put it back because somebody is not able to leg press at least so and so much. They just shouldn't bother to use the leg press. Is that a permissible ethical argument maybe? So that's stuff I'm thinking about in the gym. And then I already also listened to a conversation where somebody said, oh, I think I got stronger. And the other guy was like, yeah, I wouldn't say so. And I was just fascinated by this disagreement. And then they talked about, yeah, more plates, but less reps and so on and so on. And I was wondering, yeah, but what's actually the right way to determine when somebody has the right to say he or she is stronger than before, which obviously comes down to the question, what is strength after all? And that was floating through my mind when Walter reached out and here, the rest is history and therefore maybe Connor's department. Man. I'm just picturing, sorry, John Nash's Prisoner's Dilemma, but with assholes in a gym where you're like, if we just break them away in two separate rooms and tell them that they need to clean up their plates because their friend is going to do it and make them look weak and pathetic. Will they clean up often? There's probably a way of doing it. And if we can't do the Prisoner's Dilemma, we can just do the Stanford Prison Experiment where I get to jam sunglasses and psychologically torture them until they pick up their damn dumbbells. That is one way we could go. Could go. Yeah. I was mostly thinking like, we just need to have an intervention with Adrian and tell him to train somewhere else. Because the two examples he had there was gatekeeping use of equipment because you're not strong yet. And you're like, well, how do I get stronger on leg press? Well, don't be weak. Okay, cool. And the other person was like, oh, I think I'm getting stronger. Like, no, you haven't. So it just seems like a really, really. Yeah. Like we just need to find a better gym environment. But then maybe we don't because we wouldn't have these interesting philosophical questions to answer. So, no, I love that. You don't train at home, right, Adrian? Just to make sure this isn't like a self. Yeah, it's an intervention. Luckily, it's not my partner who's saying this thing. I'm not training at home. This could turn into an intervention before we talk about his strength. Yeah, that was actually his mom who said that. Yeah, so. Yeah. So. Maybe it's just a country issue. I think Germans are more critical in general. They're half glass empty type. You know what? So. Perhaps. We got German philosophers asking questions. What could go wrong? I love it. No. I think it's really cool, though. Like, honestly, that you. It speaks to like. We may choose the way we want to go in life with what we want to study. But sometimes what we want to study chooses us. Like, if you're in the gym and you're thinking of, you know, epistemology, when some guy is like, you know what? I don't want to put my place away. You're like, oh, how interesting. You know, like. Then. Then, you know what? You were born for this, my man. And it's a pleasure and honor to see your brain do its thing. So, Connor, I think people would probably be surprised, maybe, if they haven't engaged with the history of lifting, with how contentious the question of what is strength has been. Can you walk us through some of the contemporary history of just how much debate or not even directly on the question of what is strength, but to some degree, like who gets to have the ownership of deciding what strength is in society? Yeah. And it's one of the reasons I was so happy to latch onto the coattails of this article, because I've been thinking a lot about this question of what is strength and how strength standards have shifted over time. And it is a really important point to say, like, how do we measure strength? And I don't mean within a lab based setting, because obviously exercise science and sports science are a relatively recent phenomenon. But like what have been the key modes in which we express strength? Yeah. One of the first recorded impressive strength feats, that's not mythology, is Bybon Stone in Olympia in Greece. And it's a heavy stone and it has inscribed in it, Bybon lifted me overhead with one hand. Now, Charles Stocking, who's a scholar who looks at ancient Greek and Roman physical culture, has seen the stone. He has theories on how Bybon pushed it overhead with one hand. But this is sort of one of our first ideas of like, okay, this is a strength feat. But then you go into strength tests. And this is where we go back to the episode with David Keown on stone lifting or even previous guests who've done Highland Games to some extent, where you look at like historic lifting stones. So things like the Drittvik stones in Iceland, where there is an employment element attached to these tests of strength. If people don't know the Drittvik stones, this is the sort of half-stirker, full-stirker stone. So it's four stones on a beach. There's the weakling stone and it goes from the weakling stone up to the manhood stone or whatever the expression is. And it's sort of like, you know, 10 kilos, 50 kilos, 100 kilos, 150 kilos or some form of progression. And if you can get the third of the four stones, you're allowed to work on one of the sailing boats because we know that you are strong enough to be on that boat. If you can lift the heaviest stone, then you're at the head of the boat. Or there's some mythology around these lines. There is stonemason stones in Scotland and in Ireland, for example, where if you lift these stones, you are strong enough to be a stonemason. So we have strength tests and strength feats attached to employment. Are you strong enough to do this? And it doesn't have to necessarily be stone lifting. There's a rich history of people showing their strength lifting logs, lifting sacks of hay or bales of hay, lifting horse carts to show I'm strong enough to do this job. So we have strength tests. What is strength? Is a strength applied to your position? The reason why we're here and we're talking about the gym is obviously the organization of Iron Game sports in the 19th century and 20th century. And in that time where we start to see the development of dumbbells and barbells, the mass production of dumbbells and barbells, the mass production of plates, which is the most important technology in all of lifting, is adjustable plates that you can easily put on a dumbbell and put on a barbell. How do we lift? This is such a fascinating and contentious question. And before we started, I was sort of rummaging through some of my books. I have this book here by Godfrey O'Sholl, who's the former IWF International Weightlifting Federation president. He wrote a great book called The Lost Past. And it's all about the early origins of weightlifting. Weightlifting is the first Iron Game sport to organize, even though it's a complete shit show. So the first weightlifting, International Weightlifting Federation competition is 1891. It takes until the 1920s before they regulate the sport into three lifts. But he writes about this contentious history in the 1870s, 1880s and 1890s, where the French are saying, well, the only test of strength that matters is to clean a barbell from the floor to chest height and then push it overhead with their knees together, feet together, heels together. Strict back, push overhead. You have the Germans who are saying, no, no, no, no, no, no. Listen, the form isn't really that important. You can continental clean this barbell up your body. So drag the barbell up your body and just jerk that SOB overhead. And that's our test of strength. And like, this seems kind of stupid. You're pushing a barbell overhead. Does the journey actually matter once it goes overhead? But it's so contentious in the late 19th century. Edmund Debenay, who's one of the great French physical culturists, he says that the continental method used by the Germans is for those of a lower descent. And it's a vulgar form of lifting. And it's effectively like that's what the Neanderthals do. Us Frenchmen, we use this hygienic and safe method for pressing the bar overhead. And the Germans wonderfully sort of retort by saying, listen, you just can't handle the weights that we're lifting. So unless you can press the same weight, we ain't talking here. But you have this contentious history from the 1890s to the 1920s where pretty much every world weightlifting federation meet, including the Olympic Games, has different tests of strength in weightlifting. So it could be a one-arm press overhead, a two-arm press overhead, a barbell anyhow press overhead. The 1900 Paris Olympics, it doesn't have a weightlifting federation event. It has a gymnastics event where they push stones overhead for reps. Really weird, but incredible in some respects. But you have different rules being used at annual meetings. You have in one year three World Weightlifting Federation competitions in the same year by three different countries with different athletes in each of them. Because that's how contentious all of this sort of history is about testing strength. It's only in the 1920s where weightlifting coalesces around the clean and jerk, the clean and press and the snatch. So you have then, from the 1920s to the 1970s, a pretty easy trifecta of strength, right? Strongest man in the world because women's weightlifting doesn't actually come about until the 1970s, 1980s, predominantly pushed by the U.S. women's team. It's an incredible history in and of itself. But, you know, you have this trifecta. In the 1970s, John Farr has shown they get rid of the clean and press. One of the worst decisions in many respects. Clean and press, they got rid of it because people were cheating. When they would clean the bar up to their chest, they would engage in a huge amount of backbend to push the bar overhead, effectively turning a military press into an incline bench. And if you don't believe me, you can look at videos or photographs from the 1960s, like the testament to the strength of the human spine. Stuart McGill be damned. I know the limits of, you know, bendability in the human spine. But the IWS gets rid of it because it's saying, listen, this isn't a clean press. It's too hard to judge. So weightlifting coalesces then, clean and jerk and the snatch, relatively unanimous form across the board. But what's happening in the 1960s, 1970s? Powerlifting emerges. And powerlifting, squat, bench, deadlift. Even that isn't unanimous. The early powerlifting meets, you know, we can talk about the early precursors, the first powerlifting meet or pre-powerlifting meet in the 1950s in America hosted by Perry Rader. It's a continental clean. So still, take the weight from the floor, press it overhead. Official powerlifting competitions in the 1960s. You have BALA, the British Amateur Weightlifting Association, has 42 lifts. Now, admittedly, they're not doing all 42 in a powerlifting meet. Christ on a bike, there'd be days. Like, how long does a powerlifting meet run normally? I mean, I only have three things to get through, 42 lifts. Anyhow. But you had the European system in the 1960s, 1970s. Early days, it was a squat. It was a deadlift. It was a bicep curl. You had the American system as squat, bench, and deadlift for powerlifting. Eventually, the IPF, and we're not going to go into the splintering of different powerlifting federations in recent years, the IPF sort of globalizes powerlifting and squat, bench, and deadlift. Even in powerlifting, we have long discussions about squat depth. We have very contentious discussions about sumo deadlifter, which oddly became linked to someone's sexual proclivities for a certain number of years. You have, is single ply acceptable? Is triple ply acceptable? Is super-duper quadruple ply and whatever they were doing in Westside for a few years acceptable? So you had these contentious discussions even in powerlifting around, is technology acceptable? What type of technology is acceptable? You know, John Todd, Ben Pollock, and Dominic Moniz, obviously two of whom were previously on Iron Culture, did a great article on early powerlifting technologies. People wrapping themselves so tightly in bedsheets that it was a sort of early squat suit. Cutting a tennis ball in half and sticking it behind their knees so they could squat more. Like, what is acceptable? So you had these debates in powerlifting. Then you have the World's Strongest Man competition. First competition is in 1977. It's this weird hodgepodge of television entertainment and legitimate feats of strength. World's Strongest Man, and it still has that carny entertainment element to it. That evolves into a semi-legitimate, if not an eventually legitimate sport. But even in the world of strong man and strong woman, you have debate and division. The creation of the Iron of Strength classic. Terry Todd wrote a wonderful article in Iron Game History. For people who aren't familiar, Jan and Terry Todd are influential figureheads in the creation of the Iron of Strength classic. One of Terry Todd's articles on the creation of the Iron of Strength classic is inherently philosophical. Going back to Walter and Adrian's point. Because he says, we sat around the table with Arnold and Jim Larimer. And we said, is the World's Strongest Man actually a test of who the strongest man in the world is? Because the World's Strongest Man, if anyone is a fan, usually has an endurance side to it. You know, it's, we'll use the most high profile example. It's lifting up a refrigerator and running with it until your knee completely buckles in and destroys your career. Or it's, you know, lifting for reps. Or it's doing a huge carry. Or it's doing an arm over arm pull. Is that actually a test of strength? Shouldn't strength be max effort, minimal time? It is not a question of the maximum amount of weight you can lift. So if you are a keen-eyed Strongman fan and a strong woman fan, thankfully, you'll see that the Arnold competitions tend to be lower reps, higher weight, lower time periods, lower distances for cars, because they feel like the strength or the strongest athlete correlates with the most amount of weight lifted. So even though we pretend, and this is again going back to Walter and Adrian, I think they can speak on this a lot more than me, we pretend we have a consensus in the three major strength sports. And we can talk about, you know, CrossFit and Hydrox, wherever it's called, and all these different things, or even kettlebell sport. Like, we pretend we have really objective measures of strength, but we don't. Like, the most obvious one is, you know, depth. Even look at the contentiousness around Brian Shaw's Strongest Man on Earth competition this year, and there are some questions raised about the squat event in that. But just squatting and powerlifting, bends and deadlifting, you know, is deadlift a successful lift if the bar is dropped from knee height down, which sometimes happens in powerlifting competitions. And weightlifting, what is the objective way of lifting it? So we actually don't know, we don't often talk about the messiness of those strength standards. I think the only thing that we can agree on is that we have set movement patterns that we tend to link into a strength context. So pushing something overhead from the ground has a millennia of history behind it as a test of strength. Now, and lifting something from the ground has a long test of, you know, a long history within strength. Carrying something has a long history within strength. And now we would say squatting with something has a long history, a more recent, but nevertheless, a strong history within strength. So I think consensus exists around movement patterns, but not around the lifts, not around, you know, what is the, like if you were to give me a weightlifter and a powerlifter and a strongman athlete or strongwoman athlete. And you said, right, how do we figure out who's the strongest? Which was initially the first Ironman strength classic had a weightlifter, a powerlifter and strength athletes. I couldn't tell you what the one lift is because there's so much contentiousness around that. So like, it's a really interesting, messy and sort of chaotic history. And that's why I was so excited to be part of this conversation, because these conversations are had within these, all of these sports, but we don't think of it as philosophy. And we don't, as I was, contextualize it with regard to strength. Strength sports tend to be very reactive. Oh, they didn't hit depth. Listen, we need to look at our rules. Or, oh, they keep cheating and they're backbending in the clean and press. Oh, let's just get rid of it. And it's only when people sit down like the Ironman strength classic, and even with the CrossFit games, where you're creating a sport from scratch, where you get a more explicit conversation around history and the philosophy of strength. I think that's really interesting and telling. You're right. That kind of reactive nature of strength sport continues today with the new bench press rule change in the IPF. Just to kind of put a clear contemporary example on that. So I don't think that's going to change. I think that's kind of be the way and the nature of the more well-established sports. But it is interesting to see, you know, the more modern sports where they were watching them form and change. How we can have, you know, historians sit down with people in the strength community and go, how would we do this and see a slightly different take on it. And I think that might be one of the reasons why our paper focused a bit on strongman competitions and strongwoman competitions, because there are multiple events. It can change. There's even debate within the sport as to is the world's strongest man or is, you know, the Arnold Classic, the way we actually tell who's the strongest person. So that is really interesting. And I think people might be surprised to learn in the modern era how different the debates are compared to the way they used to be. Because today we debate, oh, is the world's strongest man or the Arnold Classic winner or the gold medal, super heavyweight Olympian in weightlifting or the, you know, the strongest super heavyweight in powerlifting, the strongest. But back in the day, it was debates within powerlifting, within weightlifting and massive upheaval and changes in those sports before they became slightly more stable as we view them today. But underlying all of that, and I think what people don't even really think about is when they get into these contemporary arguments on, hey, what is strength or who's the strongest? That's actually what people really talk about. They don't ask the question, what is strength in the contemporary world? They go, who's strongest? And they start to debate and they don't see eye to eye. And I think many times they don't see eye to eye because they don't necessarily hold the same definition of strength underlying their arguments. So that is where I think philosophy comes into this, because most arguments are people talking past each other. So Adrian, Walter, you guys could tackle this in whatever order you want. You guys could feel free to kind of fill in the gaps of whatever you feel the other person doesn't cover. Talk to me about philosophically what is strength and how you guys were able to conceptualize this and your best attempt to make it sound interesting and at least understandable. That's the minimum threshold bar. Okay, philosophers. All right. For the general public. Okay. So maybe I pick up the ball first, Walter, and throw it over to you or you get it out of my hands whenever you feel like I'm not interesting enough anymore. Lift it out of hands. That's right. So, I mean, as you just said, we decided to tackle the question, what is strength? We decided to tackle the question, what is strength? Mostly in context of strongmen to focus on something. And what we first did is that we say, well, if we want to give an account to what strength is, we need to pin down some very central and salient features of what we are talking about when we talk about strength and strongmen. And we said, well, what we can see in the history of strength that was laid out by Conor is that a reoccurring, very basic theme is that the person who's the strongest is somebody who can either hold or move the heaviest weight. And we pin this up as the first relevant aspect of what strength is. And then we see a couple of other very salient features in the context of strongmen competitions, namely that we somehow want to see that it's getting transparent, how much weight is lifted so that it can be somehow be compared to the lifts of other people, that the performance should be across multiple movement patterns that are assessed so that we are not only having a person doing a deadlift or whatever, and that the events should be judged by some kind of point values to make them comparable. So it's that we try to get a lump sum in the end of the day to across all patterns to make an overall assessment who the strongest is. And taking all this into consideration, our answer, which on the surface sounds maybe very trivial and easy as philosophy often does, and which only gets interesting when you start to discuss to philosophers what the words they use actually mean is that strength is a general agentative ability to exercise difficult physical efforts and certain movement patterns. Horribly long sentence with some words that could all be fleshed out. And I wonder if I can throw, shall I throw over the ball for abilities to you, Walter? Sure. I mean, Connor already highlighted this with the history. One motivation I had in writing this paper is not just to, oh, well, make it like many philosophers, philosophy papers look. And that is, there's some new topic, new question that philosophers haven't addressed so far. And they write about it almost from the armchair without consulting anyone who may have considered this question before, but who isn't themselves a philosopher? And so here, clearly in academic philosophy journals thus far, wasn't the case that people really discussed strength. But clearly people have thought about strength. I mean, almost maybe one of the earliest questions really humans ask themselves. Who is the strongest here? They can compare each other in terms of lifting heavy objects. They might wrestle against each other. You can think of sumo wrestling similarly as an exercise of strength, right? And so historically, the one idea we had was that clearly in terms of the different activities that emerged in terms of tests of strength, we can here say, look, this is, or we shouldn't perhaps overemphasize this too much, but there is a sense in which there's hundreds of years of wisdom in terms of how these tests have been developed in order to better estimate who's stronger. And there is some consensus, right? We've come to recognize several abilities, such as lifting something overhead, similarly, deadlift type activities, pushing something really heavy. And all of this, we thought, is perhaps most recognized in strongman as a sport. And there's one idea that I think was very important to emphasize is this idea of proxy failure. Now, you might not know what this means, but it's a common idea in many sciences. Think of education, for instance. We've developed measurements for assessing whether one school is better than another. And many people thought the government, educational institutions, that this would help us to improve education. But in fact, what has happened to some extent is that the institutions have become specialized in getting students to be as best as possible in these types of tests, rather than perhaps the original aim, which was to improve education. So you can get a disconnect between what a measure originally was meant to improve and then what it is measuring. And you can get that, of course, similarly in strength sports. So in terms of Olympic weightlifting, powerlifting, since these lifts have become very specialized, highly regulated in terms of what is allowed and what isn't, becoming as good as possible at this becomes more of a perhaps skill issue, you might say, a pure skill. And whereas maybe a few decades ago, people might have swapped from strongman to bodybuilding, powerlifting, and there would have been more consistency. Someone who's really good at one sport would have been really good at another. Now the specialization has led to this not being true anymore. There's certainly things we can learn from different disciplines. Think of power building, for instance, is something you can do. But because of this specialization, I think we can perhaps recognize that there's some disconnect between what was originally meant to be measured, that is pure strength, and this specialization. And strongman, we thought, is perhaps the most removed from this in terms of the lifts varying to some extent. So while proxy failure can always exist, perhaps strongman to some extent reduces this to some extent. Now there can still be disagreements, right? Arnold Classic events and so forth. But there's still a philosophical important issue here. And that for a long time, people have tried to get it. And our account tries to spill that out in terms of agent ability. And I think it does a really good job. So just to give someone a really clear understanding of what we're talking about with proxy failures, it's kind of the idea that, you know, your SAT score may not perfectly predict how well you do in college or represent the wholeness of your educational ability or likelihood of success. And this is something I can really easily demonstrate in sports science, which we can get to in a bit. But I think a really key element, too, is that there are certain ways of measuring who are the strongest, which are simply uninteresting to people. And I think it goes back to that point that you said of, like, you know, wrestling. There was a point where one of the ways of who's the strongest, it was essentially who can fight and beat the other person, you know? So, you know, wrestling, combat sports, they are always kind of in the same periphery of weightlifting. And, you know, wrestling and weightlifting were very closely tied historically. And I think that's for some essential element of what ancient humans needed to do and had to do and how we tested things. So the competitive aspect of it, I think, can't be removed. And the necessity to display that I can do this under certain conditions, I think, is also important. So it's not only a question of the test, not only a question of whether it is more generalizable and you need to do multiple things, but can you perform under pressure? Can you perform against someone else? What I wrote about in my section of this paper was that, and this is actually a great idea that Adrian and Walter presented, the idea of, like, some kind of super scan or what we called, like, the God Dexa or the Super Dexa, something that could scan your whole body and measure accurately the entire contractile force of all tissues that you had and give you, like, an aggregate score. If people just walked up, laid down on this thing, got scanned, stood up, and then we did that 10 times, and in 25 minutes we would just compare, oh, yeah, you were 88, he was 87, this guy's 86, that's our top three. Congratulations, here's your World's Strongest Man's prize, you know, roll the credits. No one would care, no one would watch that, and I think that's this example of when you really refine something down to an isolated test and you remove the actual component of watching it and seeing it, this is where you start to not answer the question that you originally set out, even though you quantitatively drilled it down to the most purest objective form of it. So it's this interesting thing where it almost has to be a question that is answered in this multidisciplinary fashion. And I won't get into the sports science stuff yet, because I think there's probably more to unpack philosophically and historically, but I thought that was a really interesting way that we were able to demonstrate, like, listen, if we just had people come in, and we don't even have to use the example of a Super Dexa, like, if I had people come in and they did a mid-dipole, you know, which is, for those who don't know, it's a bar that sits in mid-thigh, it doesn't go anywhere, you just pull on it, and we either have a strain gauge attached to a chain, or you're standing on a force plate, and I just get a number, like, oh, who had the highest Newtons? Nobody would care, you know, you'd have to go, like, take the cameraman and film, like, oh, yeah, 10,000 Newtons, you're really, really strong, who's next? And it would be extremely uninteresting. And even though you could argue we've removed all these other factors, this is literally just who is the strongest at this movement right now, that's, it's become so sanitized that it is no longer the characteristic we're interested in seeing people compete in. So, in May 2020, one of the most fascinating things happened in, sort of, World's Strongest Man law, which is Hafthor Bjornsson deadlifting 501 kilos during the corona pandemic from his own gym. And Jan Todd wrote one of, and it's a blog post, so people may read it, one of the most fascinating articles. It's called Records, Vitriol, and Hafthor Bjornsson's Quest for the 501 Kilo Deadlift. In the lead-up to that deadlift, Eddie Hall told all and sundry that this was not a legitimate lift. Eddie Hall, obviously, being the first man to deadlift 500 kilos, he said it wasn't a legitimate lift because he couldn't verify the plates, because it wasn't being done in front of a crowd, because it was being done, you know, socially distant, you know. Magnus is the judge. He's not maybe an objective judge. Like, there was a number of, sort of, insults put against Hafthor. And Jan's article, which I'd read like it's an incredibly passionate, historically engaged, respectful no to Eddie Hall. But it makes the point that, you know, Strongman has always had this theatric component to it. And that, you know, there's always been a tension in Strongman, and certainly in Strength, and to Walter and to the Eric points, about how much sterilization is needed. Because, you know, I love the idea of proxy failure, because, you know, if you think about even the early Strongman and women from the 1910s, 1930s, they'd have the list that they themselves would specialize in. And then if, on the off chance they were ever challenged by another athlete, they often became unstuck or unglued very quickly. So, a prime example of that being Eugene Sandow challenged Arthur Saxon to a bent press competition, and he simply just couldn't match Saxon's strength. And eventually he said, no, no, they used a gimmicked barbell, there was mercury in it, so when I pressed it overhead, the mercury went to one side of the barbell and threw off the balance. And he actually took him to court and sued him over this, even though it was preposterous on Sandow's part. But there's always been this tension between the test itself, how can we verify it, and measuring the plates has become increasingly important and standardizing the plates. Now, people remember the build-up to that. You know, the videos. I watched, I wasted time of my life watching Halfcore report different rogue plates on a weighing scale and showing that each plate was finely balanced to whatever it was, 25 kilos or 20 kilos. And there was this element of, okay, strong man and strong woman is that marrying of verifiable objective with the entertainment piece. And ultimately, if you don't have the entertainment piece, people don't care. And that's across sports in general. And there is, I suppose, two audiences within strength. And I think it's something John mentioned as well. And there's the immediate audience. So if you ask powerlifters or weightlifters, who's the strongest, you'll probably get a really nuanced conversation, including coefficients. You know, they say, okay, so, you know, you have your super heavy, is this. But actually, if we look at the will score, you know, so it's almost, you know, Taylor Atwood in his heyday, Jesus Alivarez, like, where are we, where are we going with this? Is it strongest weight lifted or is it weight relative to body weight? But then you have your general audience, which is, oh my God, that dude from the Game of Thrones thing, Mountain, he just pulled like 501 kilos on the floor. He just ripped that SOB up. And sport needs both, both audiences to survive. But there is a huge tension because if you overly sterilize it, then it's not entertaining. But if you don't sterilize it enough, well, then you're going to lose the actual dedicated diehards. And Strongman is really interesting because you have that in both the verification and judging of the lifts. But then every year, World's Strongest Man, because these men and women have a huge amount of training injuries to deal with. What is lockout? And this is often a contentious, and we have this, you know, in the last two years at World's Strongest Man. What is lockout? If I lock it overhead, but there's a slight bend in my elbow because I've torn my biceps and I have shoulder problems, this is as far as I'm going. Is that a successful lift? Or is it, you know, going overhead? So Strongman, I think more so than potentially powerlifting because powerlifting has that set trifecta of squat, bench, and deadlift. And although they're changing the rules the whole time, you sort of know what to expect every year. But Strongman and Strongwoman is constantly innovating. It's, okay, this year we're going to do the Swiss stone lifting, which none of you have ever done. We're going to have the stone at chest height, run a distance, and then throw it as far as you can. Or, I know last time we did deadlift for one max rep, but now we're doing a lighter weight for endurance reps. Or we're doing a Dinny Stone walk. Or we're doing the timber carry, but we've changed it in a certain way. Because the parameters of Strongman and Strongwoman are constantly in flux, which makes it unique within traditional strength sports, and crossfitters will obviously put their hand up and say, well, actually. But because it's constantly in flux, the philosophical debates are constantly there. And you can see, and I won't name names, but certain fans will look at a World's Strongest Man competition, and they might say, oh, well, those lifts favour so-and-so. And, you know, that means that so-and-so didn't get to do it. Even though we all know athlete B is much stronger, but they chose lifts this year that privileged athlete A. So I think there is something about Strongman and Strongwoman that makes it a particularly fertile ground for that philosophical question because the judges are constantly faced with this, the organisers are constantly faced with it. And judging by the Eddie Hall, Hofthar Bjornsson, back and forth, which was nearly a decade long, and thankfully it seems to have died out, the competitors are constantly having these conversations. I think that's what makes it such an interesting paper because Strongman and Strongwoman is borrowing from mainstream, or from other sports. It's borrowing from the press overhead of the Olympics. It's borrowing, like it's, in many respects, it's taken over powerlifting with the deadlift. And, you know, you look at the deadlift competition they had in Nevada earlier this year. Powerlifting has never really had that sort of breakthrough interest in the deadlift. So, you know, in the sense Strongman and Strongwoman has appropriated the deadlift from powerlifting or made it itself. But I think there's something about the flux element in that sport which makes it like the philosophy is just so embedded in every conversation. Even though if I go to an event and I'm like, what's your epistemological stance on? And, you know, that'll get crickets. But if I'm like, yo, who's Stronger, bro, Eddie or Hathor? Then we can have a conversation where if I'm like, Zivikis, goat, am I right? Like that'll start a whole conversation about Zivikis versus Pudinowski and what was the strongest event during their heyday. So it's a really interesting sport to have those conversations. And if it's fine, I would like to come back to one point, Eric, maybe because this thought example of the super duper DEXA scan, right? That is just like measuring your tissue and telling you in some kind of number which you might think is the strength number and intuitively we would assume most people wouldn't be so interested in that kind of results and that doesn't seem to be what strength in the strongman community is about. And that is where we partly start to develop our definition on. We maybe don't have to go through the whole definition but only look at this little intuitive piece to talk a little bit about the philosophy here because what we see there intuitively is it's not about what you have and what is there all the time but strength seems to be about doing, the capacity to exercise something. And if we talk about capacities compared to properties that are there all the time, we are already in the middle of metaphysical discussions because there is a difference between what philosophers would call modal properties, so properties that come to bear on what's going on in reality under certain circumstances versus categorical properties, so things that are always there like the whiteness of my cup is there all the time, that's a categorical property, but for example, the disposition of my cup to break into pieces when I throw it against the wall, that's a modal property because that is something that is not realized all the time, but it's in the space of possibilities what the cup could do. And that also seems to be what strength is about. Strength is in you and is with you all the time. We want to think that the strongest man is not somebody who is only the strongest in this very second, but there should be some consistency in this feature of strength that the person has, but also we don't think that it's something that is to be there even though it could not be exercised. And that is where this notion of ability comes in, because the way philosophers have thought about abilities is very useful here. Philosophers thinking of abilities often taking examples like the ability to play a good piano piece or the ability to throw a dart or something like this have thought like, well, what are abilities? Abilities are actions, things that we do with intention and not by accident. If I have the ability to be a very good dart thrower, that presupposes that I can throw the dart in the bull's eye when I intend it, and somebody who would just by accident throw the dart in the bull's eye like ten times in a row, intuitively we wouldn't say that this person has a good ability, because that's not what's going on here. The same way maybe in, I don't know, in weightlifting, if you would say somebody has the ability to do a very good clean, you would want that this person who's cleaning the thing also has the intention to do the clean, and it's not like somebody has a weird kind of sizer or something, and by accident is moving the bar in a way that leads you to judge that that actually looked like a very good clean. So there's a difference between those two cases, and we thought the smartest way to think about strength might actually be to say, well, strength is about actions that show the exercise of the intention to do a certain thing, which is within the space of capacities of the individual, which is there even if it's not exercised, but that to itself has this important aspects of exercisability, which seems to be what we expect, which is also the reason why we would reject the DEXA, the super DEXA as a measure, but we would also not say that somebody is the strongest man if he's only able to, I don't know, is taking super duper performance water or whatever and is only being able to do all the lifts super good in the competition and then his capacity to do that fades away. We expect that there is some continuity within this capacity. And this exercisability, presence all over longer time, and activatability based on intention is something that is nicely captured in philosophical debates on abilities, which makes it useful to bring the notion of ability to bear in the analysis of strength. Yeah, I think one way to look at it is like, let's say you had a parallel Earth with 10 times the gravity that we have, and it just generated these super people. And you put them in that scanner, they're going to crush everybody, including Half-Thor, and that's just the way it is. they don't actually have the ability to lift them. They might be able to lift these things, but as soon as they actually became skilled and consistently trained, now all of a sudden they compete against each other and we would see that certain people not only had the quality of strength in their body, but the ability to generally exercise it across numerous domains. And I think that's what we got to, that general agentitive ability. And those might seem like subtle differences, and I think in the general public, sometimes people don't understand that strength is both a skill and a product of your physiological qualities. I think that's something that is often missed. And I think you get exposed to this really early when you get into lifting, because you understand that the biggest guy or gal isn't necessarily the strongest guy or gal on a given movement, and that it starts to kind of get bifurcated and trifurcated, and it could be in all these different ways that someone could be stronger or weaker relative to someone else. And you say here things like, oh, brute strength. Like, they're not a very good deadlifter, but they're just really, really just monstrous. And they're just so big and strong, like they don't need to have great technique to be competing with these other people who have, you know, this more refined strength that we don't call brute strength kind of goes all the way back to debonet, right? So I think that's a really interesting thing, and it kind of exemplifies what you're getting at, and it helps codify it a little bit so that people can understand this in more specific ways so they're not talking across each other. This reminds me, actually, of something I was reading about. So I just finished the book on the roles of Zeus, and why is that related? Well, in the history of Zeus, actually, in the past, visitors were alleged to compete in kind of strength activities against the animals. So, for instance, you could engage in rope pulling versus a lion or a chimpanzee, and here to emphasize the skill issue, you might think of a chimpanzee perhaps of having more muscle fibers, type one fibers, than a human of similar size. Type two, actually. Type two, yeah. I can't help it. Type two. Go ahead. Very good. Might actually be stronger, right? Just because chimpanzee might not know how to exercise his strength in an effective manner. And what do we say here? Who's stronger? Perhaps you might say, in terms of brute strength, perhaps, in principle, you might want to say the chimpanzee is stronger. Maybe just we admit whoever wins is the strongest, but clearly skill has a role to play here. my favorite paper, the Journal of Mammalogy, John Bowman, observations on the strength of the chimpanzee and its implications. College frat boys, chimpanzees, dynamiters, let's go. But I think it's a really interesting point. And Eric, I'm trying to remember the Iron Culture episode where you talk about what is an intermediate, what is a beginner lifter, and what is an advanced lifter. Or you mention, one of the great deadlifters, I'm just going to say Andy Bolton, and, you know, it's our first time in the gym, pulls like 400 with ease. 600, supposedly. That's the story. That's the story. Yeah. But even, you know, like Mitch Hooper stopped it the first time he deadlifted, I think he got over, or like close to 400. And, you know, me looking back at that saying, oh my god, this is insane. You know, this might be, he's clearly advanced. But the difference in, say, the beginner and the intermediate and the advanced, it's obviously it is on the board, but more so it is that skill component. And I think there's a really interesting thing around the last 40, 50 years in the strength world. Obviously, there's been anabolic standards. Obviously, there's been technological changes. But the skill coaching, I think, is such an important element that we often don't talk about. Jan Todd, Terry Todd, Jason Shirley, the invention of strength coaching in America, make a really bold change, or argument that the most fundamental change in American mainstream sports was not the introduction of anabolic steroids, but it was the introduction of strength coaching. It made everyone stronger, bigger, faster, etc. But within powerlifting, weightlifting, strongman, strongwoman, stonelifting, whatever the case may be, we've become so much more nuanced in the teaching of the skill. People have setups now that isn't Rick and Rick. if we're looking at a deadlift, there's a really, individual lifters filming their clean and jerk a hundred times, sending it off to be analyzed by a coach. The refinement in that is such an important change from, let's say, Paul Anderson, mid-1950s Olympic weightlifter, one of the strongest men to ever rock the planet. I think many people would agree with that. He was really skilled for his time, but if you look at his clean and jerk, you can look at that and go, yeah, Jim Schmitz, you know, as his coach in weightlifting, Christ, he could have gotten more. If you look at Vasily Alexiev, one of my favorite lifters of all time, and I see his iconic clean and press overhead, and I'm like, that is an ugly way of doing that. That is not an efficient way to move that weight. So I think there is something about that intentionality and the difference between brute strength, you know, Andy Bolton going in, oh, what's this? If I pick this up and it's 600 pounds versus Andy Bolton when he's out of 1000 pounds, and there's obviously, you know, we can measure the muscle size, we can bring them into the guard decks and, you know, say, oh, well, there he's at 10,000 newtons, and the brute was at 8,000 newtons. I presume that's how scientists talk. Yeah, I imagine the Muppet, you know, who's always like, oh, the purple Muppet. Each scientist gets assigned one very, very skinny person who just kind of screams and freaks out. That's your lab assistant, yes. Yeah, internally, all historians have that. It's just called our psyche. But, you know, outside of like, I can measure muscle changes, blah, blah, blah, the bodily knowledge and awareness and skill that's been accrued over time is such a huge element in that as well. And I think that's a really interesting thing is that skill component, the intentionality, it's not just bringing in people off the street and saying, right, who's the strongest? The specialization of strength sports is such an important element in what is strength and it's oftentimes, I think, lost unless something has really broken down and then we can say, oh, here's where the form broke down. So I think that's an interesting component in it. And again, it's why strongman, strongwoman is so interesting because they're constantly changing the lifts and, you know, you can be really proficient in something, but we're maybe not doing that this year. So now you need to almost like cram for the big test, you know, and you haven't been doing this and it impacts the training modalities of a strongman, a strongwoman athlete in a way that at least powerlifters know, okay, these three lifts, that variable is gone. Olympic weightlifters, these two lifts, that variable is gone. Whereas if I'm a strength competitor, oh, I need to work on my carries while also working on my overhead press, while also working on my deadlifts, while also working on my one-handed press, like they're spread a lot thinner. But even in that, the likes of someone like Brian Shaw, maybe one of the first professional strength athletes to a certain extent, they are specializing the whole time. Yes. This is a really interesting thing where we've seen specialization in sport become more and more and more and more common as sport gets more and more divorced from society. You know, physical culture and sport were far more intertwined and amorphous. And being healthy and having it be an argument for the military or just as a general good thing for society. Now it is much more about health as a rather than a preventative measure of like, we want to make sure if we get invaded, we're going to be okay. Now it's like, oh, we have a health crisis. You know, people are too sedentary. We have the obesity epidemic. We need to get them moving again. It's viewed very differently now in the modern era than the way that health and strength and exercise and fitness and sport were viewed previously. And character was tied into it in different ways than we think about today. We do put athletes on pedestals and see them as examples and things that we look up to, but it's just not the same as it was a hundred years ago. And some of the ideals and elements of nationalism and things like that that were tied into physical culture were very different. And that means that sport is almost a side or a part of rather than embedded within society. It's something you can go and do rather than something that everybody does or should be doing. And it also means that the individual sports are much more specialized because people aren't just generally physically active like they used to be. They go and do a thing. And this change has occurred in strength sport as well with weightlifting and powerlifting becoming more codified and more specific. There's harder lines drawn between the strength sports. It's the whole reason why iron culture started was because weight lifters, bodybuilders, powerlifters, and strongmen don't talk to each other. And there's missing wisdom that they can't pass along. So the training for each of them becomes much more specific. You don't have someone winning the universe and then winning senior weightlifting nationals and then doing one of these new powerlifting competitions that pop up and to Walter's point does well in all of them. Right? You see people trying these other sports and doing crossovers and it's like, oh, they're not very good. It's funny. And you see people who are actually much better suited to being in one of the specific iron disciplines. And an interesting thing that's happened because of that that I've noticed the parallel is that the concept of periodization has even been eroded as something that is legitimate. And when you think about periodization from more of a first principles perspective rather than kind of the ideology that's been heaped on top of it and the arguments and the different systems and the overly scientific jargon that has become ascribed to periodization with sports science growth, you realize that it's essentially just long-term training planning and it's the concept of specificity being layered on top of that. And when you have a sport or you have an activity or you have any kind of physical pursuit that requires you to maintain multiple domains or skills simultaneously just by the nature of logistics you have to decide which one you're going to do at what point. And if there's this general agentative ability of strength and you're competing in strongman or crossfit or an earlier version of weight lifting or power lifting that had 43 different lifts you're going to have very generalized training your general preparation and then you're going to have very specific training once you know exactly what you're going to do in the competition but you don't want to lose that basic quality you still need to get scanned by that the uber decks and have a high score but then you also need to be really really good at this specific thing you know if I got to go face this chimpanzee well I'm going to try to get as jacked as a chimpanzee as I can knowing that I can't reach him but then I'm going to really train on how to do this tug of war so I can out strength this brute who I'm going to go against and that essentially is periodization with specificity becoming you know more important and the more sanitized the sport becomes the more I'm just doing a snatch or just doing a clean and jerk or I'm just doing a squat bench and deadlift the more we can start to see some of those assumptions that we had about periodization being necessary fall away and we see people succeed with what we describe as the Bulgarian system and weight lifting what do I do it's pretty simple every time I go to the gym I do a max clean and jerk that's it sometimes I squat you know or the highly specific versions of power lifting which follow similar suit and there's some people who are successful with that there's a cost to that success there are you know not everyone makes it through that grinder and you need to actually think about regulation of when you're trying to go for a max what is a training max versus a competition max there's a lot of complexity to that conversation which we've had on iron culture we've had people who've done that system before but I think it's really intriguing and the more you understand how specialized strength can be I think the more all this starts to make sense and this is we think that objectivity is the true razor that can cut things and give us clear answers and you'll have quantitative researchers who can't help but get annoyed anytime the notion of qualitative research pops up around them it's a personality thing we like to have clear answers but any good quantitative researcher will tell you that the first thing you got to do is define your terms right I can give you a very specific correct answer I can provide you objective truth and believe it or not sorry philosophers sorry historians sorry sociologists we do actually live in a physical world you know the idea is that if we could measure the movement of every single molecule and atom in the world and predict it we could know what was going to happen next and that's probably true now that would take more energy than exists in the world which you're trying to measure so it's never going to happen so it's not a useful perspective but it is true we do live in a physical world so what that means is that if we define something very narrow if I want to know what is your one repetition maximum on a given lift we can measure that but here's what gets interesting you can take a bunch of people with higher one repetition max deadlifts and you can test them on a machine of isolated back extension that locks your body in place and all you do is basically a back extension and we see how much force you produce there's very little correlation between the two and this has actually been done we had Dr. Pack on to talk about this when he did this research at Solent University when he was still a student and yeah they brought in a bunch of power lifters really strong RDLs really strong deadlifts but didn't necessarily predict their isolated back extension strength which is crazy so there's movement specificity that's going on there's also the influence of the speed of the movement are we talking about power which is force times velocity and then is it more velocity or more force dominant and each individual person depending upon their training and they also have a different endurance strength profile so you can find someone we've already talked about this in strongman who might be able to deadlift say 600 700 pounds for 10 reps right but their max might only be 800 but there might be someone with a max of 900 who can also only do the same number of reps at that same given load and we see this play out in sports science all the time the further you get away from the actual activity the more the variance increases because of these individual factors and you think you know that's only true if you compare like an endurance athlete to a strength athlete that magnifies it like there was a study done where they looked at 1RM testing of the leg press then they had them do as many reps as possible at 90 and 80 and 70 of that 1RM leg press and they used strength athletes and endurance athletes huge differences in all of them right and they go okay well all we got to do to solve that is we just compare people who just lift weights right because they did see like 40 reps versus 20 reps and 80% on the leg press like oh my god and that's the mean but it only cleans up a little bit so out of Dr. Zerdos' lab we did a study where we took people who could at least squat 1.5 times body weight if they're a male or 1 times body weight if they're a female and had been training for at least a year and consistently squatting tested their 1RM and had them do an AMRAP as many reps possible at 70% of 1RM and the range was from 6 to 26 reps so that means there's people who you go yeah yeah do 10 reps at 70% that should be a challenging set some people are like yeah I got 16 more bro that was a warm up other people who are like yeah I failed on rep 6 and I got pinned and there was no spotters around because someone who can throw a shot put really far but doesn't have as big as a 1RM bench press as someone else who can't throw it just as far you're going to have people who are really strong at this movement versus that movement you're going to have people who have more eccentric strength than concentric strength or they have more isometric endurance and they could probably really succeed on the Hercules hold for example but couldn't do something else so ironically it is the very very specific quantitative approach of defining strength and measuring it that tells us two things one if we sanitize it down to just a singular measure a nobody cares but b it demonstrates proxy failure so almost by definition the only way for us to define who is the strongest is requiring a multi component test that goes across some of these various physiological qualities of the body that through the history and the philosophy we can say you know what all of these could categorize themselves within these like if we have this definition philosophically of what is strength and if we look at historically what do people care about and see and are interested in tests of strength it's varied which is why people debate so we're forced into this position of well we've got to have a battery of tests and someone needs to be consistently good across all of them they may not be the best at any single one because that's too specialized now it's the SAT score right or it's the squat specialist who can't bench etc and I think that's really interesting and it speaks to the fact and I'll make a claim here that someone who can consistently win say world's strongest man or world's strongest woman even when the sport changes and every year there's different events and also say win the Arnold if they are the dominant champ for multiple years in a row or they've always got a shot across the various different disciplines and tests that exist in strongman and they can do well in the more endurance focused event of world's strongest man and the more strength focused event in Arnold Classic that is an impressive athlete who probably has in my opinion at least a more broader and more defensible claim to being the strongest than even your top gold medalist or super heavyweight weightlifter or powerlifter in my opinion and I think that's the interesting thing and I have a book here beside me very very war torn David Willoughby was incredible fitness rider from the mid century of the super athletes he went around and he said I'm going to categorize every strength feat that I can so it's about a thousand pages long and in the index you know it's endurance lifting it's talking about Anthony McGinty who pushed a two pound dumbbell overhead 14,000 times in a day it's talking about Tom Burroughs the club swinger who swung Indian clubs for 120 hours without rest the index is such a fascinating bear in mind he wrote this book before world strongest man and he breaks the feats of strength up across different eras the ancient world the modern world he then goes into chinning rope climbing dipping wrist wrestling strength of neck and jaws log chopping! strength speed and stamina but he was grappling with who's the strongest in a time before strong man and then eventually strong woman and it's interesting to see how many things will be who's sort of one of the experts in popular fitness circles of his time and that's really interesting anthropomorphic work as well but he was grappling with this before there was a sport around so he's looking at chin ups and dips and calisthenics and club swinging and things that I think strong man and strong woman have simplified but you're right Eric and Adrian and Walter the way you get to who's the strongest is to set out with the like okay we understand we're not going to be able to test anything let's use history and philosophy as tempos or guides for what is the most acceptable and non niche test of strength let's also use entertainment because don't forget the first world strongest man was done effectively mimicking superstars you know the show where they were like let's get an American footballer and put them against a sprinter and put them against a gymnast and see who's the best athlete that world strongest man was like the wish.com version of that effectively like it was just oh god that worked okay yeah let's do that oh kitty cab videos are popular I'm going to do a kitty cab video but they simplified it down so it's the history it's a philosophical conversation it's also that entertainment piece as well because there probably is it's like grip strength you could do a grip strength event where you're literally like just you know squeeze this as hard as you can and we're going to test the force that's gone into it or we can do the Hercules hold objectively speaking but it's so awesome to see that so it's like there's all of those tensions around it that it isn't actually objective but we set out a framework to be as objective as possible within that framework and then we use arbitrary rules within that framework like you know figure eight straps are allowed in strong man and strong woman if I even had normal lifting straps in a power lifting competition I'd be kicked out so we sort of tack things on there's all these little intricacies in it but you do actually have to sit down and stop and it is funny if we look at the creation of CrossFit in the early 2000s and it was like we're going to test holistic strength and it's going to be testing across multiple modalities but what has CrossFit done it's effectively specialized now they have so many workouts etc but you look at CrossFit you need to set the menu and not everyone's going to be happy about that but you need to set the menu in a way that's going to be tasty it's going to be palatable and these are things that I think we often lose in the sporting side of it I think we do often lose in the strength and exercise side of it as well is that there's this really important cultural component to strength and then there are other elements to that that we could talk about world strongest man and the Arnold they use predominantly western tests of strength and stone lifting has changed and upended that but it tends to be a more western dominant framework we tend not to see non-white tests of strength and sometimes there are differences to that the world strongest man when it was hosted in China they did ding lifting the heavy cauldron strength in China for so many years I would really be interested in seeing more of the Japanese and Indian stone lifting events at the Arnold where they tend to play around with this regional test of strength but even that we're looking at it through a specific lens so you can problematize it really easily but I think you all have to accept the constructive nature of these events and the fact that these events aren't static and that goes across different paradigms how someone squats now is very different to the 1960s a deadlift now is a work like to me a deadlift and a powerlifting competition went to the first Sheffield it's art and science together there's a beauty in the efficiency of how these male and female athletes exert that much force through their body and is one of these athletes stronger and brute strength than Paul Anderson probably not in the case of some of them but the efficiency of it is another element so there's just so much to unpack I think with that but it is that interesting point of you need to sit down and have that philosophical conversation about what do we include what do we exclude and the why is so important in that yeah without the why people this has been really fascinating I think this I hope no one thought we were going to answer very clearly what is strength on a podcast title what is strength it's true yeah exactly we know the answer the whole paper just read the paper yeah but I think we do a good job outlining why it is so difficult to pin down and maybe if one was to pin it down what they would need to do you know respect the differences in different qualities of physiological force production capacity from sports science respect the cultural and historical notions the changing cultural notions of strength over time and then making sure that you're internally consistent with identifying what is strength as a general agentative ability and I'd like to think we did a pretty good job with that and I think it makes for a fascinating read but I just want to say thank you to everyone for being on this discussion and I also want to open it up is there anything you guys feel we haven't covered before we sign off something I'd like to ask Adrian and Walter in particular which I'm fascinated about and I don't have the intellect to figure this out is the importance of numbers and I have a really good example of this Lasha the super heavyweight it now looks like he the Olympic weightlifter it looks like he'll never unfortunately reach his goal of getting 500 kg total so for some in the weightlifting community there's a bit of ennui and disappointment that Lasha hasn't hit this completely arbitrary number but there's something about maybe you could talk about the philosophical element of this there's something really interesting about round numbers for some total Eric you might remember it's like is it 492 maybe yeah something like that it's sort of just shy if I want to but even if you think of like half Thor like Eddie Hall doing the 500 and there's this big whole thing if anyone's a fan of Stack Brothers it's like it's the Catalina wine mixer you know we're just arbitrarily imbuering this certain number with so much importance over you if someone's a 499 kilo deadlifter objectively fucking impressive but if I say there are 500 that's leaps and bounds ahead you know Lashley got 492 at career total best but he didn't hit 500 so are there philosophical terms for why certain numbers get linchpinned or like they're almost like a hinge between human and superhuman which I think we see in a lot of these different we just arbitrarily say like in powerlifting once you join the 1000 club oh well now you know you've a certain level of gravitas I'm Randall I think there's a general thing that once you add another zero things become quite amazing I mean my first 100 citations I just attached some special meaning to that and once that was passed Google Scholar sends me a nice message with some confetti wonderful beautiful thank you so I think there's something very widespread about this across all fields wherever there are numbers involved and I could imagine that around certain abilities there are ability cultures for example if you think of a piano player who's very good at playing Bach maybe there will some be he might not be a better piano player if he has recorded every single piano concert of Bach but it will nonetheless it will not make him better if you recorded all of them or all but two of them but nonetheless it's maybe part of his legacy to be one of the few who recorded all of the concerts and that is maybe part of the specific culture of being a very impressive concert pianist and maybe that's we have something like this in every skillful pursuit maybe philosophers think about certain journals they want to publish in during their career or all scientists want to hit citations or I would imagine historians like to go to certain places or something they write about get permanent deployment job it's the dream I think a lot of it has to do with threshold Connor you know like it's it's easier to have a unified perspective on what is a certain threshold when it is a round number you know like even though no one's hit 493 since lost his 492 that isn't it isn't quite the same you know even the 501 deadlift like yeah it's more than 500 but now we kind of don't care until someone hits 550 or something like that you know and I think this is demonstrated by pound versus kilo lifting you know because there's a visual component as well like 315 225 405 495 585 these are numbers every American lifter knows because they're when you add another 45 pound plate and they're really impressive thresholds but then if you get outside of that it's it's each 100 kilo increment right so I think there's that and then there's the threshold element like oh who's going to run the first four minute mile or sorry four minute mile or you know like the four hour marathon or all the various thresholds that are out there I think those are these things that allow us to coalesce around an understanding of a new level of achievement not previously seen I think it is I think we do care about breaking a record by one kilo but it doesn't have the kind of the same easily translatable across society meaning is my guess can I ask a final annoying question and ask the philosophers to put themselves on the chopping block legend goes that Plato is actually his nickname and is either broad shouldered or big forehead are we landing on he was a nerd with a big head or he was a lifter who was broad shouldered I like the legend that it was his wrestling coach who gave him that name man it's a kind of badge of honor well as we know Plato means plate right so it was referring to the weight plates that had been early invented at that time haven't found them yet with archaeological records but I'm pretty sure it's a thing you mean somebody said at a plate to the bar and that's where Plato comes from right boom that's all it is that's simple and that history all right well we got the sign off from Dr. Connor Heffernan that that is indeed history! You heard it here folks! Plato was named after the plates he used to lift! More plates more dates? Question! Who knows! But no in all seriousness I really appreciate you guys coming on this has been a fascinating discussion and I would encourage anyone who wants to do a deeper dive into this to definitely check out to check out to check out to check out to check out to check out to check out to check out the preprint of our article that's currently in peer review asking the question what is strength? Taking a sports science historical and philosophical angle at it and for everyone who has not been here before and is new to the podcast welcome and for everyone who's been here for a while you know the slight tax we have on you joining us and that is hitting the like button. And if you really want even additional extra credit please leave a rating and review most people seem to leave five stars so if you would like to continue that tradition as we have seen is very important in this episode please do so. And if not that's okay we won't judge you too much but we would love to have you back and maybe our next episode you'd consider giving a five stars because we'll be trying very hard being the dancing monkeys for the algorithm to make you happier. Make you happier on that next Monday where we're going to be live when we do live episodes which are now coming out on the podcast feed on Wednesday. And thank you for tuning in to this episode of Iron Culture presented by Mass.