Hello everybody. It is Monday night, 700 p.m. Eastern time. You know what that means. It's time for a live episode of Iron Culture presented by Mass. I Eric Trexler. I am joined by the Dr. Eric Helms. Helms, how are we doing tonight? I'm doing well this Tuesday uh late morning. Yeah, Monday, Tuesday, approximately Monday. Let's let's let's settle on that. Um, Helms, you are still prepping. Any updates? How are things going? Things are going well. I've seen weigh-ins into the 84s and uh from a conditioning perspective, we're ahead of the game. Um, I am essentially ready to get on stage if I was to wear board shorts, but I don't do that. And uh yeah, from the bodybuilding perspective, we just little shout back to uh last episode, we need to get to that point where I'm no longer attractive and then we're good, you know. So yeah. Is that a problem you notice a lot dayto day? Just too attractive. Kind of getting in in the way of your day-to-day life. People don't take me seriously. They just think I'm AI'm I'm a face and a physique. So it's uh it does help to I guess humanize me by by making myself less attractive. Yeah. Yeah. My wife hates when when we go out in public, uh people just throw themselves at me. And it's not that they can't tell that she and I are together. They just don't care. You know, they just say, "This is the only shot I'm going to get. I'm going for it." And it's, you know, it's super disrespectful. It can really spoil the afternoon. So, I'm that's one of the reasons I'm I'm going to start losing some weight here is again, I just need to much like yourself get way less attractive. Um so, good luck with that. Good luck to both of us. Um, but Helms, I want to tease an article coming up in the the new issue of Mass, which is coming out July 1st. Of course, Mass, the Mass Research Review is what makes Iron Culture possible. Uh, it is the title sponsor. Um, so if you've not checked it out, go over to massresearch.com and really ponder the idea, the concept of of becoming a member of the mass community. But Helms, I know that in the past you have talked about how sometimes at the end of prep when things are getting very dire, um it's not rare for your calories to get below 16, maybe even 1500 calories a day. Is that right? On low days. On low days, average intakes a little bit different. I've actually done all the calculations figuring out where my energy expenditure is over time relative to my activity and body weight and it's wild. Yeah. So, so what do you think would be like for for your lowest weeks? How low does your average energy intake get during prep? Intake? Yeah. Um, yeah, if you were to average it all out, it probably gets down to 1,800 calories at the lowest. Yeah, 1,800. And that's what's your typical stage weight? What was your most recent stage weight in pounds? For God's sakes, don't don't give me do not give me a two-digit number. I will lose my 175 pounds. Okay. 175. Okay. So, the reason I ask is because I also have been known to go pretty low with my calories. Part of that's because I have a little um I I've mentioned my history of Tourette's syndrome, which overlaps with obsessivecompulsive disorder um in terms of presentation and uh sometime some little things really kind of uh tap into some of those more obsessivecompulsive tendencies for me. I'm known to overd so so I push a little further than I probably ought to uh in bodybuilding, but um but you know what are you going to do? It's better to overd uh in terms of competitive outcomes. Um but anyway, I've been known to the last prep I did was a completely different approach uh compared to the norm I would say in the evidence-based world. I basically decided I didn't want to track anything. So, I started eating a pretty normal uh not normal, but a consistent kind of pattern of meals every day. And when things started to slow down, I would make a swap or I would take something out. Usually, just make a swap. And so, by the end of it though, I I'm I I knew that I was eating probably in the ballpark of about 1500 calories a day um when I was really pushing. And that's for a stage weight uh in the low to mid 140s in in American units and freedom units. So the reason I bring this up is, you know, I've been writing about and studying and talking about metabolic adaptation for well over a decade now. The the first time I really got into it was about 2013. So it's been a long time. And now in the the work I'm doing at Duke uh in the Poner lab, obviously we we talk a lot about exercise energy compensation. It's kind of the high physical activity kind of the other side of the coin, you know, metabolic adaptation. We're talking about energy restriction, exercise, energy compensation. We're talking about ramping up a bunch of physical activity. And one of the things that's really interesting to me is if you were to look in the literature and say,"Well, basically the most common question I've gotten over these last 12 or 13 years, you know, constantly talking about these topics and studying them. People want to know how bad can this actually get?" because you have so many anecdotes of people who come and say, "Listen, what's happening to me is either anomalous or I'm just at a complete standstill and I I've lost faith that any manipulation of calorie calories is going to actually get me back on track. It seems like every time I zigg, my body zags and completely wipes out what I'm trying to do." And so, um, so I was thinking a little bit about if we were to consult the literature and we're going to look at how bad can this get, what is like the the most extreme documented instance of metabolic adaptation or exercise energy compensation in two of the three studies that come to mind, they actually overlap. uh which is really interesting and and and it's actually like super applicable to the real world because most of the time when people say like I've got metabolic adaptation and I got it bad I got the worst of the worst these are people who are doing more than the average amount of physical activity so you can't just ignore the physical activity component right so when when we look at um you know two really extreme examples the biggest loser study where where there was massive metabolic slowing as people lost you know over a 100 pounds pounds in some cases, you know, really aggressively, really rapidly. People were doing a tremendous amount of physical activity in the context of aggressive energy restriction and weight loss. Another example that comes up is um the Minnesota starvation experiment. It it's kind of the class, it's really what set the whole um area of research in motion. You know, there there was this study um done in the it was done in the mid to late 1940s or done in the mid 1940s, published in 1950 as a two volume book that's like 600 pages in total. So, so no data went uh unrecognized, that's for sure. Um but it was, you know, people who were they did have a quota of physical activity they had to do. Um it was uh they had to do uh 22 miles a week of walking. um which is not super extreme um but I'm sure they would have preferred to ditch it if if they had the option especially when you consider the Minnesota starvation experiment is not a misnomer. Uh these folks got super lean. So like the the group average body fat by the end of it was 5% body fat. Um now it was 19 1940s so you could quibble about you know how good was the body fat measurement. The pictures tell the whole story. helms. You can go look at pictures of these individuals. They were as lean as a human being would ever want to be and frankly leaner than than any human being who's not a competitive bodybuilder should ever want to be. Um, but I I kind of in my one of my upcoming mass articles, I just kind of took a look at in these studies where we see either extreme metabolic adaptation or fairly extreme exercise energy compensation. In one of the studies, people actually ran a marathon on average every day for 140 days as they literally ran across the United States from the West Coast to the race across America. That thing's crazy, man. It's it truly is insane. So, I wanted to pick out these um these studies because I was like, okay, I want to settle once and for all the people who are like, no, but what I'm doing is really extreme. And it's like, are you running a marathon every day? And have you been doing that for for 10 weeks? No. Okay, then I've got something more extreme. Um, have you lost like 130 lbs like they did in The Biggest Loser? No. Okay, then I've got something more extreme. Are you literally on the brink of starvation to the point where like you have like severely like we could not ethically make a human go there ever again? Uh, probably not. Yeah. Um, have you had a World War II era uh study ethics application, which is you have to do this to not get drafted. You're a conscience objector and then once you're in the study, you're not allowed to get out of it. Yes. And you actually have a buddy system and MPs who will enforce it. Yes. I mean it was this was a tremendously unethical thing pushing and it's like I know you're not pushing yourself there because no normal human pushes themselves there and the people who are pushed to go there like literally and not to you know make a hard turn and make it serious people harmed themselves to try to get out of elements of this study like it was that bad and they got severely severely lean. So, all that is to say, this article basically says, let's put all our cards on the table and look at the most extreme instances and see what we find. And I'm not going to give away all the details and all the values. Uh, needless to say, there was extreme adaptation. Humans clearly can do that and we're pretty darn good at it. I suspect one of the reasons we have so much capacity for that adaptation is because humans actually are outliers. If you look at other primates, like even if you adjust for for body size, if you compare us to chimpanzees, bonobos, a bunch of different primates, we burn an unusually high amount of calories. Uh and and that has to do with our brain being super advanced and developed and highly active. Also has a lot to do with our reproductive kind of schedules. We we are uh relatively high in terms of reproductive output so to speak. So, um, basically we have all these, um, body systems kind of ramped up to like they're just running on high energy all the time. So, it makes sense that we would have to have some kind of buffer to kind of bring us down to a a workable level. Um, so all that is to say, uh, we we clearly adapt. We clearly have these levers we can pull. However, Helms, they're not unlimited, right? it. We can't just say, "Well, your body will figure it out and get you to neutral energy balance no matter what." We know that that's not the case. We know there has to be a limit to some of these things because if you stop eating Helms, you will starve to death. And even if you have a perfectly titrated drip of, you know, just these little essential amino acids and little essential fatty acids and the micronutrients and electrolytes, eventually you're going to starve to death. You will waste away. Uh, now one of the things I found super intriguing about this Helms was that I I'm not going to let you guess because you already know, but to to the people listening, I want you to think. I' I've peer reviewed the articles. Minnesota starvation experiment. These individuals got down to a body weight of of 52.6 kg. Helms, roughly, what is that in pounds? Do you have any idea? Uh, yeah, it's about 120. About 120. So, these are are slight individuals. Um, aside from their, you know, three-ish mile, sorry, 125. Aside from their 3-ish mile walk a day, I promise you they became like slugs. Like, they did not move. Um, and if you were to guess as a listener right now, what was their total daily energy expenditure at the very end of this when it was at its absolute worst? The answer as you're picking that number in your head is 1642 calories. Is that low for an adult man? Yes. Is it obscenely low for a person who weighs maybe 120ish pounds? Not not necessarily. Uh it's low, but it's it's nothing that would make you spit out your coffee. And if you look at Helms, you you wrote a great article um the energy or I think it's the energy expenditure, what you call it. Expose expose. Yeah. The aliteration going on. Got the aliteration. That's right. Um but but when you look at doubly labeled water studies for people who are not in starvation experiments, that data point plots right along with what we'd expect to see. So even in the most extreme case, the Minnesota starvation experiment, if you were to just have these people eat, you know, a a low but not unheard of calorie target. So Helms, you know, in the bodybuilding world, I wrote this in the article. I haven't seen your comments yet. I don't know if you um took issue with it, but I've heard a lot of bodybuilding coaches say, "I get I start to get uncomfortable if I'm telling a client to eat less than maybe nine or 10 calories per pound of body weight." Uh you usually that's where people start to say, "I'm I'm a little worried about how low we're going here." Even if the folks in the Minnesota Starvation Experiment wanted to lose more weight, which holy crap, why in the world? I mean, they were frail. They looked awful. They had no body fat. even if they wanted to, if they were to hop on that calorie target, they would still actually be in a a sizable caloric deficit and they would be losing weight. So, all that is to say, uh my new article, I kind of take a look at how we contextualize the most extreme instances of this and what it really means for uh the real world when we have these folks who say like, I have this intractable metabolic adaptation problem. We can cross reference that with some of this really extreme literature and say we actually probably don't have an intractable problem here related to energy expenditure and we need to kind of branch out and figure out what might be going on. Are we overestimating our exercise? Are we underestimating our caloric intake? Uh something in this equation is off and and I'm not disputing that in this hypothetical scenario. But so far, Helms, we have not uncovered a scenario, a a a robustly analyzed data point uh out in the literature where we are seeing any kind of adaptation that would make that kind of tough bodybuilding diet um at least at the group level um you know, no longer a viable option for moving forward. I I really like the way you you frame that and I love I love the choices because you're like, "Hey, the extremes of energy expenditure, the extremes of uh weight loss and energy deficit, and then the extremes of body fat, and then you kind of said, okay, what if we had some of these things intersect? Where are we at?" Um, now one question I have for you and it's not in peer review and I'm kind of thinking of it now because I I remember I I used to get questions about this talking a decade ago or longer and I used to take some of the data on metabolic adaptation and then look at the standard deviations and give you hey here's what three standard deviations as far as the change looks like and that's what you could on an individual basis maybe worst case scenario expect. um you largely were looking at these three studies on groups of individuals and you were kind of doing some summary statistics in your mind as far as representing it. Do you think there's scope to talk about like the worst individuals in these data sets to kind of think about how some people could have it even worse than others? Yeah. Even outside of these extreme conditions. Yeah, I I can definitely um I I can definitely dig in. So, one of the things I'll have to think about is for some of these numerical scaling heruristics, you know, those are based on the group averages. I don't know if I'll be able to actually extract individual data points that would allow for those same kind of calculations. Um, but I will I will have to dig into that. And that's one of the reasons I I kind of wanted to tease this early is because while peer review is in in progress, there are still uh additional wrinkles that can be layered into that article. So, um, I can absolutely tell you that what's what's coming is going to be a beast of an article for sure. It is going to, if nothing else, if you're just curious about like what is this maximal capacity for this cool thing our body can do, um, you know, this is a really cool look at some of the most extreme studies in the area. And I will do some digging and see if I can uh deliver even more inferences and takeaways based on not just the kind of group level averages but looking at the individual data points to the extent that I can extract them or you know just looking at you know the problem is you know statistics um and and data reporting in 1950 was not not so great. So, you know, I I could assume that it's normally distributed. Um, yeah, there's there's all that kind of question about like what what do I believe this data distribution would have looked like? How certain am I that there aren't going to be, you know, everybody clustered at kind of like a basement effect with a couple positive skew high outlines, not even normally distributed. Yeah. So, I'll have to give that some very serious thought when I'm not live on uh YouTube. Um, but it's definitely a good question and something I will dig into and see if the data allow any of those inferences. Um, I ask because I I was thinking about my own energy expenditure my last prep when I was at my leanest and I'm like, man, I think I'm actually lower than the Minnesota semi- starvation guys. Like I was clocking uh 10 to 12,000 steps per day and right around the the body weight I told you. and to get to that conditioning. So like I was in a deficit but when we calculated my my maintenance and I'm pretty confident in this value I was like 2100 you know that's low you know. Yeah. And now now the thing is though if that in 2019 I did this and when I do this even in 2023 the maintenance value changes as soon as I start putting myself into a small surplus. Yeah. you know, the the illusion of reverse dieting, if you will, because I was running around on 10,000 steps, closer to 25 to 2600 calories at a similar body weight. Um, and and and training daily, by the way. Um, yeah. So, that was So, you were at 2100 calorie maintenance at at what body weight? You said it was like one 175ish. 175ish. Um, yeah. Yeah, that that makes sense. I mean, cuz if you think back to like my my takeaway from the article, like I didn't just say like, you know, the mean that we see here is the most extreme case that's ever been documented because clearly it's not, right? There are going to be people below that mean within the data set. But my general takeaway, which was a little bit, it was certainly informed by data, but the specific number was kind of a here's a heruristic that seems Yeah. seems to hold up which is that like from the data we looked at and even the anecdote you just mentioned there I'm kind of the opinion that like the way I describe it in the article was like if you wanted to literally offload all of your thinking about dieting and just say I could just start my whole diet at 1750 right yeah so what I said is like as far as we can tell from the literature um even including you know variance around the mean and even if we assume you making all the basic assumptions you you would prudently make. It seems difficult to to reject the idea that you could basically choose your your ideal body weight. So I want to cut down to 150 lbs. So 150 is my body weight. Multiply that by 10. That's your calorie target,500. Walk three miles a day. It should take you about an hour. You can jog it if you don't have time. You want to go quicker. as far as we can tell from like literally 100% of human data available, that should get you there. And and I really can't find any evidence to suggest anything to the contrary. Um, and I know that that's not an optimal way of dieting at all. Um, however, I do think that that kind of statement and heruristic can be a very important perspective shifter because it's like it it completely inverts the narrative when some because I've I write this article based on the experience I've had, which is people saying, I don't believe there is any solution for what I'm trying to do. I am fully stuck and I believe the further I push, the more my body will fight me. Um, and I do think that's been a a really big mistake from people. I'm sure that I've committed this crime myself. People talking about this topic and using some of the terminology of like your body is resisting weight loss or fighting back against weight loss. I'm certain I've used that terminology before and it's I know why I would have. I know why others do is because it it it kind of makes the storytelling a little more compelling and makes it feel more approachable instead of getting bogged down in jargon. That's a very intuitive way to describe what's happening. Um, but lately I've been getting away from that language and using terms like friction. There's more friction between you and where you're trying to get. Um, but all that is to say, like if we say like, well, hey, if if we're really just like totally at our wit's end, we're sick of all the incremental stuff. It doesn't seem to be working. If we really just wanted to take the nuclear option, 10 times your ideal body weight, that's your calorie target. Walk three miles a day. Call me when you get there. It'll happen. Yeah. And I I think that even though I would never recommend that as like your first approach to dieting, I think the fact that it seems to actually hold up in even the most extreme scenarios, uh, based on the literature I've seen, that alone is a very reassuring thing. And then we say, okay, well, so that would work and we have all the evidence in the world to believe it would, but I don't want to do that. So how so how do we meet in the middle? Right? So, it's like, well, we could do that if we absolutely needed to, and it's nice to have that in our back pocket, but what are more sustainable things we can do to make it a more gradual journey to that that eventual weight? And so, that's ultimately what my view of of like what a nutrition coach is doing when they're helping someone with weight loss. Of course, there's the educational components, there's the behavioral components, there's the habit forming components, all that kind of stuff. But essentially, it's it's not like I am the one person in the world with the tricks to get you to this body weight. We know what it would take to get there mathematically. The the role of a nutrition coach is well, how do I help you get there in a way that is maximally sustainable, least intrusive in terms of the way you like to live your life? How do we get there in a way that doesn't suck to the maximum extent possible? Right? So anyway, I will uh deliver on on some of those promises, looking into more of the variance in the data and seeing what we can piece together from some of those distributions or standard deviations. But at the very least, um I'm really excited for how people are going to receive this article because I think uh like you said, Helms, it's it's it's structured in such a way that whatever you're throwing at your body, it is not as extreme as what we're seeing here. And we can really use this data to guide um to guide practice uh in even the most extreme cases of what a person would ever be advised to do. All right, Helms, that is I I want to give away the whole article and and clearly it's still being written, but uh but hopefully people will keep an eye out for that. It'll be released on July 1st. All right, Helms, we need to get out of this nonsense bodybuilding talk and nonsense fat loss talk. Absolutely. We need to get into the world of people being strong. Uh IPF Worlds happened. It is officially over. Did you can confirm? It is now over. Yes. The the numerous day festival of IPF Worlds is done. And Helms, you owe the world a recap. Yes. So, where we left off, I had covered the two lightest weight classes on both the men's and the women's side because that's where we're at. But now, uh, we're into the, uh, the period after the whole shebang's done. So, we'll pick up. I'll start on the men's side. Um, leaving the best for last cuz there were some awesome battles on the women's side. And we had concluded with the uh, the 59 and the 66 kilo class. We talked about the unfortunate injury of uh, Camand um, Senyong who his dropping down to the 59 resulted in not being able to to to take that title as he was expected. Uh Chel Beckland confirming a world title across multiple weight classes now winning the 66s with a huge total. And not to be outdone, um, the 74 kilo class was a one-man's race ran by Austin Perkins, who purposely uh only took five out of nine lifts um, and chose to break and chose not to totally blow up the world record because he's competing at Sheffield and just demonstrate how dominant he is. and he totaled 842.5 at 74 kilos um on a 5 for9 purposeful day. Uh and by the way, the second highest nomination behind him, the final total was 773. So truly an outlier among outliers, Austin Perkins was completely dominant in this class and it was pretty awesome to see. Um and then we get into the peak of the bell curve. Go ahead. When you say five of nine, does that just mean the other four attempts he's just like I'm not going to bother or actual failed attempts? Correct. Okay. No, no. I I think he did not take his uh I think I think he act he chose not to take I think two lifts. Yeah. And then I think he might have missed another two, but he came in and was like, I'm not going all out, but he loaded Yeah, he loaded 323.5 for squats and then didn't come out for it. So, I think it's counted as a scratch. Um, and he did not take his final deadlift and maybe not even his second to last deadlift. I can't quite remember. Yeah. So, I think he only took five attempts. What a nasty thing. It's one thing to have the the spotters load up the bar and and not come out and do it, but with such a heavy weight. It's all the extra work on the spotters. You know, it's one thing if you say, "Well, we're going to put a little little weight on there, but that that's just cruel." So, it's not it's cruel for the for the spotters. It's actually a gentlemanly thing to do for the rest of the lifters and Oh. to give them a little more time between their Yeah, correct. Okay. Yes. And that actually mattered in this competition more so as we get into some of the Euro Euro Sport live cast um uh divisions where they make the flight as small as the rules allow, make the breaks between lifts as as small as they allow. And also apparently it was a really hot summer day in Germany where they were doing this and the heat had some pretty major effects on the performers uh later um especially the supers and and the heavyweights. So we'll talk about that in a second. Um this is where you have to learn to play to the conditions. So after the 74s now we're getting into the peak of the bell curve where the most competitors are. Um the 83s and the 93 kilo classes are incredible but um there was a really cool battle in the 83s. So the 83s is a really cool story line uh going all the way back to PAT's powerlifting American nationals where Joseph Borenstein totaled 900 to win and uh Taylor Atwood who went up to the 83s from being the the prior era's Austin Perkins dominating the 74s is having this comeback and he probably could have hit like an 890 but he tried to pull to get 900 to be you know the national champion and represent the US at worlds couldn't quite do it but he is going to at North American powerlifting championships. He's going to try to break the world record which is now set at 8.90 cuz Joseph Borstein who won PATS in the 83s historic 900 kilo total at 83 by the way still technically as a junior competing in the open he went and he won uh and he went against the other best 83s in the world not only at PATS he was facing off against prior world champions and of course like I said Taylor Atwood a prior world champion from another division but he was up against Jiren Kangamu the defending world champ who actually beat Russell Orhe um who is now going up to the 93. So there's a lot of weight weight class changes going around but Journs Kamu and Admasakin are the two Great Britain lifters who are among the best um 83s on the planet and this was an awesome battle. Uh Joseph Borenstein finished on 890 and uh Jiren Kenamu, he is like a subtotal specialist and he unfortunately didn't have the best day on bench or squat. So he wasn't at the point where he, you know, he thought that he'd be able to to contend with Joseph Borenstein. However, Amosakin, he is a huge deadlifter and his last pull of 385 got all the way to the top and then just popped out of his hands. And if he had done that, he actually would have beat Joseph Borenstein. Um, and I'm really excited for the future of this class because both Joseph and A are quite young. Uh, Jiren's is in his 30s and that's not to say he can't keep improving by any means. Um, but, you know, he's he's obviously going to be a contender. He has won a world championship, but I think we're going to see potentially pushing into the low 900s as A and Joseph keep getting stronger at 83, which is just mindboggling. So, uh, that was an awesome battle. Uh, you know, new new star fully emerges and is stamped officially as a world champ, Joseph Borenstein. And then in the 93s, this is where the most competitive class is. Um, there was a three-way battle between now three men who have each won a world title. So, Gustaf Hedland, former world champion in the 93s. Jonathan Ko, former world champion in the 93s. And uh Emil Crashev, the new world champion, he recently had a battle with Gustaf Hedland at Sheffield. Came out on top by 2 and a half kilos. And if you look at the nominations in this class, I think only 3 kilos separated these three gentlemen. And um it it's a really interesting uh comparison between lifters because uh Jonathan Ko from the US he is a bench specialist and by I mean that in the most in extreme terms. Um you know he he can bench over 250 kilos which is nuts. Um and then you have not not quite as much of a a deadlifter although a very good deadlifter and looking at different specialties between the other two. Emil Crrast also a great deadlifter. Gustaf very good. Uh and this came down to the wire and Emil Crashev was able to win with a 910 total. Um but this was a really heavily contested battle. Um you don't know who's going to win. It could have on any other conditions day gone another way. And uh shout out to also Christian Aonokkun who just missed his last deadlift and he would have actually pulled onto the podium and he is an upcoming 93 out of Great Britain who is now starting to crack into being kind of in the five through seventh spot to probably like the first through fourth. So just a really exciting class there. It always is. And then we went into the 105s and we had a really star-studded cast of prior world champions and upcoming talent uh like Keenan Lee and Anthony McNottton who were the two 105s who got sent from the US and they ended up in gold and silver. Um and uh Anthony McNotton is just a phenom. He totaled 975.5. That is a world record. He out totaled the 120s who uh that finished on 962.5 is the winning total. and he did not go all out. Um, Anthony McNotton is is is a is just incredible. And Keenan Lee probably could have pushed him a bit more. He finished on 950 if he'd been fully healthy, fully prepared, but he uh came in as a nomination cuz someone else dropped out, so didn't have quite as much time to prepare. And we also saw Emil Norling place in third on the podium. He is a former world champion, but there were a lot of people in this class who could have potentially pushed into those spots. uh Rean Sturgakis from from Netherlands and sorry from Denmark and and others as well. Um the 120s were probably the most impressive battle though. Um there was quite literally five attempts to pull into first place. Um and it started with uh Big Mo from uh from from the UK who's moved up from the 105 to the 120. So, Sulleman Abdul Majid, he has a really big deadlift. He's been steadily improving going up. He pulled to be temporarily into uh the first place position and he actually got one uh white light, two reds. Apparently, he wasn't fully locked out. It looked it looked pretty good on the live stream. So, he was temporarily what we thought would be in first place, but it didn't count. Uh Joseph McDonald from Trinidad almost got his final deadlift to move from fourth to first. Devin Williams from the US also pulled to be tempor temporarily in first. And then the only successful final poll was by Etien Alcheair from Lebanon. He actually pulled into first. Uh and then the one who was predicted to win, Nanso Chinier from Great Britain, the biggest deadlifter. This guy has pulled over 400 kilos. This is where that heat that I was talking about started to become a problem. These are big boys, 120 kilos. It was incredibly hot. And he actually, it sounds like he dislocated his shoulder and it looked pretty bad as he was pulling and it resulted in some major cramping that was probably also part of the dehydration. His hand locked up. He couldn't let go of the bar even though he wanted to, but he couldn't complete the lift and it came down and he had to pry his own hand off the bar and he was literally there with the spotters and the spotters were were trying to help him open his hand and they actually ended up calling uh you know an ambulance. they thought he was, you know, having a pretty serious issue and I think the pain in his shoulder and the cramping he he he thought he he expressed like, "Dude, I thought I was dying." Um, so the some of these bigger uh gentlemen were being impacted by the heat and the kind of loads they're moving, the energy expenditure, and that really became an unfortunate issue for the 120 pluses. So TX the as the sport grows um it's been getting more and more eyeballs on it and that's a a good thing for the sport and sometimes not a great thing for the lifter. So in the 120 plus category which was live streamed on Eurosport which is like CBS Sports of of Europe if you will or ESPN even um they needed to make it more palatable and fit into the like television streaming style time spot. So they only had a a flight of seven and these are 120 pluses, okay? So it's moving fast and they also reduced it to the minimum time between the squat, bench, and deadlift. So what this means is that the 120 pluses are just sometimes needing to skip attempts to recover, especially in the heat. Uh their totals are going to be suppressed. And Jesus Olivar is the strongest man on the planet right now. uh the guy with the highest raw total even though he's tested even compared to the untested he had he didn't get to have the best performance that we were all hoping to see out of him uh likely because of that reason. So he totaled 1070 which is incredible on a bad day but he is capable and has done over 1100. Um and uh he only registered only a 430 kilo squat when he is a,000 lb plus squatter which is you know in the in the 460ish range off the top of my head. So that was a little unfortunate not being able to uh see him at his peak but he still did come away with another world title. So, we had Etienne and Jesus Olivaris rounding out the uh the men's side. On the women's side, um also some really, really, really impressive battles in the 57 kilo class. Sarah Naldi, who is now coming into that class, she cut down from the 63s. She won with a 520 world record, and she had an epic battle with Jad Jacob from France, former world champion, and Joey Nmani from Great Britain, former world champion across multiple weight classes. and they both attempted to pull to try to knock Sarinaldi out and it was a very very close thing just got slightly out of position. So this is a very very competitive class in the 57s but this is I think uh a new world champion and Sarah Naldi now from out of Italy. Uh and then we saw in the 63 kilo class a really really also impressive battle between Megan Scanland, the reigning world champ from the US. Uh Kiara Bernardi from Italy who um is a very very impressive competitor and then finally Alba Boston who won the title with a 565 world record. She is I believe still a junior as well and I've just been kind of waiting to see her really come into her own in this class and kind of make that next leap in performance. and it did happen. She had a fantastic 9 for9 day and at this level of competitiveness, it's just really hard to touch that. Um, so yeah, she is uh a new world champ coming out of Sweden. So there was a Sweden, Italy, USA battle uh between three top contenders. Uh and then finally, this is nuts, TX uh the 69 kilo class. I got a sit literally just the best powerlter period. Not going to say in her weight class, not going to say in her her uh sex category, period. She wanted to try to be the first woman ever to total uh 10 times body weight. And she has been totaling 620 to 630 in some of her training. Now, she's competing in a 69 kilo weight class tracks, but she did a water cut to have an official weigh-in at 63.47 just to prove a point. and the water cut impacted her a little more than she thought or hoped it would, but she still totaled 612. Uh, and she had to she got two squat attempts, two bench attempts, and two deadlifts. So, she was impacted, but she did come back after missing a 247 deadlift to deadlift 255 and total 612. And that is the highest IPF coefficient points ever recorded of 133.37. Um, and it's nuts because probably the one of the second best lifters ever is right behind her, but really not that right behind her in Corolla from Italy who total 588.5, which is insane. But it's just nuts to think that someone at almost 6 kilos lighter body weight uh actually Carlagaro weight in light, but for the weight class coming in almost into the 63s was able to total over 600. So, it was just a runaway show with a goddess situ doing that and then former world champion Chandler Bab actually placed on the podium uh getting a 570 total in third uh which was more than the former world record by the way or very close to it. Uh and she did that in the croup on her own because she didn't have a nominated total to put her in prime time. So, just a really impressive class. Uh and then we had returning world champion win again in Carlina Tongotea from New Zealand here. So shout out to the home team. She totaled 612 and a half winning the 76 kilo class. Uh and uh fighting off uh Cranon Warford a new contender from the US in the 76 kilo class who's not quite there but probably will be giving Carlen in more trouble in the future. Um and also Laura Malon from France who totaled 590. So there's only a 5 kilo spread between second and third. So, this class is probably going to get more competitive in future years. And then we had the reigning champ who is still untouchable, Amanda Lawrence, now winning her sixth world title um in the 84 kilo class totaling 627 and a half. Uh she did not have the the the the perfect day she wanted, but she did take a crack at the world record deadlift at 270 in 84s. Didn't quite have the juice for that, so that suppressed her total, but she is capable of the 640 to 650 range. Uh, and then finally we had um Britney Schlater ended up winning her third world title and beating former world champion and former strongest woman in the world Sonita Mullah who is um I think the only woman to have squatted raw drug tested over 700 lb. She actually went for a new world record of 323. She squatted 315 just under 700 lb. She had a bit of a rough day. She only made one deadlift, two squats, and two benches. And that left the door open for Britney Schlater who was incredibly consistent and 8 for9 set a new world record of 737 a half. Um squatting 285, benching 162 and finishing deadlifts with uh 160. So uh sorry 295. I I suppressed her squat a little bit there. So this is an incredibly consistent lifter from Canada. So big shout out to Britney Schlater. And then rounding off the podium was Natalie Lai, who is the best female deadlifter in the uh the IPF right now. Uh she finished with a 285.5 world record and she attempted to go up higher than that. Didn't quite get it, but she has deadlifted in Australia locally, I believe, over 300 kilos. So, um the super heavies on the women's side are also getting incredibly incredibly impressive and we're seeing totals in the 700s. So yeah, it's going to be some some really impressive coming years and it's it's crazy to see the trajectory is still on the upward swing tracks. Yeah, someday it it's supposed to slow down uh theoretically, but um theoretically that that time is not uh in the immediate time horizon here. Uh people keep getting stronger and stronger at alarming rates, and I think we need to shut this down until we figure out what's going on. You know what I mean? Um well, I appreciate the updates. Uh, the iron culture appreciates the update. I did time you and I am going to earmark that exact amount of time for the college football preview episode uh which will be coming up in August. Uh, so everyone can look forward to that. Of course, it's way more fun to do the college football preview before the year versus talking about it as it goes cuz it's it's like Christmas morning. All the packages, you know, they're all wrapped up. It's more fun to speculate about what could possibly be in there. you know, it's great to unwrap them, but the speculation is really what makes the sport. So, we'll we'll make sure we take care of that um a little bit closer to the season. You you know, you want to make sure people get through camp, get all the intel you can get. All right, Helms. Uh we owe people things. We as we were wrapping up our last episode, we mentioned a couple questions from the uh from the live chat, the heroes in the YouTube live chat. uh top tier Iron Culture listeners who who make it out live every single week. Uh we had a couple questions that we promised to answer and there's actually another one or two that are worth addressing uh in tonight's chat. So let's let's try to do these concisely if we may. Um the first one I'm going to go a little bit out of order. The first one I think is really in my opinion a pretty straightforward answer. So, let's say hypothetically I'm interested in both bodybuilding and powerlifting. Or even if you're not competitive, I want to be big and I want to be strong. Uh, is it a viable option to basically plan out my bench, squat, and deadlift training using a a pretty wellestablished powerlifting program and then just add on my hypertrophy work on top of that. um and potentially use some timeefficient strategies like supersets to kind of make it a little bit more palatable in terms of fitting my daily schedule. My personal opinion is that is completely viable. Um, I think my general preference just in terms of being efficient with my time and effort is I don't necessarily do a full powerlifting program when I'm trying to straddle this balance for squat, bench, and deadlift, but I begin my workout with at least a few heavy sets. you know, the days that I'm benching, you know, maybe I do at least a couple heavy triples or some people will even go in and just do a few heavy singles and then essentially just do a bodybuilding program on top of that. So, the way that you titrate how much of one or the other you do is really up to you and up to kind of where you are in that spectrum of like when I woke up on a Tuesday, I was more interested in being a b a bodybuilder or a powerlifter. But I think you can really do anything within that spectrum, which is basically I do a few heavy singles and then a bodybuilding program or I do a powerlifting program and then throw some super sets on and and other timeefficient strategies to kind of hit some of those muscles that don't really get the love they need on your typical powerlifting program. What do you think, Helms? I have literally nothing else nothing to add. And that's quite exactly before I fully committed. I say that and then I add uh and that's quite literally the the uh the approach I took before I fully committed to uh bodybuilding for the exact reason of why people are getting so strong. It makes me feel like this is just not for me and I seem to be much better at bodybuilding. But yeah, I would periodize it exactly like that. So I am focused on bodybuilding. I'm doing a bodybuilding program after some singles. I am focused on powerlifting. I'm doing a powerlifting program with additional uh isolation work though and and some you know compound work for my back especially like for the stuff that's not getting touched and and that then it was just a matter of to what degree, when, how and what does the exact protocol look like. And there's of course sometimes where that comes out completely. peak week for a bodybuilding show, last month of contest prep, um you know, peak week for or the last cycle for for a powerlifting meet. And in the very last week, I'm probably only doing on Monday, maybe and Tuesday, a little bit of bodybuilding work, and then I'm like, I don't want any muscle damage as I'm trying to actually be on the platform. Yeah. All right. Good stuff. A rare moment of agreement. Um all right this is uh you know talking about you know this kind of mixture of isolations compounds you know how do we make this whole puzzle uh fit together here. So someone asked a a different question but within the same general ballpark. So uh this individual obviously their program has a combination of compound exercises isolation exercises. Conventional wisdom historically has been you do your compounds first you do your isolations later. Now, this person is focused on hypertrophy. They are not a strength athlete. Um, and strength is not, you know, high up on their priority list. So, they basically said, I just like doing my isolations first and then doing my compounds. Uh, and I can relate to that, you know, for for reasons I can get into if if anyone has an interest. But, uh, the question is, am I leaving gains on the table in terms of hypertrophy by doing isolations first and then compounds later? Helms, why don't you take a crack at this one first? for sure. Yeah. So there is actually a fair bit of research that is on exercise order um on hypertrophy and the majority of that research seems to indicate that it's not a big deal to do your isolations first um and that that won't be you know a barrier. It's certainly I can create scenarios where I think it could be less than optimal. Um but ultimately I think it is actually a useful tool and it is um it's specific to the context of what the exercises are. Right? So um minor player in the grand scheme of things sometimes useful if you actually are trying to reduce the load you use on the compound. Um, and if you're reducing the load because of the actual fatigue in the target muscle, that's kind of the goal, right? We're trying to get to the point where we have produced a sufficient stimulus in the vast majority of the muscles, sorry, the fibers that are part of that muscle that are contributing to that. So, if if you were to say, let's say, uh, do some squats or some lean back uh, leg extensions, uh, lengthen partial, so you're like still getting attention at the long muscle length. If you're not expending all of this energy and creating fatigue with say a suboptimal approach and then you were to jump on, let's say, a hack squat and you're like, "Oh man, I'm only getting 80% of my normal loads. Is this terrible for hypertrophy?" Probably not. Because it's kind of the same mentality as going, "Oh, is my third set not counting because I can only do 80% of the reps that I did due to my first and second." So, um the the thing to consider, however, is when you go to that compound, does it change your motor patterns? Uh and if something that would have typically not been the limiting factor now becomes it, um how does that impact the other muscle groups that are ch that are trained in that that motor pattern? Um, I don't know for sure if say quote unquote pre-exhausting your quads and then doing something that would train the glutes and the quads would necessarily have any problem. I I don't think it would create any problem for your quads, but what would it do for your glutes? That that is my question. What would it do for the stimulus that your your lumbar and your glutes get? And the data is not clear on that yet. So, I think it is interesting. Yeah, it's an interesting question because you're thinking, well, if I pre, you know, if my quads were kind of, you know, exhausted to some extent going into it, maybe I'm shifting more emphasis to those other elements, but then it's like, but if my quads become, you know, a limiting factor that are now very limited, am I not able to tap into some of that volume that would have actually, you know, stimulated those other muscle groups? So it's an interesting uh you know if if you go purely based on kind of rationalizing your way through it you could end up in both destinations uh quite quite easily. I think you have to think about the biomechanical limitations of the movement. Like to what degree can a squat become quad or gluten hip dominant? Yeah. Like there's no way you're going to stand up without actually extending your knee. Right. Or extending your hip. So, um, there does become a point on some of these movements where I could see a pre-exhaust creating a bottleneck for the other movement. Even if, let's say on rep one, you're getting a whole lot more glute and and and and lumbar activity. But, you know, the adductor, the glutes, and they just can't do enough. And then the quad, I I really need you to extend, you know, kind of deal. So, yeah. Yeah. I think it's important as you're going through your workout, um, if you do implement this kind of strategy. I mean observe you know take note of of what you're feeling how you're performing and and uh you know kind of uh adjust your course accordingly. One thing I do like about this approach is um I enjoy just from a totally subjective experiential perspective I enjoy structuring a workout where you because you know usually when I'm like in the bulk of my training hitting it really consistently I'm usually going to the gym very very early and I'm like I'm so tired and it's kind of nice to ease into the workout being like do I really feel like pulling a heavy triple right now? Maybe not. But like, could I swing some bicep curls to get the blood moving, you know? Yes. Yeah. So, I like the I like how it feels to kind of gradually work your way toward this kind of this like crescendo that's building in your workout and then the climax being the compounds at the end. Um, for me just subjectively, it's kind of a more enjoyable way to have the workout flow regardless of any other consideration of what is optimal, you know, all the other uh elements that you you brought up. So, uh, I just want to um, acknowledge that I I can definitely see the appeal here. I know some people are going to look at that and it's so it bucks the trend so substantially people are going to be it's going to give them a bad taste in their mouth to even think of doing your isolations before your compounds. But uh but I I I definitely see the appeal in some cases. Um but all right, Helms, I think we got Yeah, go ahead. I I got one more thing to add because I actually I was remembering as I was talking about this. Wait a minute. There's a new preprint on this and I am probably going to cover it in mass maybe even in like next issue or something like that by Herman and colleagues. Um and it is titled Frontloading Fatigue. Does the pre-exhaustion method influence resistance training induce muscular adaptations? And they specifically compared um two groups of 24 uh young resistance trained individuals mostly male but including uh females and they had two different protocols. They had the traditional one uh where they completed all sets of one exercise performing a different exercise with two minutes of rest and then the pre-exhaust group performed a single set of a single joint exercise immediately prior with less than 10 seconds rest to a set of the corresponding multi- joint exercise for that muscle group and then they rested. So they actually found that doing that was slightly poorer for hypertrophy. But I think it's really important to note that this study is not just looking at exercise order manipulation but also rest period. Um you know like so when you do say leg extensions and then you immediately go over and try to do squats the amount of fatigue in the quads it might be kind of what we were talking about. Wow that that that's a lot. Um, so this study would at least preliminarily suggest that changing exercise order is fine, but when you start to change order and you start to also reduce the rest interval with a fixed number of sets, and I haven't truly dug into dug into the methods, you could, you know, hamper yourself a little bit. And so if you were going to do that now, we're kind of looking at almost like a multi-ex exercise drop set, if you will. Yeah. um or a so so this is one thing like the um we got agonist antagonist paired sets right which have gotten all the love from us in the evidence-based community. Um and then we have drop sets which have gotten a fair amount of love as long as you understand you need to do a few extra sets to put them on equal footing with with straight sets. But the agonist agonist superset these dumb bros you're going to do a leg extension with a uh a leg press superseted you're just hurting yourself. Why wouldn't you pair it differently? That is a bit of cognitive dissonance when you really think about it because you're essentially doing the same thing. It's a drop with two different exercises. So if if you do want to utilize an agonist agonist parrot set, you just need to do it with eyes wide open and for the specific purpose of going, you know what, I am too damn strong and my knees aren't happy with me right now to be doing hack squats or leg press. I'm going to do leg extensions before each set of leg press with the understanding that it might not be ideal and this is like doing a drop set. So, I'm going to do an extra set and I think that's the practical application. And I do purposely like to sometimes use an isolation movement to pre- fatigue so I can use a lower load to get a stimulus. But I do understand that important point that this is essentially like a drop set. So, I might need to do a little more since I'm producing less force per set. So anyway, um that's very very preliminary. Uh if anyone wants to check out that preprint, it is available on Sport RXV and it's titled Frontloading Fatigue. Does the pre-exhaustion method influence resistance training induce muscular adaptations by Herman and it only dropped on the 12th of the month. So it's less than a week old. So, I haven't fully read it, but that's kind of my preliminary take and big picture principle if you're going to be doing not just manipulations of exercise order, but technically what I would describe as an agonist agonist superset. Good stuff. All right, we had a question in the live chat. Helms, I saw you wearing some cool um mass research polos on another podcast. Do you sell those? I can't wear my 3DMJ shirts every day. Uh Brian, this is something that we have kicked back and forth and and uh it has led to much debate, much consternation. Um someday we hope to make apparel more widely available, but I have to be honest, it is not on the like short-term to-do list. Uh we have a lot more substantive stuff to do. And the problem with apparel is that you what you tend to find with an audience of our size is that there's like 13 people who would strangle a man to death to get their hands on a polo or a sweatshirt and that is it. Uh so so it doesn't really make sense to uh you know establish a big shipping center and warehouse. Um so I I think there's probably a good way that we can find ways to have like a very small amount of apparel available. Um, so someday I I do think we'll eventually get on that, but I I have to be transparent that someday does not mean like by the end of the month by any stretch of the imagination. But I do appreciate the support. I tell you what, Brian, until polos and sweatshirts become available. If you really want to support the show here, many ways you can do it. Like, rate, subscribe, review, share it with a friend, become a member of the the mass community. although I assume you already are if you're trying to get your hands on some swag. But uh that was just a nice in uh a little segue from my my typical speech I got to give uh for promotional purposes. Did have a couple quick questions to wrap us up here, Helms? I know we're we're running short on time. Um one was uh what is the relationship between energy balance and recovery? Uh do small deficits deficits impact recovery? Do surpluses aid recovery more so than maintenance? And to what extent do these effects scale? My view on this, I mean, you you could probably do a deep dive in the into the literature and come out with a more nuanced and informed perspective, but my view on this, if I'm going from kind of my gut feeling, informed by the literature I've read on this over the years, is I I don't think it's a linear thing. Um I I think that you know the benefit the the purported benefits on recovery of being in a surplus and especially a large surplus I think are very overblown. I think really what's happening here is that when energy availability gets very very low we are our our body is crunched for energy uh and it has to basically determine how it is going to strategically allocate the energy available and that's exactly what we see Helms when we talk about metabolic uh adaptation reds relative energy deficiency in sport essentially the clinical manifestations of reds can really be described as things that essentially didn't make the energy budget. They got scaled down. They got cut. They They were the thing in the big corporation that got laid off when they said, "There's not enough resources to go around. Sorry, reproduction. You're no longer a top priority. We thank you for your many years of service, but you know, there's the door." So, um we don't need to grow a child in in in your belly, nor produce milk for it. You can't even eat. Yes. So um so if we we kind of get away from you know the more clinical elements and look more at recovery uh in terms of you know the the energyintensive processes that it takes to you know maintain this protein turnover and build new proteins uh and recover from damage. It does make sense that certainly in very large energy deficits and especially if body fat is very low, there's probably not going to be enough energy around to really justify uh putting a whole lot of priority and emphasis on building a bunch of muscle, for example. Uh you will recover eventually from what you throw at your body in terms of training cuz let's be honest, guys, recur recovering from lateral raises is not the same as recovering from a massive wound, okay? Because the big wound, if you're in, you know, a major energy crisis, you you won't recover. You you will get an infection. Your immune system will not be able to mount a robust response. You will die maybe. So, I'm I'm going with the extremes here, but like if you want to talk about it from like an evolutionary perspective, it is dangerous to be in a massive energy crisis and to sustain an energy of that sort where infection is a realistic uh concern. Uh, so we we have to be realistic in terms of magnitudes. What does it really take to recover from a workout, right? It it it's it's nothing crazy, but when it comes to like the energyintensive processes of adapting to that training, I I do it does uh seem difficult to argue uh and there's plenty of evidence to suggest that it's going to be pretty hard to, for example, build a whole bunch of muscle. So that that's a verbose and whining way of saying I think really the interesting stuff I don't think you can really surplus your way into super good recovery. I do think you can deficit you your way into suboptimal recovery. And I think for most people it it really starts to get uh get interesting physiologically and get crappy practically speaking when we when we get away from the minor deficits and get into some of those bigger deficits where your body is actually making some very difficult decisions in those energy trade-offs. What do you think, Elms? I I think I would love to see um it'd be great just to see a long-term time course study on people dieting with a lot of weight and then losing a lot of weight and looking at some of these markers. But I think just to kind of answer the pure question of acute energy deficits, a time course of muscle damage recovery study, you know, you get a bunch of people to do seated hamstring curls and uh you measure DOMS force production. all the the the standard indirect markers, get some bloods taken and then have them in one of those crossovers in a surplus and then have one of them in in that crossover in a deficit and have it be for like 2 days before. Yeah. You know, leading into the day of and then have them in the deficit also for say the 96 hours afterwards and have them in a surplus in the 96 hours afterwards. That'd be really interesting just to see how much does your body I think the way I'd frame it prioritize muscle damage recovery. Yeah. In a deficit and is there an interaction effect with body fat percentage in these people. I think that would be a a cool study to to track that would be feasible um and could even be someone with master's thesis. It'd be a very good thesis project. It really would. It would. All right. Um last one here very briefly. um could go long about this but won't. Uh the question is, do weighted vests have any usefulness when trying to cut or just uh increase calorie expenditure when already exercising? So, for example, wearing it while on a 30 to 60 minute walk or wearing a very light vest all day. Um I personally am not super bullish on the weighted vest hype. Um, I think first of all, I find it to be very cumbersome. Uh, people generally don't enjoy wearing them. Most people, um, if you were to ask me, "Hey, Eric, I'm going to put you on a treadmill and your goal is to burn the most calories," my first thought would be would not be, "How do I weigh myself down?" It would be, "I'm just going to turn the thing up a little bit and and we're going to, you know, get more bang for our buck, uh, energetically speaking." Um or I'll pump the incline up and you know twist the speed dial a little bit. Um so to me it's it is it a way to increase expenditure by a small amount? Yes. Uh does that small amount does the you know when I weigh the potential increase in expenditure versus the pleasantness or lack thereof of exercising in a heavy vest. to me the the the cons kind of outweigh the pros in that case. Uh but there are going to be some people who say, "Hey, I I really like to walk with a heavy vest on." And I'd say, "Great. That that's awesome. No big deal." Um I do think it's important though to to clarify like right now there seems to be a lot of hype. Lauren uh the Dr. Lauren Kenzo Simple talks about this a lot. seems to be a lot of um female focused marketing hype saying like, "Hey, you're at higher risk for osteoporosis as you age. Wear this sixpound vest and somehow you're that'll help." Um, and there's just really not not a reason to believe that that's going to be a meaningful stimulus uh for the skeletal system at all. Yeah. Um I'm quite certain it's not. Yeah, I would agree with you and and I think you made a really good point on Front Page Fitness of like, hey, obesity is not a self-correcting thing here. And there is a phenomenon, you know, okay, you're walking around all the time, 247 in a higher body mass body. And we don't typically see people with obesity carrying more lean body mass than active sedentary people. like like like it's not sufficient to offset uh that that problem. Yeah. And I've noticed basically this question is coming up now. I think it's important to understand two different applications. There's the the bodybuilder and their little niche world who it's like, "Hey, this can help with weight loss. Gravido statat. I'm already lifting, already doing cardio, but what if I just wore a weighted vest all the time?" And then there's the which is like, "Fine, give it a try if it's not too annoying for you. We're already crazy and you're doing everything and this is not going to like you're healthy already." Or there is the potential I am considering maybe exercising and changing my lifestyle because I'm experiencing age related or I'm afraid of age related drops uh related to osteopenia, sarcopenia and post-menopausal potential health complications. I haven't yet started exercising. I'm not doing that. And I might choose because some influencer is saying to do so, walking with the weighted vest instead of actually getting a personal trainer, signing up with the gym and and taking on progressive resistance exercise. And I think that is a big problem because some of that messaging could lead to that. Um, and that's some of the issues I take with supplements, even even ones that work. It's that it'll when you're not quite ready when we think about theoretical models of behavior change to fully commit something that is an easier lowhanging fruit that doesn't actually require as much lifestyle ready when we think about theoretical models of behavior change so I can live my life and wear a weighted vest when I'm doing my day-to-day stuff. Cool. that's actually probably not going to fix the problem if you were to actually engage in resistance training. Just like if you don't engage in energy deficit and you just start taking a green tea extract and you think, "Oh, I'm I'm solid." That's also just going to probably waste your money and and and erode your self-efficacy. So that that I think two different populations and two different interpretations and applications of the data. Yeah. And I would say there's even a third application which I I'm thinking is more along the lines of the person who asked the question. And so there are the bodybuilders who are trying to kind of exploit the potential gravido statat mechanism of body weight regulation. It's important to recognize that's highly speculative. I I've seen it is and if you know a lot of people have like pointed to James Kger's stuff as saying like well this is an evidence-based thing. Even James will tell you it is remarkably speculative. Like it's one thing to say like this is l a loose adaptation of rodent work which James would acknowledge and say hey this is interesting bodybuilders are willing to turn over every stone this will be fun. That is not the same thing as saying like this is a robustly evidence-based intervention. You know what I mean? It's like no based on evidence and evidence-based there's a lot of space between the two even though they sound synonymous. You know what I mean? Yeah. the the entirety of the data that we actually have is Eric Lee Salazar had a really good prep and is going to continue including a weighted a weighted vest. Yes. Um but I can tell you I know like maybe five or six other bodybuilders who tried it and we're like ah this juice is not worth the squeeze. Yeah. And and I know I I talked to Eric and James about it and they're like, "Yeah, this was great. We loved it." And I'd say, "Hey, great. You should do it every time." Like if if you felt like that Yeah. If you felt like that made your prep that much better, do it. Like that that's bodybuilding. Um, but but anyway, what I was getting at is there's the there's a big push in like the kind of post-menopausal osteopenia kind of crowd. There's a big push in the hyper competitive bodybuilding crowd looking for every possible advantage. And I think there's also a crowd that's just kind of like, you know, I I like to, you know, do do a little bit of walking, you know, maybe some brisk walking. Maybe I get on the stairmaster. seems like throwing a few pounds on on top of what I'm doing wouldn't hurt. You know, like there, you know, rucking has become a, you know, a common form of exercise or just putting on a heavy pack and walking. Um, so I think this this, if I had to guess, this individual probably falls more in that like recreational rucking or just want to add a little something to the walking I already do. In which case I would say is it going to move the needle in terms of total cost per workout? Uh I would say directionally yes. In terms of magnitude it's going to be extremely slight and probably for the vast majority of people not worth the headache annoyance and simple like just the cumbersome nature of wearing a weighted vest. Uh but at the end of the day it's not going to hurt. you know, it's not going to and unless unless you notice it's like causing you to have like exacerbated lower back pain or something, which has been reported obviously, but um but a lot of people can tolerate this type of intervention, no problem. So, if you like it, you can tolerate it. It is directionally probably going to do something. The magnitude is probably going to be extremely modest. And it's the kind of magnitude you could easily replicate by simply walking a little faster if you felt so inclined. All right, Helms. Uh I think that does it uh for me tonight. Any last words you want to share with the good people? No, I just uh it's exciting times and uh we got cool stuff coming out in mass this next month. Cool studies coming out as preprints, amazing strength gangs being being had and uh yeah, just big thanks to everybody for tuning in so we can talk about it all. All right, everyone. Thanks so much for joining us. Uh everyone have a fantastic week and we will be back in approximately 7 days.