Hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Heat. Hello everybody. I am Eric Trexler. I'm here with the good Dr. Eric Helms and you are watching or listening to Iron Culture presented by the Mass Research Review. So, thanks so much for joining us on this Monday evening. Uh, we have a lot to get to, Helms. Uh, but before we get into all that, let let's exchange the pleasantries, you know, do the whole fake friendship thing. How you doing, buddy? Oh, I'm so glad that you asked me that. And we can also pretend uh as much as you want that we care about these responses, but I'm doing well. The only thing is I was cooking and I was grating carrots and I either my wife or I got a little bit of extra protein. I guess I wouldn't get extra protein. she would because I lost the protein. So, folks, be be careful when you're grading. Make sure that you don't try to get I was getting too like Yeah. like obsessive with wanting to get just the full length of each time. And yeah, I was actually pretty bloodied up yesterday. Um, we we were talking I'm I'm doing a lot of like packing stuff for a study I'm running like packing up boxes and stuff and there's just a lot of box cutting and a lot of knives and scissors out and yeah, I I was not being careful cuz I had a lot to get to. So, I was uh I had more more than one wound going at a given time. But uh but yeah, so we're we're in the same boat there. Not to one up you cuz believe me, nothing I experienced was anything like kitchen cuts are really they tend to be very nasty cuz you're using stuff that is intended to really get in there. Like you don't want to mess with a grater. I I I'll take a little miscellaneous scissor cut any day. Um, the problem is, last last thing before we get over our our battle wounds is it's in a place where each time I train like it's it starts to clot, it starts to heal over and then anytime I grab anything hard and I because I have a background Olympic weightlifting, I tend to hook grip a lot. Oh yeah. Um, basically just directly squeezes it. I forget about it. I don't feel pain until I notice things that are minor like this. So then I look up and I'm like, "Oh, my whole thumb's red." I'm like, "God damn it." you know, and we're back. That That's a bummer, man. But in better news, I found something that I want to alert our listeners to. This is something I was not aware of, and I was pleasantly surprised. Um, Helms, what do you know about Mountain Dew Baja Blast? I know that it has not made its way here to uh New Zealand. And if there's a diet version of it, then I am quite disappointed that it hasn't made its way here. Yeah. So, Baja Blast is um it's incredible. It It's a lovely soft drink made by the good people at Mountain Dew, and they do a good job with their non legacy flavors. Like, they did Code Red a while back, which was awesome. Uh they had an orange version out for a while uh that that was really good. I don't know if they still do it, but I had never seen these available outside of like niche. Like I remember Baja Blast used to be like a Taco Bell thing. Like you'd go to Taco Bell, it would be in the soda fountain there. I was at my grocery store the other day and saw Mountain Dew Baja Blast zero sugar canned and I took those home because I was like, I haven't tasted this since I was like 12 years old at a a Taco Bell near the Kings Island Amusement Park. I I remember it vividly cuz I was like, what what a beautiful nectar that I'm tasting for the first time here. And I'm drinking one right now and it's like whatever problems you thought you had in life, they just melt away. And I I know we shouldn't be doing free unsponsored content, but No, this is how you get the sponsor. Bring that close. I want people to be able to see the brand. Mountain Dew Zero Sugar Baja Blast. It is just absolutely delightful. So, I'm going to be in in a particularly good mood today. And I know what you're thinking. Are you sure that Mountain Dew Baja Blast Zero Sugar is necessarily the most natural paleo approved beverage choice out there? Um, I'm not sure of that. Um, I have good reason to believe it's not, but we have a lot to talk about tonight when it comes to things that are synthetic. That that is my my official segue because Helms for the first time ever in the almost what have we done like 329 episodes of Iron Culture, I think. Uh, yep. In the first time in history, uh, I was given a homework assignment, which is that every now and then we get asked questions about Tupperware, we get asked questions about microlastics, and we said enough is enough. We need to um actually bite the bullet and dig into this. And this is tough, man. you know, to to give a little peak behind the curtain, there's a fine line to balance where when you're someone who decides, I want to do evidence-based content creation, you have to decide on what. And one place where people get in a lot of trouble is they don't really define what is my kind of sphere or domain of expertise. You know, a lot of people can tell you what their main sweet spot is, but you kind of have to have these like the the inner circle of topics and then kind of your safe ring outside of that and then the stuff beyond that where you're like, I just can't touch that stuff. And it's really hard to tell the stuff in the middle where it's like, okay, I didn't really do my dissertation on that. I didn't take three PhD level courses on that. I didn't deal with that as a practitioner on a daily basis. like there's some of those things where you're like, is that within enough is that close enough within reach that I can go get to it by by doing, you know, several hours of of digging into the research and and kind of uh trying to self-e a little bit. So, this is one of those topics that I for a long time had kind of put it on the shelf out there where I'm like, I could access that I believe based on my background knowledge, but that's going to be some serious work, you know? Uh, so finally ripped off the band-aid, did the work, and and I've got results to share. Helms, I'm excited because I had a really tough uh homework assignment related to this, too. You said, "Eric, so I don't forget to do my homework assignment, can you send me a message at some point to remind me to do it?" So I got, you know, I had to open an internet browser, open a tab, sign into my Google account, go into my Google calendar invites, and on a day where I had some time to send a text, I had to put a notification TX message microplastics. And then I had to get my phone out when that notification happened, make sure my notifications were on, and then send you a text that said, "Yo, space microplastics." So, we both put in a lot of hard hours for this one. I'm personally quite proud of us. Yeah, this if this were an academic paper, it'd be the type of thing where we would be co-first authors because who could possibly choose who's first and who's second here? You know, it's a complete 50/50 split. Uh so, Helms, let let's dig into this a little bit. And and before I get into the details, uh a literal tip of the cap. I if you're watching on YouTube, I am literally tipping the cap to Cassandra Rowert who wrote a great paper January 2025. Uh and if you want to understand like why I put off a lot of this background research as homework, the title of the paper should make this pretty apparent. First of all, the journal is environmental science technology. Not exactly a journal I frequent. The title is assessing the efficacy of pyrolyis gas chromatography mass spectrometry for nanoplastic and microplastic analysis in human blood. Okay. So uh a lot of words in there u describing a lot of lab techniques that are very expensive and things I don't do. Uh so this is a really specialized kind of dig and this paper specifically was a huge resource. So I I want to just kind of give a few like question and answers here and then we can get into some of the nuances. So one of the first questions that I think is worth uh bringing up uh what are microlastics? They're tiny plastics. That's pretty simple. Excellent. Uh and so when you read these papers about microlastics, they they'll distinguish between microlastics and nanoplastics, but but we're talking about very very small plastic uh compounds. Now, uh very important question, how do we consume microlastics? Because the original question we got was about, you know, I heard that I'm eating microlastics. That doesn't sound nice. I've heard that there's a substantial amount of plastic in my body because of that and that doesn't seem very nice. But it's really important, you know, before we get into, you know, this food versus that food or this cooking approach versus that cooking approach. How do these things get in our body? And the exposure pathways include ingestion, so eating, uh certainly drinking, inhalation, and potentially dermal exposure as well. So, we are getting these microlastics from it's not just like, well, you chose one of the few bad foods or you kept it in just the wrong specific type of Tupperware and you alone are screwed. Uh, we're getting this stuff from the next sub question. Where do these things come from? They come from our clothing. They come from food. They come from air. They come from water. They come from cosmetics. Um, and that includes things like shampoos and toothpastes. So, if you're like me and you're like, "Oh, thank God I don't wear makeup." Uh, cosmetics is a broad uh a broad um category and there's a lot of stuff that pretty much everybody's using. Uh, and then other environmental sources as well. Um, even things as simple as household dust. Um, so like if you want to be afraid of microlastics, you know, sometimes there's these scare, you know, fearmongers who are like, "It's literally everywhere." Well, it is. Like, yeah, it's it's in your water. It's in your house right now. Whatever room you're in, it's behind you uh at this very moment. Is it underneath my desk, TX? Uh, yes. And if you're like me and you're not uh an avid duster uh and you don't do uh like really rigorous vacuuming protocols with really um uh with like HEPA filtered vacuums, then yes, it it's under your desk for sure. Um now here's the next question. So we know they can enter our body in many different ways. We know that they are easy to avoid as long as you can avoid clothing, food, air, cosmetics, and your environment. So, as long as you aren't interacting with any of those, you're good. Uh, the question is though, are they a problem? And that is a really loaded question. So, uh, that's why I ended up with this paper I just mentioned, which is a a very obviously from the title, a pure methods paper, right? So, they're not going out and saying, "Hey, we're going to figure out if you have a plastic spoon or a credit card in your your brain or liver or whatever." They were just like, "Where are how could we even know where these are and how much is really there in terms of particle number?" Um so our current understanding um when it comes to the fate of these microplastics once they get into the body which as we just discussed they they will they do um you know we still have extremely extremely limited knowledge about where they go and to what extent. Um and then a a whole separate question would be once they're there what do they do? Right. So do they do they stay? Exactly. So we we need to go we we need to figure out where do they get to? Do they pass by or do they accumulate? And if they do accumulate, what are they doing there? So, it's really important to recognize like this is one of those areas where it's really frustrating. Um because once we hear that something could maybe be a problem, we are used to living in a world where you hear about a new thing and you kind of expect that now that you've heard about it and care, you you kind of almost feel like you should be afforded the privilege of let me get to the bottom of this and 20 minutes later after googling and maybe having a little discussion with chat GPT, you should have an answer that's based on things that are currently known and more than that TX I think particularly in our kind of realm of the fitness industry people want to also have agency to do something about it and change it which is why this area is kind of fraught and thus far it's it's not sounding good as far as the what can you do to avoid it front but I'm hopeful that you're going to give me good news as we continue right so so let's not get too far ahead of ourselves So all right the important thing you know the question is are they a problem in order to determine that we would need to know how much is coming in to the body where does it go is it accumulating and if it accumulates what is the the impact of that and I just want to let people know that this is a new thing uh like we we were not worried about this in 1986 uh at least not that I heard of so this is a pretty new thing the research is extremely preliminary And so what that means is you're going to have to kind of settle in and get really comfortable with some uncertainty on this topic. Uh cuz if anyone's going to sit down and tell you like I know exactly, you know, where they're going, the extent to which they're accumulating what they're doing and and the kind of downstream physiological or pathophysiological effects of that, I distrust them uh from from having that level of of confidence. Um well, that's a good first thing to conclude. So if you do hear people because this is the type of this is you know iron culture 101 is get a good sensor identify charlatans and identify the increasing number of people who sound scientific and may even themselves be scientists but are actually not giving you evidence-based information. And this one is perfect. Yeah, it's a great it's a great you can you can you can scaremonger you can get the clickbait. you can get the headlines going and then you can based upon that fear and uh and and the fact that you got someone hooked uh you know you're getting their amigdala going all these emotional responses you can tell them follow my protocol you could monetize that or just maintain their attention so that your advertisers will keep paying you. So be aware uh of of how this information is given or weaponized which should be a red flag. Yeah. And I'm going to lean on a quote that I'm probably misattributing. I think I first heard this sequence of terms uh by Robert McNamera, former uh was he secretary of defense I think in the United States. There's a movie called Fog of War. But I think I think it was him who was talking through like there are known knowns. These are things we know to be true and there are known unknowns which is things that we know we don't know. For a long time, this whole microlastic thing was what what the third category, which is unknown unknowns. Like we didn't even really know to be asking questions about microlastics and what they might do in our bodies. So I the for me the state of the evidence with microplastics is that we are watching them shift in the last like five or 10 years from being an unknown unknown to a known unknown. And what everyone wants it to be is a known thing and and we're not quite there yet in terms of the health impacts. But anyway, let let me let me be clear about one thing here. So, when it comes to these different studies, you're going to see headlines that say like, "Hey, it looks like you have a plastic spoon in your brain or it looks like you got a credit card in your liver or whatever, whatever they may be." It's really important to understand that the measurement methods for microlastics essentially originate from testing in water. And this is something I know a little thing about because you know a lot of the uh doubly some methods of testing doubly labeled water were originally derived for geological purposes like measuring naturally occurring isotopes of hydrogen and oxygen in water samples. And when you start going from water to urine and blood, there's some extra steps that need to be layered in there because you're like, well, blood is not water. Urine is not water. And and so we need to make sure that we are preparing these biological fluids in a way that we can actually use some of this water focused testing and kind of adapt it accordingly. So there are a lot of different ways that people have tried to approximate um you know the the they have tried to quantify microlastics within biological tissues or samples. Uh and there's just a total lack of standardization. There's all these different methods out there because it's such a new thing. And as a result, it's led to a state where a lot of the research emerging in this area reports really wide ranges of concentrations of microplastics, really wide ranges of particle sizes of different microplastics. And some of them are being published and they lack biological plausibility. And so what I mean by that is uh when it comes to microplastics and we're talking about traveling through a body at a certain point it it's just a matter of of stuff has to fit through stuff, you know, and so like we can actually there's physics. Yeah. There's microysics involved. Exactly. And and so you're like, well, how what do you mean it's biologically implausible to say that a particle this big was found over here? And when we're talking about microlastics, one of the things that that's really interesting is like the size really matters when when you're talking about where these things could be and what their fate ought to be in the body. So what I mean by that is like the there are some capillaries where when you get down to the smallest part of the capillary bed, they're only going to be like I think 7 to 17 uh micrometers in diameter. Um, and so basically the nerds out here have kind of calculated out and it's like, well, you're reporting particles that had to have passed through these tiny capillary beds to even get to the tissue you're talking about. And these particles are way too big to fit through any of these capillaries. Um, and then there's also a question of, well, if some of these small particles get in our body, where will they go? And particles that are smaller than like 6 nanome are going to be eliminated pretty rapidly through the kidney and just kind of urinated out. They should be um and then as you talk about different particle sizes now you know if they get a little bit bigger now we're talking well maybe the spleen will take care of that maybe the liver will take care of that. All these different pathways for dealing with particles of different sizes. And so basically because of a lot of uh lack of standardization with these measurements uh when it comes to this question of like do I have you know a spoon in my brain you know a credit card in my body whatever the answer is we we really have no idea. Um several of these methods are are really only validated for particle sizes that are way bigger than your typical microlastics. And so they're kind of just using a thing that they know is not validated for things this small and frankly hoping for the best. Um, and then others are are just reporting some of these biologically implausible findings where you're like, well, a particle that big can't get through here or a particle that small should have been eliminated through this. Like as you start to kind of walk through all these different specifics of like this specific microplastic which has this particle size being found in this area of the body um like I said a lot of it just doesn't really seem to be biologically plausible. Now the paper that I mentioned here is um this is a basically a validation attempt of something that they call pyrolyis gas chromatography mass spectrometry and they were thinking you know a lot of the other papers out there are some are using this uh some are are using other techniques that are not validated and really not all that promising just because of their limitation. with really small uh particle sizes. Um so this study was trying to validate I I believe the same method that was used in the recent study that reported like hey you have like a plastic spoon in your brain or something along those lines is a paper that generated a lot of buzz. Yeah. The equivalent of a whole plastic spoon somewhere in your body. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And so this is uh this uh approach they were trying to uh to validate pyrolyis is that first term. And so as you might deduce this uses something called thermal decomposition. And the reason that's important is because this is an indirect analysis technique. Uh and what it's really looking at is the thermal decomposition products. Uh so these these small organic molecules um that that should be you know kind of uh the result of decomposition of these microplastics they are not trying to identify the microplastic itself. Um now the problem is that there are a lot of endogenous compounds in our body in our biological tissues that have similar um they basically decompose into very similar molecules. And so what happens as a result and what they found in this um this validation attempt is this whole thermal decomposition technique works great when you're using you know if you're doing testing on water to say like in the water supply how much uh you know microlastic content are we finding but because uh the uh thermal decomposition th those those decomposition products look so much like other biological uh things that that can break down into similar uh decomposition products. Basically, they tried this using uh blood and they were getting so much interference from from other stuff in the blood that they're like we we just cannot use this as a validated way to try to quantify microlastic in the body. So, in summary, just wrapping this up with a little bow, and we're going to get to Tupperware in a minute for microlastics. Microplastics are everywhere. It's not just a food thing, and it's not just a, you know, plastic cutting board thing. Uh, we're talking clothing. We're, you know, we're talking air, water, everything, dust. Uh, we don't know how much microplastic material is in the body. And most of the studies that you've seen that claim to know how much microplastic is in the body, uh, or let's be honest, you you you read the headline, like no one's diving into these papers and saying like, wait, that's not an appropriate use of chromatography. Like, yeah. What what's actually happening is someone took one of these studies and then claimed based upon it that therefore we have it's like headline verse study, which we see all the time, right? Yeah. And and it's particularly bad. Like listen, we get it in fitness. Like a lot of people aren't necessarily reading the papers. Who's got the time? I totally understand that. Not being judgmental. Um but it's one thing to say like you wait, they they were doing how many workouts a week? Let me take a look at that. At least it's written in English. You know, it's like I I understand the language of what we're talking about here. You don't want to get into these uh chemistry papers about nano particles like this stuff. you read it and you're like, what is happening in this paper? So, um, so absolutely zero people are reading the full text of these and and the reality is when you dig into it, a lot of this stuff is highly speculative and it's using, uh, quantification methods that absolutely are not validated for testing for microplastics in biological tissues. So, really, really important to understand that. Uh, so just just to clarify because this is all me learning live, which is great. I get to be the avatar or the listener. This paper uh acknowledges all the places that we may be getting microplastics from but says hey the main studies which have been used to infer the amount um probably are not valid for actually assessing how much is in human tissue. Correct. Wow. It makes you wish. It makes you wish Trex that um Frizle at all when they did the magic school bus uh experiments had actually taken more detailed notes and maybe had some academic oversight. Um and to be clear, I'm not denigrating Miss Frizzle. She is the best bench presser of all time and has a special place uh in the iron culture lore. There is, you know, documented footage for her from her in the 80s when this was still an unknown unknown uh close grip benching for Red's side. That's 220 kilos and she's what, maybe 60 70 kilo woman. So, uh, she still gets her flowers, but it just makes you wish we we'd had a little more foresight back then. Yes, absolutely. Now, I I do want to acknowledge like listen, we are privileged. We have a very smart uh audience. There will probably be some folks who have, you know, backgrounds in analytical chemistry or biochemistry who are going to hear this episode and say, "Eric, you should have mentioned this. You flubbed that line." So, I will report back with all the feedback I get from people with a stronger background in analytical chemistry than me. But my read of the literature which I'm trying to provide you know my best read of it uh to the extent that a person with PhD essentially in personal training uh can can do so. Uh it seems to me that this paper was was was done in a very rigorous manner um and gave a really solid overview of the existing literature and said hey like some of these papers are not making sense in terms of how like explain to me how a particle of that size gets into this tissue like you can't right so uh and they they are arguing that a lot of these um are are there's really two main reasons that some of these prior papers are using methods that are just they aren't just not validated yet. They probably will not be able to be validated. It's because they they really suffer poor performance when particle sizes get tiny as we see with with some of these microlastics and nanoplastics. And number two, they're, you know, using lab techniques that are really subject to a lot of interference from things that are found in biological tissues rather than like pure water samples, for example. Uh now one thing I do want to also mention is you know Helms you know that whenever you get a question about um about artificial sweeteners or non-nutritive sweeteners people will say is are are they good for this are they bad for that and there are some questions where that is you you can answer that uh but in many cases you have to kind of remind people like well take a step back Because when you say non-nutrative sweetener, you're talking about about Yeah, I mean, it depends on if you want to say which ones are really popular, which ones are less popular, but we're talking about maybe 10ish um like fairly popular compounds that may be found in a random food that you pull off the shelf. And they are fundamentally dissimilar from each other in terms of their their structure. uh like ev every like pure chemistry or or biochemistry characteristic you might want to look at the these are fundamentally different compounds they they are not like from the same family so to speak the one thing sugar alcohols amino acids modified sucrose all kinds of stuff yeah the one thing they have in common is they're really sweet you know so but that's not like that doesn't really fly in biochemistry is like what what shape is the sweet stuff uh a lot of different shapes, a lot of different functional groups on on these these molecules. So, uh all that is to say when we talk about microlastics and nanoplastics, just as a good example, uh in this validation study, they had to kind of call their shot and try to validate it for uh in this one, I think they were looking at, um two specific microplastics uh for trying to validate this technique. But when when you ask someone, well, what are some of the microplastics I should be thinking of out there? It's immense. Like way bigger list of things than just like what are the non-nutritive sweeteners. So all that is to say like we are so far away from having a really good answer on this. It's really important to recognize like not only is so far it seems like just about all papers are using methods that are not really validated. We're not going to be able to just do like the validation paper for for these microlastics. We're going to have to validate a technique and then validate it for like like a hundred different plastics. Um this reminds me of of talking about like the microbiome in 2010. Yeah. You know, and it's like yeah, is this good for gut health? And it's like, well, a what does that mean? How do we measure measure it? And then how many different strains of bacteria are there? And we're like, let's check back in 15 years. And now 15 years later after 2010, we have answers for like a very small number of specific types of microbiata and how they're impacted and that the impact of those on physiology or or outcomes we care about is even more constrained. So I imagine this is going to follow a similar time course. Yeah, it's going to take some time. We're going to have to settle in and get kind of comfortable with the uncertainty. And I know it sounds like a copout, but um I'm sorry folks, I did my homework. This is what I found. Um so again just summarizing microplastics are everywhere. Uh we don't know how much microplastic material is in the human body and even if we did we don't necessarily know how different microplastics would impact physiological function of different tissues at different concentrations. Right? So to actually make some of the claims a lot of people are making about microplastics, we we we have to really connect a lot of different dots here and say once the concentration in this tissue gets above this level, we can expect this impact on physiology which intuitively would lead to this health problem. You know what I'm saying? So we're we're a long ways off from that. Um, however, there are things that if you decided you wanted to reduce your exposure to microplastics, you could do. Um, again, you cannot avoid it. Uh, so it's really important to to be realistic and say we're in the attenuation game here rather than the avoidance game. So, a few things you could do to reduce your exposure to uh to some microlastics. One thing would definitely be pretty heavyduty water filtration. Um, so using things like reverse osmosis and there's some other specialized filtration processes that really target little teeny tiny things. Uh, so your your like general like Brida filter at home probably not going to do it. Uh, you you need some pretty specialized water filtration. If you're not willing to go that step, uh a simpler thing would be just avoid bottled water, you know, that that is packaged and shipped and, you know, sitting in plastic all the time, especially obviously the more that those are exposed to heat anywhere along the chain of custody or a lot of sunlight, for example. Uh, so if you wanted to say like, well, I'm not going to like put in a m, you know, several thousand whole house like basically a water plant in my house. Um, maybe another step would be, well, maybe instead of doing a lot of plastic bottles, I I'll focus more on, you know, drinking filtered water when I can and even just kind of transporting my water in glass or or other non-plastic materials. I know for me, I actually started uh using uh mason jars instead of shaker bottles. I just put the little blender bottle little spring thing in there. Um and that was just for for convenience really more than anything. I I like the the wide mouth and I I could get a big uh big case of them for like super cheap. So, um so I didn't do that with microplastics in mind, but it actually is a pretty good substitute. uh easy to scoop things into it and you can you can get them on the cheap and they're very durable. Oh, the main reason I got it now now that I remember is obviously everyone hates when you close the the shaker bottle, you shake it up and it like goes everywhere cuz it wasn't totally tight. But then I had the problem where I kept overtightening it and cracking it and like I don't know if that's just me cuz I Hulk, bro. Have you ever done that though? No, I have. I I was going to say it's just you because of your massive manh hands, but Well, I I wasn't sure because like I I've talked about like I growing up as a kid, uh I had it was more noticeable when I was a kid, but I have Tourett syndrome and one of the like a lot of times kids with Tourette's will get misdiagnosed as having obsessivempulsive disorder. Uh so I was like there's certain things that I I have little quirks and I think everybody does, but I think of mine are turned up a little bit, but for me it's like closing a jar. I'm like, I need that thing closed closed. So, I I'm not I was like, I'm not sure if this is a relatable experience, but I've broken too many shaker bottles and it pisses me off. Well, the thing I think what happens for for those of us who may not have the same uh dialed up tendencies is you get it on there halfcocked one of these times, you know, cuz you're maybe not as careful as someone like you would be. Spill it all over yourself and then the next time you're like, "That's not going to happen again." and and then you're like, "Okay, overcorrected." Yeah. So, I' I've done that. Right. So, water filtration is a good step. Or if you want the kind of lighter version, you know, maybe not drinking stuff out of plastic bottles as much. Uh in terms of food selection, to the extent we can estimate it, maybe it seems like perhaps um seafood um you know, so especially like shellfish and fish that you eat whole, those are claimed to be some of the um some of the higher microlastic foods, which is not unc like to me that has some degree of plausibility because we do tend to find that you know shellfish and those little tiny fish that eat whole, they also tend to be higher in other kind of environmental contaminants, right? They they kind of suck those things up uh from the water. So that's why, you know, you got to be careful with certain fish with with mercury poisoning and things like that. So I I have uh seen some evidence indicating that maybe certain types of seafood um again, you know, talking like sardines, uh shrimp, oysters, things like that maybe uh have a little bit more than other foods. Um, you know, certainly I I've seen some sources of information claiming that uh particularly like ultrarocessed foods might have a little bit more um just based on some of the the actual processing methods that that kind of go into producing them. Um, obviously that's a broad category. Uh, and that that's a terrible like I mean what what does it mean to say you know what I'm trying to get at in in clumsy uh clumsy phrasing is different proc ultrarocessed foods go through different processing methods right and so it's really hard to say like all ultrarocessed foods are going to be having this extra exposure to microplastics but um one thing that I have seen as a kind of common recommendation is to uh kind of prefer things that don't spend a lot of time throughout their life as they're going from, you know, you know, from from the the kitchen to the table, you know, just wrapped in plastic or stored in plastic. And we do tend to find a lot of ultrarocessed foods, there's a lot of plastic packaging involved, for example, some of that may may kind of leech onto to the food product. Um, so to the extent you can minimize that, great. That's going to be tough. a lot of foods packaged with some layer of plastic in the mix. It's hard to get around that. Um, I've also heard, and again, some some of these are more dubious than others in terms of the level of certainty, but I've heard that sea salt tends to have a little bit more uh potential for microlastic contamination than other sources of salt. Uh, so perhaps you might consider that in your salt uh selection choices. If food storage, obviously, this is where we're getting to the stuff that, you know, the water filtration is an obvious one. The food selection one, I I just want to put a layer of uncertainty over a lot of that. Food storage is pretty clear as well. Uh, storing food in glass, ceramic, stainless steel seems to be a better option. Um, if you're trying to minimize this exposure, um, if you are going to use plastic containers, uh, I will give a whole different, um, a whole different set of recommendations for that when we get to the Tupperware section. All right? But for now, we could say generally eliminating or minimizing the use of plastic containers, lids, and wraps would be uh, kind of the the best you can do with cooking methods. uh not heating plastic with food in it would would be what they suggest even if it's labeled microwave safe. All those labels kind of came around before we were really thinking about any of this. Um and they're really more like will this thing technically survive being microwaved more so than like do you promise this will not degrade any layers of the plastic and have any kind of leeching into my food. Um, so yeah, avoiding using plastic containers, especially uh when they're being exposed to heat, high levels of acidity and things of that nature, and just wear and tear. Um, so so cutting into it, using plastic utensils, uh, these are all things that, uh, just the physical wear and tear of those materials can lead to more microlastic leeching and exposure. Uh, clothing choices, Helms. Um, so choosing Oh, no. Yeah. and choosing natural fab fabrics like cotton, linen, hemp, bamboo, and wool. Um who who doesn't love a nice scratchy wool t-shirt, you know? Um unfortunately, a lot of uh majority of my clothes are probably mostly plastic. Yeah, I I use a lot I wear a lot of synthetic materials and those are the ones that that tend to have more microlastic exposure. Um cosmetics and personal care. Um, I I've seen recommendations to avoid products that have polyethylene, polyropylene, PMAA, or sorry, Pmama, nylon 12, and acryates. Um, anything with those little micro beads. Um, th those are those will get you for sure. Those are uh little tiny bits of plastic, generally speaking. Um, and a general recommendation was to use uh just bar soaps when you can that are just packaged in, you know, nonplastic material. Um, household habits. I'm basically just a Marvel superhero with the amount of like Under Armour adjacent products that I get as, you know, like I'm a big polyester guy. Yeah, man. I have so many um fitness gear related things from various suppliers. This is bad news. Yeah. So, house household stuff, uh, vacuuming with a HEPA filter, um, dusting regularly, um, especially wet dusting to to make sure you're getting rid of some of those potentially airborne plastics. Uh, avoid using plastic tea bags, uh, and avoid using, um, any kind of plastic kettles, uh, cookware, utensils, etc. Um, okay. Okay, now Helms, I do want to briefly touch on Tupperware and then maybe we'll have a couple maybe we'll see some questions in the live chat that we can address. But for Tupperware, any kind of plastic food storage um if you want to avoid there's kind of two considerations with kind of plastic food storage. one being microlastic exposure, the other being exposure to what we would call potentially endocrine disrupting compounds that that are you know some plastic materials as they leech um you know they may uh impact endocrine the endocrine system to to a modest degree. Um, so things you can do with Tupperware and plastic food storage. Uh, number one, avoid heat exposure. Even if it says, "Hey, this is microwave safe." Uh, heat is heat. So microwaving, pouring super hot food or liquid into that plastic container. Um, you know, that stuff can uh if you wanted to be safe, if you were going to use a plastic material, you would wait for your food to cool before you transferred it into that and then put it into the refrigerator. And then you when you were going to reheat it, you would put it onto something that's not plastic for that reheating process. Um, also things that um can degrade some of those plastic materials are anything that's really acidic or anything that that has a lot of oil in it. That that can also kind of wear down those materials a little bit. Um, another thing that's important to recognize is that Tupperware was not really designed to be your day-to-day heating vessel that you pass down to your kids and their kids as like a family heirloom. uh you are supposed to kind of rotate and retire. Uh meaning they're not made to last forever. They're even if you take really good care of them, they're going to get scratched up. They're going to get warped. They're going to get discolored. They're they're just generally going to degrade to some extent over time. Um of course, one thing that you could do to slow that a little bit is hand wash using mild detergents. um avoid any really harsh scrubbing that could create little scratches uh in the um you know on the surface of that plastic. Um you could choose uh containers that are marked number one, number two, number five. Uh and and those little markings kind of just tell you what kind of specific plastic they're predominantly made out of. Uh might be a good idea to avoid number three, number six, and number seven. uh based on what I've looked into. Uh not a bad idea to go with BPA free and BPS free plastics. Um and that's one of those sneaky things. A lot of a lot of them will say, "Hey, BPA free." But they're doing that little pre-workout thing where it was like remember when uh it's been so long I'm forgetting it was DMAA, right? So everyone was like, "Hey, that's banned. You're not allowed to do And people were like, "Well, what if I put in DMAB and like all all these other little derivatives that were basically the same thing? I can modify meth in a lot of ways. We're fine." Yeah. So, so it's been so long, I forget all the little sneaky other acronyms that cropped up when DMAA initially got banned, but same kind of thing. BPA, everyone was like, "Hey, avoid BPA." And they're like, "All right, we'll throw in a little BPS and see how you like that." And it's like basically the same thing. Um, so I think uh generally speaking my my takeaway from looking into the Tupperware thing is like if your goal is to minimize uh you know microplastic exposure and to minimize uh potential exposure to endocrine disrupting compounds, then you probably wouldn't be using Tupperware a lot. And if you did use it, it would be just for storing cool things that that are not hot when they go in, that are not overly acidic. Uh when you're washing it, you're doing it by hand pretty gently without heat like like you would have in a dishwasher. Um and so you you really have to baby this stuff to the point that it is not a particularly uh not a particularly convenient type of food storage option. So go with Pyrex or glass is pretty Yeah, go for you know glass, ceramic, even stainless steel if they do that. Uh but yeah, so I want to be super clear. We just went through a big whole set of checklists of like what would a person do if they were real what what could they do if they were really intent on reducing exposure to some of those things? Uh and that's good. But if the question is what should you do? H my answer would be I have no idea. Can I ask a different question? Yes. So you talked about how where we're at right now is that someone would have to logically infer what would be the health outcome that would occur if someone did in fact build up sufficient microplastics in specific tissues. Now that would be the direct mechanistic evidence or maybe even applied evidence if we had the way to actually look at that in experimental trials. you know, 6 months of using Pyrex versus uh, you know, Tupperware. We're probably not going to have that for ethical reasons and methodological reasons, but I imagine there might be something, and you probably ran into this in the introduction in one of these papers you're looking at on simple epidemiological relationships between people who we think might be exposed to more plastics versus others, or do we not even have that? So I don't think we have like high quality evidence in that area because if you I guess we can't stratify people as more or less plastic exposure because we don't have a way to measure it, right? Yeah. We we I I think it it goes back to where do they come from? So like if you were going to even like try to put some cortiles together about just like net microlastic exposure, it comes down to their clothing, their food, their air, their water, how they cook, what they cook with. Like the level of questionnaire detail you have to administer to try to get to that. That'll be a new that'll be a thing by the way, I'm sure, if it's not already a thing. I didn't I didn't look too much into the epidemiology on this because frankly after looking at some of these methodological things I was like whatever you're going to tell me I'm not going to buy it. Uh you know yeah I mean just think about the confounders like if you said how many meals do you eat out of Tupperware? You were also asking uh how often do you pack a lunch when you go to work? Are you potentially a bodybuilder? And do you sell Tupperware? You know, like there there's so many other things that are going to covary, right? And a lot of them are just like, "How often do you use plastic forks? How often do you use straws? How often do you drink out of a plastic water bottle? How what kind of cutting board do you use?" Like, which you're inadvertently asking, how often do you eat out or get takeout? So, you're going to get all these false associations. Yeah. I mean, if if you thought food frequency questionnaires were bad, like like trying to get an idea of a person's net overall microlastic exposure, I we will figure out how to do it, I'm sure, but it's going to take a hell of a survey or questionnaire uh battery to re and it it's going to be quite quite a fun process validating it because even if we wanted to like a lot of times with um you know with with a lot of epidemiological survey tools, the way that they validate them is against some kind of bio a lot of times it's against some kind of biioarker, right? So, like for example, they might say, "Hey, we think we're gonna um you know, have this questionnaire that helps us figure out your you know, vitamin E intake or something." And then they'll just take blood samples and say, "Okay, well, the people who had higher blood vitamin E levels, did that correlate with, you know, people who seem to score high on this vitamin E survey thing?" like I don't even know how we would go about validating some of those um th those surveys against just any kind of biological signal. So, you know, to to actually try to say like, yeah, I think we're really capturing something here. So, all that is to say, um I I'm really not convinced that we even have good epidemiology. I'm not optimistic that we're going to have good or at least certainly not a high volume of good randomized controlled trials that meaningfully control for uh exposure over a given time frame. I wouldn't even know how long does that study have to be, you know? I mean, because I would have to assume that microlastic exposure, we're really thinking about how much microlastic am I exposed to over the next two decades more so than over the next eight weeks. Uh I hope so. Yeah. Yeah. Uh so so all that is to say uh this is a really this is very interesting. Uh and and I think it does put us in that unfortunate humble position where we have to say we're going to have to wait and see on this. And I will say this, I if I can um extend an olive branch helms to some of the folks, I I do think that sometimes in the evidence-based fitness world, it it's really appealing for people to kind of assert the null hypothesis as like a knee-jerk reaction in a way that can kind of be dismissive to folks that are just uh just have a different kind of baseline comfort level with risk. Yeah. And and so what I'm getting at is, you know, sometimes people will say like, are we necessarily sure that this particular food additive is safe? And a lot of times people in the evidence-based fitness world will be like, you're an idiot. like if it was dangerous, they would have told us by now that you and sometimes it's like, well, if you really dig into it, we kind of just like decided that was generally recognized as safe in like 1908 and never revisited it. And there's not a lot of good epidemiology on it. And like there's actually not there's not a lot of evidence on certain things to help us really robustly determine the safety level of a given degree of exposure. And I think microlastics are one of those things where if you came to me and you said, "I'm going to do what I feasibly can to minimize my exposure to microlastics." I have no grounds to call you an idiot for that. And I think a lot of evidence-based fitness folks, certainly no one in the Iron Culture audience, but I think a lot of folks do kind of have that knee-jerk reaction of like, if it were a problem, surely we'd know that by now. And therefore, it's kind of like the kind of like granola like ultra naturalistic fallacy nonsense to actually be asking these questions and and have any level of concern. And sometimes it really just there's a lot of folks that overstate our certainty of like just because just because we coexist with things and we acknowledge they're there doesn't mean we actually doesn't mean we actually cleared them, you know? And and this is something that needs nuance, too. Um because there is a big difference between microplastics, the microbiome and certain wellstudied artificial sweeteners and lead, you know, and there's, like you said, a difference between how things were ran in 1905, 1975, the US versus Europe, and then 2025. Yeah. Um, so people should take to heart the statement, you know, evidence of absence is not the same thing as absence of evidence. Meaning like you said, if we don't have data showing something to be safe, that doesn't mean that it is safe uh and we shouldn't rely on um in most cases if this was dangerous, it should have been proven already. Especially in things that have that certain kind of legacy because we have seen time and time again in society when things were not as well uh controlled, regulated or tested for safety on the front end, we ran into problems. You know, we used to include coca. Cocaine used to be an like a a pain medication that caused some issues. Mercury used to be a treatment. Lead used to be used in pipes. Now, it is not the same. There are there are people who aren't even all that old who remember a time where people experienced in very inadvisable levels of lead exposure throughout their childhood through pain unled gasoline gasoline fumes. Y and that was a thing that a lot of people just said, well it's there. It's around us. What are you going to do? You know, and it was like it's fine. And then we did the research after you know very long times of exposure. Oh th this is not good. And then like it tangibly impacted the health and wellness of the population when we took measures to reduce exposure to it. So I I do think that um it's important to have a little bit of humility if you're going if you're going to actually be evidence-based. And so this is one of those areas. But sorry, my my point that I did want to get to is that that is fundamentally different though from not actually doing the homework to look at the things that have been pretty rigorously tested. Um, so like for example, we have we we made a a social media post on mass about artificial sweeteners and some people took that the very wrong way. Yeah. And I engaged in the comments a little bit like, oh no, hold on. Like we actually have acceptable daily limits for c sucralose based upon some pretty robust data. Yeah. and at least in the short term and at least epidemiologically long term I'm much more confident in saying don't worry about reasonable intakes of sucralose but with microplastics just because I don't have data indicating it's safe I don't understand what it it will do so we're th those are different like there's a nebulous lack of evidence or a relatively clear constrained amount that is probably safe and I think that's where the conflation become yeah and I'm probably picking the worst possible time in human history to extend this olive branch cuz right now in America we are like actively trying to ban at least a few things that actually have very strong track records of like robust safety data you know so yes I I do have to acknowledge this is not a good time to extend it but but it it has to be uh at least addressed when you're talking about something like microlastics because um this comes up anytime we talk about like you know uh uh you know this kind of fertilizer this kind of dye I this kind of vaccine and it's important to say like you need to first like you said Helms do the homework and say do we have robust you know really rigorous evidence on the safety of a reasonable level of exposure to this thing and in many cases the answer is yes. So there there are definitely a lot of folks out there who are unnecessarily and haphazardly applying this uh naturalistic fallacy, this appeal to nature fallacy and saying that's a synthetic thing. I don't like it. That's a synthetic thing. It seems dangerous. When in reality we have plenty of evidence demonstrating the safety of those synthetic things in the types of exposure levels that a human actually experiences. Um, but microlastics I I I is one of the very small number of things that that still falls under that umbrella of like I can't tell you whether or not it is advisable for your health to take proactive steps to limit your exposure to these things. Uh, and then another sub question would be would it do any good? you know, like and to me that's the thing about microplastics that's really um really tricky is the fact that like it's one thing to decide whether or not exposure and minimization is advantageous, but it's another thing altogether like even if that is true in the abstract, it's like well what actually is the level exposure we need to get to in order to minimize potential health risks and would it be feasible to get down to that very low level if it is very low. Uh because yeah, like I said, uh we're talking clothing, cosmetics, air, water, food. Uh it's it's not so simple as to say like, oh, I'm getting rid of my plastic cutting board and my plastic spatulas and I'm going to wood across the board. Like that's that will minimize your exposure. Uh, but will it minimize it enough to do anything in the context of this kind of perpetual background exposure? I have no idea. Um, so my question to you, Helms, if I may, because I I think I've said pretty much all I want to say on this. Okay. Having heard all that, are you going to do anything to minimize your microplastic exposure? I am actually because I I think there are some things I can do. Um so some things that I I can do is we do use plastic cutting boards right now and I just didn't think about it. Yeah, we did switch to Pyrex a little while ago. Um and I also tend to get diet sodas in plastic bottles, but there's no reason why not not at home but when I'm out. So I will just start focusing on trying to get the the cans. Yeah. Yeah. So I think in my mind um it's like what can I do that I'm I'm not going to fundamentally change major aspects of my life on a lack of data but I will take the lowhanging fruit. Right. So so I guess not that I think everyone should use the same you know qualities as me but I'm going to operate from a pragmatic perspective rather than a fear-based perspective. Yeah. So yeah, as far as wearing less plastic clothes, that one is where when I responded that way, I was like, that ain't gonna happen. I can't like it's just not gonna like I don't have a wardrobe. I know. It's I I just love a good loose fitting, you know, synthetic brea breathable material. Oh my god. Yeah. And so I I think this is really where it's um interesting for PE because people are going to listen to this episode and they're going to say Trexler was flapping his gums for about an hour and didn't say you know, because it was basically like, well, we we know it's out there. We don't know how much. We don't know where it's going. We don't know if it stays. We don't know how much is too much. But, um, when it really boils down to it's like, okay, after doing this homework and learning enough about it to talk about it for an hour, what are you going to do? And if the answer is nothing, that that that's very telling, right? I think for me I'm in the same boat where I'm going to do the little tiny lowhanging fruit things and say like, okay, maybe I don't need to just invite this mega dose of microplastic exposure when it costs me literally nothing and is completely feasible to do option B instead of option A. And so I I think the things you mentioned, I switched over to Pyrex, you know, the glass storage con containers a while ago. Uh, I don't use any saran wrap just cuz I don't have a need for it. Uh, I switched to mason jars instead of plastic shaker bottles cuz they're I don't break them and they close tightly enough to shake things. Um, so little things like that. I think I I haven't yet um changed out my spatulas and cutting boards. I think I will probably do that. Um, so maybe just, you know, wooden spatulas are are are usually a good alternative. uh cutting board. Either wood or what are you using? Are you still on plastic? I That's what I need to swap out. Yeah. So, maybe either wood or is there an al Do they do glass cutting boards? Cuz I've heard the the wood ones I think are a little trickier in terms of like maintaining bacteria. Yeah. Like they they're a little more porous. They hold on to a little more bacteria. So, pick your poison helms, literally. Yeah. I'll I'll have to talk to uh to my wife and and see what she thinks about those cuz she won't won't go wood on cutting boards cuz she thinks it's disgusting. And fair enough. Yeah. Um but uh now I just need to scare her as to the plastics and then we'll figure out what we land on. Yeah. Maybe we'll just cut on our granite tabletop and be like whatever. Yeah. To me that's more gross than the wooden cutting board. But but yeah, that that's that's between you and and household. Yeah. I I've seen people do that. people do it. Uh not me though. Uh but yeah, so I think um one last thing I want to say is I don't want to be I don't want to uh fuel any hyperbolic panic about microplastics. The reality is it it's a brave new world out there. We've been making a lot of synthetic materials for a long time. uh it's not really feasible um when these new materials are made for governing bodies to say okay prove to me this will never be a problem in any context regardless of how people use them it's just not how the world functions and so the the inevitable results of that which is a reality of life is that we are currently I don't care where you are we are currently living in the midst of some exposure that will be deemed in the future to be harmful and will be minimized. Like that is a reality about the world around you. You have to accept. I'm certain that there are things right now in you know that you are exposed to in some capacity that we will find are negative for your health. Uh you know you know what I was reading this morning? What I was reading a paper on uh screen exposure and greater uh risks of nearsightedness. Yeah. and I was reading it on my screen and I thought this is something I can't size 36 font I'm just like there's there's what what am I going to do? Am I going to not look at my computer or my cell phone as I'm I'm there it's completely impos so some things you you just have to accept and move along the cost of being it's cost of being human right you know. Yeah. So, all that is to say like I I can't vindicate microplastics and say I I promise that there's no possible issue at any level of exposure because no no one can really do that for you right now. I'm also clearly not panicked about it. Like having read into it, I'm like, you know, this could go a lot of different ways. I I do like our body's pretty good at filtering out a lot of crap and degrading a lot of crap even as it kind of uh accumulates to some extent. So, there's just a lot of unanswered questions and I haven't seen enough within this literature to make me go, "Oh my god, I need to dramatically change my life." But I have seen enough where I'm like, "Well, I don't like the idea of walking around with plastic." Uh, and to, you know, who knows how much is actually in there. I'm assuming that the the true value is greater than zero, but less than a spoon, if I had to guess. Um, that's fair. And uh yeah, it it seems to me if if if it's not a huge burden and it's feasible, why not make a couple little swaps that don't dramatically alter your life in order to say, you know what? I mean, you can look down at the plastic cutting board and say, "Hey, there's there's big old divots. Where where did it go?" You know, like that's that's not a not a fun thing to realize. You can look you can look at your Tupperware and say, "That stuff's in rough shape. It's clearly degrading before my very eyes. where did it all go? Uh yeah, and that that's the kind of stuff that kind of makes you think twice. And I think those are some lowhanging fruit that you can probably pluck off the old tree and move on with your life without being absolutely panicked about uh about microplastics. One other thing I I noticed the other day, um I mentioned it in the other episode. Uh I did look into that paper um about like living with in a certain proximity to golf courses and the risk of Parkinson's disease. And dude, there's there's just some stuff out there. There's just some environmental exposures that we experience where it's like sometimes the best you can do is like say, "Hey, maybe I'll throw in a little water filter if I live near a golf course, the the faucet from which I drink the most water." And outside of that, I'm going to keep I'll keep it on. Do my best. Just get plastic bottled water. Oh, wait. That's what spurred this whole thing when I brought that up last time when you talked about the golf course. It's tricky. It is. So, Trex, I'm thinking um you check out the mass uh YouTube. I'll check out the iron culture YouTube. And why don't we specifically look at questions that might be related to our discussion on plastics to make sure we covered everything. even if many of our answers will be don't know, bro. And uh and then maybe call it there. What do you think? All right. Um yes. Do do you see anything in the iron culture chat at the moment? Yeah. And there's one that's related to this. Uh has there ever existed a caffeine-free Mountain Dew? And this is loosely related because we'd recommend getting the canned version, but I'm also just curious. Oh, yeah, for sure. Yeah, you you can find a caffeine-free Mountain Dew. No question. I thought that was I thought that'd just be off brand for it's like you know it came out of the gates with we're jumping off cliffs parachuting and doing X games. Yeah. One of the things that sucks though is you got to go to a really welle equipped grocery store cuz like presumably I mean I know for me knowing how beautiful calories are I can't waste them on a full sugar soda like at any time. It doesn't matter if I'm offseason inse whatever 100%. So, I'm like I'm going the diet version every time. Sometimes it's hard to get the double asterisk, you know, where it's like you go to a grocery store, it's like they have their Mountain Dew, they have diet Mountain Dew, and they have caffeine-free Mountain Dew, but will they have the diet caffeine-free Mountain Dew? And sometimes that is tough, but it exists. And will they have the caffeine free, diet Mountain Dew in a can? Yes. And then will it be code red or Baja? because that's going to be a Yeah, that's going to be, right? Yeah. So, so in in a perfect world, if if I were in charge, I would just send a customizable soda fountain to the home of all of my constituents and you could, you know, mix and match and get your perfect titrated soda. Um, and everyone would be happy. And I feel like I'd get elected to at least six or seven terms. Got my vote. Yeah. Um, P. Sherman asks, "Will we be talking PFAS's Forever Chemicals today?" And I think you did mention that you want to buy stuff that is uh free of those specifically or uh is that one we did not cover? Uh forever chemicals are kind of this other category of just these like uh synthetic chemicals to which we're exposed usually through environmental means. Uh and they they do find their way into the water supply. A lot of public like water treatment plants do not use sophisticated enough processes to actually filter out those forever chemicals. And the reality is we do we consume them and they're called forever chemicals cuz they're they're nasty little sons of guns and they they stick around for a while. And I I do know that actually that hits a little close to home because in North Carolina there was uh a a company that was doing a lot of chemical dumping into uh one of the big rivers out there in eastern North Carolina. And this was a ma this river was was part of a a really substantial it it it was part of the water supply for a really large swath of land out there including the area of Wilmington, North Carolina which is a pretty big city and they had some of these forever chemicals in the water. The the water quality was very very poor. It became the kind of thing where there were health issues that arose from it. There were clusters of I think certain cancers that arose. Um, so yeah, I think to be totally honest, like if a person told me that they were like, you know what, uh, financially I'm in a place to swing it and I feel like I really want to invest in a pretty substantial water filtration uh, system for my home. I don't think that's the craziest thing in the world to be honest. Especially for me, I live out in the country. I live on a well uh like like my water source is a is a just a private well uh in my yard. Uh Lord knows what's going on down there. You know, it's not going through a treatment plant where they're doing quality testing. Even if it is going through a treatment plant with quality testing, the the quality testing is pretty pretty bare bones. Like they're not going the, you know, the extra mile to check for some of these like really nasty pesty pesky little uh forever chemicals and stuff. I don't think it's the craziest thing in the world if you can swing it to actually invest in a in a more substantial like whole house filtration system, but they're expensive and so like realistically that's not a feasible option for the vast vast majority of people and it what what a you know when when you own a home for example like there's certain things you spend money on and you're like oh this is great you know it's like like you're improving the house in a way that is like you feel like you're getting something out of it. What a what a not fun way to spend a large chunk of money is just to get get water and you're like I feel like this is healthier water. You know, it's it's reducing your amount of time spent ruminating. Which for some people if they don't have much control over that maybe well worth you know what I mean though? It's like it's it's way cooler to like add something to your house than to just fix a thing that broke and be like great now I have a non-leaking roof again. Like you don't really feel like you got anything fun out of the deal. Same thing. Like I I I don't think it's the craziest thing especially depending on where you live. Not all water systems are equal in terms of their, you know, quality and things of that nature. Uh, yeah, for some of those forever chemicals, like I think the best you can do is try to avoid products that may use them as like um like uh I think I don't know if there if they've regulated these out of the out of the picture. But there were some I think maybe non-stick materials that that had some of these forever chemicals. Um definitely environmental exposure through water. Um, I think the best you can do is just try to minimize exposure to them, but but they're they're definitely pesky. Gotcha. All right. Um, one comment and then one question from Vasili. Uh, there was research showing lead was harmful in gasoline decades before it was regulated. The profit motive motive of private industry uh mainly motivated this always a concern. And uh the good news is we are talking about this not because people are trying to regulate microplastics at the moment but because there's interest in the research. So hopefully um we'll have some answers in the research even before uh there is anything done if anything ever is done uh reg from regulatory bodies. Yeah. Um and and that's you know I think that's an instance where you know regardless of your kind of uh political alignments and philosophies if we do happen to find that you know microlastics are accumulating to a level that is having a tangible negative impact on the health of the population it's a lot easier to regulate them out of the supply for for some of these things that are so hard to avoid. you know, it's like um that that's a place where regulation kind of shines, right? Is when it it's on the onus of the companies producing these materials to say, hey, you got to you got to cool it. Like it's one thing to say like, hey, I I don't really feel just as a total hypothetical. If you're like, I don't really feel all that comfortable with aspartame, so as a consumer, I'm going to choose to avoid it. It's not all that hard to avoid aspartame, right? But when we're talking about avoiding microlastics, it's like that's like a systems level uh thing in order to to contain exposure. Yeah. Especially, you know, you could it's it's tough in a let's say a fully free market system where everyone's using it. What's the motivation for someone to stop using it? I mean, you you could go, "Oh, we're going to stop using it and specifically market to a very kind of, as you said earlier, like crunchy crowd, you know, granola, but um unless it carries on with some type of zeitgeist, which is going to happen after the fact." Yeah. Um to where people are like, "Oh, this is harmful." So, yeah, it's a tough thing. Uh and then Vasil's question is, maybe I missed it earlier. Did you guys cover the risk of plastics due to surgery? Uh in other words, implants and replacements, etc. I don't know a dog on thing about that. Uh I But this is like literally putting plastic in someone's body. So I would think I I I could be wrong, but I think well I guess things like uh certain cosmetic surgeries maybe they would be plastic analoges but I think for a lot of things like knee replacements, hip surgery, a lot of times we're talking about metal. Yeah. I I would like to think that they are very thoughtful about the specific type of plastic that's going in. Um because like theoretically you would you would hope they're choosing one that certainly is not subject to rapid degradation uh where you're going to have small particles kind of you know floating around. Yeah. Um don't don't let your knee get hot cuz it's it's going to melt, you know, or or don't let your knee degrade from from contact. You're like, that's literally what happened to why I'm here, you know? Yeah. Yes. I I would like to believe that there's been some forethought and some foresight going into like what is a truly inert material that can be put in that will not degrade and leech smaller particles throughout the body. But you're you're going to have to ask somebody else because that ain't me. I I I really have no idea. I think that's totally fair. Um, you got anything in the mass chat? Yes. Um, uh, Stephen said, "I I smoked weed like a pig and drank lots of alcohol for 50 years. Now I'm worried about Tupperware, which is a funny way to look at it." Uh, absolutely. Yeah. At least the other stuff was probably a little more fun. You know, it's eating out of Tupperware is not exactly an exciting process, you know. Um, all right. We had uh we had another one in here. Someone said they're going to start removing their food from the plastic packaging before they eat it. Uh, that is definitely advisable for sure. Um, there were some real ones. Uh, one more joke one. Would microplastics in my body count as lean mass? Uh, yes. Uh, I I would say so. You're fat free at the very least, right? Yeah, I definitely is fat free mass. Um, I'd be curious to see with underwater weighing how what kind of density those those materials are, but uh but yeah, probably. So, uh, Steven said he uses a metal soup ladle cuz he eats a lot of soup. That That's definitely uh one where it makes a lot of sense. Like, you're literally dipping it into super hot liquid on a regular basis. Uh, metal, uh, wood, anything that's not plastic for that probably is kind of the more prudent call there. Although, I know that every ladle in my home right now, I believe, is plastic. So, uh, we'll get on that. Um, and then we had one, what about cooking skillets? Um, and I actually have no idea what a lot of those cooking skillets are actually made of. Um, the So, I think this is one where they, you know, they have the non-stick uh pans. Yeah. And that was, I think, one of the main regulatory areas where they're like, listen, you got to make these out of something else. Which I think had some of the quote unquote uh forever chemicals in them, if I recall correctly. Does that sound right, Trex? Uh, probably. Like I'll be honest, we're out on we're over we're over our skis. There's a lot of cookware where they're like, "Oh my god, this stuff is incredible. It doesn't stick." And then they're like, "Yeah, but you can't you can't be eating off of that, brother. And you can't be cooking food at high heat on that." Uh so I'm kind of in a perpetual state with those uh materials of kind of a a quiet acceptance of like I understand that a lot of these cooking materials are probably probably not great for me and even when they do say hey are bad we've been told to change our material from version one here's version two do I necessarily trust that version two we're not going to find out in six years that they've switched to version three due to the same exact concerns. The reality is with a lot of these cooking surfaces and and like pots and pans for example that are coded with things um I don't have a lot of expertise in them. I do view them with a high degree of skepticism in general but not to the extent that I actually do anything about it. It's one of those things where I'm like, you know what? I am probably exposed to much bigger I I probably have a lot more problems in my future than whatever I'm getting from exposure to this cookware or or this um you know uh what what's the term I used? Uh skillet, you know, the top of the skillet. I I think you can hold both things at the same time being number one, I probably wish this was made out of something slightly different that didn't leech out any chemicals or any microlastics. At the same time, it's probably not going to catch up with me, you know, like uh of all the various uh potential health issues on the table, I don't think the skill it's going to get me. I think something else will. Uh I know that that's like it's not a satisfying answer but like the reality is this is a whole this is a whole field of study th this kind of uh you know epide epidemiological analysis of exposure to different environmental contaminants different household items uh different elements of cookware and the food supply. There's a whole field of study out there that gets really really murky and uh and I don't have all the an it's easy enough like when we talk about like nutrition and fitness we can really boil a lot of that down into a few key variables a few key stimuli a few outcomes of interest and all all the questions we get are really just kind of mixing and matching the the main characters of the story here you know But it's important to take a moment to appreciate and recognize that when you shift that research question to one of exposure to things in the household or environment, you are talking about a world of exposures and stimuli and research questions. That is like going from a county to a galaxy in in terms of how much ground can be covered. So, all of that, that's a a very uh a grand way of me saying I have no freaking idea what skillets are made of or what I would make them out of if it were my call. Um, but it speaks to a broader point of when we're kind of I think it's really important as we wrap up tonight to reiterate, you know, we we've we've been really clear about the fact that you can't just say categorically like I'm certain that this can't backfire, you know, really high exposure to these things. We've been really clear about that. But it it's also important to recognize that like as a human we go throughout life taking risks every day. Some of them we're aware of, some of them we're not. Um, and if you were to kind of put together like in for my risk profile of what I'm doing today, you know, where does cooking on a skillet or using a non-stick pan or drinking out of a plastic water bottle, where is that falling on the list of priorities or or the list of highest risk to lowest risk or the the spectrum of most likely to screw me over to least likely to matter in my life? It's important to recognize that this stuff as far as we know is pretty far down that list, you know. So like today I did not train. That is far more dangerous to me in the aggregate than the fact that I if I drank out of a plastic bottle or if I used Tupperware to cook or or you know used a non-stick surface. So like did you did did you drive anywhere today? That's another example I had right on top of mind is, you know, I I didn't drive today, but if I had, um, that would have been one of the riskier things I did today. Uh, and so it's really important to just have that context in mind of when we're talking about minimizing some of these exposures. We're talking about like maybe maybe a small probability of a net impact on your lifespan of something between like zero days and I don't know, throw out a number that's not very big, you know, like it we're talking about or or perhaps another way of putting it is if you're concerned about developing some kind of, you know, especially in the case of like forever chemicals, developing like an ultra rare cancer due to very high exposure. We're talking about reducing your risk from almost certainly not going to get this to a slightly lower risk than that. You know what I mean? So, so it's really important to keep in mind probabilities, magnitudes, and these kind of rankordered lists of what are the health behaviors I can engage in today that are most likely to make an impact. If you're engaged in fitness in a meaningful way, you are probably already doing most of the really big stuff on a day-to-day basis. Uh like the the most important things you could do are use safe transportation, uh don't use any dangerous drugs, uh don't drink and smoke, uh or at least drink in in moderation as we've covered in in much more nuance, right? Uh, avoid highdosese exposure to obvious carcinogens. Eat well, not too much of it, be physically active. The stuff we're talking about is falling way further down on the list. Get some sleep. Yes. And yeah, all all the big ones. Yeah. And I think I I think, you know, it's tough when you talk to a bunch of optimizers because they're looking to to find the things they're not doing. And like you said, there are known unknowns. There are unknown unknowns. And I will say that um rumination, stress, and obsessing over things that you don't have much agency over, there are some pretty consistent findings in psychological research that the more you focus on things where you don't have agency, uh the less the less self-efficacy you will have, and that does seem to have a direct negative effect on mental health. So, I would definitely uh to Trex's list, focus on the things you can do, not the things that we don't know about that even if you could uh potentially know about, which we're not there yet, you don't have a whole lot of agency to do. So, grab the lowhanging fruit and then I would out of sight, out of mind. I'm not saying put your head in the sand as an ostrich, but focus on what you can do. Yeah. Um, and and if if, god forbid, if you opt out of social situations because you're worried that you're going to be more exposed to microplastics by default, I promise you the health ramifications of loneliness are more dangerous. Well, I can't make that promise with a with absolute certainty, but I very strongly suspect that that's the case. Yeah, I I there are health risks associated with never leaving your home, not getting sun exposure, uh, not having a social support network. That's for sure. And hey, you know, that whole third part of uh our understanding of human motivation, you know, the interconnectedness, relational stuff, it's there. So, Traxx, unless you've got I don't have any more in the iron culture questions related to microplastics, unless you've got any more in mass, I think we could probably wrap this sucker up. I I don't think I have any more here. And I think that means we get to wrap up what is honestly, I would say, the most uncomfortable podcast episode that I've recorded in in years. In many years. It might be uncomfortable, but I would say it probably has more actionable information than anything you've ever produced. Well, there was like a whole list. Yeah. No, but I I it this was um you know, not not to use a very cliche term, but this was a big old step out of my typical comfort zone. But uh at the end of the day, I I think that's that's important. you know, um, taking off my I'm not going to take off my hat, but if I did take off my scientist hat and put on my practitioner hat, Helms, the first time we talked about this, you know, you mentioned that you're like, I don't really want to give a big evidence-based answer because I'm not up to date on the evidence, but I used to get this question all the time working one-on-one with clients. And the reality is a lot of people who listen to our content do work with other folks or they run into these questions every now and then. And I think one of the things about being, you know, evidence-based, quote unquote, is we also have to sometimes just make decisions in our daily life. And sometimes the evidence is not to our liking, and we have to say, well, I would sure love a more clear and obvious meta analysis on this topic in a population just like me to tell me what to do. But, uh, either way, we have to make a decision. We have to do something. And sometimes you do have to get out of your comfort zone, make your best assessment and appraisal of what we know and what we don't know, and then boil that down to what am I actually going to do with this information? And if nothing else, this episode was kind of a concrete example of exactly that where if you're a personal trainer and your client says, how much should I be worried about microplastics and what might I do to avoid it and how much should I stress over that? I think this episode at the very least delivers on that. I would agree and I think you did a great job and I appreciate you taking the time to get outside of your comfort zone. Yeah. And I'm I'm just waiting. I'm I'm going to be off the internet for seven days as the hate mail comes in and all of the uh analytical chemists out there say, "Eric, you fool. Here is my dissertation about your misunderstanding of detecting nano and microlastics in biological tissues." And then we'll know so much more. Exactly. It's it's a wonderful opportunity tracks. Yeah. Yeah. That that's true. Like if if you know something about this and you're like, "Eric, you idiot. You should have mentioned this or you misstated that." Let us know and we will rake me over the metaphorical coals in the next episode and make sure everyone gets the best possible information because ultimately, Helms, that's what we're all about here at Iron Culture. Is this show predominantly to serve our egos? Yes. But a close second objective is to make sure that we put out good information on a regular basis that helps people navigate life and specifically with regards to their health and their fitness. So folks, if we get any updates on this topic, I will let you know, but uh this is uh a topic that gets talked about a lot, but um no one I haven't seen a lot of people really dive into it in a deep way. And after looking at the literature, I'm very sure why. It's very It's a lot to to kind of wade through out there. So, uh, everyone, I hope you're interested in microlastics. If so, this episode, you are like a pig in the mud. Uh, if you're not all that into microplastics, there's always next episode. And we will be back in one week with another episode of Iron Culture. Thanks so much for joining us. Before we go, if you like it, if you want to support it, many ways to do it. Make sure you like, rate, subscribe, review, share it with a friend, give it five stars, do your thing. And of course, if you really love what we're doing, the Mass Research Review makes all of this possible. So, you can be an ultra mega gold star supporter by becoming a member of the Mass community. You can learn more about that at massresarchreview.com. Thanks everybody. Take care. Uh, avoid plastic to the maximal extent that you possibly can because it is in your house. It's trying to kill you. And we will see you in seven days.