 Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander, Alexander Alexander, Alexander Alexander, Alexander Alexander, Alexander Alexander As I talk, I have made a grave error. So we're going to move right along. And the good news is if you like this podcast, there are things you can do to support it. First off, this is now Iron Culture presented by Mass. So if you are interested in making sure that we have more awesome episodes of history, science, and culture, and in this one we've got all three, then please do consider supporting us. Check out massresearchreview.com and also support the podcast itself. Five-star ratings are appreciated. Thumbs up are appreciated. Shares are appreciated. All of these things. Additionally, if you want to see the entire mass crew live in person in Austin, Texas, on the 12th and 13th of April at the annual Sports Nutrition Association Conference, all four of us will be presenting there. And it would be awesome to meet you if you want to come out. And more importantly, we are just less than a quarter of the presenters that are out there who are really true experts in their field, both practitioners, athletes, as well as academics who are all just in love with sports nutrition. And a lot of it is applied to resistance training. So make sure to check it out. We'll have the link to that in the podcast notes. And without further ado, I would like to introduce one of our older guests, who I would actually say is a host as well, coming over from the obelisk to the pyramid. I'd say you're a guest host, Connor. Would you agree with that? So I'm just so caught up on the idea. Have you adopted mass holes for the subscribers yet? Or is that no? Mass what? Mass holes? Like, you know, so people from Massachusetts, you would call them a mass hole. But I'm just wondering, has mass as a subscription service? You could do a premium mass hole level. Also, thank you for the glowing introduction. Sorry, it just, it burrowed into my brain, like within about five seconds of the opening. And I just couldn't, couldn't shift it. Great to be back, Eric. Thank you. See, Connor, this is why you're a guest host. Because I can't trust you to come on here and not say things. Yeah, you know, we've been trying to work towards a PG-13 audience. And now, I guarantee you, AI is not good enough. I mean, listen, I'm telling you. The algorithm's not good enough to tell what mass, and I'm going to leave that pause there so it's not put together by the AI algorithm which runs our lives, holes actually is differentiated from. I waited until you were safe. We're going to look at him. We're safe. I waited and they were 50 seconds into this before I, lovely to be back. This is why I'm never given any responsibility in life or in love. Yeah, none. And it's going to get even worse from here on out. We're going to give you even less responsibility. So, yeah, welcome back from the obelisk, Dr. Connor Heffernan. And him and I combined. We have a PhD in sports history. We have a PhD in sport and exercise. I would say if you combine us, we're roughly at 10% of the level of knowledge and expertise of the next person who I'm going to introduce for the first time. And that is my good friend. Now that I say that, I've claimed it. We've only met for the first time, but that's how you roll. No, but seriously, I love what you do. And we've got the Golden Era Bookworm himself, Dr. Juan Carlos Casano. And if you're not familiar with goldenerabookworm.com, it is an awesome wealth of information. If you love the history of bodybuilding, this is the spot for you. And the reason why I was giving some respect to his accolades is this man has a PhD in biochemistry. So, like, real science, you know. So, very impressive. And I know that you've been in both the clinical space as well as the academic space for the better part of three decades. And you've also been contributing to the bodybuilding community by making sure that we keep the history alive. Which, as we've talked about many times in our culture, is really, really important. Because the core of why do people bodybuild and why do we lift and what do we get from it more than simply the benefits to our physique, but the meaning and the way we relate to life is often captured very well in the history. And I just want to say thank you for what you do. And also thank you for coming on. And welcome. Well, thank you, Eric, for the sparkling introduction. And, yeah, I'm just glad to participate in any way I can. Well, hey, awesome. So, I'm glad you are participating. And I love when we can connect things like the history, the science, the culture. And we have a historian on. We've got myself, I guess, just hosting. I'm somewhere in the middle of it all. We've got an amateur historian in and of yourself. And all of us are involved in academia. So, I think it's going to be a unique perspective. The main reason that I wanted to bring you guys both on is because you recently put out a preprint, specifically titled The Golden Paradox, mortality trends across three eras of bodybuilding. So, as jovial as we have been, we're now going to get real morbid, folks. We're going to talk about bodybuilders dying. And, you know, we start all positive. And next thing you know, we're just digging in the gutter. We're just like just trying to get all the looks, all the views by just talking about the sensationalist stuff. But in all seriousness, no, I think this is really interesting because you'll see a lot of counterclaims as to the potential danger of PED use. I remember when I first got into lifting in the early 2000s, there was the HBO documentary on like steroid use. And they had some of the muscular development, John Romano, people on there. And there's a famous quote from John Romano where he was talking about the dangers of steroid use or the lack thereof. And he said, where are the bodies? You know, like if it is so bad, then where are the bodies? And I think that narrative was very strong then. And the whole idea of, hey, the only side effects are, you know, a little bit of bacne and some hair loss. And, hey, we got Propecia for that. And we got some, you know, some nice greens. You're fine. You know, and all you're going to do is get huge and be healthier. And I think that narrative has been pushed even further these days. You can't go on social media and you can't go on YouTube without being pitched if you're over the age of 30 that all of your life's woes are due to low testosterone. And by the way, use my affiliate code for this TRT link and this clinic, which is absolutely sort of legal in some countries maybe. With legitimate medical doctors who you probably won't have to see to get a script from them so long as you say, hey, on Thursday, I felt a little unhappy. You know, like, no worries. Here's a bunch of testosterone you can inject on your own. No problem. Right? Sometimes I feel tired. Am I considered? I don't think that's normal. Does this happen every night, Connor? Yeah. And then I black out. And then I wake up and it's morning. Yeah. So that's what's called low test diurnal onset middle aged. Listen, I have an affiliate code for you. Okay. Hold your word. As long as it's a cream, that's all I need. Okay. Well, I mean, you can inject, you can do the cream. You can just PayPal me. I can do both. I mean, you overlap it, right? So we're in an era now that testosterone use, testosterone use is very normalized. And it's very much a double-edged sword. You have more people talking about the pros and cons of it if you look on social media. But it's not necessarily always positioned in an equal fashion. And there's very rarely a quantitative look at it. Also with appreciation and respect to the history, which I think you guys did an excellent job balancing both in the preprint, which we'll talk about in a moment. But to set the stage, there have been several publications lately. It seems like it's not just the media blowing things out of proportion. This is happening a lot. A lot of that, I will admit, is probably more related to acute deaths specifically influenced by diuretic use, heart failure, and dehydration. But if you go back and listen to that episode with Dr. Escalante, he talks about, if we think about the combined effects of some of these anabolics with that, and the longitudinal as well as acute potential heart failure threats, they probably shouldn't be seen as completely separate. And when we look at some of the older data, we see even in John Fair's great book on the history of the Mr. America competition, he has this table, I think if you look at one of the appendices, that talks about what year of Mr. America title winner, what year did they die, and what age were they at? And you see this pretty clear trend of the ages just decreasing as you get into the 80s and 90s and onward. So that's great, but we're kind of piecing together these kind of semi-quantitative anecdotal reports, and we're getting closer to the truth. So I think it's important that you guys publish this because you guys specifically looked at three eras. You looked at what we would describe as the quote-unquote bronze era, which is kind of a new term that maybe you grudgingly accepted. Connor, I'm not sure. I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on that. The silver era, and then also the kind of the golden era, moving into increasing degrees of bodybuilder size and presumably drug use. And then actually did some statistical comparisons to see if there were differences in death rates in the time of death. So I've said enough. I just wanted to kind of pitch that idea. We're going to have a link to that preprint in the show notes as well, so you can check it out. But I would love to hear, why don't we start with you, Connor? What was the inception of this idea? How did you guys connect? And why did you want to write this paper? Well, I think it's funny, just on the eras, I'll point to my stage, right? Carlos is the guy who coined the eras. So this is why we sort of stuck with that split, because I think people kind of seem to be known now from online cultures. I think myself and Carlos both have, and similar to yourself, Eric, a really deep love and appreciation for bodybuilding. And I think one of the issues in bodybuilding discourses in particular is sort of recency bias with steroid deaths. And there has clearly been an increase in reported steroid deaths over the last 10 to 15 years. And as I said, the interconnectedness of social media means that if someone dies at a, and I don't mean this in a flippant way, if someone dies at a regional, you know, Mr. Tennessee show junior category, we'll know about it and it'll be all over social media. And I think the point myself and Carlos, and Carlos can come in on this, I think what we're trying to get to is looking at the trajectory and history of bodybuilding and saying, okay, so anabolic use is clearly an issue with this. But we also have to look at the culture and norms of bodybuilding. Because I truly do think a large unspoken part of the deaths in bodybuilding are a symptom of the standards for athletes. And this intensification from the 1980s in particular, but it goes further back, of getting leaner, getting bigger on stage. And that's a much harder conversation for the sport to have. Because that brings in issues of athlete welfare, of judging standards, of potentially regressing to improve athlete welfare. And I think this is the thing, you know, we've talked about diuretic use. The diuretic use is in response to judging standards and norms and this need to get leaner on stage. So I think one of the things for me that's so interesting is to introduce a factor into the conversation that isn't just like Nancy Reagan, just say no. And even among untested communities, it's like, oh, well, they were using, you know, insert compound here or insert label here. Everyone knows you don't do that. But I think we need to sometimes take a step back and look at what is the culture of the sport? Because I think when you look at the history of it, especially from 1965 to 1980, with the sort of shift towards the Mr. Olympia and the physique itself being the all-encompassing. And then the 1980s is, for me, the critical period. And there's a PhD student now in Canada, Aidan, who's done a great dissertation on drug culture in the 1980s. But the likes of Rich Gasparri showing up on stage with striated glutes, which I know I've talked about before, completely changes the game. The 1980s is when calorie counting becomes really normalized. But then, you know, the decade starts with calorie counting and leanness. It ends with leanness and mass monsters. So I think the shifting norms of judging, when you look at the history of the sport, for me, that was a really important thing. That's often missing, I think, because at the moment we're getting good conversations around individual athlete welfare. But I think we really need to have a much harder conversation around the sports norms and what we're willing to accept as fans and what we're willing to accept as athletes. But I'll tag Carlos in here because Carlos, on top of everything else, is now the official historian for the Mr. America. So I've mentioned the Mr. Olympia. So I'll let Carlos come in and slander the weeders and talk about the AAU and the Mr. America show. Well, thanks, Connor. I mean, just to add to what you've said, I think it's great to firstly hear that everyone has adopted my definition of eras. I just spoke to Jerry Branham actually yesterday, who's also adopted those. So it's actually quite nice. But on a more serious note, reflecting on what you're saying, Eric and Connor, I think the motivation to do this study initially came, yes, you're right. I mean, I actually got the idea initially from having read the history of Mr. America through John D. Fair's book. And I was researching because, as Connor said, I was appointed as the host and historian of the Mr. America competition, which is still ongoing. I've been involved since 2022 in the Mr. America competition. And last year I was asked to host a show to give several lectures. And I've been asked to do the same this year. And so I've really been brushing up on my history. And as I was doing that last year, I remembered again the table that you mentioned. And I talked to Connor about it and I said, well, you know, I think we have enough information to really expand on John's work. And actually, through my own scientific background, all the statistical analyses that I learned allowed me to actually, you know, not just obviously I've got the library behind me to get all the information necessary, but to actually do something meaningful with it. Right now, having said that the paper is not exhaustive at all, it's just a sample, a very preliminary analysis, one could say, at these three eras. And we are expanding further, aren't we, Connor? And we can talk about that later perhaps, but the data was so blatantly obvious when we did the analysis that it was just really easy to do this. And I mean, if we're all honest, we've all known, you know, we've all known. And it's been, this topic has been in muscle mags since the death of Mohammed Ben Aziza back in the nineties, right? Mike Materazzo's, Nazer Asombati. The names just kept piling up initially in their forties. And then they started piling up in their thirties and twenties. And that just drove me further to really discuss this with Connor and come out with this work. So if you want to know what the motivating factor is, that's what it was, you know, just addressing something that is so obvious. I spoke to Greg to set about this as well. Right. And he said the same thing. Well, it's just so obvious. And a lot of people say the same thing. You don't really need to even put out a study for it because it's that obvious, but we did it anyway. Right. Just to put a stamp and seal of approval to say, okay, it's done. And it's not for us to inflate our ego and say, we're the first. No, it just needed to be addressed, published, and put out there as a first step towards addressing the elephant in the room. That's what it is. Right. Everyone knows about it. Everyone's like, oh, the media comes out. We'll talk about it. We'll do a couple of videos. We'll, we'll do a couple of articles. But that's as far as things get done, you know? No, my idea is more that this needs to stop being talked about in the gym locker room. And it needs to actually be talked about amongst academics. Because once it reaches a higher level of interested peoples, it will actually then be talked about with, with a greater purpose and with a greater meaning. And my personal goal is that this gets talked about amongst, not just academics, but amongst the medical community. Because it is the medical community that can actually do something about it. They can influence sports organizations. They're the ones that say, you know, that, that lead to health regulations, even in sports. And there can be a great influence there where doctors say, well, look, there is enough scientific studies and medical studies being done now. Maybe there's in the future, there'll be 10, 20 papers out on this, all saying the same thing. And you can't hide it anymore. It'll finally come out of the locker room and be addressed by actual medical professionals who will then go to the regulatory bodies and say, no more. You have to do something about this or it stops. Hopefully the law will get involved. That'll be great. But that's where I would like it to go. And I don't want to destroy the sport. No, but it has to be addressed and somebody has to do it. And I think that was something we were very keen on saying that this isn't an anti-drug, you know, an anti-steroid paper. Like, you know, apart from bodybuilding, I'm a fan of World Strongest Man, World Strongest Woman. And I love Robbie Oberst's interview on Joe Rogan where he's like, do they drug test? He's like, they check for weed. And like, you know what I mean? So, I mean, I'm under no illusions about a lot of the sports and certain powerlifting that I watch and Olympic weightlifting, depending on the nation. But I think it's shifting that conversation into one of the culture as opposed to the individual athlete. And it is trying to, I think, catch it before it turns into a moral panic, because there's a broader context against this, that there is a rising tide in the fitness industry. There's more people going into bodybuilding and powerlifting and, you know, strength activities and CrossFit and High Rocks and all these different things. But like, anabolic steroid use has increased among young men in particular in the Western world. Certainly in Northern Ireland and the UK, it's become a predominantly big issue. And a lot of academics aren't studying it. A lot of physicians aren't looking at it. The increasing use of peptides are outstripping people's knowledge and familiarity with anabolic steroids and performance-lancing drugs. So there is probably going to be a moral panic around steroid use in fitness and bodybuilding, because there always is a moral panic. And then we got this, like, fitness pushback, you know, where are the bodies? Now, we'll probably say something else next time around. But it's just interesting because we have had efforts to change things. So if you look at, you know, the early 1990s, with the changing of anabolic steroids legal status in the United States, you have bodybuilding attempting to clean up before it gets sort of, you know, targeted by the federal agencies. So Vince McMahon, and one of many Vince McMahon legal discrepancies, you know, he's running the World Bodybuilding Federation in the early 1990s, trying to overthrow the Mr. Olympia. You know, this is bodybuilding meets professional wrestling. Gary Striden is the champion. Look it up on YouTube. It's wonderfully, it's just wonderfully wrestling in many respects. But the second WBF show, you know, they say we're going to do the strongest, most stringent drug testing the sport has ever seen. We're going to get all the guys on the anabolic diets or the cyclical keto diets. Why does Mike Quinn look, you know, completely out of shape? He plans on the anabolic diet. But the weeders, to their credit, or, you know, you see failed tests with the Arnold. You see a supposedly natural Mr. Olympia, strongly drug tested Mr. Olympia. And the athletes don't like it. And the fans don't like it. And the next year, it's slowly just pushed to the margins. And they kind of get a get out of jail free card because the FBI targets Vince McMahon and the WWF at that time. So Vince has kind of taken all of the flack for steroids and in the sort of, you know, performance and aesthetic sports. But the 1990 Mr. Olympia, I think, is a really interesting and like telling moment within the sport. Because it's before really we get the space of high profile deaths. And fans and athletes both revolt against it and organizers revolt against it. And we're now at a moment where we've never really had an attempt to temper or slow down the progress within bodybuilding. Like whether we like it or not, someone like Big Ramy represents progress in bodybuilding. Because how do you get someone that big and that lean on stage? That is a sign of increased, you know, efficiency or whatever we want to call it within the sport. It's the Olympic motto, bigger, faster, stronger. But we've never had an opportunity to pump the, you know, to just slow down a little bit. And I think that productivity treadmill in bodybuilding, where you have to be leaner, you have to be bigger. That is causing problems. And I don't think the sport is able or actually capable of self-regulating that. Even if we look at, you know, classic bodybuilding. Was it Devin Hester was the first man to win the classic division? And if you look at like Hester in that first year of classic versus what we have now. And you see, if we look at physiques in its first year versus what we have now. Or board shorts versus what we have now. The sport fundamentally has a problem with recognizing the limits to progress or the limits to growth. To use terms from other fields. And it is maybe something that needs outside regulation for athlete safety. And I think that's the thing that myself and Carlos were interested in. It isn't a don't just say no. It isn't a drugs are bad. It's actually like if drugs writ large are bad in sport, let's be honest. Powerlifters, strong men, strong women and Olympic lifters would be dying at a rate of knots. There's something else in the cocktail that bodybuilders are using and the competition that they're competing in. That is making bodybuilding more potent than strength sports themselves. And I think that was maybe some of the ethos that we're trying to look at. We are expanding it now. We're trying to get a bigger data set. Trying to get sort of bring it into the modern age a bit more. But the problem, one of the problems we're having with the modern age is separating the different divisions. Because, you know, in our paper, we're looking at the elite, the people who have won the Mr. America, won the Mr. Olympia. Or in the bronze age, like a Sandow or a Hackenschmidt, you know, there's like genetic elites. But the popularization of bodybuilding of all these different divisions, you know, the IFBB is an international organization. There are so many splinter federations and so many deaths going unregulated or unreported. That is quite a hard thing to reckon with. And I'd be interested to get your thoughts, Eric, obviously, because natural bodybuilding often swims in the wake of untested bodybuilding when it comes to physique standards. And, you know, the biological imperative to be as lean as possible in natural bodybuilding comes as a consequence of really Rich Gasparri showing up with shredded glutes in the 1980s. And like shredded glutes for a natural competitor. Or it's equally hard for both. But, you know, there's chemical assistance that one person can rely on that the natural shows can't. So I'd be interested in getting your take on that because natural bodybuilding is obviously, I think, you know, your way around it. Yeah, no, I'm, I would, that's a really great background. Thank you both so much for all that context. And it's an interesting thing to look at this from a contemporary lens, because as we know, all things have become a bit more siloed. And because media is no longer disseminated through the same channels, we have almost parallel experiences that someone can have in the same era. I think this is probably most exemplified in American politics and the quote unquote culture war. But this echoes into all arenas. And you can have two people in the sport of bodybuilding who have extremely different perspectives. And I'm going to provide a counter narrative a little bit to what you guys are seeing. But at best, I want to acknowledge at the front end that this is a pocket of bodybuilding where perhaps it's a pleasant place to live. But it doesn't negate the fact of what's going on in other parts of the bodybuilding world. So there's some really interesting things happening right now. And only time will tell, as that's the way history works, as you guys well know, where this pans out. But bodybuilding as a whole is on the rise and natural bodybuilding is growing tremendously. Just as an example, I had the pleasure of judging last year at a show in Taiwan for the WNBF, World Natural Bodybuilding Federation. And there was a typhoon going on that prevented some international competitors going through. And they were only able to have 380 competitors over this two-day event. It's huge. And yeah, right. And they regularly have two competitions a year of close to 400 people. And I think most emblematic of the fact that natural bodybuilding is on the rise is the decisions that the NPC slash IPV Pro League have made recently to create a parallel side of tested natural bodybuilding within their federation. They're looking to do tested pro shows. They're using the Ben Wieters Naturals in Canada as the kind of the opportunity, like the kind of the first maybe little Olympia. But now they're actually giving the winners in that class entrance into the Olympia. And I think, you know, what we've seen is that there's been many natural bodybuilders who've gone to compete in classic kind of across the aisle. And for those who don't know, the big difference in the NPC IPV Pro League and the IFBB Worldwide where drug testing is inconsistent in the international scene, it depends on the country. Because 2017, there was the split between the IFBB and the NPC and IFBB Pro League. And there are individual countries that, depending upon their relationship with WADA, the IFBB bodybuilding there is actually supernatural. And they do a lot of drug testing. So it is very different. So this is a complex conversation. But if we stick to, like, say, the NPC and IFBB Pro League, we know what's going on. And part of the split that occurred in 2017 was specifically related to disagreements about drug testing in the sport and trying to become a little more legitimate on that side. And at that time, in 2017, wasn't that long ago. PC and IFBB Pro League wanted nothing to do with that. And now we see that they're actually going, you know what? Maybe we can get in on this natural bodybuilding thing because it's growing. And I don't think it's for any altruistic reason. I hate to be cynical. I don't think it's because they actually care about athlete welfare. But it's because there's money in natural bodybuilding. And we knew there was money in natural bodybuilding before this happened because Chris Bumstead is 10 times more popular than the open bodybuilding division. The classic division, it rewards a physique that doesn't look like this, at least what the modern era's conception of a mass monster is. Obviously, you took Bumstead and you threw him back in the 90s and 80s. You're like, that guy's huge, you know. And I think it's all relative. And certainly, we've seen that division slide towards being bigger and bigger and bigger. But having that height-weight cutoff has done a really interesting thing. Sometimes you'll see the classic competitors even leaner than the open division competitors because they are killing themselves to make that weight cutoff. It started as kind of steroids light and now it's steroids light plus a water cut trying to make weight. And I think we're probably getting away from it being necessarily a safer division. It does probably have maybe less long-term consequences because I don't think you probably have to take quite as much in terms of dosages over time. But the fact that classic is so popular, that Chris Bumstead has eclipsed bodybuilding and he has 2 million followers on Instagram and he can do whatever he wants and launch it. He's the modern-day equivalent to an Arnold Schwarzenegger. I think it's really interesting that there's much more interest in having a quote-unquote more natural look. And of course, it's kind of crazy that we're talking about Chris Bumstead. But we're also seeing natural bodybuilding expand tremendously and that the NPC is going, there's money in natural bodybuilding. That was never the case previously. And today, I actually think there is far more competitive natural bodybuilders, people who get on stage and decide to compete without drugs than there are enhanced. If you look at all the different federations across the world, the number of competitors, the show sizes, when you add it all up, there's actually a growing interest in competing drug-free. At the same time, is there being an increase in society of drug use? So it's this really interesting parallel. Another thing that just got announced, the National Academy of Sports Medicine, they have a bodybuilding certification that Dr. Escalante led and he is collaborating with them. They're a large personal training certification in the U.S. Myself, Dr. Trexler, and many others who are academics in the sport and exercise space, specifically physique sport, contributed to this. And that partnership, it signals an interest in towards potentially doing more for athlete welfare. I don't know if this is in response to the Washington Post making it really seem like the NPC has no interest in that. I don't know if it's simply a lucrative business deal between the two. I, again, when it comes to the NPC IPB Pro League, I'm pretty cynical about it. And I'm someone who is, you know, I contributed to that. And I'm glad it's happening. Don't get me wrong. I want trainers to be qualified and understand safe use models and risk and, you know, thinking about the holistic experience of the competitor. But to answer your question, Connor, I think there's reason to be optimistic. And I think there are spaces to operate where you can, I think, have a much healthier approach to the sport. And it's amazing what a line in the sand can do because you don't see the same type of health risks in natural bodybuilding, even though the competitors are very serious. They're trying to get incredibly lean. Obviously, it's extremely challenging to do that. And it does have acute, you know, downsides to it. You know, I've been shredded myself many, many times. And I've coached many through the process. And you see things like low energy availability. You see things like potentially higher risk of getting ill. You see a lot of mental burnout. You see a lot of symptoms of overtraining that are probably more to do with low energy availability while training. But that's not necessarily dissimilar to many other sports. You see a lot more potential issues with body image disorders, eating disorders. And I think when well managed and well communicated, you can have that true, genuine, informed consent going into the sport, which is a large part of what I try to do with my career. And it becomes a much safer thing. But also it's something that larger about the whole conversation about sport, in my opinion, is when there is a sport or an activity that serves both recreation and team building and societal purposes, as well as professionalization of sport. But we don't do a good enough job in society of separating those goals. You know, we have professional athletes lauded as ethical or moral leaders in our sport. And I think it's great that we can go, listen, look at the drive and dedication and discipline and what can be accomplished. But we need to talk about the fact that, you know, I've had hip surgery, you know, I, yeah, I'm a WMBF pro and I love bodybuilding. But right now as a competitor, there are, I'm making decisions that I would not therefore go, oh, and by the way, if you're interested in recreational bodybuilding for health, this is what you should do. Absolutely not. And it doesn't mean that what I'm doing is immoral. It just means that they are two different beasts altogether. Competition changes everything. And I think because bodybuilding is something that we do as a society, and man, I'm talking way longer than I intended. I will shut up soon, I promise. And it's something that has started from a health and fitness physical culture lens, but then became competitive. Those lines are very muddy and you have people in the same community with very different values in different contexts. But I think if we can talk about, are we talking about bodybuilding as a health practice and as a personal journey? Or are we talking about competitive bodybuilding, which you can move in and out of and should be done differently and framed differently? And then the competitive bodybuilding side of it is basically as dangerous as where do you draw the lines in the sand? And like you said, Juan, are the organizations actually embedding policies and regulations that protect against potential athlete harm? Do they really care about a safe use model if it's going to be a non-tested organization? And in tested organizations, do they do things like have a, like here's some things I really hate. Teen divisions. You shouldn't be having teens diet. I don't care if it's drug free or not, right? You know, or, you know, some of the, like, or encouraging athletes to compete every single year so they never actually get much time in an offseason. Knowing how long it takes to get lean, knowing how long it takes to build muscle naturally. And I think the organizations show their true colors when they do or don't promote those things. So all that to be said, we have to think about the incentives and what are we embedding in the structure of these organizations? And also where is that line in the sand drawn? And I think there is hope to be had for the fact that natural bodybuilding is growing substantially in a contemporary fashion. Ironically and strangely, you have to hold both in parallel to the increase and lower age of use of anabolics, SARMs, peptides, and just how accepted it is. People are learning more about how to do it, the risks, but also the benefits. And a lot of the times it's not necessarily a well-weighted, you know, display of both. So I'll leave it at that to answer your question in a very, very long-winded fashion. I agree with the academic. No, but I think it's a good point. And, you know, it's something that I talk about, like Carlos's opinion on this, but, you know, I often talk to students about this and the history of it. I talk about like the Overton window of physiques. And, you know, the Overton window of this idea of political discourse, that there are acceptable and unacceptable things you can talk about. And if you nudge the Overton window over to the right of the political spectrum, things that were inconceivable to say out loud 10 years ago suddenly become the norm. And obviously we have no experience of that right now. But if you look at physique standards and John Fair and David Chapman wrote a book, Muscles in the Movies, where they kind of talk about the physiques of leading male actors. And how from the 1970s onwards that they have become increasingly lean, increasingly bigger, often off the back of steroid use. And like that Overton window, that shift around what is the ideal male physique. And I think there is a potential issue that, as you say, we don't have that split between competition and recreation. And competition writ large is not equated to health. It doesn't matter if you're a competitive football player, a bodybuilder, a powerlifter. Like I have a student at the moment who does archery and she has really bad arthritis in her tendonitis in her elbows. Like it doesn't matter the sport. Competition is not health. And it's something that even the ancient Greeks knew about. But we don't distinguish the two. And we do a very bad job of distinguishing the two. And even, you know, if someone wants to look bigger or get leaner, they'll look at Chris Bumstead. As he said, he's an incredible ambassador for the sport. But he does engage in those extremes to be the best that he can be. And obviously that comes with a great knowledge of body transformation. But I think it does muddy the waters around, you know, in that context of increasing steroid use among sort of gen pop, you know, recreational bodybuilders. And I think this is one of the things that, you know, my fear for untested bodybuilding is that it will become that early 90s target because there will be that moral panic around recreational users adopting professional or elite or competitive dosages because that's where the information is coming from. And that's when the sport gets a target on its back. So while Chris Bumstead is a really great ambassador for the sport, I think we need to do a better job of distinguishing between advice for elite competitors and what the recreational user needs to have. Because for me, the two worries from this paper or, you know, the two worries that sort of underpin this paper, one is athlete safety, which I think needs to be at the forefront of any conversations. But moving it away from individual blame or individual critique and looking at from an organizer's perspective and from a sporting perspective. And you've already touched on that, Eric, about not encouraging, potentially not encouraging, you know, annual entrance or, you know, entry into two or three or four competitions a year or having like MMA does sometimes. You know, we're checking the weight the day before the competition, the day of the competition, like there are things that could be structurally done within the sport, I think, to improve things. But the second is actually, I think bodybuilding has, untested bodybuilding has the potential to have a target on its back. When we know that recreational PED, cyanide peptide use is increasing and people are looking towards that untested bodybuilding culture for information. And we know and we have stories, admittedly, my old panicky stories about people using a pros cycle that they've put out into the community with adverse health outcomes. And I think much in the same way that the early 90s bodybuilding realized, oh, there's outside eyes on us right now. We need to clean up. There is a potential for an outside agency to come in with a wrecking ball. It just it just takes a media panic. And I think at the moment, like bodybuilding media is passing over a lot of these tragedies. It just needs a dateline, you know, ABC, NBC, and it being picked up for the sport to actually have a real reckoning. So I don't know, Carlos, if you want to come in on that. But I think something, they're the two issues that worry me. Well, I mean, I think right now is a good time to talk briefly about the history and how it relates to contemporary bodybuilding. Firstly, before I get into the history, I want to talk about, again, I spoke to Jerry Branum about this. Let's look at the introduction of steroids, right? And you had basically that occurring in the very early 60s, late 50s, we can argue, right? Regardless, when you, if you read the books from Arnold, Franco, Frank Zane, whatever, right? They mentioned the use of steroids. And for the most part, they will argue against the use for recreational use, right? Which is what we're basically talking about. Basically stating, you know, unless you're a competitive bodybuilder, you shouldn't be using steroids, right? But in all honesty, when you're talking about bodybuilding, most people, I hate to put it this way, are driven slightly by vein. They want to look better than what they currently do. It's not for an athletic endeavor. It is because they literally want to look better. And I'm not saying that's a bad thing. I'm just saying that's where the motivation comes from. So they will look to advice where they get it from because it is such a hush, hush topic, right? Now, when I was talking to Jerry about it yesterday, we both agreed that the reasons why they were so downplaying their use, which they still do, right? If you've read the men's health article where Arnold came out and said, I only use Tessin Dianabol. I mean, come on, right? Anybody that knows a little bit about the history of Arnold's steroid use knows that he was majorly downplaying what he actually really used for the Mr. Universe and Mr. Olympic competitions, right? And so, although that may have worked 50 years ago, and this is what Jerry and I agreed on, Bill Pearl, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Frank Zane, all of these guys downplayed their use. And we believe that it was because if the public and especially young people back then knew what they were using, that they would probably want to copy them like many do nowadays, right? They were basically trying to avoid what is happening right now, right? What was going to happen decades later, right? And that is at least our opinion. We're trying to give them the benefit of the doubt that they were trying to prevent adverse effects in young people, right? But guess what? As we are right now seeing, the only people that, people right now that are trying to achieve an extraordinary physique are searching for information. Now it's all over the internet. And what are they doing? They basically take whatever information is out there. And if it's given by a pro, they will follow it because they want to look like Chris Bumstead. They want to look like this dude or that dude. And so, herein lies the problem. If we now look back at the history, initially, bodybuilding or physical culture was for the development of health, strength, and vitality, right? Competition was a side effect of the whole physical culture practice. And of course, as it developed, competition became much more aggressive. And therefore, in the late 40s or mid to late 40s, you already started hearing about amphetamine use, right? You've got the letters from John Grimmick already asking, how can I get an edge? Is testosterone any good? This and that. And fast forward a decade later, the York team is using now testosterone. It doesn't work. They talk about it to Dr. Ziegler. They go and develop a less androgenic, highly anabolic compound and the steroid explosion begins, right? And that's essentially all of it in a nutshell, right? And so now you fast forward decades later and we're dealing with the problem that was started in the golden era, the lack of transparency. And this is the problem. It was not regulated then and it's not regulated now. And so you had no transparency. So people are just experimenting back in the 60s, 70s and 80s, left, right and center, right? Now you have transparency. And so now people are just doing whatever, whatever their, their, you know, idol is doing. I think it's very important therefore to regulate the sport and to say, okay, this is what competitors are doing, at least to be 100% transparent. If they're going to allow drugs in the sport, then fine, but regulated in some way and be transparent about it and make sure that people understand these are competitive athletes and therefore maybe it's legal for them, but not for you. Unless you've got to go through some registration process or God knows what, I don't know. These, I'm just blurting things out right now, but at least it allows us to separate what a competitor is. And what a recreational athlete is. And if you're a recreational athlete and the law is involved, then let the law be laid down. No, you are not allowed. You will go to jail, blah, blah, blah. And maybe if you had that separation, transparency and separation defined, maybe you would have less recreational lifters going off to do that. I don't know. That's just what I'm thinking right now. That's what I said. It's interesting. You know, if you want to talk about saying it, but making sure people don't read it. Frank Zane discussed the drug protocols in a poem. Yes. And I'm like, how do you make sure the average American will not read what you've written? It's like, put it in a poem. There you go. Even if it is on the nose. No aspersions cast on my friends across the water. But it is a pretty big ocean, so I feel safe. The other thing, well, yeah, let's see. But to your point, Carlos, and I refer to Aidan Hughes, who wrote a really great master's dissertation on Dan Duchesne in the 1980s. Because how does steroid use or steroid dosages really get democratized? It's from Dan Duchesne in the 1980s. The underground steroid handbook is a cultural phenom within the sport. And what's so important is that word underground. And so for people who don't know, Dan Duchesne, bodybuilding, bodybuilding coach, drug guru from the 1980s, early 1990s. He publishes a series of newsletters. Pardon me. He publishes the underground steroid handbook, which despite being, you know, this small, you know, gritty book around steroid use. It becomes probably one of the most talked about things within the industry in the 1980s. Put it in your little pocket like that. Exactly, yeah. And you could send it and pages would be ripped out and, you know, people would look at it and they'd write down the advice. And then that piece of paper would go into the next gym. And it's this incredibly popular thing, which Aidan talked about so beautifully in the dissertations available freely online. But that kind of sets the tone, I think, for a lot of the like, you know, the professionals. Because what this underground steroid handbook does is it makes it undeniable that the professionals are lying to you. Yeah. But it also says, I know the truth. Me, Dan Duchesne. And what's Dan Duchesne, the critical thing about his background is I've self-experimented. And I've experimented with others. And I am telling you what's happened. So you have Dan Duchesne speaking with the confidence of someone who's not an exercise scientist or a scientist within academia. Because the thing that pisses off the public around academics is all of us are, well, it's a little bit more nuanced. You know, we need to be careful, which is true because it's a scientific method. But people want certainty. But you have Dan Duchesne coming out with certainty at a time when steroid use. And steroid use, it'd be very hard for an exercise scientist or a physician to do the kind of studies that a bodybuilder or someone who wants to modify their physique to extremes. Ethical committees would never accept it. That's one problem. But this is the problem that you have Dan Duchesne and really online social media discourse around drug use is a disciple. It's a descendant of Dan Duchesne. And it's certainty and it's short term, but also it's oftentimes to the extremes. Because if anyone wants to know how extreme Dan Duchesne is, read the Body Opus Diet, which is this incredibly technical, cyclical keto diet. You know, it's all these. It's so complicated to the point of insanity. But I think there is that point of democratizing drug information is probably for the better of the community. But it's who democratizes it. And the culture of that democratization brings in the trouble. Because really, Dan Duchesne's, you know, influence on the fitness industry has been to make steroid use more open, make doses more open for the average male or female bodybuilder. Because that's who he was publishing for. But it was done in a kind of Steve Michalak. You know, this is a Mr. America champion whose motto was intensity and insanity or intensity or insanity. Like, but that's oftentimes where I think the cultures lie. And you're right, Eric, about being positive about the growth of natural bodybuilding. But I do think tested or untested bodybuilding, pardon me, often suffers from either intensity or insanity, pro caution to the wind. But also, if we're being honest, the certainty of the bodybuilding guru and the certainty of the drug uses and the certainty that the cocktail that's being ingested by the athletes is okay or is safe. And even like, I've been very deliberate not to name names. It's like a McCarthy communist trial. It's a deep cut for anyone who understands American history. But like, there have been a lot of bodybuilding coaches come under flack from the online community. And oftentimes the discourse is, oh, the athlete added in something into the compound that I wasn't aware of. So like, there's all of these competing things within the sport, but we have, I think we have to, and this is, I think the main impetus for what Carlos and I were saying, the problem with death in the industry, it's not a problem of the last 10, 15 years. It's a decades long problem that is increasing in its intensity. And I think to start to try and unpack some of these issues, you need to look at where they originated from, but then also the half steps, like the 1990 Mr. Olympia is a really big half step. Also, if we look at the Miss Olympia, that's a really big half step. But in one year, they asked the competitors to reduce their muscle mass by 20%. And, you know, how well does that go? Like, but these are things of, oh, well, they tried this and it didn't work because fans and athletes didn't want it. So I think the hope and the goal of the paper is to actually kind of force us to have a more nuanced conversation around, okay, it isn't just a chemical problem. It isn't just a competition problem. It's a cultural problem that has become really embedded within the sport. Because nine times out of 10, the advances in steroid use or the advances in physique standards or the advances in judging slack has often been done without reference to consequences for athletes, for health consequences. And the people oftentimes giving the advice are from that Dan Duchesne school of thought. I know because my athletes got bigger, got leaner, even, you know, behind the scenes. And I've chatted to some of the more well-known steroid guru folks. Their evidence is, well, I had the genetic freak who was, you know, top 10 of Mr. Olympia and they look pretty good. And like, but like if you're working with unicorns, you can't work with horses, but they're trying to do both. Yeah. No, I think that those are excellent points. And one thing I might've done a poor job of is bearing the lead a little bit. Your guys' principle finding in this paper, I think is not going to surprise anybody, but I think the specific years might a little bit. So the bronze era being 1900 to 1930. So starting with basically right around the time of the great competition up to still, you know, before you even had testosterone in dictionaries. And I think it's kind of cool that in the era we're talking industrial revolution. We're talking cholera. We're talking a lot of other reasons that would exactly depression. War. Exactly. World War I. And a lot of things that would drive down life expectancy, we saw the elite bodybuilders from that era living on average to about 75, which is in the context of that time, very healthy old age. Right. And then we move into the silver era, which you guys defined as 1930 to 1960. And now we see this pre-drug, but still, I would say contemporary modern era, post-industrial revolution and the major medical breakthroughs, at least relative to today, are in place. We haven't seen huge changes in, you know, like lifespan is always confounded by infant mortality rates and things like that. But now we have bodybuilders dying at the age of 80. Right. And lifespan is still going up. Don't get me wrong. And then we have the comparison with the quote unquote golden era, 1960 to 1990, which doesn't capture the really high, high, high levels of drug use that we see in the true quote unquote mass monster era. It's like right before Dorian's largest size, which kind of is the game changer right before, of course, Ronnie Coleman. And I don't know that people are much bigger than that era now. And it's really just kind of shifted. And I'd say there's even less holding back the open division now that the classic has gone right, right, right. If you want your Melvin Anthony's, you want your flex wheelers, go over there. This is for everybody's Dorian Yates. This is for everybody's Ronnie Coleman. And not that Ronnie Coleman from 99. We want that gut distinction. All right, let's get serious about this mass monster era, right? So I think it's crazy to see that the lifespan there, and it was significantly different compared to the two prior eras, is it like 68, 69? And I think that the fact that the standard deviation is a couple years higher probably does indicate that, you know, when you're in the era of the 60s, you're probably using a whole lot less than the era of the 90s and then maybe the 80s and 70s. So it would be really interesting to see more nuanced statistical interpretation, maybe looking at a continuous analysis over these times versus stuff like that. And let's definitely get in touch because I think there's some really cool ways to look at this and even looking at the contemporary era now. But nonetheless, that's like a decade and a half difference if you compare it to the prior era, even though we're moving into the most modern advances in medical science and things like that. And if you look at healthy lifespan in – I'm trying not to sound anti-American here – outside of the U.S. because it gets dragged down because access to healthcare and things like that. But if you look at, say, Europe and other countries, it's in the low 80s, mid 80s, and America is probably still in the 70s if you look at, like, what is a healthy lifespan and age span to reach. So we see this pretty clear downturn, people losing a decade off of their life and being maybe, I would say, close to two decades less than what you would expect with that level of activity, you know, healthy nutrition. And if you had removed the drug component and potentially, like you said, Connor, maybe some of the other aspects that come along with just being a competitor to sport, like you said, is not health. And, you know, this is something that is actually quite common in sports science generally. It's trying to make the distinction between what happens once you become a professional or you move into elite sport or you're competing for your nation rather than as a part of your community and it's for community engagement. You have the long-term athlete development model where we're trying to avoid seeing early burnout, injury, overtraining, and frankly, a loss of interest in sport at a young age by having it more be like play and more be about team building. And we see athletes peaking later and staying better for longer. So I think some of this is kind of similar to other issues we just have as humans, you know, like, uh, in many ways, if you had the right appropriate long-term lens, there wouldn't be a disconnect between economic growth and what is healthy for the environment. But when you look at short-term gain and you don't think about the long-term, this is where sometimes you get, you know, the obligation to stakeholders and short-term profits that actually hurt long-term gains being an issue. And we look at a lot of the companies that made ethical errors and decisions in like the nineties that simply aren't even around anymore today. And that's going to continue. I'm not saying that's changed. I'm just saying that's the short-term thinking part of it is a big problem. Um, it would be interesting one if, you know, regulation changed this. I'm not necessarily hopeful. Maybe that's just the, the American in me talking that doesn't, doesn't believe a regulation that's going to be the problem or the solution to the problem. But their actual reason is not about the ineffectiveness of regulation. I'm not debating that it can be effective, but more so, I think the motivation for getting into bodybuilding needs to be given greater context and have more options and talked about in a little deeper sense. You mentioned that the motivation is often vanity to change one's physique, to look better. And I think there's nothing inherently wrong with that, you know, depending upon what is motivating it, whether it's a positive thing or it's a fear of rejection, a fear of not being accepted. And there's a very different flavor, if you will, to, I want to change my body because I have a sense of artistic interest in it. The same way you might decide to get a really cool tattoo versus for me to be a man or a good person or accepted by my community or to get attention from, from the opposite sex or the same sex or whoever you're into to be attractive, to have self-worth. I must look a certain way and they can masquerade as one another. But I think there is a very, very different motivational mindset if you see yourself as an artist using your body as a medium. And that is what I've tried to adopt because then it's not, I don't necessarily judge the way other people look outside of the context of being an actual judge in competitive bodybuilding, right? I don't necessarily think people quote unquote should look, look a certain way. And I know that if someone is healthy, they might look a certain way more likely, but it's not necessarily about the look. It's about what it represents or the art that you're trying to create with it. And then anytime you take an art form and you make it competitive, it changes the game a little bit. Like if you look at competitive dance, you know, it's not necessarily like the people who are involved in it. They dance differently in competition. I'm thinking like, like, or gymnastics, what they would choose to do to demonstrate their art is a little different than what they would choose. They have to choose to do to place well. So art, sport, health, performance, and also the incentives and the conflicts of interest that are at play here creates a very complex and messy story. You were talking about bodybuilding coaches and where this information comes from and the enhanced side of things. Talk about a conflict of interest. Your coach is the person who's also your dealer. They're not going to want to use a safe use model. That's called a low profit model for that. And I think some of this goes back to even Carlos's point about transparency. And like if you, and like part of the problem bodybuilding in particular obviously has is, you know, depending on the country in general, there's an open culture towards steroid use. There's a mixed culture to steroid use like the UK where, you know, the individual possession is not criminalized, but, you know, purchasing is criminalized. Or there's like an outright ban depending on the culture. So like it's against that backdrop, which is important. But I think a thing that came to me and you're saying that is, you know, if you look at powerlifting. So in the early 2000s in Ireland, I dabbled briefly with powerlifting, but the only form of powerlifting popular in Ireland was equipped. Yeah. And it was single ply. I think it's hard. It might have been multiply. And that just wasn't for me. And that's not, I'm not about to open up that can of worms or, you know, what is true powerlifting, but it just wasn't for me. But there's no other pathway. And I think there is that, like, there's that optimistic side where if natural is, like, is becoming more popular and mainstream, that can divert some people to the left, you know, of it. Which is the optimistic side. The other point, and it goes, I think, to Carlos' point about regulation is, it's not a bodybuilding specific problem that athletes push themselves to access. Yeah. It's not. And, like, you know, there's a horrible documentary that the BBC made with Steve Thompson, who was one of the England forwards when they won the World Cup in rugby. He's in his mid-40s. He can't remember anything of that game where he won the World Cup, the epitome of his career, because of concussion and CTE issues. Like, his generation sacrificed their brains to win. Now, they didn't do it knowingly, but it is that, like, Goldman's dilemma. If you were to ask a lot of them again, I suspect a lot would say, well, that's the athlete identity, you know, all these sociological ideas. But it's where regulation comes in. It's where, you know, there's the sit it out campaign now in a lot of sports that if there's any hint of concussion whatsoever, the athlete sits it out. It's, you know, enforcing, which, you know, depending on the martial art in general, it's enforcing strict weight standards to avoid dangerous water cutting. It's that outside regulation and saying, we know you want to be the best that you can be. And sometimes that will mean pushing yourself to excess. We're going to be the adults in the room and say, yes, you can be the best that you can be. But within these constraints. Within these constraints. And I think, you know, that that's something that if the conversation is not being had in bodybuilding, even if you look at the whole HGH bubble gut thing, where you have Arnold on stage with the winner of the Arnold complaining that he has a bubble gut, in Arnold's opinion, and demanding that he does a vacuum. But like, there's no substantive conversation then the following year. It's just we're going to criticize that athlete because I think that their steroid use has lessened their physique in some way, shape or form. But I think the constraints piece is something there. And this is where I think Carlos is so fascinating as the historian of the Mr. America, because it inadvertently had those constraints. Carlos, if you were to explain that. Well, I mean, you literally just took the words right out of my mouth. And the constraints were there in what one could argue is one of the most iconic and historic competitions of all time, the Mr. America. One can argue who was the first Mr. America if you really look at the history, but most will agree that John Grimmick, you know, being the third Mr. America. Once Bob Hoffman saw that he was winning and he was going to be undefeated over the next five to 10 years. He put the law, the law down for the Mr. America that he can only win the competition once. After he had won it two years in a row. Right. And in such an extreme sport like bodybuilding has become where obviously steroids, the judging standards, the use of diuretics and, and God knows what other practices these guys and girls are doing. Right. But I think it would make a lot of sense to put such a constraint. You want to be Mr. Olympia fine or miss Olympia or whatever. How about we stop these legacies? Right. This is another problem with bodybuilding that started essentially with even as early as, uh, uh, after John Grimmick. Well, you had in the universe, Reg Park, Bill Pearl winning several universe titles, right? And then into the Mr. Olympia was the ultimate exaggeration of the legacy. Larry Scott, two years in a row. Soju Oliva, three years in a row. Arnold, six plus one. Frank Zane, three. Then we got to take it to another level, don't we? Lee Haney, eight years. Dorian Yates, six years. No. Ronnie Coleman, eight years. Flex, uh, sorry, um, uh, Phil Heath, seven years. So this legacy issue is another problem. These athletes have to come bigger and better every single year. And if you put those constraints, perhaps these, uh, athletes wouldn't have to, you know, push their bodies to the absolute limit of, of human ability. You know, until they basically die, you know, and this is just what, what I think is also needed. How that they reintroduce that. You can only win. Maybe one is too little, maybe three years in a row and that's it. You're out. You're done. You know, give somebody else a chance. Because remember, if you don't give somebody else a chance, everybody else that's behind you is pushing themselves as well. To, to try and beat that other person who's developing that legacy. Right. And so that puts even more pressure on everybody else, you know, and that's what I also loved about, um, I had that conversation with, with who was it the other day. But, um, I can't remember now, but what was being said was, you know, you have all these, um, people who are, who are spending thousands of, of dollars on, on all of these drugs and all this pre-competition preparation. Right. But how many actually win? One. Right. And that's the thing. The judges don't care. The organizers don't care about what's going on around this legacy, around this person. You know, at the end of the day, you know, when, when, when Phil Heath was coming on stage, everybody knew he was going to win. Same with Ronnie, same with Dorian. Yeah. What about everybody else? What about all that collateral damage that, that occurs? Right. What about all the, the lives that are being destroyed in the process? And if you had perhaps these constraints, maybe these people wouldn't have to push themselves so hard. Just say people would have that chance and then leave for the next person. Maybe you'd have a reduction in deaths. That's one possibility. I think it's such a tricky thing because obviously bodybuilding has a, it's the free market, you know, in the, in the sense of. It's sport. You know, it's sport. Yeah. We can't, you know, I'm a. A Leeds United fan. I'd love if the 20 teams in the primary league, the division above were all put into bankruptcy. And, you know, then suddenly leads can come up. But like, you're right. Bodybuilding has had constraints in the past. Like, and obviously Carlos, Mr. America used to have an athletic component. Used to have a personality component. It's not unheard of for bodybuilding to have constraints. It's called never bodybuilding. Yeah. It's called. Yeah. It's called. The biggest, the, the biggest taboo was the world. Not using steroids. Um, what a novel idea. But I think, you know, the sport has precedents with, there have been constraints in the past. There have been WBF and Mr. Olympia shows and Arnold shows that have drug tested. There was a brief period in the nineties when diuretic testing became somewhat stringent. And it's funny. There's a journalist working on steroids at the moment. Jamie Miller is a brilliant writer. And he emailed me and he asked, you know, when did they stop testing for diuretics? Cause he's looking at the nineties and early two thousands. I was like, huh? Just kind of fizzled from public discourse. You know, there was a few like high profile pops and then they're like, eh, we'll just, you know. After everybody got pissed when Mike Ashley won the, uh, the Arnold and you had a, like a natural guy win and they're like, hold on, this should have been Sean Ray. No, we got to fix this. Yeah. Like this, this, and we can't stand no more. Even I think Jay in 2001 sued them because he'd been disqualified or threatened legal action because he'd been disqualified and it comes back in. Um, but it is this thing of like, there, there have been half-hearted measures to constrain or the sport or in some cases, I know people will always complain about that. But in this sort of cultural moment. Uh, to use a very tired cliche that we have right now, I think there needs to be conversation. And it's not the first sport to have had this conversation. I'm a huge fan of rugby. I'm a huge fan of MMA and boxing. There are conversations around constraints in all of these sports and bodybuilding potentially for too long has had unfettered, you know, access to do whatever you want. As long as you show up on stage, sub three, sub 5% and plus 270, you know, give or take if we're talking about the open division and we have constraints in classic and physique. And as you said, Eric, they kind of, you know, have health benefits as it like steroids light. Like it's still more steroids than the average, you know, man or woman, but that constraint matters. And I think this is the thing for open bodybuilding, but also just across the board, because, you know, there are more high profile deaths of non-open competitors than there are the open competitors themselves, because we have to accept that the open competitors are genetic freaks. And I mean that from a place of absolute love and respect and enthusiasm for this sport. They're the 1% of the 1% who train their asses off, who have the best genetics, who respond the best to these steroids. Yeah. But we need to think about the sort of tree or pyramid, right, of bodybuilding categories. I love that Milhouse-esque, uh, eyebrow arrays. So I think it's definitely an audio feature. I think there is maybe a need for a conversation on constraints because, you know, we said off the back of this paper, we deliberately stopped before the mass monster age. Mm-hmm. We deliberately stopped before most of the conversations around drug use and bodybuilding being a problem emerge. So what does that say around the sport? It's saying that for decades there has been this issue that we like to push aside and say, well, the individual athlete used, they were reckless with their drugs. They used something that they shouldn't have used. But there's something around how we organize the sport. There's something around how we protect athletes that isn't in line with other sports, which is all the more ironic because, arguably, the people responsible for this in some capacity, I'm not blaming them, but Joe and Ben Wheeler, when they start the Mr. Olympia, and the whole discourse is, well, we're not, you can compete as much as you want. Bigger, faster, stronger. You know, the Olympia is what everyone understands as the showpiece of the sport. But they also wanted it to be an Olympic sport. And Ben Wheeler spent decades trying to get it into the Olympics. Yep. So, you know, if we want it to be a sport that's sustainable and safe for competitors, we need to do what other sports do. And other sports, they have the competitive rules, but they also have the athlete safety rules and maridons. And that's the piece that's missing, I think, at the moment. And if I may, Connor, I'm going to actually inject a bit of optimism in this specific arena. You brought up powerlifting earlier and what it was like. And it was not that long ago at all that the kind of the West Side era was contemporary powerlifting. Enhanced, multiply, super heavyweight powerlifters were the voice of the powerlifting community. They were the iconic view of the powerlifting community. And how much has that changed in the last 10 years? Tremendously. There's a really cool paper, and I just pulled it up, that was done. And this is just a little bit of a snapshot of it, but it's actually representative of how much powerlifting has grown. In 2011, which is kind of right at the end of the era that I was describing of powerlifting, there were 1,100 competitions, powerlifting competitions, in Australia. In just 2022, we're talking, which is barely a decade later, nearly 7,000. And the crazy thing is that the majority of those, and the vast majority of this growth, occurred in raw IPF powerlifting. And now we actually have the inverse of what we see in the kind of bodybuilding world, where natural bodybuilding is kind of like the farm leagues, the IFBB NPC is seen as the big stage, the Olympia is the big deal. You can rattle off every Olympia winner, but you don't know who won WMBF Worlds in 1990. I mean, I do. You guys might. But the average bodybuilding fan doesn't, right? That is totally changed in powerlifting. In the powerlifting world, you've got people like John Hack, who was an IPF world champion, and decided, you know what, I want to go to the untested side right before the recent explosion. And now he has said, on King of the Lifts, he said, you know what, I kind of wish I'd never left, because it's more competitive. I'm competing against numbers. It doesn't feel like a sport on the untested side of things. It's a bunch of these, really no disrespect, but it is these kind of, it almost feels like that's the farm leagues. And it is this more niche thing. And all of the competitors and the numbers and the growth is occurring on the tested side of the sport, which I think is fascinating, because it's a sport that should be far less popular than bodybuilding. And you would think, oh, we want to see bigger numbers. But I think it's, the athletes participating in it, they want credibility, they want prestige, and they want what all athletes want. They want to be challenged. So I think some of the regulations that we've kind of just, you know, batted around and thrown out there probably are never going to go down, because they're almost fundamentally different to sport. Like, hey, we don't want people competing so hard to be the best. Let's institute regulations there. It's a wonderful idea, you know, one, but I think, yes, it, I, I, I too think there needs to be constraints, but I think they have to be constraints that incentivize and work fundamentally with sport. And, you know, like, absolutely. The, the, the brain injury, concussion, things like that, those are great examples of how it definitely can occur. So don't, don't think I have like a, it's, ah, it's all got to be bigger, faster, stronger or not. But I think it's really intriguing that the pushback against what we're talking about, that we often get from the bodybuilding communities, that's not what people want. People want the circus freaks. They want to see the, the untested Olympics. They want to see, you know, people just big as possible. And I don't know that that's true. Classic wouldn't be as big. Natural bodybuilding wouldn't be as big. I think people, I think there are different types of fan in the sport. And most importantly, I don't think the athletes necessarily in 1950 were like, I can't wait till one day when I'm a hundred pounds heavier on stage, man, that would be awesome. I can't wait until I have to spend two grand a month to get this big on my, my coach. I can't wait until, you know, the conditioning standards improve so much that I have to diet all the way down to shredded glutes. Oh, and by the way, I have to stay huge. So I got to take all these androgens and they cause water retention. So therefore I have to take diuretics. That sounds amazing, right? That's not, no one wants that, right? Um, and I think the growth of IPF powerlifting, the fact that what is now mainstream in powerlifting, if you can call anything in powerlifting mainstream, is the drug tested side. And that their numbers, because of the participation levels are starting to eclipse or get very close to the enhanced numbers, I think is really interesting because there's just such a growth and an explosion there. So for people who are thinking bodybuilding is fundamentally opposed to this idea of self-regulation or limiting size, it's been happening. Natural bodybuilding is growing. People are, it's happening in powerlifting, kind of our, you know, close cousin. So I really do think with the right things to occur, that there could be some pretty monumental changes in a decade. We might not even see the same landscape. The fact that the NPC right now is creating a sister side of its own sport to be tested. Imagine if there was the social outrage and this did happen and they come cracking down on NPC and they're able to point to, you guys know this is a problem. Now you're actually having these drug tested competitions. And they go, yes. And I swear to God, our plan the whole time was to only go to that. You know, you know, I could see that happening. And then you, and now all of a sudden the biggest enhanced league is only having these, you know, like the seriousness would be debated. But if you want to appeal to the natural bodybuilding market, I tell you what, natural bodybuilders are very serious about being drug free. Not all the competitors who are competing in tested, but not necessarily natural shows are, but that's because it's a different culture. So obviously it's a complex landscape, but I'm relatively optimistic about this because of how quickly things can change. I am not as optimistic. I think I sound like people after the, not to be political, but after the election, they're like the left need a liberal Joe Rogan. And I'm like, you know, the natural bodybuilding community needs like a tested trend twins, you know? And I know there have been some people of that ilk, but I just think, and this goes back to the sort of cynicism and you've been very candid about this, Eric, about, you know, your social media use. You know that if it's a shredded picture of you, you could be reading the back of a brand serial and you know, you're going to get huge engagement and great engagement. And I will watch regardless, but if it's topless, it's all the better. But, you know, like they're like, we know that there is an incentive for people who are selling and because of the economics of bodybuilding are what they are. Most athletes need to be salesmen or women as well. And there is an incentive for them to have the best possible physique that will get the most eyes on them. So there is often an incentive to be candid about one steroid juice. So I think I would, I think that's always operating in my mind that fitness entrepreneurs have largely been shysters in their end. There's good shysters, there's midland shysters, there's bad shysters. So I think there's, my cause for concern is that. I think you are right. Sport is driven by narratives and natural powerlifting or raw powerlifting, pardon me, is so interesting right now. Well, both, yeah. So NPF is both. Because of narratives. It's because of the competitions. It's because of people pushing. And even if it's lifts that we've seen that weight being done before, it's the narrative of, will they beat their competitor on the platform? Bodybuilding itself thrives by narratives. I just think that untested bodybuilding is such a rarefied sport and not having those guidelines for what it fundamentally is, which is a weight cutting show. It's a weight cutting sport that doesn't have the same sort of medical interventions that other sports have to safeguard athletes. So I think that's maybe one part of it. And then there is the longer culture, which has embedded in athletes and coaches. And like, there are so many threads to unpick, which is why it's such a difficult problem. Because you have, as you said, fundamental power dynamics. Your coach is your dealer. You have judging standards that have evolved over time to habituate fans and judges and athletes to see size and leanness as, you know, ever progressing. You have reactions and historical precedences where an organizer could say, well, we did natural in 1990 and no one wanted it. We're not going to do it again. There are so many threads to unpick that I think, you know, for natural powerlifting to be the savior, which I would hope that it would be, it would need to massively punch through at the same time that I think untested bodybuilding. I think it needs to step up and be a sport and to step up and be a sport. It means having those awful conversations. And unfortunately, we know from the history and sociology of sport writ large, the NFL only brought in concussion protocols when it was forced to. World rugby when it was forced to and it's coming under threat. FIFA is beginning to do it because it's been sued by former athletes from previous generations for years. Unfortunately, it's like the airline industry where every regulation is written in blood. I think that, you know, unfortunately, there is a critical mass that has to come. And I think bodybuilding will ultimately have to figure out a way of constraining. Now, I'm not saying in a way that people say it stops it and makes it worse. But like you can still, I think you can constrain. It may change the physique in such a way, but not in a way that will be fundamentally different. You know, like when 1990 and Mr. Olympia or the WBF shows, the athletes looked fundamentally different from people's eyes. And my reading of it is, as a sociologist and historian of sport, it needs some sort of intervention that allows athletes to push themselves as hard as they can. But within some guardrails that are protecting them, because the culture of bodybuilding from the last 60 years, the point of the paper is it has advanced recklessness and going to extremes. And it's intense deer insanity, which I think epitomizes so much. It's Dan Duchesne being the dirty, spitting sawdust drug coach. You know, it's all of these things that have changed and evolved in social media era. And I think natural bodybuilding is such an example of how the practices can be popular and can be safe. But it's untested cousin, I think, needs to have a more introspective look at athlete safety that isn't at the moment just shifting the onus on the individual. I think it needs to look at the sport and the culture of it. And I'll be cynical with you for a moment. Let's say, best case scenario, there is that alignment of the stars. A big social, you know, drive and awareness of this creates some pressure. And there is actually a change in the sport. The reality is, is that if you go to one of these fitness expos now, outside of, say, someone like a Chris Bumstead, the competitors have lines that are fractions of the fitness influencers. And most of the drive to use anabolic steroids is actually not coming from bodybuilding competition or competitors anymore. Like, it's a rare thing, actually. Oh, Sam Sulek is now competing. Interesting. But he was popular before he got on stage. Let's be real honest here. So I think it's, I think it's important to understand that while bodybuilding is often the target, because it's this extreme version of it, it's not the mainstream thing. You know, another example, while I do know that my physique drives more engagement, when I post pictures or other people who are paying attention to this use pictures of me where I'm not in bodybuilding attire, when it's just in training gear or my shirt off rather than being in posing trunks, better engagement than when I'm on stage. Right. Because bodybuilding is weird. Right. You know, like, why are we flexing in a Speedo? Like, that's, that's not the way I'm going to be getting the girls or, or whatever the reason is for someone doing it. So it's, it might be where the knowledge starts or where some of the leaders stem from, but the vast interest in it, like even 3D muscle journey, right? A hundred percent natural bodybuilding where clearly all four of us competing, pictures of us all over the place. 70% of our YouTube audience doesn't compete. They're interested in it. They're fans, but they're interested in the knowledge we have, the lessons we have. And, and I'm, you know, I'm also very grateful for that, but I think competitive bodybuilding itself could fundamentally change. We could see that the NPC IFBB kind of relegates the untested competitions to being a smaller portion. If that makes it easier for them and they can still make money. I mean, obviously that's, that's, that's what's going to be the deciding factor for them. And if there's increased regular regulatory pressure on them, maybe that happens faster. And we see natural bodybuilding grow. But I don't think that would change the fact that. A lot of the influencers are still using a crap ton of gear and, and some of them are able to get comparable physiques to some of the natural top lifters, but with less hard work because they're on gear. You know? So I don't disagree. No, but you're, you're right. I mean, look at Rich Piana, the road to 300. Like this, you know, if people follow that at the time is Rich Piana, a influencer. Now he did compete in the past, but he wasn't planning to compete when he did it. And people followed his drug and calorie increases over time to get 300. And then it began to increase. So they're like, there's a much bigger lacuna that we'll never be able to solve, which is fitness influencers and people who aren't competing because that's just a different part of it. And to your point, Derek, and even Carlos, you're saying like, we've always had fitness for health, fitness for sport, fitness for consumption, arguably now, or lifestyle advice. Entertainment. Entertainment. Like it is entertainment. Not really like it. A lot of it is derivative. That's, that's, it insists upon itself. If anyone is a Family Guy fan, but you know, like we'll never be able to solve that. But I think within the sport, there are things that can be done to solve it. But again, it is having to separate sport that isn't health, that isn't necessarily entertainment. First and foremost, it's great. People pushing themselves. I think this is rare. Like these are complicated questions. They are. But they're not being had within mainstream bodybuilding cultures. A lot of the time. They're not. They're an iron culture though. Of course. Only the best. Yes. And what I, what I do want to say is I appreciate you guys. Having this conversation. Starting the conversation. Doing the work on the preprint. And I want to be also respectful of your guys' time. Because it is late where you guys are recording from. One. I want to kick, kick it back over to you. I want to ask you. What do you think are the things that we haven't necessarily covered? That we've, we've, we've danced around. What are your kind of your, your, anything that you want to fill the gaps on? Or kind of closing words to make sure this conversation continues. I don't really know, to be honest. We've talked about many things today. If anything, we only just talked, talked about, I think a big factor. And that's social media. I think that's just a whole lot of the animal. And I don't know. I hate to sound almost dictatorial here, but you know, um, a long time ago, knowledge was reserved for the nobles, so to speak, you know, and social media, the internet has just literally let the genie out of the bottle. And again, I hate to sound like this, but in many respects, because the information is out there, it gives, especially young people who, and I don't want to make them sound bad, but unfortunately, many are inexperienced, ignorant, and way too young for their own good. And they will listen to the hottest influencer out there and just do exactly as they say, you know? And I think that's another thing that's driving irresponsible use and death. And the worst thing is that companies will, will, uh, take advantage of that. They go, okay, you're Sam Sulex and, and Trent twins. And, and these guys have got millions of followers. So we're going to sponsor them to keep doing what they're doing and we'll give them a code and they'll make us millions of dollars. So there's another animal that needs to be controlled, so to speak, you know, and that's a big gorilla we're talking about, you know? Uh, and it feeds on the, on the feeble, ignorant, naive minds of the youth, you know, who now have, you know, in this day and age of consumption of, of, uh, internet of technology of, I want it now culture. I want it yesterday, even worse. Right. Um, everyone has access to all of this information more. And I think access to money more than ever. Uh, we haven't had a world war in 80 years, you know? So people consume. We're trying now. We're working on that. We're trying. We're working on it. Yeah. We're trying. But you understand what I'm saying, right? It's just such a time of consumption and, and acceleration that, and now that the youth have access to this again, I don't mean to sound mean about this, but. This is a whole other issue, you know, and, and just to close off on my, my, um, my point. When I went to the Arnold classic last year, you know, it's supposed to be a sport and fitness expo. But I can tell you, I've never seen so many roided people in my life, right? In one, under one roof. Yeah. And, uh, you got back then, you know, back in any expo you had athletes celebrated, but now you've got athletes and Hey, special guests, this influencer and that influencer. And that's just going to bring more teens and more people. It's a money-making business. That's what it is at the end of the day. And, and if they can avoid regulation, they will for as long as they can fill their pockets. I don't disagree. Yeah. Social media, more data to the expert. No, it's, it's, uh, I think we are reaching an inflection point there where on a, on a global scale, we are asking questions about, wow, how do we deal with disinformation and misinformation and lowering attention spans and the monetization at the same time as the democratization of information? Um, you know, information is, is not good or bad. It is a tool and tools are misused when you don't understand what you're actually seeing, or if you can't tell, uh, truth from, from fiction. So I, I, unfortunately, as optimistic as I've tried to be on this podcast, I don't disagree with you on that broader point. Yeah. I'll end with that. Well, Dr. Carlos, appreciate you. It's been great. Um, your, your, your work is, is very much appreciated. Definitely guys check out the preprint. We'll have that. Um, really good read. It's not just the data on the desk. There's an excellent, check it out. Cassano and Heffernan. There's an excellent section. The introduction has such, such rich history. And there's also even the history and evolution of bodybuilding in the paper. Um, even though it is a bit of a morbid topic, it's a great read for anyone who's an aficionado or interested in the culture and the history. And also the science that's going on to this specific topic. So I just want to say, uh, really do appreciate taking the time, staying up late for us. We know you got a long drive ahead of you tomorrow. Um, and, um, I'm looking forward to having more conversations in the future if you're open to it and also just seeing your work continue. Dr. Connor Heffernan, any closing words from you, my friend? You did not thank us enough during this talk. My bad. And I think that the mass holes listening understand and respect that. Um, no, I think like it's, it's just, you've, you've been very good on our own culture about doing it. It's just, it's something that needs to be said little and often. Um, a lot around bodybuilding is that we've become habituated to athlete deaths. Um, it'll make the news cycle, you know, for two or three days and then we move on. Um, sometimes people will use it as a political talking point, you know, to blame it on. Vaccines are different. Like we'll go down rabbit holes as happened during COVID. We'll blame individual genetic issues. But I think, you know, as fans, like I'm a fan of professional wrestling. I'm a fan of rugby. I'm a fan of sports where people get hurt. We have to acknowledge that there are risks within the sport. And I think, you know, the importance and why I appreciate these conversations is. We can just normalize talking about it in a way that isn't talking about the individual athlete, but talking about the sport culture. And I think that is where the direction of travel needs to be is broader conversations around, well, the sport that we love has a problem. Kind of like what the Washington Post did in a variety of ways, some of which has enacted change, some of which has been brushed under the carpet. And I'd encourage people to read all of those articles to know which things I'm pointing at there. Um, is that men's bodybuilding one of the things that got brushed under the carpet? I hope. Um, but I think that these, I think the conversation piece is the most important thing and it's not necessarily from a punitive way or puritanical way. We accept that there are drugs within the sport to quote something my wife says about my toddler. We listen and we don't judge and we try and figure out, you know, is there a way of making it safer for the athletes and safeguarding them? Well said. No, I think that's a great way to leave it. Um, thank you guys for being willing to have this hard conversation. Uh, we don't necessarily have the answers, but I do think the first step is to have these conversations and, um, and just make sure we keep a spotlight on the fact that physical culture did start with health. And I think even some of the most extreme fans of the, uh, the chemical warfare that goes on a competitive bodybuilding that really came down to it. And you asked them, do you think there's things we could do that still preserve that competitive razor edge bleeding edge of the competition? Let's do everything we can. Rocky montage while also safeguarding athlete health. I think the answer would be yes. And it doesn't take that much, um, because competitive natural bodybuilders are still some of the most insane competitors I know, but man, a few constraints in the right spots. And I, you know, say that speaking of myself too, it makes a big, important difference. And let me just say, I personally am glad that there, there was that option for me at a young age where I was not well formed and, and was well described by your, uh, by, by your description of some of the, the young people out there who are a little too young for their good. When I was, I think 21 or first getting into this, I'm really glad that I came across natural bodybuilding because I don't know where I would be. So to be a hundred percent honest, knowing where my competitive drive would have taken me. So with that folks, I want to thank you for tuning in to another episode of iron culture presented by mass. I want to shout out, uh, both the coach, both of my guests here. So big thanks for you guys coming on. There's another thank you. The mass holes won't like that. And you had to wait until a minute, an hour and like 42 minutes in to hear me say it. So we buried it. So then only the deep cuts are going to be heard, but thank you very much for listening. It is a teaser for the future. That's not going to happen except when Connor Heffernan is on, but please leave a rating and review. Please give us five stars. Uh, please share this around. And for those of you who want to see us in person, once again, definitely check us out at the sports nutrition annual conference in Austin, Texas on the 12th and 13th of April coming up very soon. And we will see you on that next episode. Thank you.