 pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi pi Looks like, at least preliminarily, maybe impossible to get to from New Zealand because of the thing that is between New Zealand and Europe, which is the middle part of the world, which is in dire conflict at the moment. And not to make it sound like there aren't people suffering a lot more than me. No, it sounds like the biggest kind of take home is, yeah, you and your fitness conference travel schedule is really, I haven't heard people talking about that on the news, but they should be. Yeah, I mean, civilian deaths, Eric missed out on a conference. I think it's probably good that they're focusing on the former because you just don't want to give too much bad news to people all at the same time. But honestly, I don't want to talk about it. This is really kind of crazy stuff that's going on, but it is, I think it just, when you see that something really does have such wide reaching effects, it makes you go, this is kind of wakes you up a little bit. Because I think we all get in our little online silo bubbles and operate in a space that's not bad. So, yeah, no, I've, it was a little bit of a little sobering minor piece of that that, you know, inconveniences me at best and has made me think about that. So anyway, just putting out good vibes and best wishes to people who are much more immediately affected by this conflict. So I guess with that, I'm a little melancholy, I guess you could say. How are you doing? Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm good. Yeah. I don't have anything interesting to report. So I would say, honestly, we have so much to get to in this episode. It might be time to just dive right in. As long as we give a little, we got to get a little bit of love to the people who make our ability to dive in worthwhile. So I will say, if you like the show, if you want us to dive right in, you know what? We'll spend a whole lot less time promoting the fact that we are Iron Culture presented by Mass if we get a lot more people sign up for Mass. And we can go, you know what? We're so just financially secure that we don't need to bring this up every time. But even if we did not bring up the fact that you can give us a like, you know, a rating that is favorable, five stars, thumbs up, subscribe, review, all that good stuff. And that you could be a superstar and actually consider learning on a monthly basis from the Mass Research Review by going to massresearchreview.com. We would still shout out none other than Elite FTS, our amazing partners who provide all of our dear listeners with an awesome discount code of 10%. That's MRR10 that you use at checkout to get high quality lifting gear at a discounted price because Dave Tate and the team over at Elite FTS are awesome. So I think with that out of the way, not that we are trying to get out of the way, we do value those things. We believe in those things. We appreciate those people. And we appreciate you, dear listener. Maybe we should get into maybe an update on what's going on in the wild, wacky world of LDL, lean mass hyperresponder, retraction drama research. Yeah. And remind me, is that the most recent episode that we published or is that two episodes ago? So it's because we're recording one ahead. Oh, yeah. I shouldn't even ask that. We're in this jumbled, chaotic thing. It was really a jumping off point for me to basically say we took a huge risk because we basically we recorded that episode about the keto CTA trial and all the LDL cholesterol stuff. If you've been listening, you know when we published it. And it was really risky because we recorded that as this kind of controversy was unfolding literally over a matter of hours. It was like 36 hours since things started getting kind of crazy on Twitter. And we put that episode in the cam and said we'll publish it in like eight days, which was a really risky thing because I was like, this is going to be a mess. Because by the time we actually publish the episode, there's going to be all this clarity and the dust will have settled. And it'll be like, you know, it's just going to make our episode fully irrelevant. Well, Helms, I have good news and bad news. The good news is our episode did not become irrelevant by the time it was published. The bad news is because it seems like there is no appetite for actually clarifying anything that's going on. So I was a little too charitable with my assumptions and I figured people want to get out ahead of this and clarify things. Because in theory, that's kind of the whole point with research is to identify the findings and then clearly communicate those. And if there is confusion, clarify even more. That seems to be the premise of disseminating scientific findings. But Helms, this, as we know from start to finish, has been a little bit of a different process altogether. And that's the kind way of saying it. So I do have some minor updates. I mentioned in the show notes of that last episode, I said, hey, editorial note, things are fluid. Who knows where the dust is going to settle on this? But here's us recording 48 hours or 36 hours into the chaos. So we mentioned that basically the authors of that study were kind of like boasting that they had requested a retraction, which was an odd way to frame that. They're basically like, yes, our analysis, the only one that we published, we have no confidence in. So we can pull this thing. I've never heard a researcher say that in my life. But this was there's a first time for everything, Helms. So the update is it did get retracted. And yet there are still questions that linger. And one of the things that kind of got under my skin, Helms, like we talked about how the trial was pre-registered multiple times, double pre-registered on clinicaltrials.gov and as like an actual protocol paper. You know, so double pre-registered. And in zero of the two pre-registrations, did they acknowledge the concept that the clearly analysis even exists? There's no mention that this is a thing that exists in the world. What kind of got under my skin was as they were retracting this paper, they were almost kind of like patting themselves on the back saying, in the interest of good transparent science, we are going to now defer to the primary analysis, which was pre-specified in our protocol paper, etc. And so I'm like, OK, I am willing to listen to some kind of justification because that that really flies in the face of the entire premise. The premise is you only get to pat yourself on the back for choosing the primary analysis if you do it primarily, right? If you say, here's the one we're going to do, and then you do it and then you publish it. That's the whole point. But you don't get to say, here's the primary analysis. We are not going to look at it. We are going to do a fundamentally different analysis, publish that analysis. And then later, if for some reason we want to fall back on the primary analysis, which, again, that's not a primary analysis if you're falling back on it retrospectively after the publication of the results. So I actually, in Helms, you know this is a big step for me. I do not engage at all in any context. I basically don't exist in the world. But I actually, on X or Twitter, in one of these threads, so one of the authors of it who has a big following said, since some critics appear unwilling to engage with the underlying methodological issue or process, it basically was saying, like, no one's willing to actually, like, engage with this in a meaningful way. And so I just, like, I wasn't even combative. I just, I tagged him in that. And I said, like, hey, can you just weigh in? Like, if QANGEO is the pre-specified primary analysis and clearly analysis, the one that they use, doesn't appear anywhere in the pre-registration or the methods paper, why did the first paper report this non-primary analysis as the only analysis, right? And literally in a post where he's saying no one's willing to meaningfully engage with this because everybody's bad faith actors and they're all full of shit, he went ahead and did not reply to that in any manner. And then, Helms, it got even weirder. So there is a YouTube channel called the John and Calvin Podcast. And my understanding is that this guy, John, I don't know how to pronounce his last name, S-L-O-U-G-H. John Slough? Slough? Sure. I would guess. So under his name, it says data scientist and statistician. So check, check. I feel like this person knows what they're talking about. He basically released a 14, 15 minute video. And the title of the video, and this guy does not seem like an inflammatory, like, YouTuber shit poster who just, like, causes a lot of trouble. But the title of the video is Keto CTA Study Manipulated Charts? Statistical Violations? I'll be honest, Helms. When I hear that someone may have published results from statistical models that violated underlying assumptions, honestly, that doesn't move the needle for me emotionally at all. Because statistical assumptions, it's good to know what they are. They have value and utility in terms of how we understand models. I would bet it's one of those things where you will never find a model that actually satisfies all assumptions. The question is always, how badly have violations been, have the assumptions been violated, right? So that part didn't really get me all riled up. But he kind of walks through for about 14, 15 minutes and basically says, the authors of the original paper made some of the original data available. I downloaded it. I downloaded it. I made the figures. I made the figures. And my figures look very different from their figures. And their figures look different in a very specific way. Specifically, making it such that the plaque progression doesn't look as bad for them as it does for mine. One of the main claims that jumped out is he indicated that it is his opinion, based on recreating the figures, that the axes have been modified in ways that kind of shrink all the figures he was recreating. Kind of made every data point look like a smaller rate of progression than the raw data would suggest. And he actually indicated, his suggestion was that the axes were modified not via code, because these are created in our software, but almost like a manual modification. In the sense that the tick marks and the actual numbers associated with the tick marks, they didn't really seem to line up. And, of course, when you're doing a code-based software, they will always line up unless you have some wacky code where you said, for some reason, by the way, make this look terrible and harder to interpret, which you don't do. Right? So, basically, he made a pretty nuanced and thorough and non... You know, again, this was not some kind of, like, I want to start YouTube beef. It was kind of just going through and saying, this is odd. I don't understand why it is this way, but here's what the figures ought to look like based on the data that they made available. And I saw people basically tagging some of the authors in, like, Twitter or X threads about this video. And, once again, there was really no substantive rebuttal where they said anything other than basically, nuh-uh, everybody's a bunch of haters. Of course, I'm paraphrasing, but that's kind of the vibe. And, I don't know, these are, like, really straightforward things where it's like, if there's an explanation for this, like, you got to start giving me some numbers, some processes, some explanation for why. For example, there are values in this data set that appear to be much greater than the top of your axis in some of your figures. And the explanations would either be, there's some reason that those numbers in the spreadsheet should have been modified or adjusted to create the figures, or we omitted some of the values and they're just getting chopped off at the top. Outliers. There's got to, you got to give me something other than nuh-uh. Right? And so, yeah, I struggle to walk away from this with any feeling other than disappointment. And, frankly, Helms, from a scientific perspective, and I know this sounds like a cop-out, I just have utter disregard for this paper. I do, with how it has been rolled out start to finish, with the tertiary primary analysis now being pushed forward in a preprint that pretends the original analysis basically never happened. There's just a lot of these things that if you were to sit down, Helms, you work, you advise a lot of graduate students. I advise a lot of graduate students. If you were teaching a student how to absolutely not do research, this would be a case study. And, I mean, some of this stuff is, frankly, like, I'm not making an accusation, but whenever you, like, say something is unethical, it sounds like you're pointing fingers and making some kind of, like, moral statement. But, again, to republish the results, and in the preprint as I read it, I didn't see any acknowledgement of the initial analysis using the Clearly data. That is fundamentally not in accordance with good research ethics. You do not run analyses and pretend they didn't exist and then say, never mind, the second and third ones looked a lot better. You can still run the first one and say, by the way, we ran the first one, but we ran into these issues. You detail the issues and say, therefore, we moved on to secondary and tertiary analyses. But then, if they did that, they'd have to explain why their never-mentioned analysis became their primary analysis until they decided it was no longer the primary analysis. So, all that is to say, like, if you're on, like, if you are into the inside baseball of how research is supposed to work, this is just a mess. And I fear that because we're on the, like, ninth iteration of trying to say what happened in this study, I think that the well's poisoned. I don't know how you salvage data from this study and say, well, now we can have really good faith in that. No, I think that's really fair. And I think there's a couple things. You mentioned morality and ethics and how it's viewed. And I think when we talk about ethics here in scientific publishing, it's the ethics of truth, right? And most of the time when people talk about morality or ethics in that context, it leads to a judgment about a person. And it kind of falls right into that realm of are you good or bad? Do you deserve to be punished? And should we like you or dislike you or crowd you out socially? And I think what we're talking about here in the realm of scientific publishing and truth is are you representing the data faithfully so that we can get closer to our best understanding of reality? Yeah. It is still we're not going to slip into cynicism. But when you say poison the well, it's not like we just can't trust these people. It's more so there are so many questions related to how the data are presented. And regardless of whether it was intentional, malicious or an error or mistake, it makes it very challenging to be able to have baseline levels of assumption of the data integrity, not like necessarily the morality or integrity of the person, to make a judgment from it. And I think, yeah, my final point that I'll say here is that it's also a bit unfortunate that this is having to get into the statistical weeds because now the only people who will engage are going to be people with a level of stats knowledge that's above kind of people who are following it. And many people are then just going to default to exactly what we're trying to avoid, which is what is my overall vibes about the people involved, the narratives they've given, and how do those intersect with my current biases, narratives, and beliefs about the quote unquote system and the trustworthiness of the people involved. And that's kind of where we started, unfortunately. Right. And I wanted to highlight. So you again, when we talk ethics, we're talking this weird version of ethics that is research ethics. Right. And which means, like you said, it's about can we present this in a way that is maximally transparent in ways that don't fundamentally alter our assumptions and probabilities of outcomes and things of that nature? And you brought up the term integrity. And again, it's not an attack on the integrity of the researchers. It's the integrity of the data. Yep. And so when you again say, well, here is the reason Helms that you identify your primary analysis is because that solidifies the integrity of the primary analysis. It says we're not going to do some kind of shell game where we're moving around different analyses and kind of settling on the one that seems most right. We're saying this is the one. And so once you do the one and then trash it and say, never mind, we're doing two and three, that directly attacks the integrity of the data and the analysis in a pretty irredeemable way. There's there's no coming back from that. And so I think to borrow an analogy here on why this stuff matters and, you know, like who cares? You do the three analyses and if one is obviously crappy, you ditch it. Well, it's kind of like Helms. Let's say that you and I were sitting down to play poker and we're doing Texas hold them. So you get two cards down and we do five in the middle and you make your best hand of five. Right. So let's say I'm playing with you. I give you two cards. I do two cards on my side. I take a little peek and I say, um, something's wrong with these cards. And I move mine to the side. I give myself two more and I take a little peek and I say, I don't know that. I think there's something wrong with these cards and I move those aside and I take two more and I say, OK, and now we'll go do the five in the middle. When you're a poker player and you're trying to calculate assumed probabilities of what is coming next in the deck, you have no idea. There are cards that have now been thrown out and discarded and in a manner that's not blind. So there's actually a biased method for discarding those cards. So when when you and I are trying to assess probabilities of what the next cards are, you have fundamentally different information than I do. And the probabilities are all completely skewed because prior prior information has been discarded post hoc. And that is why this stuff actually matters. You did a really good job of kind of explaining conceptually what harking is there. Which is, you know, hypothesizing after results are known. And this is something that people do in good faith a lot just because of poor training and not understanding exactly what you just described. That if I just take a big data set and this is most commonly potentially a risk in like epidemiology. Like I looked at I got the whole NHANES like dietary data and all these health mortality outcomes. Let's just see what's significant because my understanding of stats is just significant is real rather than understanding the underlying premises and probabilities. That classic saying that if it's significant, then it's not due to chance, which is insane. There's a lot of significant stuff that's due to chance. Yeah. Or due to factors we don't understand. Yeah. The p-value literally means like a probability value, right? So not just this is the threshold for real. So, you know, but the funny thing is I think you can even step outside of fields that have quantitative research on this. I was literally talking to my wife this morning. I introduced her to OSF, the Open Science Foundation, to create the supplementary files to put in her thesis. And in geology, you quite literally are looking at set data. There's no probabilities. And then you're forensically describing what we think happened because it all happened. It's there. But they set up models and they still do follow, you know, Karl Popper style falsification attempts. And they have a similar issue in their field where even though there's no quantitative assessment and there's no risk of doing so many comparisons that you're going to get p-values that are quote-unquote significant, but just due to chance because of sampling variants of, you know, biological or whatever things that have variability in them. And even in rocks, where rocks are rocks and that's it, the thing that people will do because of their unconscious biases and because they have a hypothesis is they'll look at all the instances where the geologic record supports the current model and not necessarily present the other ones. And that's something that causes issues like, you know, tectonic plates took a long time to come out in geology, even though there's no stats involved. It's just because what we're presenting is, hey, here's all of the images and values and these, you know, like minerals and everything that support the current model. We did find alternatives, but based upon my view and just my decision to what I include or how I position that data, that doesn't matter. Those are exceptions to the rule, not the rule. When in reality, if you viewed it differently or if you just put it all out there, some people might go, actually, that's not the exception to the rule. That is what disproves the rule. And this is something that I think we can all understand. It's like we do this in our lives on a day-to-day basis. We have to make decisions and our preconceived notions lead to misunderstanding. So even when stats aren't involved, this is something that we need to be wary of. And like you said on the whole ethics, morality, data integrity versus personal integrity thing, it doesn't necessarily need to be intentional. Yeah. And so if I could put a bow on this, again, if you look at like if you pick up a dusty old textbook about research ethics, I think many elements of this study start to finish, including the rollout, conflicted with a lot of kind of standard practices in research ethics. That's not an attack on the ethics of the people. OK, same thing with the data integrity. There are massive questions about the integrity of the data and the analysis, not the integrity of the individuals. The last thing I want to say is I have not downloaded the raw data. So I'm kind of reporting what the statistician has kind of laid out in his video. So I'm not necessarily saying this is absolutely 100 percent accurate and there's no explanation other than nefarious things. I can't say that. What I will say to wrap things up is I've just kind of been disappointed with the engagement, with the kind of rush to saying that there's a bunch of haters out there. They're all critics. They're not willing to actually engage. That's the term they use with the underlying methodological issues. And yet every time there's like a very fair, neutrally worded question that's just like, just can you help me understand why the primary analysis is not the primary analysis? Right. Can you help us understand why this person is saying that the axes are all off? And it looks like he's telling us like these data don't fit in the figure. If you just look at their values and the maximal value on the y-axis and their unwillingness or. Inability or refusal or you put it whatever verb or whatever term you want to put in there, the fact that that hasn't been engaged with when there's been ample opportunities to just clear the air. I I've been very disappointed by that and I'm sure they're going to lose a lot of sleep knowing that Eric Trexler was disappointed on the Internet. But yeah, so that's kind of essentially where I have to leave it where it's like if you ask these questions that I think are extremely fair and you can't get answers. I will acknowledge like sometimes like I have like pushed back on some like posts that like Andrew Huberman has done on social media and like he he cannot respond to all comments on his stuff. It's like on Instagram comments get completely lost. They're extremely difficult to keep up with. Some of these folks are busy. They have big platforms. I get it. But at the same time, it seems to be a pretty broad reluctance to actually engage with legitimate, like very fair, not combative questions. And to me, if we can't get there, then I don't think there is an actual viable route toward a really transparent understanding of the data. And that's the whole point of science. And if we can't get to a transparent understanding of the science and the data and the process behind the data, then I don't think we're in the realm of science anymore. And I don't think there's a lot I can do with it. Yeah, I think that's totally fair. And this actually dovetails nicely into kind of conversation we're going to have about things people believe that maybe aren't actually grounded in science. Maybe why they're attempting to believe in how hard they are to change. And one final comment on this, you know, since this author group is preprinting new stuff and wanting to pursue this in a way that is still presenting information. And I'm glad it's under the microscope. And I'm glad that despite what they're claiming, people are engaging with the actual data and that it's going to be challenging to truly present something that is supported by no data without it being very obvious that that's what's happening, given the attention now. So, yeah. Yeah. And you know what? Like, yeah, it's, you know, if they want to continue pushing forward and try to republish the data differently. And now that everyone has seen this whole process, they get some pushback. That pushback leads to greater transparency and better reporting. Hey, like, honestly, what do I care if there's some weird, wacky way to not get heart disease from having LDL above 300? Great. That doesn't harm me in any way. It'd be very surprising to me. But I really, frankly, Helms, I don't care. Like, I don't really have, like, an emotional connection to this. Um, I would have to update my understanding of the topic pretty substantially, but I'm more than willing to do it. So, um, yeah. The bright side is, like you said, um, if they do continue to push forward and people are aware of this, then maybe we will finally get, um, you know, through the peer review process, some, you know, holding a feat to the fire. And just saying, hey, you, you need to report the whole process, including the analysis you're ditching, why you're ditching it. And, uh, yeah, maybe, maybe we will eventually get closer to the truth. But it seems that tagging them on Twitter is not the route to getting closer to that truth. Uh, at least not if you're me. Who knew? Um, yeah. So surprised. The, uh, yeah. So I think one of the reasons why that this whole line of research is compelling, and it is one of the reasons, uh, if you look at the data on conspiracy theory and who believes in it and who does not, one element of it, and doesn't explain all of it. Um, cause there's, you know, there are issues like Duke conspiracies sometimes do exist. I will acknowledge that. And, um, the erosion in the trust of authorities is sometimes very valid. Right. Um, and we have seen incidences in modern times where that's a totally understandable reaction. Right. So one of, though, the personality pieces, uh, that I think we can all assess exists in some of us to some degree is to have unique special knowledge, uh, where you actually find out that you know the truth and other people don't. And who doesn't like to feel like the smartest person in the room? Um, it can be quite frustrating when you know that the current narrative is incorrect and there's harm associated with that. And we're trying to like, be like, that that's not actually not how that works. And in many ways, as the myth busters, we see the other side of that. You know, we've been studying nutrition, exercise, health, and some of the misconceptions that are out there that everyone seems to believe. Uh, they've been so entrenched that it's, it's like, I don't like being the one with special knowledge. I need us all to know this and accept this so we can actually make positive changes. Uh, and that whole world's becoming more muddied. But again, one of the reasons why, especially when you see the carnivore diet or the LDL denialism or things like this, if you look back to it, you know, the way the seven quote unquote seven country studies is framed or the, the way the, uh, the original food pyramid was framed or the influence of big great, all that stuff. And, and the, the idea that there's a ivory tower and even sometimes collaboration to keep people sick or to push a certain narrative for some type of whatever. And I am the one truth bringer. I'm also fighting against oppression. Those things are quite compelling. And many of the things that we believe and the things that give us, uh, like, oh, really? I didn't know that. Um, these narratives that actually a lot of people think the reason why they initially took hold is because they provided a bit of unexpectedness and they're like, oh, isn't that neat? I would never think, you know, something as simple as the, uh, whether or not a judge is hungry can impact whether or not you get parole or not. Right. And we've talked about hungry judges on here. Um, other things though, aren't necessarily controversial or subversive. Uh, they just get presented. Uh, they're a reasonable explanation. Um, but because the scientists themselves and many of these myths do find their initial route in early science. Um, the narrative gets explained. There is a mechanism. It fits into someone's worldview and then actually changing. It becomes impossible. Uh, if not very, very challenging. So a cool thing that is coming out and actually might be out or will be just coming out by the time this episode gets released since it's prerecorded. But I'll just put it this way. The April 1st issue of mass, our cover story is one that I had a lot of fun writing where I tackled five of actually many pop science beliefs, uh, that are not directly in the field of that mass normally covers. Because I think the mass readership, the iron culture listenership, people who follow yourself or myself, um, they're pretty good at now spotting when there is a likely, not at least fully true claim that is presented in the realm of health, fitness, nutrition. But I know at least I'll speak personally over my many years where I became more skeptical of those types of claims. I didn't always have the same ability to apply that same skepticism to claims I ran into out in the wilderness. So one thing I thought would be cool, I came up with this idea a couple months ago was why don't we tackle some of the ones that aren't, uh, in the typical wheelhouse of mass just to hopefully kind of open the eyes of our, um, subscribers. And I think we're going to make it a public article. I think it's that, it's that good. We might do it as part of our sale. Um, and just kind of help people understand like, you know, you know what, if you hear a random pop science claim at best, it's partially false. So that is kind of what I think would be cool to go through some of those just to give a little bit of a, whoa, I didn't know. Oh shit. I believed that forever and never even questioned it. Yeah. And you know, when I was, you know, cause we do a pretty rigorous internal peer review among the mass crew. And when I was reviewing your article, one thing that came to mind for me, I think this is a good way of framing the article. Um, and I think a lot of people who are in the iron culture audience can probably relate to this. Um, I remember I used to watch all these like documentaries, right. About all sorts of different topics that have nothing to do with health or fitness or nutrition. And I would watch these documentaries. I'd say, Oh my God, I just basically uploaded a hundred new cool facts to my brain. Uh, and I would, you know, talk with people and say, Oh, actually that's not quite how it happened because I saw this documentary and blah, blah, blah. And then I watched my first ever nutrition documentary and I was like, wow, that was all complete bullshit. Yep. Uh, none of that was reliable information. It was a complete travesty. And then I watched Helms, my second nutrition documentary. I said, Oh my God, all of that was unreliable trash. And on and on and on. And every time I've ever watched a documentary covering a piece of subject matter that I felt I had a very high level of expertise regarding, the hit rate is astonishingly low. And you walk away from it saying, God, I hope no one takes that seriously or literally. Um, and then I just remember the first realization after I watched like my fifth terrible nutrition documentary in a row when I said, Oh my God, what about the other 300 I've watched that I took at face value and was completely uncritical about. And, and I think that's kind of, um, we do the same thing in fitness, especially like the iron culture audience. Because their, their BS detector is very finely tuned for exercise, nutrition, training BS. And yet, um, we kind of forget, by the way, this also applies to like most of the things that you've heard where there's maybe a grain of truth, but, uh, popularized information. By the time it does the game of telephoning gets to you, often there, there's some huge gaps if, if not just absolute straight up inaccuracies. So, yeah, I think this would be, um, I'm kind of following your lead on this. Um, you know, I did my little rant about the keto CTA. Um, what, can I say one more thing? I know this is going to destroy the continuity of the show, but on this idea of like, um, uh, kind of the conspiracy theory and stuff like that. And you mentioned, uh, the seven country study and I didn't want to interject and cut you off, but a lot of people who are big, like saturated fat proponents and or LDL deniers, whenever you bring up the seven country study, you know, they say, you know, there was actually more than seven originally. And he cherry picked the seven that fit his narrative. And it, I, I have not seen anyone comment on the hilarity, uh, and the great irony that with the keto CTA study, they said, yeah, those hundred clearly scans looked really bad. But if you look at the eight that we redid, the eight out of a hundred really fit our narrative quite well. Uh, so I love that we're going back and we're taking that conspiracy theory and completely flipping it in a way that's being presented as valid. Uh, but that was the last thing I had to say. I just, I love the irony too much. And since we're on the, on the, uh, conspiracy theory, pseudoscience train, I had to get that, my, my little parting shot in, but Helms, I'm following your lead. And I think when it comes to these kind of pop science slash pop pseudoscience topics, um, I'm, I want to follow where you go with it. You know, you wrote about five of them. You picked five out of like a list of like 10 viable options. So wherever you want to go, I'm following and I'm, I'm along for the ride. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, the, like there's so many layers to that seven countries study thing. Like there was actually a 2017 white paper published by experts who looked back and said, listen, this was not cherry picking. Uh, it, it, it's, this is a misunderstanding to the study scope and why things were included in this way. People talk about why the, the French diet was specifically excluded from the data set. And while the French, you know, researchers were initially part of the pilot studies, they didn't participate in the final studies. They didn't actually have the data. There wasn't actually data for 22 studies. So even that narrative itself is, is false. And it's really unfortunate because Ansel Keys was one of the most like prolific researchers, highly transparent, documented things. Didn't seem to have a bias. Um, and he, he's drawn through the mud. So it, even sometimes the, the narrative about a narrative that's hidden has been repeated so many times. And I guarantee you almost 90%, if not more of the people who you encounter online talking about the quote unquote seven country study, they're repeating something someone else has said. And they have not read that original study or the data or the white paper I referenced about it. So it's, uh, and along, along those lines, Helms, I'm one of the few sickos. I, I, people are going to say that they've read the Minnesota starvation experiment. They haven't. They're lying. It's very hard to get. Um, and I think people believe they've read it because they read a review paper that pulls out a tiny bit of the data. But if you're going to accuse Ansel Keys of cherry picking, like here's my plead, uh, to Ansel Keys in the grave. Ansel, you could have cherry picked a little more with the Minnesota starvation experiment because it's 600 pages, Helms. Like every granule of data was squeezed out of that sponge, which is the right thing to do, by the way, considering what those poor participants were put through for that study. Um, but yeah, the idea that he's like not a transparent reporter of data, like if you've read the Minnesota starvation experiment, uh, you are nauseated by the transparency and the depth and the detail. That, that is one thing for certain. And I, I, I have a theory that post year 2000, I'm one of the four people that have actually dusted off that old document because it is hard to find. And very dense. It's a book or a couple of books. It's actually sort of volume. It's, it's a, it's a two volume book because one 300 page book is only the first half. And you know what? I, I am, I have them downloaded on an old laptop and I, I have, yeah, I'm not sure I made it through both volumes entirely, but I've, I've, I'm, I'm there with you, but there's very few of us. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway. Yeah. The first, the first time I opened it, I just said, oh my God, everyone who's talking about this has clearly never read it because there's no way. Correct. Yeah. There, there's just so much. Um, and, and the highlights are great. I mean, I first got exposed to the Wikipedia article and then I got curious and again, uh, I was actually reading that full text before I was reading full, full, full text because it was before I was in research. So I, um, I think we're, we're semi-privileged, but, uh, in that we've been faced with our own natural ignorance, um, as we've been exposed to these things, I'm sure now that you've moved into a much more interdisciplinary space at Duke, uh, you know, working in like evolutionary anthropology and stuff like that, you've encountered that, oh my God, there's the equivalent of quote unquote bro science in every field. Uh, and I have been not like aware of it. The same thing happened to me as I stepped into the academic space at sprints, the sports research Institute, New Zealand. Um, and it's because sports research is way bigger than sports science. Like just a couple of weeks ago, one of my good colleagues who is like a world leader in, uh, sports leadership and governance does a lot of qualitative research. Um, does a lot of stuff that influenced policy. Um, she was like, Hey, you know, my, my son wants to take creatine. I really discouraged him, but what do you think about, you know, that? And wasn't that the hormone that those, you know, baseball players using? And I was like, uh, can I record a message for your son? Cause he's like a 17 year old lifter and he knows who I am. I was like, uh, your mother is an excellent researcher in her field, but she's wrong on this one. And I gave the whole spiel on creatine. Um, and she was like, Oh, but, but the thing is I've also encountered the equivalent of me like, Oh shit, I didn't know that. You know? Um, so this is something where I think I've just become more humble because of this understanding. Every time I've encountered it. So the, uh, the five myths that I chose out of a lot of options for the mass article, uh, are pretty good. And, um, they're ones that were some of the ones I had heard before that I thought were really interesting. And some that came up, you know, as I was searching that I was not aware of, I think the one that shocked me the most. And the funny thing is when I think back of when I was first exposed to it, I was like, well, that must not apply to this part of it is, uh, learning styles. So the, the classic, uh, idea that if you match the way that you learn best with the way you teach, uh, visual auditory or kinesthetic that you will therefore learn better. This is actually, um, introduced speculatively by none other than a New Zealand educator in the eighties. Um, not really having much data except for kind of his own observations and proposed as one of many what are now considered neuromyths. And it's been quite literally debunked and disproven for almost 50 years. Um, and the idea is that, you know, some people are visual learners, some people are, are auditory learners or listeners, and some people are kinesthetic learners. And I remember the first time I do remember, like I was a teenager, I came across this and I was like, well, nobody's going to learn how to play a sport by just watching it. Like you can review game footage, but you can't say it's going to be better than actually trying to shoot the basketball. Right. Or it's like listening to a lecture about the concept of how you would shoot a basketball. Yeah. And, and like the same people will even say things like, you know, well, like, you know, you'll, you'll get these teachers who get trained on these certain things. And one of the things they'll say is, well, there's a difference between book knowledge and experiential knowledge. Yet you look, you, you learn better from reading books only. It's like, really? So I, I, I had to think like, oh, I'd heard this, but maybe it only applies in certain ways. But then you really dig into it, even as written with the original hypothesized VAK model, when it is attempted to like systematic reviews and even experimental data that have tried to implement this to see if it impacts learning outcomes. It is neutral at best tracks. Some indications indicate that when you preload people with an idea that they learn best by, again, a non-validated test, which might tell you your visual auditory or kinesthetic, that then you will be less likely to engage with certain mediums or types of information, basically noceboed towards your ability to learn them. And that it sometimes will force types of presentations that don't actually match the inherent value of the data. So there are notable negative downsides towards this belief, yet it got ingrained in teaching courses, modules, and became a part of curriculum. And it's something that when they did surveys in the early 2000s, so this is now 30 years after the idea was introduced, but 20 years after it had been initially debunked and repeatedly debunked and debunked and debunked, 90% of teachers believed this in many of the surveys that were done. So then more debunking. You can still find papers. Learning styles are constantly referred to as neuromyths all the way up into the, I think, 2021, 2022. I found some meta-analyses and systematic reviews and papers. And then I found the most recent surveys I could find, published in 2024, and then end of 2025, 89% tracks. So this is a classic example of what's called Brandolini's Law, which is not a real law, but it's the bullshit asymmetry principle. That once a myth is taken hold, it takes an infinite level comparatively and almost an impossibility of then breaking that myth. So I think there is probably some hope. There's been experimental studies showing that teachers in training versus teachers who actually do go through an evidence-based protocol, when they're actually taught and why it doesn't work and presented with the information, they do change their beliefs. So there is some hope there. But this is one of those things where you might have people who do a teaching credential that is not necessarily structured in an evidence-based way based upon a literature, versus someone who has a master's degree in education where they're like, goddammit, that bro science. It's kind of like you and I might look at some of the lower quality personal trainer education that's out there and be like, oh, they're still doing like muscle fiber type based training or, you know, they've got these, you know, misinformed beliefs about like posture or, you know, like what a movement test predicts or things like that, you know. So I found that really interesting. And I don't know that I ever even thought about questioning it beyond that, but it makes total sense. And what is true, I guess a useful take-home here, is that you might feel like you're a visual learner. And it may be that you do really well when you present things and you can see it, but that might not necessarily be a learning style. It may be that when there's multiple pieces of information that are quite complex, that you have a difficulty holding onto it while looking at it. And certain things like are just way better presented as a figure. And also, what's your prior expertise or knowledge on a topic? You know, you or I probably could take in complex information about exercise and nutrition in purely auditory form and be fine with it because we kind of already have a general understanding of what's being said. You know, there's not like a language barrier. Like, okay, wait, wait, what is glycogen? No, I don't know what you're talking about, you know. So I think from a motor learning perspective, it's very easy to debunk. From an expertise perspective or an individual processing speed or power perspective, you could understand why some people might present this way. But when it's really put to the test, it falls apart. And it also is just not the way the brain works. I think if you look at functional MRI testing, we see that the visual cortex, the motor cortex, and the parts of our brain that are related to these supposedly distinct learning styles are heavily talking to one another to actually, you know, facilitate learning in the most effective way rather than just one lighting up for certain people more than another. So that was the one that blew my mind the most. It was the one I didn't know was untrue and probably just because I hadn't really questioned it. And so I thought that was a fun one to talk about. Yeah, that one hurt me because I've never actually like looked into it, but I have definitely made a throwaway statement in the past that I'm a visual learner. Sure. I don't know what it is, but for whatever reason, it's like sometimes if someone's talking to me, I will literally if I need to do some serious thinking, I will get out a piece of paper and just write words as I'm thinking about them and just put stuff on paper. Even weird little drawings that I never even finish, like little figures and concepts. So I've always kind of said like I'm a visual learner because it does help me to put a pen on paper and just sketch out words and kind of terrible figures and tables and things like that. But yeah, so I'm definitely guilty of it at minimum propagating this concept for sure. Well, I think adding a visual component to something that is being taught auditorily or verbally or that you're reading and that enhancing your ability to uptake the information is in contrast actually with what the VAK says. And it doesn't make you a visual learner. It just means that when we include more sensory inputs, because it's not like, hey, don't say anything. I don't want you to explain this figure. And actually don't label it. Don't, I don't need to get rid of that, like that title and no more of that subtext at the bottom. I'm not a reader. And there actually is a version called VARK, visual, auditory, or reading, writing, kinesthetic. So no, no, I'm just visual, not reading or writing, and I'm not a listener. Show me the figure. You can label the A in the Y axis just so I know what I'm talking about, but no other context or information. That is not going to be better for anybody if you, compared to accompanying it with written text or actually talking and explaining it. Someone sits down and explains to you a figure, it's going to make more sense than if you just read it on your own. And another thing I think some people confuse is that you can only take in so much information of any type at the same time, right? So one of the biggest faux pas in academia is when you're talking to someone about your PowerPoint and you have on your PowerPoint also a wall of text. Because unless someone has incredible ability to multitask, you're forcing them to choose which one they're going to do. Do they read the PowerPoint or do they listen to you? And the idea is that you have two complementary things. Like you have a visual image or conceptual representation of what you have and you're saying something. Or you are having a lot of data on the board and then you're talking through and you're explaining it in a complementary way. So it's just not the way our brains work. And I did the same thing until literally I encountered this. I think Mike mentioned it in a Slack channel update a while ago. I was like, oh shit, that's not a thing? Okay, wow. Yeah. Yeah. The other one, which is totally outside of anything that we would normally talk about in iron culture or mass, that was another big shock for me. I think two or three of these I knew about beforehand and the other ones I was like, let me just go expose myself and see if I can have some existential crises and come back to write this article. And this one, not only is it a myth itself, but the incident that led to it occurring was also a complete misrepresentation of what truly occurred. So for this one, a little bit of history, we're going all the way back to the 70s and we're in Stockholm and there is a gentleman, a criminal gentleman who decides- Perpetrator. A perpetrator, you know, a con, you know, a robber, if you will. And he goes into a bank in Stockholm and takes, I think, four or five people hostage and demands the release of someone who's in prison, who is his colleague. You know, we're using, you know, nice terms here. And threatens that if he's not released and he's not given weapons, he's not given money, he's going to kill these four or five hostages. Okay. And that's why it's called Stockholm syndrome. And the way it was presented in the press was that, you know, these five people, they pleaded for the cops not to intervene. They even, one of them even called the prime minister and told them, hey, you need to come into these demands. And then when the actual court case happened, where this guy who's threatening their lives, they refused to testify. And a psychiatrist and criminologist who represented the Swedish police took one specific outspoken member of the hostages and said, you know, she actually developed a relationship. And this is called Stockholm syndrome with the captor and implied that it was romantic, that she fell in love with them and that this is, and publicly diagnosed her as having Stockholm syndrome. And that's where it started. And it went on from there till today. Okay. As all psychologists know, it's a good idea to publicly diagnose people without, you know, without doing that privately, without any real like legitimate diagnostic criteria, just kind of say, hey, I made up a new thing and they have it. Well, that's the thing is that context wasn't presented to the public. It was a psychiatrist and criminologist representing the police. And they would assume, of course, they must have actually sat down with this person. Stockholm syndrome must be in the DSM or whatever the equivalent was in the 70s, not knowing that, in fact, neither one of those things occurred. So first, let's debunk what actually happened. So what happened? This guy did go in, did take hostages and did threaten their lives, but they started building rapport. And in fact, if Stockholm syndrome was a thing, it actually happened on both sides. And I'll explain what that means. So this robber starts to develop rapport with these people. He's explaining to them what he wants. But he is threatening them. And he is saying, I will kill you if I don't get what I want. But, you know, I'm sorry about this, but this is important to me. So the police and their infinite wisdom, they figure, you know what we should do? We got to convince this guy that this is a bad idea. So they identified the robber and they found his 16-year-old brother. And they said, you know what, buddy? You're obviously a 16-year-old. You're an experienced hostage negotiator. We're going to send you in there alone. No vest, no weapon, no support. Just go in there and convince your brother that he shouldn't be doing this. Unbeknownst to them, the person they thought was actually the robber was still in prison. Not the same guy. And so it was not his brother. It was somebody else's brother. So random 16-year-old walks into the bank and starts to talk to this guy, surprises him. So what does he do? He takes two shots at this kid. Thank God doesn't hit him. The kid realizes, that's not my brother, runs out, and the police almost got this kid killed. Okay? So that was strategy one. Can you imagine? I'm sorry. Can you imagine the surprise of just like, you know, the perpetrator going, who is this random person who's walking up to me as if we have some kind of preexisting relationship? And then the other person saying, why is my brother shooting me? Hey, who is this strange man? Just like the split second where they're both staring at each other saying, what are you doing here? Yep. And to think that that was the police's first move. This seems like a good idea. Let's send an unaccompanied minor into a building where a guy, an armed man is threatening to kill people. Oh, shoot. He was someone in prison. Not even the right guy. Okay? So that's where it starts. The next thing that starts to happen is the police are climbing onto the roof. They're threatening to bring him out. They're threatening violence against him. And the guy is freaking out. And, you know, they're escalating. He's escalating. There's no attempt at de-escalation. And he even puts a noose around the neck of this one gal and is like threatening, I will hang this woman. Now, he's got a gun to her head and he's putting a noose around her neck. To me, that seems like he's trying to threaten but won't actually pull the trigger. And that's actually what's happening because of the rapport they've built and the time now they're spending under threat from the police. And the police climb onto the roof. And they're doing something up there. And what they're actually doing is they're trying to drill through the roof to release tear gas into the bank. And at this point, the guy's freaking out. And all of the hostages are yelling up at the police, please stop. He's going to kill us. You're going to get us killed. And this is when one of the women actually does get on the phone and calls the prime minister. And they have a 45-minute conversation where he is pleading with the – she is pleading with the prime minister to contact the police and get them to stop risking their lives. And, you know, she does absolutely think that she's at risk. She is 100% calling the prime minister because she thinks she's going to get killed by this guy, prompted by the escalation of the police, though. So this is the context of what's going on. And the police then do actually release tear gas into the building. And the guy doesn't follow through on killing them because he established rapport with them. So if there's any Stockholm syndrome, it's primarily on the perpetrator, right? So then – So the perpetrator basically, after this kind of shared experience and stressful experience, he almost – because he had, like you said, developed rapport with the captives, he wasn't able to actually kill them and kind of follow through on his claim. And who knows? It's very possible he just never had it in him in the first place, right? So it could be that there's just no forming of actual, you know, connections here. But, yeah, like you said, the circumstantial evidence would, if anything, go the other direction. Not that the captives became bonded to the perpetrator, but the perpetrator became too bonded to the captives. Exactly. So this happens. And then the next step is that the captives are all so pissed at the police that they – and they got tear gassed too, right? You know, like after all of this, you know, they're – many of them were unwilling to testify and some of them actively spoke out against the police. And the police were pissed. And the criminologist and the psychiatrist who saw this never actually even met the woman who he publicly diagnosed and claimed fell in love with them. And to this day, there is no such thing as Stockholm Syndrome in the DSM. So this is the factual debunking of what actually happened. But the work in the psychology community, in the criminology community has also been ongoing. There is an FBI internal statistical analysis looking at all of the cases of hostage taking that occurred that they had on record done in the 90s. I think it's over 2,000 instances or something like that. And they looked at all of the times where the hostage ended up cooperating with the person who took them hostage. And in, I think, something like 93% of cases, that never happens. And the few times where it did happen, almost always, it was related to the police doing something that threatened the hostage, or at least they perceived it to be that way. So rather than it being a bonding with the captor, it seemed to be a threat response to the cop or the police organization or whatever was the case in that instance. And when they specifically looked at only instances where that did not happen, it was less than 5% of the instances where anything related to Stockholm Syndrome could occur. So now, that's the 90s, right? And now we're actually in the world of scientific investigation of bonding between captors. And don't get me wrong. There are such things as abusive relationships. People feel captive. And sometimes this is more of a continuing long-term abusive relationship. You know, people don't press charges sometimes. There is some truth to this phenomenon to some degree. But it is far better explained and far potentially less damaging to the victim to understand it in a more complete way. And this is where what's called appeasement theory comes in, which is a modern psychological construct, which says, hey, when neither fight nor flight is an option for someone, what is almost an inbuilt response is for them to figure out a way to how do I actually appease this person? How do I not get killed? How do I, you know, say whatever needs to be said? And it's something that really interestingly, it's not like you're a trained secret agent and you know I need to manipulate this person and say what I got to say. This is happening in people when they're like in short-term, highly stressful situations. And it seems to be almost a neurobiological response, something that is a part of our ability to evolve. You know, we've had a pretty gnarly past if you look at the human race. And the people who survive often are, they don't have it, like we say fight or flight, but that's not the only options. You know, we have a lot of just inbuilt programming, if you will, for how do I survive these types of situations? And one of them apparently is that when it does not seem like there's an option, what you do is you read the room, you figure out what's going on, and this is happening subconsciously. And you respond in a way that hopefully doesn't get you killed. And when we think about some of the stories of people who were, you know, survived an encounter with a serial killer or were under threat for a short-term period, sometimes they have even repressed memories. They weren't fully acting during these time periods, and they kind of found a way out by just, you know, not pissing the person off in many ways. And so that is a better explanation of what's going on, and it also doesn't leave the person with potential shame, regret, or feeling like, oh, my God, why did I do that? Understanding that, dude, you were just doing what you had to do to survive. And that is the closest thing to Stockholm Syndrome that seems to exist, and it is quite different than the way it was presented in that case. So that was probably – actually, I said it was a bigger eye-opener than me than the VAK one because it doesn't seem completely unreasonable. And I had thought about it. I'm like, oh, that must be a thing. I mean, yeah, you know. Yeah, so I was surprised by both of them. I think that the VAK thing, as you mentioned, that was the one – because I've heard it so much in educational spaces, I thought that that was a much more robust, evidence-based concept. And I was very disappointed to read your article and learn more about it. Stockholm Syndrome, of course, I'm hypothesizing after results known here, as you mentioned. But it did always kind of strike me as very counterintuitive. And I was like, I could see that being at best a half-truth and at worst kind of a – but, I mean, the actual details of the story that you lay out is so much more nefarious and so much more just terrible. In the sense that it's like it makes it seem like essentially this was a diagnosis that was to save face, you know, basically on behalf of a police department that bungled every step of the way and just didn't want to be ultra embarrassed. 100%. It was basically like, man, this looks really bad. Let's deflect blame and kind of, you know, take the pressure off of the Swedish police. Yeah, so I would have never guessed that that was the root behind it. I would have thought it was kind of a sloppy assessment, very superficial. Oh, hey, why didn't this go wrong? I guess maybe they love each other now. You know, I could have seen that. But the way it actually played out, yeah, it's honestly a lot worse. A lot more disappointing in nature. Yeah, the actual hostage who was the most negatively affected by this has been speaking out about it for decades. And there's – yeah, I mean, can you imagine having this public outing that you were – like, the dude implied like she had had a sexual relationship during this hostage period. And, like, just to add even more to it. So her name is Kristen Enmark, and she's been doing interviews, and it's been, you know, journalistic review as well as all the scientific data and FBI review looking back on this. And she's really one of those people who is kind of victim to, you know, public really, like, shame for something – truly blaming the victim in a quite horrifying way when you think about it. Yeah, it's like, you know, I feel like you didn't have enough of a traumatic experience with that whole noose around your neck, gun to your head, tear gas locked in the vault of a bank thing. So why don't we kind of publicly drag you and make it a huge sensationalized media story? You know, it's just insult to injury. It's pretty awful, yeah. The next one I think we can go over pretty quick because we've actually already covered it on Iron Culture a couple of times. I will bring up one little aside that I think a lot of people miss just because we kind of lay our own biases on top of the things we believe, and that's the hungry judge effect. You've talked about this in depth, how it was actually just the ordering of the caseloads to be the ones that were much more likely to not get parole that were done close to lunch because they could be done quickly. And this became, you know, really, you know, the funny thing is the specific claim in their paper, if you read it, is it's probably due to low blood sugar. And they like provided like a mechanistic explanation. Did they collect blood sugar data? No. Did they even ask the judges, are you hungry? No. It was literally based upon we see what time this occurred. We see the changes in the cases. We're going to assume all the things that are related to 12 p.m., it must be hunger, it must be blood sugar, and we measured neither. So this one actually got debunked really quickly, multiple letters to the editor, and it's still stuck, which is pretty crazy. And the piece that I think is really interesting is everyone talks about this as though it is a U.S. justice system thing. And because just the U.S. justice system is generally seen as bad, but this is actually done in Israel. And I don't think anybody knows that. I think if you asked anybody on the street, hey, you know, the hungry judges, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Where do you think that was done? I don't know, Detroit? You know, that's probably what they would say. Right. Yeah, yeah. There's so many misconceptions about it. Yeah. No one bothered to say, hey, did you have breakfast today? Do you normally have breakfast? Are you hungry? How are your blood sugar levels? Yeah. None of that played a role. Like you said, people immediately. So the thing that was really insane about this is that the you know, when you submit a paper to a journal, Helms, a little inside baseball with academic publishing, it's assigned to an editor and an editor handles the peer review process from there. They assign reviewers. They read over the reviews that are provided by those reviewers. And the editor ultimately makes the call. Right. And they say, hey, based on the feedback from the reviewers and the changes that the authors made, this is approved and accepted. And we're going to go ahead and publish it. Right. So this paper got published in one of the top journals. That's the end of the sentence. One of the top journals. PNAS is one of the highest ranked journals across disciplines. It is one of the ultimate prestige journals. Easily, I would say, top five. I think that's a fair thing to say. So it was in an ultra prestige journal. And the handling editor was a Nobel Prize winner. Yeah. So this was not some like, oh, we snuck a crappy paper past the goalie with some careless editor, some no name person with some crappy journal no one cares about. This was this was like on the marquee highlight star studded event. And, yeah, immediately someone chimed in and they're like, hey, quick question. Does anyone associated with this paper know how the justice system works in the area where they actually did this study? Like, have you spoken to one person who is familiar with this specific judicial system and how they do scheduling? And they're like, no, should we have? And they're like, yeah, it's kind of like the whole story. So, yeah, that one was was really crazy because it was literally just like if you're like cousin had ever had any judicial experience in that area, then they would have said, oh, no, that's not what happened. And it would have all been, oh, never mind. Let's not publish. Yeah. And yet it was like one of those things where to your point, Helms, like within months of the original publication, people just basically wrote letters that were just like, yeah, definitely not. And like, here's a reanalysis that actually accounts for this and nothing. There's nothing result resulting from any kind of hunger or timing that can't easily be explained by just the logistics of how this works. But it never got like corrected or retracted or really. I don't know if they ever like formally on paper submitted a correction. They may have. But basically, the original paper is still there. It still generally kind of alludes to this hungry judge's idea. And yeah, it's stuck. And now if you if here's my theory, Helms, if you unfortunately, your flights got canceled, if you if your flights actually happened, go to any random airport, close your eyes and grab a book that's for sale at the airport. It will talk about the hungry judges four times out of five. So like it's just in every pop psychology book. And it's a zombie idea that will not die, even though it was viciously killed within months of existing. And the problem is within months, because this is one I think if this had come out and say the 80s or 90s, it probably wouldn't have stuck. But this came out in 2011. So it's it's in the it's an era where it's not the full blown social media age. It's it's definitely Internet age. And it's the type of thing online publishing and Google Scholar alerts. And every media outlet saw that. And within hours, we're posting news articles about it. Just another instance of this oppressive justice system. And it still is oppressive. Don't you get like, you know, it's just this this does not happen to be true. And, you know, when you're behind the eight ball, when by when you're doing when you're doing due diligence and publishing letters to the editor, as soon as it's feasibly possible in academic publishing within, you know, moments of it coming out. And it's you're getting these papers out within months when you're operating in a information age that operates in the order of hours and days. You're way late to the party. And that's why it's. Yeah, for sure. Unfortunately. Yeah. So, yeah, there's a couple more I think are worth going through. And and like I said, there's even there's even others I could allude to. And the last two are a lot more in the kind of the vicinity of mass expertise. And these were not new ideas to most of us. But the interesting thing is with the first one I'll discuss, which happens to do with, quote unquote, stress ulcers. This is one of the ones where it's like it's not true, but it's not false, you know. And it's it's it's one of the cases where a lot of the times it's more to the story. So the idea that stress causes ulcers as a causative factor independent is something that was believed and promoted in the 80s. But even when you read the papers in the 80s, the hypotheses were typically like a collection of things like, hey, high stress, spicy foods, excess use, chronic use of NSAIDs. And maybe that's what's causing these stress ulcers. Right. And I'll leave that seed and I'll fast forward to the 90s when Robert Sapolsky published Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers. And this just goes to show you the stickiness of this belief that, you know, peptic ulcers or stomach ulcers are primarily caused by stress. And Sapolsky's book, which is broadly an accurate representation of chronic stress. You know, the idea that we're totally fine, you know, getting our blood pressure up briefly to values over 200. And we see that in weight training all the time. But if you're clocking, you know, your systolic is 10 points higher than the average norm and your diastolic is, you know, if you're like 140 over 90, that's really, really close to 120 over 80. But it notably increases your risk of dying early. Right. So that's that idea that chronic stress causes health issues and wrote a lot about that. But along comes this team of Australian researchers who are saying, you know what, we've actually identified this bacteria, which eventually got called H. pylori. And they're saying, we think this is actually the causative factor. And at the time, they did think it was causative. And they even went so far for one of these two Australian researchers. And he got the Nobel Prize for this. He drank a solution of this stuff and got ulcers. And it was like, listen, this is the cause. But interestingly enough, as subsequent work was done over the years, they come to find out that, oh, man, there's huge proportions of the population that have H. pylori. We're walking around with a lot of people, but only a small proportion of people with H. pylori get an actual ulcer. So there's a couple of things here that help us understand this. Stress independently of anything else probably doesn't cause ulcers. But just having the bacteria probably doesn't cause ulcers either. If your body can fend it off, you're probably fine. And stress does weaken the immune system. And also, excess and chronic use of NSAIDs is maybe an independent separate pathway to where you can get ulcers. So this is one of those complex ones where it's like the truth is always a little more complex than it initially seems. But there was this huge pushback to just kind of the medical dogma at the time was, hey, man, you really got to reduce your stress levels. And sometimes that would actually result in getting less ulcers. And it is true that we need to reduce stress. But to call them a causative factor is unfortunately incorrect. And it got embedded in our culture because then it became basically the title of a book. And, you know, these things just become stickier and stickier and stickier. So I found this one really interesting because it was, like, misunderstood and used as a proof of something but then kind of still was true. And it's one of those instances where I think it's like this is the best out of all of them. This one's the closest to actually being true. But it's more of a moderator than it is anything else because it just ain't going to happen if you don't have H. pylori, at least this type of ulcer. Yeah. It's first of all, we have to acknowledge there's a song by the band Tool called H. pylori. So we have to give them a shout out. But my only exposure to this concept was there is a character in Dumb and Dumber, the bad guy, one of the bad guys who had ulcers and was also a very, you know, very generally stressed person. And I think they were kind of leaning into that. He was very, like, erratic and kind of flew off the handle a lot. And I believe there's a point where he said, I need my pills for my ulcers because he was being really stressed or he was, like, eating spicy food and stuff. And then they gave him pills and it was, like, the wrong pills. And then I think he died. Spoiler alert. If you haven't seen Dumb and Dumber, it only came out 30 years ago. So I'm sorry. No, absolutely. But the reason I bring that up, it has bled out into pop culture. This kind of stressed guy who gets ulcers because he's super stressed out and then also eats spicy food. And that causes this whole cascade. Yeah. And so just to give some numbers to this, like, H. pylori is responsible as a causative factor. Like, meaning that people would not have these ulcers without it in probably 80 to 95 percent of all peptic ulcers. So, but, like, only 10 percent of people who have, like, are infected with H. pylori develop, like, chronic peptic ulcers. So both of these things are true. So it's not, like, a one-to-one necessarily, which I think is just really interesting. So the H. pylori is typically necessary but rarely sufficient. For actually inducing ulcers. Perfectly said. Yeah. And it is chronic stress. It is other things that basically modify the permeability and robustness of your gastrointestinal immune system and immune response that enable H. pylori to manifest as ulcers. That's probably the best way to blow it. Yeah. So the final one, this was put forth and requested by Dr. Zerdas himself, who has a young son, Zach, is the idea that sugar causes hyperactivity. The sugar rush concept. Because he was going to a tremendous number of soccer games, a tremendous number of birthday parties, and basically, you know, having parents go, don't let them eat sugar. They're going to be crazy. And him getting frustrated about that. Of course, and it's also notable that Dr. Zerdas' wife is Dr. Kochia. And she is a dietician and a nutritional researcher at a very high level. So between the two of them, I'm sure they're just exceedingly frustrated. So any parents who've ever dealt with this one, they might even be getting pushback. Like, come on. Like, I definitely see it. But this one, I think, is probably going to be less confrontational to the typical listener of iron culture because we know what sugar is. It's a glucose molecule. And we know that blood sugar is regulated quite well. And even if it is, you know, a primary fuel source and it's given to you quite quickly, we've all had sugar or even purposely taken, like, you know, carbohydrate supplements. And it's not like you're doing a line of Coke. You know, that's just not. Yeah. Yeah. And no one ever says, hey, don't let the kids get around mango. These kids love their mango and the sugar just drives them nuts. Yep. And this one is interesting. It goes all the way back to, like, the 1920s where they were trying to figure out, you know, like, what was going on in certain populations that were consuming highly basically processed, refined diets. And they were looking at multiple effects probably from malnutrition and just simply beliefs at the time. And there was kind of this health halo effect. You might have ever heard of, Trex, you ever heard of the Twinkie defense? Remember that one from our youth? No. Okay. This one has kind of died out. But there was this belief. I think it was actually related to Harvey Milk who got killed in San Francisco. One of the things that the defense attorneys brought up was that the assassin was under a high degree of stress, had a very unhealthy lifestyle. And they didn't even claim this. This is what's crazy. There's a myth within a myth here. And they mentioned that, you know, that day as an example of his unhealthy diet and his mental state. This was their defense was that he was, you know, really kind of out there. And the news picked it up. And the news reported, even though the defense attorneys didn't claim it, that it was the Twinkie defense, that they said he ate a Twinkie that day and it caused him to be a, you know, murderous. And this is kind of the initial kind of idea of processed foods, junk foods. They're bad. They negatively affect you. And that's not necessarily untrue. But it goes all the way back to this, like, tension fatigue theory and kind of like the proto-understanding of reactive hypoglycemia and talking about how, you know, if you give people sugar, they tend to be, you know, like irrational, angry. And they can have apparently a psychotic break and kill people if you listen to the media around that one. So there's always been this kind of anti-sugar kind of mentality that has not been well explained. And the initial scientific data that unfortunately really reinforced this in children was in the emerging concept of attention deficit disorder. So ADHD, right? And there were some preliminary studies done in the 80s, which were correlational in nature. And they found that kids with hyperactivity and ADHD consume more sugar. And there was a speculative statement. It wasn't even that strong that, you know, it may be that high degrees of refined sugar consumption could lead to the development of ADHD. And that's kind of where it all started. And, again, really early, this wasn't necessarily retracted or debunked because it was a speculative statement about the nature of a causational relationship. It wasn't, you know, an error, essentially, like the hungry judges would be. It got debunked many times. And a bunch of non-associational data came out. And then it was kind of updated to saying, hey, listen, hyperactive kids and a feature of ADHD is having less impulse control and also seeking higher levels of reward to get the type of dopamine saturation you need to get. Because a big part of ADHD is that you don't have as many dopamine receptors. So you tend to seek a lot of reward things to kind of stabilize your neurochemistry. They're, of course, going to eat more sugar. So this is a reverse causation instance here is what we think is happening. But the damage had been done. It had really sank into the public consciousness. And then it became really effortfully debunked, I would say, by one meta-analysis and one really interesting study that was blinded with mothers and children who had kids who they said were sugar responsive. So I think I can cover those two and then that's probably enough existential crises for the audience at one time, right? So first, there's a meta-analysis that was done. Is there any evidence to suggest in any study that's ever been done that sugar produces an increase in hyperactivity and misbehavior in children? And the data was absolutely not. That does not exist in any kind of randomized controlled trial. And in fact, one specific controlled trial that was really interesting and it shows how the influence of these myths can have negative impacts on behavior that can create some degree of a self-fulfilling prophecy was a study that was done. Like I said, so they recruited a bunch of mothers, right? And this was in 1994. And then these are mothers who believed that their sons were, quote unquote, sugar sensitive. And then they told everybody, hey, we're going to give some of them sugar. We're going to give some of them, you know, a sugar sweetened drink. So it'd be a placebo controlled trial. But what they actually did was they gave everybody a placebo drink sweetened with aspartame. So, but half of the mothers were told that their sons were given a large dose of sugar and the other half were told, hey, you know, they actually got aspartame. So the interesting thing is that the mothers who told their children were consuming sugar, they rated them as significantly more hyperactive. The ones who were told they were given a sugar sweetened beverage said, no, they seem to be acting normal. So just the belief, the expectancy that my sugar reactive son is getting sugar resulted in them going, yep, and there he is. And not only that, but they analyzed the number of interactions and controlling behavior quantitatively in the mothers. And they found that they were actually more controlling, critical, and more restrictive towards their sons. They started policing their behavior more, which what do you think did to the sons? Pissed them off. And they started acting out more, right? So when the parents expected sugar to cause bad behavior, they then fixated and looked for any degree of hyperactivity, even if it was in the normal realm of that child's behavior, and started altering their parent style, and actually provoked more conflict and the exact behavioral problems that they were trying to avoid. So this is one of those things where even if you were, let's say it's, you know, Dr. Zerdos and Dr. Kochia, and they're at the birthday party, and they try to bust this myth. And it is a real thing that parents who think their kid is reacting to sugar are observing that when they eat sugar, they are acting out. But it's actually because they're treating them differently. And another thing that's worth noting, and this is pointed out in the systematic review and meta-analysis of the data, is that a lot of the social instances where there's a high degree of sugar consumption are also social instances which produce bad behavior. I mean, think about this. So let's say you're a responsible parent, and you try to limit the sugar intake for your kids, not even necessarily because of hyperactivity, for reasonable reasons. Like you want them to have less cavities, or you'd like them to eat more nutritious foods and not get full on cake or something like that. But, you know, you're going to go let them go to this party. You're not going to restrict their experience there. And now they're excited. They're getting to eat candy for the first time in months. Or it's Halloween. Or it's Christmas, and they're getting presents. They're going to be excited. They're going to be surrounded by a bunch of other kids. And it's going to be a pretty chaotic, unstructured environment. So they're going to eat sugar, and they're going to be acting out. And it's just going to reinforce that belief. But it's not the sugar. It's the environment in which the sugar is co-packaged with. So it's one of those tough ones, and I think that's why the myth doesn't die, is that to some degree, I think some parents wouldn't even be convinced by the data. They're like, listen, I know what I see. Every time we go to a birthday party, and every time that kid gets his hand on cake, he loses one mind. And that's not untrue. But it's also true that you're treating him differently. You're expecting it. And maybe the difference between what he experiences at these birthday parties and what he's experiencing at home is leading to that behavior. Yeah, man, you're bringing up some flashbacks for me that are not pleasant. You know me. There's two things that people say about me. Number one, Eric loves kids and is a massive extrovert, high-energy guy. So along those lines, one of my first jobs when I was in high school, I worked at a laser tag facility. Qzar? No, it was like a local one. Qzar was a local one. Yeah, it was just locally owned. But it was basically like the vast majority of traffic going through there was little kid birthday parties. Sure. And I, yeah, it was brutal, man. I'm going to leave it there. It was absolutely just impossible to bear for someone with my temperament. I don't like loud noises. I don't like flashing lights. I don't like high-energy situations. And so I would work at the little ticket counter where kids would go play their arcade games and then throw the tickets at me and say, I want that bouncy ball. Know the one next to it. Know the one next to it. And I would have to explain to them, the counter is opaque. I cannot see what you're pointing to as you point to the specific bouncy ball that you want. So I made all sorts of assumptions about what was feeding into the hyperactive and generally unpleasant behavior of those children. It wasn't just the sugar. I can assure you that it was the sugar. It was the pizza. It was the friends being there. It was the shining lights and lasers and fun. It was a whole convergence of factors that was truly the worst possible thing in the world. It sounds exactly the type of thing that would traumatize my man Trex. And I'm glad you're here today and that you can talk about it all. Yeah, honestly, it was bad, though, because my brother got me the job. And needless to say, I didn't last very long. And he was like, hey, me as a from his perspective, as a 16 year old, I put my reputation on the line to get you this job. And, you know, this is hurting my future employment prospects because now my word is worth nothing in this city. But we both we both ended up OK. Well, yeah, I'm sure he got through that rough patch where he couldn't be the assistant manager at any Ohio based laser tag in some time when he was 17 or 18. Yeah, he was basically blacklisted for six months in the southwest Ohio laser tag scene. That's rough. That's rough. I mean, yeah. And that's that's a key job market that was emerging at that time. And he really probably had a future that you crowded him out of. But I'm sure he'll forgive you. So, yeah, you know what? Just some quick hits just because I think. Sure. Yeah. People can look into these on their own, but there are some that didn't make the cut. And some of these you will have heard of before, maybe not. But the idea that you only use 10 percent of your brain. Not true. And that one, I think most of us would probably be like, yeah, I don't think so. That doesn't make any sense. I think there's some people out there that are only working with 10 percent. But I that's just because I'm on the Internet too much. No, I think you're giving them too much like assumption that if they use more of their brain, they'd be better. It may just be that they're using all of it. And that's the best they got. Trex, you shouldn't be so. Yeah. OK. Yeah. Fair enough. Yeah. Another one, the idea that different zones of our tongue actually are responsible for specific flavors. That's actually not true. We have different densities of of taste receptors all over our tongue. But you can taste most flavors pretty much everywhere. It's just that some more intense flavors you can taste on regions of your tongue that doesn't have as much taste bud receptor density. And, you know, others, it's way that's way too much because I have a lot of density. So you will notice some differences, but they're not distinct. You don't have like the Omani section and then the sweet section and the savory section. So that that one was, you know, I think that started from a study in like 1901 that got, you know, mistranslated. So they all have really interesting roots. Another one here. I did hear that cats cannot taste sweet things. So someone either break my heart or confirm what I heard. Someone let me know in the in the comments. Yeah, that I wouldn't. I mean, and we all there's no reason for them to taste anything sweet. I like it depends. You know, like it depends on what you encounter in the wild and what really it's just about how do we detect things that are toxins or potentially going to give us, you know, energy is probably the. We'll look into it. Well, someone will let us know in the comments. I bet you it's more complex than just they can't taste sweet things. I guarantee you that. Yes, I think they're complicated. I'm on board with that. Yeah. You know, like like even like the H. pylori one or whatever. Yeah. Another one. The idea that's been infiltrated into animal behavior and training is that wolf packs are always led by a dominant male who fought for the top spot, the quote unquote alpha male. And apparently a massive amount of fitness industry and alpha and hierarchy. This is actually us kind of imposing some of the hierarchy that we see in human society, at least certain human societies on wolves. And it's not completely without data. Um, this is based upon research in the 1940s that was done in a understandable way because we have access to wolves in captivity. So I think it might've been done in either Yellowstone or Yosemite. I can't quite remember. But anyway, captive wolves, um, who were unrelated, really key context here. You take random wolves in a rescue, uh, who were, you know, brought together. And it is true that if you get a bunch of male wolves together and they're in a, you know, contained environment, uh, they will figure out who is, who's the boss man. And then kind of get this kind of, uh, weird relationship together where they, where they form a pack. But the actual way that wolves interact in the wild, the natural quote unquote way, they form family units. You know, they have cooperative family units and unsurprisingly they're led by the parents. And then once the wolf gets old enough and they go off and do their own thing, they have their own family. It's actually quite similar to the way we operate and the downside of this. And it's something that my wife deals with all the time when she used to be a dog trainer is that, you know, people like Cesar Milan and other popular, you know, like kind of dog training behaviorists indicate, no, you need to dominate and show yourself to be the alpha. And then you can train the wolf. And, you know, that works with humans too. Like if you're in prison and you beat the crap out of somebody and you tell them to do whatever you want, or you'll beat the crap out of them. And they will follow you, but that's not a unique, that's not a unique situation. Now we're going back to Stockholm syndrome, right? So that's more of what's happening here. And in fact, if you want to bond and get a puppy to have a good relationship with you, it's quite similar to parenting. You know, you reward the behaviors you want. You let them know when they're going to hurt themselves. You don't necessarily have to choke them out or get them to show you their neck because that's the way they work. So anyway, that is one of the, another one that I think shocks a lot of people. And it, like, that's another one. It's hard to change the behavior because if you dominate an animal of any type and you force them into a situation where they know they're going to receive pain or punishment if they don't do exactly what you say, you can do that. But then the question is, do you want to have that relationship with your dog? Like, when there's better options, you know, like, I mean, child abuse will get a kid to do certain things, but it's called child abuse. So let's not do that is my general suggestion. The last one tracks. And this one is Hannah. While we're still on, while we're still on domesticated animals, I have a fact check. Let's go. What if I told you I'm looking at a PubMed entry from the Journal of Nutrition in 2006 with extensive evidence that cats lack a sweet taste receptor with the genomic sequencing to back it up. They lack the TAS1R2 and TAS1R3 genes that encode the sweet taste receptor. And behaviorally, they do not respond favorably or negatively or any at all to any sweet sensations, but they do respond to all the other ones, bitter, sour, savory, etc. So we do have a hit rate of some pop science. You know what? I think I've heard that before. I would categorize that as pop science. Yeah. I just I feel like I had to swoop in with the fact check there because I didn't want to, as we're concluding our pop science, pop pseudoscience episode, introduce new pop pseudoscience. I feel like that would have been a bad look from an editorial perspective. Sure. Yeah. I think that that's a great move. I appreciate that. And you know what? It's that the point is, is some of these you should be skeptical, but it doesn't mean just anything you hear literally is always false because that's that's that's not the message. Go go find the actual gene sequencing. That's right. That's that's the recommendation. There you go. All right. And what's the last one? The last one, I think, is actually going to give people a bit of hope and maybe a little bit less nihilism and just less negative vibes as we as we close out. And people have probably heard of the Stanford prison experiment. And this is the idea that was done at Stanford way back in the day, I think the 70s. And they did a mock prison and they gave certain participants in the study the role of guards, other ones, the participants. And they just kind of let it run wild to see what happened. Purely observational. And the guards all started dehumanizing the prisoners and treating them like trash. And that was how the study was presented. And this is reinforced a lot of beliefs that certain people have about criminal justice, even inherent human nature and political systems. The idea that power corrupts absolutely and that anyone has the capacity to be evil if they're put in a position of power over other people. And, you know, it has historical roots, you know, the kind of a lot of people who were a part of the Nazi party during World War Two. You would have made otherwise not thought they would have been on board with that. But it is, of course, a little more complex than that. And I'm not necessarily disputing those other claims related to inhumane treatment during times of war or when there's a dictatorship or even necessarily human nature. But I will tell you this. When they actually looked at the transcripts and the documentation in the Stanford prison experiment, they found that actually only about one third of guards, not the majority, did this. They also found that one of the research assistants and the lead researcher explicitly coached the guards in the study to dehumanize the participants. And third, many of the participants, both among the guards as well as the prisoners, reported, well, this is kind of like improv. Like we were told that this is kind of what they wanted to see. Yeah, we're out here riffing. Yeah, so some of them were actively acting in the way that they believed the researchers wanted to see. They didn't actually feel that they were necessarily being inhumanely treated. Not in all cases, but this was stated in several of the actual interviews with some of these participants. So the true conclusion that we can get from the Stanford prison experiment is that if you participate in a study, you're probably the type of person who wants to follow rules and appease the person who recruited you. And if the researcher tells you, I want you to do this, people generally tend to do it. But not in all cases. In fact, two-thirds of people were coached to be inhumane and just didn't have it in them. So I think it really makes you question, does just simply being in a position of power really make people actually cruel? And I do think there's a difference between a simulated prison environment and an actual prison environment. And that's something that needs to be acknowledged. In a real prison environment, many guards believe that the people they're looking over are inherently bad people or they wouldn't be in prison. So they also feel a sense of maybe moral righteousness. And you're also talking about people who are taking on a career aspiration of being a prison guard. I'm not necessarily saying that we don't have issues in prisons. I want that to be really, really clear. But I do think it's important to know that just simply the act of being in a position of power, we don't have data to indicate that that will inherently make you a bad person automatically. And I do think there's a big difference between being in a simulated prison environment and being in a dictatorship where if you speak out against it, you will be killed or put in a concentration camp. That's a big difference as well. And you might have been a member of the military because maybe you had pride in your country. And the next thing you know, a dictator takes over. There's a regime change. You may not necessarily disagree. But maybe you don't want to actually speak up about that. So I think those are two very, very different things. And I do think this is data that does indicate that people can be coerced and told to act in certain ways. And they can. And we have historical evidence. And I think there is true. It is true that all humans have some capacity for what we might describe as evil within them in the right circumstances. But I don't think those circumstances include being given any power. Yeah, you're saying it's not necessarily the default state of a human that it's like we're all just waiting for our opportunity to become the worst person in the world. And once we have that opportunity, we're all going to seize it. Correct. And, you know, this is something that this study has been, I'll say weaponized, but I don't think it's necessarily that malicious or manipulative. People who believe that hierarchical society structures are inherently harmful and negative will often quote the, you know, the Stanford prison experiment. And don't get me wrong. I'm not like a fan of, hey, we really need to institute a caste system. We need to go back to monarchy. And, you know, it was really good when we had, you know, peasants and lords. I don't think of any of that. And I do think everyone has inherent human value. But I don't necessarily think that in all instances of, say, like corporate structure or the military or places where it might be useful for people who have strategic aims versus operational aims to have people you might report to or manage. So long as it's done in a humane way and everyone's respected. And it's not seen as I'm inherently better position than you and that leadership is done in a way that's a service to the people underneath you if they are truly underneath you, quote unquote. But I see leadership as service and advocacy. You know, I'm in a position where I can exert influence because I'm in a leadership position. And that doesn't mean I'm your boss and I tell you what to do and you have to listen to me. And military is a little different because it's very different circumstances. But let's say in an academic institution, me as the co-director of Sprint, I'm not actually the manager of everyone at Sprint. I'm there trying to advocate for our values, fulfill our strategic aims. And I happen to be in a position where I can kind of guide that ship. But I'm not guiding with no input from the people, you know, that I'm trying to serve. It's service. And that's very different than what a dictator might do. And you can say dictatorships are bad, but you shouldn't necessarily say that having a structure of leadership is bad per se. And I think that's a pretty important nuance and distinction. And nonetheless, the main point, though, because I'm not a sociologist or even a leadership researcher, is that the Stanford-Prinson experiment does not show that power inherently makes people inhumane. And even when they were told to do it, only a minority of them actually followed through. Yeah. Yeah. So I think this is a fun episode because we got to kind of maybe open some eyes. And that's like we've been sitting on this information because we're brilliant and everyone else isn't. Like, I didn't know any of this stuff. No. Well, I knew the prison or the, I'm sorry, the hungry judges thing because I've talked about it. I've looked into it. But for the vast majority, this was all new to me. And it kind of highlights that idea that we are so keyed into pseudoscience and misinformation in our wheelhouse. But we do have to remind ourselves to take lessons from that and equip ourselves to be, you know, I would say to apply a healthy level of skepticism to things outside of our wheelhouse. And to also, in addition to the skepticism, I think the other main theme is humility. The humility of saying just because I heard something or read it in the book I bought at the airport doesn't necessarily mean I have a full, deep, nuanced understanding of this. And maybe I should look into it more if it's something that I'm going to, you know, structure a major component of my personality or worldview around. Well said, Trex. I think that's an excellent way of putting it. Awesome. So I think that probably does it for tonight. Is there anything else that you want to say to the good people before we sign off and wrap things up? No, I would just say thank you for listening. And I'm sure we probably even made some errors in our reporting of these pop science myths because there are outside of our wheelhouse. But hopefully they're a little closer to true than the untruth that they are at their core. And, hey, if you've got comments, make sure we post on Instagram or even in the YouTube. Let us know if there are other myths that you've engaged with. And make sure to drop the references of where they're disproved so you're not propagating an anti-myth myth, which happens as well. Well, that is science. It is a sequential process of becoming slightly less wrong with every step that we take. So hopefully even with errors and omissions on our side, like you said, we at least got a little bit closer to the underlying truth of these stories. So, Helms, I appreciate you for writing that article and for sharing a lot of this information, this very fascinating information tonight. Really an interesting kind of outside of our wheelhouse kind of episode for Iron Culture. But hopefully people enjoyed it as much as we did. Everyone, thank you so much for joining us, as always. And we will be back with yet another episode in seven days. überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras überras über