Hello everybody. Welcome back to Iron Culture. It is me, Eric Traxxler. I'm here with the Dr. Eric Helms. It's Monday night. It's 7:00 p.m. We are live on YouTube. You know when it's Monday, you know when it's 7 p.m. you got a live episode of Iron Culture. That's how we do. Except for the weeks when we don't. Sometimes we do some pre-recorded gems. Last week was one of those gems. Uh so it has been a while. Helms, how we doing, man? We're doing great. I literally just yesterday got back from Melbourne. I was there for the Ultimate Physique Conference hosted by our good friends at JPS Health and Fitness. It was a great time. Um, it was it was my people. We talked about bodybuilding. We talked about coaching bodybuilding. We talked about training for bodybuilding. And you guessed it, we talked about nutrition for what do you think tracks bodybuilding? >> That that's on brand. So, just uh a big bodybuilding party with some of the best and brightest in the industry. Um I guess my invitation got lost in the mail. Lord knows I love to travel. I go everywhere I'm asked and so uh jokes on you guys. Jokes on you. That's what I have to say. So, uh awesome. Yeah, it sounds like >> on that front tracks. >> Yeah. One just just just just to put it out there. I they definitely would have invited more folks from other places all around the world like of course yourself because you love to travel and we all know that. Uh but it was definitely a little more of a regional focused conference, smaller target audience, lower ticket price. So we had mostly the best and the brightest from like you know Australia, New Zealand, that area. That's the only reason why it got lost in the mail is because it well wasn't sent. >> And I don't think it's possible to actually mail stuff that far. You can't mail from Australia to the United States. >> So, >> no, we're still sorting that out. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, no harm done. So, what what was your presentation about or did you have several? >> I was on two panels which were great and I also was on a individual presentation on day one where I talked through exercise selection for bodybuilding and some of the nuances which is a nice segue to probably what we're going to be talking about today. >> Oh, yeah. Absolutely. But before we get there, let let's cover some of the basics here. So, uh, first of all, uh, great episode last week. I think last week was the one we did with, uh, with the Dr. Zach. Correct. >> We we did that was Dr. Zach Robinson. >> Absolutely. And so, uh, talking about >> and of course Mike. >> Yes. So, we we it was with the Dr. Zack Robinson, also Mike in that order. >> Yes. >> On the marquee, we put we put Mike in smaller font. Um, probably in a different font. I would suggest maybe Joker or Comic Sands. Uh I don't know. >> Do people still know about Joker font in the old word? Do do you think they still have that font? >> You know what? If if we sent it off to the uh the PR person and they use an updated word and it just comes out as like wingdings, that's fine, too. >> Yeah. Yeah. I'm always curious about that cuz back in the day, Holmes, you and I know this. When you were a kid, we were all working out of that like Windows 98 suite of tools. And so like you knew about the wacky fonts. You you knew about the wacky fonts. It was your only way of having fun when you were submitting a project in middle school. >> Um but nowadays I feel like technology I don't know if they I don't know if wingdings or or jokerman font still has the kind of cultural uh significance it used to have. I'm a little bit worried about it. We're old and um hopefully our audience is at least somewhat aging with us or at least accepting the fact that we're aging so that our references don't completely miss the mark and land a little bit. But yeah, we're boomers. It is what it is. >> Yeah, I was going through my cassette tapes the other day, found some great albums um that I recorded from live on the radio. Uh that that's a real thing that used to happen, folks. Uh but anyway, uh speaking of aging, I got surgery. Uh it uh >> how'd it go? >> It went well. Um as far as I can tell. Uh the surgery, the goal was to sew my abdominal wall back together. Um so I I believe that that was accomplished as far as I can tell. Haven't really been poking around because it kind of hurts when they cut you open. So I've been leaving the poking for later. But I uh they said it went well. Um but uh there were two things that they mentioned. Well, actually, there was one thing that was truly extraordinary about the process, something that I take a lot of pride in. Um, in my college years, I worked very hard to build up a high level of uh resiliency when it comes to intoxicating substances. That was something I took very seriously and I knew it would pay off later in life. So, I became very robust. And they told me that when they tried to put me under for the surgery for for general anesthesia, they had to like double down and then triple down cuz the doses they were throwing at me not going to cut it. So, first of all, I'm a fighter. I don't go down easy. Okay, that's number one. Number two, to all my enemies out there who wish to poison me, you better bring it. That's all I'm going to say. I'm not going to go down easy and uh I'm a fighter. So, I'm really proud of that personally. Um, as far as I can tell, surgery went well, this is just the kind of crappy part where it was an umbilical hernia surgery. No idea how it happened. It just happened. Um, and now I just can't do anything cool or fun. So, like even jogging is off the menu for a while. Not that I'm an avid jogger, but it's still there's something very uh hurtful when even things you don't want to do are taken off the menu and you're like, I didn't even want that and you're taking it from me and that makes me want it even more, you know? So, no jogging, no lifting. It's going to be kind of a boring, you know, process of getting back to where I can actually lift again. Uh, but hey, the Helms, Lord knows, you know this as well as anybody. You get older, sometimes they got to cut you open. You know what? I did have to get bilateral FAI surgery. Um, I managed to be lifting only a week afterwards in a limited capacity because I will find a way to do whatever I can as long as it doesn't get in the way of recovery. Um, you know, that's what machines and hip thrusts and knee extensions and leg curls are for, right? And upper body training. >> Honestly, I wish I could do some of that stuff. Um, but the the problem is obviously for me it's you can't have any intraabdominal pressure. So, like >> honestly, that was really st the the surgery was fine. Um, anesthesia is no big deal. the the most stressful part um was when I had to sneeze a day after and I was just like I was like what am I supposed to do? So I was trying to do is it was almost like um uh my buddy had a dog who did something called like reverse sneezing. It was this cute little dog and I was watching his dog >> and it's they're kind of like doing this weird inhale kind of thing. It's almost like they're trying to clear their system but in the other direction and it sounds awful. He didn't warn me that his dog does this all the time. So, I was like, "Great. I need to call Jake and tell him his dog died of like some kind of respiratory arrest uh on my watch." And he's I was like, "Dude, what just happened?" Oh, yeah. Yeah, that happens all the time. So, um I tried to copy that. And so, I was just like trying to not sneeze and just like do this reverse sneezing procedure. It didn't work. Uh, so I just kind of sneezed and was like, well, let's let's hope for the best here and hope we didn't generate enough intraabdominal pressure to need another surgery. So I think I'm out of the woods in terms of just basic sneezing and coughing issues. And now it's like as long as I don't be an as long as I'm not an idiot and I don't lift anything heavy, I think I'm in the clear. >> You know what? I think this would probably be a less advised surgery if simply sneezing any time in the week after getting it would, you know, shoot stitches and viscera across the room. So, I think you're probably all right, bro. >> Yeah, but you know me though, like I >> You can sneeze. I I've seen it. >> I'm I'm not like bragging about my sneezing force. >> I I'll do it for you cuz I've seen some pretty >> powerful sneezes come from the Trexinator. >> Yeah, I get that from my mother. She's she's the mo the loudest and most aggressive sneezer I've ever seen. Uh so that is hereditary apparently. But um no, so the reason I was nervous about it was they told me, "Hey, so just make sure you don't lift anything heavier than a jug of milk for the next 6 weeks." And I'm like, "If lifting a jug of milk is enough intraabdominal pressure to put me in the danger zone, I know what's happening in these sneezes." And I can also feel it. It didn't feel good. I I'll I'll be very clear about that. >> So um anyway, I'm trying not to overthink it. Uh, I'm not double fisting milks of jugs cuz that's twice the load I can carry. So, only one jug of milk at a time. And, uh, yeah, just burying myself in intellectual work until I can actually get back into the gym. But anyway, Helms, enough about me and my abdominal wall. People came here for the science. Uh, and that's what they will get. So, Helms, in this episode, this is first of all going to be a monster episode. We almost never say that. We've almost never said that in the history of the show, but this one actually is going to be a monster episode. The reason being, uh, there's been a bit of a debate. Don't know if you've heard about it. We've done at least probably a couple episodes on this debate, I would say, or at least addressed it a few times, acknowledged it. >> Mhm. >> So, here's the thing, Helms. If I show you, let's say you're going to do a powerlifting meet, okay? and you walk in and you're you big strong guy, but you also walk in and there's someone who looks like Bryce Lewis in your class. Just a a absolute ball of muscle, a a person uh who is wide, deep front to back. This person is just a giant ball of cross-sectional area in terms of muscle. Something tells me Holmes that you are probably going to have some trepidation about how this day is going to go in terms of your podium placement. Uh that ultimately indicating when we think about what seems to be a major predictor of how much force a muscle can produce, hint, it's usually the big ones, the really big thick ones. Um, and so what's interesting is there's been a debate in exercise science where people have said, "Yes, cross-sectionally it seems that, you know, the cross-sectional area of a muscle seems to be predictive of the ability of that muscle to produce high levels of force. However, show me the proof that actually building muscle longitudinally is partially or fully responsible in a causal manner for inducing increases in strength. And those are two different things, right? So, we can pretend two people that have never lifted, we're going to put them on have them do a very simple muscular task. People who make this argument would acknowledge the bigger muscles tend to be stronger than the smaller ones. But what they're arguing is that once we start actually lifting to get stronger, the increase in muscle size does not seem to be driving the increase in muscle strength. And Helms, there is another new piece of research about this debate, and you were so generous and so kind as to cover it in the upcoming issue of the Mass Research Review. Folks, if you don't know about the Mass Research Review, this is how you stay on top of the research. Uh, every single month, we we review the most useful, most important studies happening in the realm of fitness, health, bodybuilding, powerlifting, being strong, being jacked, losing fat, mental health, sometimes as it pertains to fitness, you know, cardio metabolic health. We try to make sure if it's important and pertains to some of your goals that are adjacent to your health and fitness, we try to cover it. Um, and this month is no different, Helms. This is probably the the single biggest paper that I would expect to make waves that got published this month. It'll be coming out uh the new issue of Mass the 1st of September. So, folks, you you haven't even missed it yet. Just go over to massresarchreview.com, become a member of the Mass community. You have uh what, five or six days? I have no idea how many days are in August, but you got five or six days to go make that happen. But anyway, Holmes, this is officially your intro. I'm handing over the baton. There is new research on this topic and I trust that you're going to lead us bravely into what that research found. >> I will take that baton. Thank you so much, Trex. And uh you know, importantly, this study technically isn't even published yet. This is a pre-print and it's been out, I think, since just uh since just May. >> So, uh it is probably in peer review at the moment. Um, and yeah, just to to give a little more context, you know, we've talked about this in depth multiple times in iron culture and in mass. And that's because this isn't one of those debates you can settle because it is very difficult to produce causal evidence for this. It's something that I think everybody's mostly on the same page with, but you're going to get a spectrum of skeptics. I would say the most reasonable and even I would say skeptical position that I can even anti uh you know empathize with might be something like a a James Steel critique. He would say listen at a certain point you barely gain any muscle as a trained lifter. So any change there is only one of the factors that contributes to to strength. So it's functionally not that important and you should just focus on specificity. And I would say, well, that may be true, but the relative contribution of size to strength seems like it maybe changes over the time course. And there may be your actually your biggest ticket item that you could do, especially in a well-trained lifter. And that I could I can't prove that without a shadow of a doubt. Um, but the closest thing I think we're going to have to relatively rockolid causal evidence is contained in this preprint. And I think a cool thing about this preprint, uh, it's by Dart and colleagues for those are interested, and it is titled muscle strength and size relationships with unilateral progressive resistance training. Uh, you can find it on biorxiv. um is that it's actually from a study that you would never think would be possible based upon some of the critiques you and I have levied at the exercise science world. Uh it is actually the biggest longest running probably most expensive resistance training study that's ever been done and it's still going on. So if you haven't heard of the famous study as you know in science we have to have ridiculous acronyms that sort of work. Um, that is the functional polymorphisms associated with human muscle size and strength study. FAM USS. Don't ask me where the A is after F, but that's what they call it. Famous. Um, I guess they're combining functional polymorphisms. It doesn't matter. But nonetheless, the famous study, the most well-known publication from this study is actually Hubil and colleagues 2005 paper, which we brought up in the pre-recorded episode with Zach Robinson because it because it is one of those studies that purports to display individual variation, which it actually shows variations among individuals at one time point. But anyway, it had around 600 participants and it was published in 2005. I didn't know this. Trex, that study never stopped. >> Yeah, I had no idea. >> Me neither. >> They need to be doing more PR. They need to be out there telling everybody that they're big shots doing this big cool study cuz Yeah, I had no idea. >> Yeah, they're not like I looked for press releases. I looked for this stuff. But it's crazy, man. So, this is a multi-UN university effort across eight different sites. Um, and it's been funded primarily, but not exclusively by the NIH. So, it's been like re-uping these funds and funds. It's multi-million dollar study. So, it has been like collecting data since 2002. That's that'S-23 years that it's been going. And, you know, they were around 600 participants in the mid200s when they published that study. >> This study, >> I'm sorry, I don't mean to cut you off, but you said they started collecting data in 2002. Yeah, >> that was seven years before I graduated high school. >> That is insane. >> That was uh that was one year after I graduated high school. >> You and I weren't even lifting weight long time ago. >> I had Yeah. Two years before I started lifting weights. >> That is crazy. >> And I started lifting weights over two decades ago. >> And it's still collecting data. That's so cool. >> It makes you excited about what we're going to learn from from it, you know. And actually, it it is pretty cool. Like like this this study is quite interesting in that there's two things that I think it'll be fun to talk about. Um it kind of challenges some of the the current zeitgeist we have on sex differences. And I think it's important to discuss why and it also might I mean from from from my side of the biased debate or I'm very confident that changes in muscle size do contribute to strength. I feel like it is a uh you know a pretty solid end to be like okay can we stop talking about this now we have some causal evidence on top of everything else. I'm sure if I was someone on the opposite side of the debate I'd be like well you know there's there's limitations to this which we'll talk about. I I'll be fair and balanced. >> Yeah. But it is true when you when when you stake your claim on kind of the contrarian side of you know you need to prove causality beyond a shadow of a doubt. It's always such a high bar to really meet um in a lot of like especially for this topic. Um so yeah, I'm I'm absolutely certain that this is not going to put the nail in the coffin, but I'm excited to hear why it probably should in your opinion. >> Absolutely. So yeah, let let's talk a little bit more about the famous study. So, this is a study that's um done on untrained individuals who are specifically even screened so that they don't have um worklike resistance training. So, I'm guessing no manual laborers even is is is who who participates in it. And unlike a lot of exercise science, it has a tremendous amount of both men and women in it, which is great. So, uh this study was published with 12,000 sorry 1,200 uh 333 participants. That's just over 500 men and 729 women. So, uh, pretty good group and it spans people from the ages of 18 to 40. Um, so that I think that's great. And this is 12 weeks of training and it's specifically isolated to arm training, which I think is awesome. So, they're doing unilateral resistance training. So, that means we have one arm as a control, which is pretty cool as well if you think about the true sample size. now um and it is doing both tricep and bicep exercises and they're looking at changes in strength and hypertrophy and that's what's reported in this but the actual famous study is collecting a tremendous amount of additional data and not all of it's reported in each one of these publications they're getting health data they're getting I think genomic data they're getting all kinds of stuff blood pressure everything you could imagine demographic data and that's going to become important as we talk about some of these other factors but As you probably picked up from the overarching title of it, the famous acronym, they're looking not just at what this study specifically published about the causal relationship between uh size and strength and potential sex differences, but functional polymorphisms associated with human muscle size and strength. So going all the way back to Hubble, the question was, hey, we want to look at variability and response and characterizing that. So, there's a lot of cool questions that are probably going to become answered from this data, but this one specifically focused on sexbased differences, supposed sex-based differences, and the relationship between size and strength and how that can potentially differ between men and women, or at least it appears to in this study. So, you think I covered the big the big rocks on the background of this one, Trex? >> Yeah, for sure. Yeah, I'm uh part of me is feeling like we need to twist uh Lauren's arm and get her to write an article or at least do a podcast on the the sex differences part of this. Um I'd love to hear her chime in on it, but uh but I will try to stand in and be a good co-host and and uh >> throw some questions your way as they pop into my brain, my very limited brain, but I'll do my best. >> You know, I let let's hit the sex difference because I think they're important. I think we can cover them reasonably concisely. So importantly, you know, we we've got a tremendous amount of data here, right? We have hundreds of men and women. So of course, we we can make those comparisons. And before I get into it, let's talk about what did they measure because it's important. They measured 1RM bicep curl strength and also a MVC. So a maximal isometric uh strength on the biceps. And then also really great, they looked at MRI upper arm volume. So, and that's an important thing, not the bicep volume, but the entire volume of the upper limb. And that's something that they were looking at. So, they're looking at changes from uh MVC as well as 1 RM bicep curl strength, changes in total upper arm um muscle cross-sectional area and volume measured by MRI and the relationships between these values not only at baseline in both arms, so dominant and non-dominant. Uh as well as the changes over time and how those differed between men and women. So with that kind of seed planted of what they looked at, let's take a step back and talk about the data we have on women and men generally and what we've found. So the the principal pieces of research that we rely on to inform our understanding of apparent sex-based differences and I'll go back to why I keep saying that are the two most recent meta analyses on this topic. And importantly, these metaanalyses include the Hubil study. So which is you know the last big publication that measured some of these differences and could report differences in men and women. So there's one by our good colleague uh who we were on the the supervisory team of uh or published with and I was on the supervisory team of during his uh his doctorate and who I just recently saw out in Australia. There's Ruffalo and colleagues 2025 publication. This is a meta analysis titled sex differences and absolute and relative changes in muscle size following resistance training in healthy adults and very big meta well done. And importantly they found that while the absolute amount of muscle mass that that women and men gain differ when you look at it in a relative sense the percentage change there's no meaningful difference. So really this just comes down to the average size of men is larger than the average size of women. So when you look at an absolute change in any metric of size or fat-free mass, it's larger and larger people. But when we look at relative differences, the percentage changes are quite similar. So you may have 120 pounds of lean mass as a male, but you only may have on average say 95 as a woman, but in both cases you might see a 10% increase over x amount of time. Kind of cool. Uh the other one was published by Roberts, another colleague of ours, Dr. Brandon Roberts. Big shout out. And this is published during COVID and it is a sex differences and resistance training metaanalysis and review that looked at both hypertrophy and strength. So we'll just focus on the strength analysis because the one by Ruffalo is a little more updated and they found that in the lower body similar pattern emerged. So greater absolute levels of strength gained uh among men. However, a similar relative difference. However, women on average do tend to tend to gain more relative strength in terms of the upper body mass. And this is the first time we have this question of is this accurate to call it a sex difference or is this a systematic difference between men and women? And that may sound like a semantic difference that makes, you know, like come on Eric, give me a break. But when we say sex-based differences, we use sex rather than gender. We're specifically talking about biological differences between the sexes. Is this actually something that is being influenced by the biological differences between biological men and women? Or is it that being quote unquote untrained or trained or the baseline level in the typical average man and woman in most studies systematically differs in some way? And I would say it could be both, but my money is probably on the latter. And I can present some information that supports that later. Trex, how are we doing? >> Good. Yeah, I was just I was going to chime in in a very non-helpful way and just say if if you're not interested in boiling down arguments to levels that almost feel semantic in nature, this is not your episode because we're we're digging into the the nuances of, you know, again, like you said, is this a factor of, you know, a biological sex difference or is this uh you know, just based on where the typical uh untrained or semi-trained male or female starts at when we recruit them into a study. And again, um, talking about, you know, muscle size and strength relationships, you know, for most people, I think really addressing that debate at all already feels like we're getting way too into the weeds because they've seen very large people who tend to be very, very strong and they say, "It seems like if you get larger, that'll help." Um, but no, u, I I think you've done a great job so far. Um, so I I'm much like our our many listeners in the live chat. I'm just sitting back and taking it in. I do want to give a quick shout out if I may. Tina Carlson joining us from Santa Cruz, California. Gustav Rodriguez joining us in from the UK. So it's an international affair in the chat. >> I love it. Glad to have him here. >> We got you over in New Zealand. We got a lot of continents covered right now. >> Three by >> and you're out there in the States. Yeah. >> Mhm. >> All right. So uh thank you everyone for joining us from all over the world to understand these really interesting findings. So, you know, the reason why this is kind of cool, Trex, is because in our field, we're pretty clear that a metaanalysis should sit at the top of the evidence hierarchy. But in the medical field, where they sometimes do have, not even sometimes, where they frequently, compared to us, have randomized control trials like this one that are multi-sight, multi-million dollars looking at health metrics and sometimes have 1,200 people. They're able to have a similar sample to what might be in a meta analysis or at least a sufficiently high sample to have a lot of statistical power and confidence with less heterogeneity. So there's more homogeneity. You don't have to do an I squared statistic. You're not worried about the comparison itself diluting the inferences as to how consistent they are. So some have argued that hey I would take a really high sample well done RCT over a metaanalysis if it's on a really homogeneous topic and one could start by saying well hold on should I take the findings in Dart as as gospel on sex differences or should we look to the the meta analysis? >> Yeah. Yeah. No, it's it's an interesting debate and I just want to echo like if you were to ask uh a person um you know many many years ago, several decades ago, what is the best form of evidence you could get? They'd generally say give me a big old randomized control trial, control this, that and the other thing and let's do this and and just answer the question once and for all. And if you're if you can recruit a sample large enough and have a long enough timeline to really capture the physiological um phenomenon that you're trying to investigate, then yeah, that's a really really good way to do it. Um but that was a also because you know uh meta analyses were so simplistic back in the day. Um, but as we've gotten, you know, I mean, honestly, it's not that long ago, a matter of a handful of decades, that the the premise of doing multiple regression, which we teach in stats 101 now, was computationally out of reach. It was like, how how would I ever do it with like real messy world data? Um, you know, so it's just, you know, for a long time a randomized control trial was the best thing you could possibly do. Um, but you know, then you know, in the in the world of like training studies, we're used to, yeah, bring in 22 people, measure them for 12 weeks, and we'll just jam them all together and use the stats to kind of sort out the the craziness. Um, but no, I mean, in theory, you know, if we could feasibly do really, really huge, really, really long randomized control trials, that would be fantastic. we could do a few of them, combine their their their results at a participant level, control for relevant uh covariants, and that would be the way to do it is just a participant level meta analysis of very large, well done randomized control trials. But we we've now gotten into this world where we have a few of these just incredible RCTs that we view as really top tier evidence and also we have some of these meta analyses that may be just junk. Let's be honest, there's some meta analyses that are are not done well regardless of the studies included. There's also some metaanalyses that are done well, but the RCTs included in them individually maybe don't answer the question that we really want to get at. Um, so it's an interesting debate. It's not so simple as, well, I I remember what the picture of the pyramid is and the meta analysis is at the top these days. There's more nuance to it than that. >> Well said. And the reason I'm bringing all those things up is because the present study by Dart did not align with that typical understanding that we have except arguably for maybe uh the upper body strength aspect which I'll discuss because that does seem to be a quote unquote sex difference in the metas um in terms of the relative changes. So straight up what we saw first off is that the men gained significantly more whole arm muscle volume and crosssectional area. So 14% increase in their uh arm size compared to a 10% increase in women. So right there we're seeing a difference in the hypertrophy data. And then again in the strength data we see that uh women incre or sorry the men increased their 1RM and MVC significantly less than the women. So this does line up with what we saw in the in the meta. So the increase in 1RM was just shy of 40% in the men, but it was 61.3% in the women and the MVCs were a little closer with it being 17.3% in the men uh and 23.6% in the women. So this is a bit of a head scratcher. Why aren't we seeing that same consistent finding of a similar relative increase in size? And then also why are we seeing these persistent differences where women seem to gain more strength in the upper body? And the cool thing is that it actually feeds nicely into the strength hypertrophy relationships which help us understand potentially what's going on and why I don't think it's a true biological sex difference. >> All right. I I don't want to slow you down. I think this is a good time to dive right in and get into the uh the strength versus muscle size debate. Okay. And that'll actually help us understand what's going on here. >> Yeah. >> Which won't be much of a debate because we agree. So that that's a problem. But it's us agreeing what it is. >> Yes. It's us commentating on a debate. Yes. >> So >> um so first when we look at baseline specifically at the MVC test, this is a an isometric test requires less muscular coordination. Uh there's baseline between size and strength. So in the men it was it was significant because this is a huge sample and that's just the way it works. If you know a the sample size and the R score you can get significance at pretty low R scores and what we would call small or even ventilate relationships. So they were in the high 2 R score 28ish um between men and2021ish in women pretty comparable. But for the more dynamic the 1RM uh exercise the relationship was significantly stronger in men. It was around 044 to 47 and it was around 27 for women. So this suggests that at the start men had a better established link between their muscle mass and ability to express strength dynamically. So this is you know eliminating code contraction u you know being able to do so in I know I'm not saying a bicep curl is complex but compared to literally just flexing your arm in a fixed position it is a bit more so the authors themselves actually hypothesized here and I'll talk about the changes in a moment that maybe what we're looking at here is a systematic difference in what it means to be untrained. So yes, we did screen for people who were doing more uh resistance-like training in their day-to-day jobs, but what they can't prevent is that people typically, especially in the in the US, play sports in high school, right? And these are all 18 to 40 year olds. Most of this data was collected in the 2000s. Um, some of this data was collected afterwards, but if you go and you look at the databases on participation rates in sport, it is increasing. It's getting better when you're looking at differences between the sexes. But even now, today, if you look at like current high school students in the US, there's still only about 3/4 of the participation rates in sports of men compared or I should say girls compared to boys. But if we go back to when most of these participants were in high school, we're looking at rates that are about 50% to 2/3. And more importantly than that, TX is that the what is actually being participated in and for for men or boys, you should look at it, there's a big disparity between the top slot, second, third, fourth, and this persists all the way to modern day. While among girls, girls sports, there's there is like a top three. There's top 10, but the top three have very very similar numbers. And we're looking at indoor track and field. Sorry, outdoor track. We're looking at track and field, volleyball, and basketball. When we look at women and or girls, very similar numbers. And in boys, it is like a stratosphere up more than doubling the next category sometimes, American football. So when we look at the relative contribution of the upper versus lower body in these sports, it's a little more even. I would argue with all the pushing and stuff and passing that goes on in football. And probably most importantly, for the longest time, even going back to the 80s, strength and conditioning, even at the high school level, has been embedded in football. At the very least, you're doing push-ups, right? >> So, >> and and honestly, in football, you're you're following you're on the ground a lot. And so even if you're not doing formal sets and reps of push-ups, you will find some people who >> they're hitting the deck and they're getting up in full pads and they're pushing and pulling and and so you may find those people who walk into a study and say, "Oh, yeah, I've never lifted." And it's like, "Yeah, but like you're doing a whole lot with your upper body." >> Yeah. And it's it's not wrestling, which is it's very clear when you think about like, "Oh, I'm literally tugging and pushing." But >> I mean, if you're a lineman, there's a lot of standup wrestling that is going on, right? You know, >> and sh. So, it is >> very much a a culture that encourages weight room training either if we have an SNC room or you guys should go get a gym membership and get as big as you possibly can and has been for decades. And that's just not the case in track and field uh in in basketball and in volleyball with the same degree typically. Now, of course, that is changing. >> Yeah, I was gonna say it is changing, but it's really cool if you look back at the history of um in the the the NSA has had some interesting presentations at conferences talking about the history of weight training because the NSA and and really strength and conditioning in America in general, a lot of it really dates back to Nebraska football in like the 1970s and I think the 80s, maybe 70s. Um, but it's really where American collegiate strength and conditioning really took hold. And you you can hear PE, you know, the people that were involved in it are still alive today, still giving presentations, and they'll say, "We decided we were going to have our Nebraska football players lift weights." And everyone said, "You're an idiot. You're going to have the slowest team known to man. They're going to be bulky. They're going to be slow. They're, you know, they're going to have no flexibility. They're going to suck at their sport." And it took a lot to get buyin for football players to lift weights. It took years and years and years. The idea that you would have an Olympic sprinter lift weights and get tight and slow and bulky, they're like absolutely not. So yeah, when you look back into the history of it, I mean lifting for football, as you were alluding to, that's what got me into lifting at 12. No one told me, "Hey, you need to go lift weights." It was just obvious. It was baked into football culture. you want to do this, you better go lift some weights and get strong. And for a lot of other sports for years later, um there is the opposite culture, which is if you want to be good at this sport, I don't want to see you near a weight. And it's been really cool to kind of watch how sports embrace it. Um another one that was really hesitant was baseball, especially if you were a pitcher. They said, "Oh, you're going to be in there moving weights. You're going to it's going to mess up your throwing motion. You're going to be bulky and tight." And nowadays, we got these pitchers who their legs look like the uh the sprint cyclists with those giant quads. Um, and also, coincidentally, they all throw like 103 miles an hour these days when back in the day, you'd have legit like serious prolevel pitchers who were like throwing low 90s and people would say, "Whoa, they're throwing smoke today." So yeah, it's been interesting to watch sport change as these other sports have kind of gotten wise to like, oh, lifting weights is actually like pretty incredible. But anyway, just an aside about lifting history. >> No, it's a good one. Um, and I think so you can make these speculative arguments about why these percentages percentage changes were different, but I think where it really becomes apparent in this paper is in the relationship between the percentage changes and how they kind of differed. So again, what we saw was more hypertrophy uh in the men, less hypertrophy in the women, but greater strength gains from a relative sense in the women. And this is you could argue this is a the classic newbie gains, right? Motor learning is the initial primary driver. So despite less hypertrophy, we see women gaining significantly greater relative strength gains. And I think that's probably what we're seeing in the meta analysis as well. Uh then conversely, you know, men, they already had a greater degree of neuromuscular efficiency, so they made relatively smaller strength gains in terms of the actual percentage increase. And that increase in strength is going to be more reliant on the slower process of building muscle. Right? So another thing to consider is there was about 230ish more women than men in this study. So there's going to be a slightly better kind of signal to noise ratio in that data. But we're looking at smaller changes in men in terms of size with a smaller proportion of men and a smaller sample overall. So you're looking for basically a smaller needle in a bigger hay stack here when you're trying to look at the relationship between the changes specifically. And I think that kind of explains why we saw these things. And I think it bolsters the argument that these probably aren't legitimate sex differences, but they are at least not exclusively. I'm open to the idea that could be influencing it in some way. uh that the maturation process is, you know, doesn't affect the upper versus lower body equally. Certainly a possibility. Uh but what we're really looking at here is that women are gaining more strength in the upper body and less size. Maybe that's the neuromuscular adaptation going on. So I think that that actually tracks quite well with the meta-analytic data. And we have to remember that we're looking at a cohort here that spans primarily these participants being in high school for somewhere from 1980 to 2000 at least for the majority of them. So it is a a bit of a different era. Although the meta analysis also meta analyses also include plenty of studies from this era as well. But it's going to be a bit more of a uh I guess a broader kind of timeindependent picture. And it would be cool to actually see a meta analysis look at the like the factor of time to see if if studies or that were published more recently start to see differences. You can do that. >> Oh yeah. I was going to say you can totally do that. That'd be a really interesting way to do it. like you kind of put out the forest plot and you're going to have all these different effect sizes, right? So, typically they'll order them by, you know, fa first author's last name alphabetically or whatever. Uh yeah, why not do them by publication date? That'd be cool to kind of see how that effect uh how that difference uh changes over time. It'd be it'd be fascinating. >> Absolutely. So, let's So, I think we've covered the sex differences. Now, let's talk about the relationships between strength and size. And I think if this study had stopped like all the other studies on this topic with showing the relationship between strength and size, we could make some quibbles about the way they showed that relationship. They did what's called a between subject correlation. Um they didn't do a regression analysis. It was just a straight up, you know, linear Pearson's relationship, right? Uh and there are some issues with that. You probably could have taken a look at this data, done a more nuanced analysis and achieved a higher R score, but still you'd say, hey, even a correlation between changes is still not proof of cause, right? And importantly, they were non-significant. Some of these relationships with changes, right? So if we stop there, this could be an argument bolstering the opposite side of the debate saying, listen, yeah, they were related at baseline, but the changes didn't seem to make a difference. So, so, so what what what's your argument now, Helms and Trucks? >> And so, just to be super clear, just to be super clear. So there were some of these they were looking at what is the correlation between how much muscle growth we saw and uh for an individual uh and how much strength increase we saw for that individual and they tended to be fairly weak and you said some of them were significant and some were not. Is that correct? >> Correct. So what we had for the entire cohort specifically >> uh when we look at the relationship between MVC uh that that was significant as well as the 1RM uh that is the relationship change between MVC and one repetition maximum with the change in muscle volume but when you look at the individual groups the males did not have a significant relationship for MVC. >> Yeah. >> So there there there's there there's mixed findings. Okay. And then when you and then when you look at the 1RM changes uh that specifically was only significant for the whole group but not for men or women when analyzed separately uh for 1RM. >> And again that goes back to the point you mentioned previously which was when we're doing these statistical analyses a small effect or a fairly inconsistent effect has a much higher likelihood of being statistically significant when the sample gets bigger. Right? So, it's not a very intuitive concept, but we say, well, we saw we wanted to see if this would be a significant correlation in males, no. We wanted to see if it was in females, no. But what about if we did it for everybody? And the answer becomes yes. And you're like, well, how would no and no become yes? And it it all comes down to the sample size. And then you can even take the slightly less uh strong position on the other side of the debate of yes, changes do contribute to strength, but they don't matter. And you could say okay well what's the R score Helms? So so okay so it's significant in the whole group and it's P equals you know 032 for 1RM but the R score is R equals 084. >> Yeah. >> So then so if if you want to get an idea of what the hell does that mean if you're a non-statsy person if you square that R score it gives you an idea of what percentage of that variability is explained in by this relationship. >> Yeah. And so >> not much% is >> is tiny. >> Not a lot to hang your hat on. >> So what you could defensively say is, okay, I acknowledge that if you look at literally 1,200 people, a 12week change in their early phase of strength gain does contribute uh in size does contribute to strength, but in a way that does not matter at all. If that's all you got, Helms, then I will accept. >> Yeah. But >> but but that's not all they did. And again, I will point out that with a more nuanced statistical analysis, more appropriate for uncovering the relationship between changes, and you had a midpoint and an end point, and you looked at the averages of the slopes of each individual rather than just the raw between group correlation, I would suspect you could probably double or triple the strength based upon some other studies, and that would be a more representative change. maybe like something like a 20% or 15% explanation of how much of the variance in strength was explained by size. And importantly, it would probably change over the course of a lifter's career. And that was the study that we talked about last time in Iron Culture Tracks. It was a 12-week study on powerliffters, which showed moderate to strong relationships between changes in strength and changes in size. But I digress. We don't have to rely on correlation. What we can actually look at is what's called a causal discovery analysis, which I had never heard of. I don't know if you had Trex before I saw this paper. >> I had not. >> There's a whole world out there, Helms. >> It's incredible. Uh yeah, it's uh this is something I ran into uh when I married my wife. Good decision, honestly. Um >> Mhm. >> really panned out well. But one of the things I noticed when we would start talking about statistics, which we do more than the typical average cup, uh average uh married couple, um when we talk about statistics, at first I was like, it feels like we're speaking different languages, but we both are really into stats, but we're from different fields. And so we approach even similar procedures with different nomenclature, with different kind of baseline, like what are we using this for? What are we trying to do? And then when you start branching out into even more uh distinct fields, you start to see this whole world of procedures where you're like, I've never even thought about touching that procedure or I've never even heard of it. So yeah, it's a big old world out there. >> Absolutely. And um there's few pure there's there's pure there's few first step I'm a statistician people in sports science. There's plenty of I really found the utility and interest and my personality fits it well and I did a deep dive and my kind of like my second maybe even mid PhD like career arc was heavily focused on stats. But what you don't get is someone who is like yeah I did a PhD in stats and then I decided I wanted to look into uh you know exercise science. I'm sure you do but it's much rarer. So what that means is that the exposure to stat >> I was just going to say a good indicator of that is like we we have a lot of folks in our niche now who are very statistically savvy >> and they'll say oh here's what we should use here's how we should do it. we do not have a lot of people rigorously innovating right like we don't have people saying no I have devised a a new statistical procedure um or a whole new framework of procedures and by the way they actually work and other statistitians take them seriously we have had a little runin with trying to do that and then more formal statistitians came in and said you guys got to stop doing all that >> yeah I was famously trained by uh probably the worst incident of this and this is not to say that there weren't some good conceptual things that came out of it but uh professor will Hopkins uh pioneered magnitude based inferences and then some real statistitians got a hold of it and they went okay there's some fundamental issues here um some good things but yeah I spent four years doing a deep dive on this during my graduate training and went the field will no longer accept this cool so there goes my stats training >> well and and I tell you what like I smile as if I'm some kind of uh you know, whiz kid, smarter than everybody, like I'm I'm smirking. That's not the case. So, when I was in my um I think it was early late masters or early PhD, I actually uh wanted to do an independent study and spend a whole uh semester digging into magnitude based inferences. I would love to believe that had I done it, I would have said, "Oh my god, there's a lot of issues here." Would I have? I I don't I don't know that to be true. I I I I just thought it was cool and it was like I I see this published every now and then. I'd love to know more about it. But no, like everybody was into it, man. Like some people didn't like it because it was different and it's not how they were trained. And you see that a lot. You see a lot of people who don't like basian stuff cuz it's not how they were trained and they're like, "Uh, I don't have the patience for things I don't already know, so I don't like it." But no, I mean like this was like um you know you uh very humbly mentioned how you you know you you have used it in papers and like you were trained in that and of course it's when when we go to doctoral programs we are there to be trained. We are not there to rewrite the the books that we're being handed right so it's it's not our job to say actually I I'm going to police the field in which I'm being initiated. Um, so yeah, it's it's it's good that other statistitians came in and I I I'm really curious how doing that independent study I was ultimately I didn't get approved to do it. They were like this is not relevant enough to your training trajectory. Um, I am curious to see if I had done that again would I have caught on to like this is way too liberal or I certainly wouldn't have been doing the actual like serious analytical approach of like debunking it. But I do wonder if I would have caught on like man there's way too small and inconsistent effects that are kind of passing here. Maybe, maybe not. I do wonder maybe it would have made me just an absolute the gambling term they use Helms is just a sicko. Okay, so for context, it's like the people that are so into it that they're betting like a football game that four people are watching on the other side of the world. It's not even televised and you're putting in money on it. Maybe I would have become just an absolute sicko with statistics and just it would have become it would have devoured my whole personality and all my interests. I have no idea what would have happened. But I can tell you what did happen. I didn't do the independent study and then a couple years later I was like thank God cuz oh my god what I would have I would have felt so cheated you know because now you can't use it. >> Yeah you can't. And it it's kind of unfortunate because the basic premise of MBI is just interpreting the confidence interval of effect sizes um and then applying qualitative descriptors to them. And unfortunately, it started leaning towards the same thing that was never intended to happen with P values of just having a binary decision of P less than .005. And it became what if there is any possibility of having a non small negative effect and if it even has a hint of being neutral to positive we'll say yes to it. And then what they did was they made simulations to go wow this is actually creating far more false positives than even a liberal uh pvalue approach. And is that what we want? Yeah. >> And is it uh systematically biased? And apparently it was based upon some of the functions in the spreadsheets. But anyway, let's not wait. Give me one second. Let's not do that. Give me one second. >> Okay. >> Allow me to save my career because I did just make a gambling reference. Now that I technically work in an athletic department, I should note, as I've said many times before, I have never actually gambled on sport, but I do listen to a lot of football podcasts and I'm always interested on what what the lines are going to be. And I I some of the podcasts I listen to, the people are genuine sickos. They're they're betting these like fringe games that no one's going to watch and they're like all in on it. But uh I have to give that caveat so I don't get canned. >> No, my apologies. I was going to try to stop you because I know you will make this into a a statistics podcast if if I don't uh >> just trying to just trying to save my career. >> No, that is always allowed and it's an Iron Culture theme of us trying to mitigate the damage of the many controversies we've stepped into. So that's big time. I even I resigned from my fantasy football league >> because now I have to. >> Wow. >> So I've lost my sad I've lost my connection to my high school friends. Can you believe it? >> I I you know what? To be honest with the landscape of the NCAA and >> here this is last aside then I swear to God we're going to actually talk about the topic of the podcast. It boggles the mind of everyone in academia outside of the US that universities are what they are in the states that they are a sporting complex that are 80% massive basically professional sports stadium with hundreds of thousands of people in it. Uh and then oh we also teach some classes and they just don't fundamentally get it because we do have university sport here but it is not at all the same. It's like a club sport of 20 people. It's like chess club. >> Yeah. No, I I took my wife to a football game at Ohio State, which is where I went to undergrad. We packed 108,000 people in the stadium and before the game there was a military jet fly over of like four jets in a V. And she was like, "What is happening here?" Uh cuz she didn't grow up in America. She's like, "This is a completely unfamiliar thing to me." And I was like, "Yeah, it's it's incredible. It's the best." >> Yeah. And and and people from the States don't get it the other way. So they'll come out and I I I make a joke cuz my wife, she's finishing up her PhD at the University of Auckland, not Auckland University of Technology. And I make a joke, oh, she's with the enemy. And they'll say something like, you know, they're visiting, they want to go see like Hobbiton and then where Lord of the Rings was filmed, and they want to go see the, you know, The Crossing and go down and see, you know, Milford Sound. And they're like, "Oh, so I bet you guys really uh get amped up about the AUT Auckland University games." And I'm like, "That's not a thing." >> Yeah. No, and it's crazy because like now now I'm at Duke and like dude, like when you if you come to Duke, like the the coolest thing you can do here is go to a basketball game. Like it it is a legend legendary environment. Same thing Ohio State and football. Like you want to go to a game. Like that's Yeah, it's it's it's completely completely different. Someone comes to Duke, the first thing they ask about is the the basketball rivalry, you know? And so >> yeah, >> I cherish it. I understand it's odd. It's yeah, you can't buy an AUT basketball shirt. You know, the funny thing, the weird thing is it's annoying because there's enough of a parallel that if you talk to someone who didn't understand the cultural differences, you'd have a very confusing conversation because we do have AUT sport and there is a university sport games, but it is quite literally the same size as your local wreck league like shuffleboard league. You know, it's a it's a thing that occurs at the university, but it is not the same. >> Yeah. So anyway, shall we talk? >> I can't believe you went on that big detour, but yeah, let's get back into the paper. Shame. >> No, how did that happen? Who has been derailing me? >> I don't know. >> I don't know. Yeah. So, anyway, causal discovery analysis. It is something that neither I nor Trex. So, that means that basically anyone in exercise science had never heard of this before because you're you're within the top tier of of statistical uh awareness and knowledge in in our field. >> Bottom of the top. >> Knew about this. you're still there. Okay, I'm not even in that tier. So, this is not something it's I would consider it very innovative and exercise science because obviously it is something because it's in this paper and this is an exercise science paper but uh it is well established in say like epidemiology. So it is adjacent and and very common in things like uh computer science and it is one of the many tools that I am learning about and I think is really neat where you can look at observational data and untangle the complexities of what is correlated. So we've talked about mandelian randomization that's a really innovative way of using uh genetics as a natural control. Um this is a similar approach where you can take large data and you can start to look at strength of associations with essentially a highly complex algorithm and you can create associations between everything in a data set and then basically just remove one and then relook at it again. Remove another, relook at it again. And you do this in a tiered-based fashion. uh and it requires a tremendous amount of baseline data collection. So you can look at relationships uh separating into these different factors and also expertise on the part of the researchers so they can say all right we need to go through these multiple tiered associations and pull one out so we can see the direction of causality. So, conceptually the way it works, it's like a uh like a detective investigating like a complex crime scene and they got a lot of clues and some things could be related but other things shouldn't be or they don't make sense. So, the algorithm it sifts through this web of relationships and it looks for what they call conditional uh independence. It basically asks a series of logical questions. All right. So, if we account for the influence of baseline strength, does sex still have an independent relationship with strength gains? And then it'll pull one out, put another one in, and it eliminates like any kind of illogical pathways. So, you couldn't have something that was like, oh, uh, changes in strength cause sex, right? Uh, and it creates what they call a causal graph, and it gives you directional arrows. Uh, things that are d have a causal relationship. they just one points to the other. Uh thing where there's relationships where there's probably some unmeasured third variable where even when you pull out other ones they seem to retain this correlation. They have a birectional arrow uh and even more other complex potential uh relationships. So the big question, so I basically looked at this and read a lot of papers, watched YouTube, you know, talked to Gemini and had it tell me things back and tried to figure this out on my own because obviously I'm not a statistician. But what I am is a highly skeptical and critical person. And I was like, hold on h how can you do this? Right? So some of my first questions were like, well, how do I know that it's not just some other variable? And there's a number of pieces in place to protect against that. So the first one is domain expertise which I mentioned. So there were 22 variables that the authors in this study included in the model. So they were a priority decided and they at least by the author's estimation either directly or indirectly they thought would influence muscle adaptation. So again the famous study is huge. They're collecting a lot of data that we're not even directly assessing in this study. So they got this wide range of variables, what they would call quote unquote constitutional factors, which is kind of that first tier in this analysis. So they're looking at like age, sex, uh baseline body weight, blood pressure, initial strength, all the baseline measurements, size of both the arms. And again, this is kind of cool. The fact that this was a within participant study played a role here. So they can have the actual change in strength from the non-trained arm to the trained arm which is a purely neuromuscular phenomenon the cross- educational effect. So this allows them to take a look at the cross- education effect of pure neural change in hypertrophy and include that as one of their baseline variables to try to get a little more understanding of how strength and size are related. So that was what they did. So they have these multiple tiers that prevents the model from drawing illogical conclusions. We have constitutional variables. We have a whole lot of data over,200 participants, 22 variables and they didn't get every single variable for every person but we're talking about a thousand plus variables for every single one of these people in this study. And then what they started doing was they started sampling like drawing names out of a hat and replacing so that they looked at different subsamples within this 1233 sample. It's a process called bootstrapping. It's basically stress testing it mathematically. So trying to see is this a reliable process. If we're taking a large enough sample of our sample, do we still see the relationship or was this potentially some type of statistical fluke where no, it's just this this sample that has it. So what they're doing is they're drawing names out of the hat. They're replacing it. So some people are picked more than once, some people aren't picked at all. They did this a 100 times and then they looked at what percentage of those hundreds bootstrapped resamples of the same data do we see the same causal relationships. So that's how they did it and that's a very high level understanding. I'm sure there are some epidemiologists who are listening to this tearing their hair out. Um, but I'm just trying to give people a basic idea of how they can get around this this very difficult thing to do of trying to tease out directional and strength of potential causality from these correlations. So, so how did I do tracks? >> I thought you did great. And there's an automatic reply to all the hate mail from statistitians that says, "Hey, not bad for a fitness podcast." >> I'll take it. Yeah, >> not bad for a fitness podcast is probably an excellent description for iron culture generally, I would say. What do you think? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Cool. So, yeah, I think I I will acknowledge that for all of us non-statisticians, um, this causal discovery analysis is essentially a black box. And what I'm trying to do is to get you an understanding of how it works conceptually. So, it's not just a trust, right? Because I didn't trust it. I'm like I need to I want to understand at least how this supposedly uh you know looked at this relationship. >> Yeah. Yeah. To be clear now that people are more into like AI which enables or can enable analysis of like completely unstructured data with completely unstructured relationships. Like it is worth noting that there are some applications of like AI based analyses or like you know machine learning based analyses that are they they're kind of known that if you don't set some guard rails and parameters they're just false positive machines. Um but this is something that actually has some very thoughtful theorybased structure to it. And I I think you made that uh very clear and helped kind of not, you know, it's not like everyone's ready to go do their own analysis with this procedure, but it, you know, the black box doesn't seem quite as opaque. >> I would say now it's like one of those uh the the early version of the Apple computers where you could see through it was like a a translucent shell on Yeah. the iMac and it always be like orange or some kind of fun color. Uh so you can look and you can see that Oh, there there's like little chips and stuff in there. I get it. >> Yeah. So, let's let let let's talk about some of the limitations like like how how this can go wrong and and and how much should we put this on the same level as somehow you could do a randomized controlled trial where you could like randomize hypertrophy to people, right? And then look at the influence of strength. We can't do that. That's not a thing. But um so what is the limitation of a causal discovery analysis? First off, if there is an important variable missing from the data set, which which you can't know, um, but you can have a ba a theory based uh thought process as to why and we have a pretty good idea of what what what is contributing to strength, right? So, we got the the the the cross education effect, we have baseline levels of strength and size, we have health, we have age, which importantly did seem to be a causal effect on strength as well. the older people got, there seemed to be some decline in strength and that lines up. That's a good thing, right? It's not it wasn't as strong near nor nearly as stable because this wasn't a study on people over the age of 40, but we know that sarcopenia is is something that might be cropping up a little bit or at least systematically lower activity levels in the people who are older in this study. But anyway, if there's an important variable missing from a data set, the model can absolutely produce incorrect results to your point tracks. Um and if an important variable is not missing um even then it's only technically correct to say that we have a probabilistically likely causal relationship. So all we can infer is that it is the most likely causal structure and then we can put some numbers to the the strength of that association but not absolute proof of a causal relationship. So the bootstrapping analysis it gives you kind of the uh qualitative magnitude of strength. So they found that 67 out of their 100 model times they saw the same directional relationship between larger changes in muscle volume leading to larger changes in 1RM strength specifically. And that is what is qualitative described as a fairly stable relationship that is unlikely to be a statistical fluke. So I I had some other questions when I thought about this. I was like, "Well, okay, hold on. Why is the causal link only for 1RM but not MVC? What's going on here?" I like I would expect a less skillful movement like a an MVC to be more sensitive to changes in muscle size. But I think this is likely because of the the things we saw than the sex differences. So again, more women in this study, right? They made up 700ish and 730s out of the,230. Uh and again what we saw was more rapid neural adaptations uh in in the women. So that those newbie gains are are probably you know contaminating the relationship a little bit here and or not even contaminating it. They're giving you a better idea. This is in this sample at this time. Strength is less caused in other samples or times because it's not a fixed relationship over the the lifespan of a lifter. Uh a weaker relationship between strength and size. So when we looked at the change where there was a tighter grouping and relationship between 1RM and size right now it starts to make sense like oh okay so we're seeing it and and the one that is going to be more dominant. So I think it all it all fits together if you understand everything that was done but again it is a very weak relationship. the causal discovery analysis in total and this is all causal factors not even just the impact of size. So including the potential effect of age which was the other potential causal factor it only explained 10% of the relationship between uh or of what what could be attributed as a causal factor for strength gain. So, I think that that's that's really important to note that at least in this analysis for the first 12 weeks of an untrained person training, yeah, getting bigger does make you stronger, but it's a lot of other factors probably most mostly related to those initial uh motor learning changes that are probably going to uh be the larger factors. >> Yeah. And I think that's such a key point. So, this this is specifically looking at the first 12 weeks. Um but you mentioned >> the study is still ongoing. Is it still ongoing with the same people longitudinally? Like is there some possibility in the future that there may be data from this study where we can say, well, how does this all happen if we run it back? But now we're looking at week 400 to week 412 of their training rather than 1 to 12. Yeah, I I I don't it's possible that one arm or one aspect of the study or one of the eight sites they are enrolling people for longer than 12 weeks, but from what I can just tell from looking at it and looking at all the various papers and preprints and every all the data I can get is this is a multi-sight 12week study. Okay. >> So, we may not have that information. >> Yeah. cuz I think you know to me one of the things that you know like you said earlier like being totally charitable or or being um fair I guess some people will look at this and say okay I told you so like you had to go through this whole convoluted you know process of this you know really nuanced analysis and the whole thing alto together is explaining 10%. Um and everyone out here is acting like the only thing you can do to get stronger is big get bigger. I think the the most important nuance or caveat there is if you told me it was this was the first 12 weeks and we're gonna find any causal link I'd say okay like I'm not stunned but it is kind of an uphill battle because we all know we I mean >> some of us Helms remember our first 12 weeks of training because uh we still have that kind of cognitive horsepower uh the neurons are still firing for us Helms at at our young ages. >> Not me. Uh, not me, buddy. >> But, you know, first 12 weeks you're learning the ropes. You, you know, you're like a baby giraffe trying to walk in the gym. You're getting your feet underneath you. There's so much neural adaptation happening. It's not to say that there's zero muscle growth, but you certainly don't view it as the predominant factor driving, you know, your gains in strength. But when you look back at your lifting career after you've been doing it for, you know, a couple decades, you say, "Man, the main thing that made me a better bench presser or, you know, you fill in the blank from, you know, 2017 to 2022 was I gained a whole bunch of muscle, you know, uh, and so I I think that's such a huge fact uh thing to keep in mind with this debate is no one is saying that strength or that muscle growth is the only causitive driver of hyper hypertrophy and the earlier you get in in one's training career I would say people really abandon the idea that it's even the predominant driver you know that that's always been the kind of uh you know uh the kind of basic information you get in X-fizz 101 is the the initial phase of training there's a whole lot of neural adaptation don't bank on growing a lot >> um >> absolutely >> and even if you do it's probably not the main thing driving your strength but the question is once you've gotten you know the through the you know months and months and years and years of kind of establishing those neural adaptations now what are the main levers we can pull for gaining strength you know and I think that's uh that's where you and I are probably on the same page that it becomes you know getting technically very very good at the thing you're doing and building muscle >> and I think the the building muscle like I think some people they go okay it's it's 10% of the first 12 weeks what is it maybe 20 30% later. I I actually think the data. Now, here's the thing. I I'll I'll put the the limitations of what I'm about to say up front. This is based upon looking at relationship of change scores and trained populations, not causal discovery analyses and trained populations. And they're not the same, and I won't pretend they are. But simply doing a better analysis of change scores drastically changes the strength of the relationship. And then looking at different populations much later in their career drastically changes this relationship. So when we last discussed this, we were looking at the study on powerliffters specifically. Man, there were some pretty damn strong relationships over 12 weeks with squat, bench, and deadlift. Um, we were looking at strengths of relationships between like cross-sectional area or sections of uh of lean body mass via DEXA with 1RM that were all in the moderate to strong range for the percentage they explained. We're talking 40 to 60% uh of what was going on. Um, again, that's that's not the causal relationship. That is the variance explained, but there's a great study by Tramarus and colleagues, lean body mass, muscle architecture, and powering performance during preseason in competition. And then on the analytical side, there's a really really good paper in Pure J by none other than Vagodsky and colleagues. You know, we've talked about people who are in that top tier. You're in the same league as this person. You'd probably agree that maybe you were on the bench, but they're starting. Is that an accurate way of viewing it? So >> Vagotssky is the team captain. I get a few minutes when we have a comfortable lead. >> That's right. If if Steel has got a little bit of a shoulder issue, you know, they they they pull you in and you're you're playing short forward. So, um, sounds good. Probably point guard. Well, I I was trying to be too nice. Um, so anyway, Vagotssky 2018, they they did a really cool reanalysis and they looked at a data set where if you just did a straight up R score between pre-post change, there was a relationship of in untrained individuals. Similar study, they're looking at cross-sectional area 4% of the variance in strength gain seem to be related to MVC of the arm. And importantly here, here's another thing to consider. I forgot to mention this. This study by Dart, they were looking at the relationship between whole arm size and bicep strength. So that means they were relating the triceps with bicep strength. So I think that alone might have changed things. But anyway, in the study by Vagotssky, they were looking at bicep size and bicep strength and it was only a 0.4% of the variance explained. And that's actually less than was looked at by Dart. But once they actually did a within participant analysis, they looked at a midpoint and they compared slopes just as the whole instead of the whole group change. So they did a within participant analysis, it jumped up to 12.1%. From 0.4 okay that is a 30fold stronger relationship just by doing what is a much more statistically justifiable and accurate method of analyzing things. So just because you see some of these studies out there that sometimes get out and they have what I would argue is a less statistical approach, it doesn't necessarily represent the true strength of that relationship when we're trying to get kind of these summary statistics of of what is it like to get stronger. And again, that's that that's still in newbies. So yeah. >> Yeah. So I I think we've kind of hammered out the main points, you know. So w with this study um the the deck was already kind of stacked against I would say finding a causal effect of muscle growth on strength because like you said we were looking at growth of the biceps and triceps and and correlating with a bicep curl or you know MVC of the biceps. So that alone was a factor against finding a causal effect. of course them being in the first 12 weeks as untrained lifters that to me that has maybe even a bigger effect of kind of stacking the deck against yet still there was a small but statistically significant uh causal effect identified in in this analysis that was run in other studies we've seen very clear examples where the more um nuanced and more the analysis it's really important to recognize when we talk about the Vagotssky study for example, it's not just that they analyze the data differently. They they analyze the data using a within participant analysis that is conceptually uh theoretically, practically in all ways more justifiable than the more simplistic approach that that is often used to say, hey, look, there's no relationship here. So, so it really is important to consider the uh using in a a statistical approach that is appropriate relative to the hypothesis and research question. Number one. And then number two, factoring in those circumstantial fac circumstantial factors that really do dictate a major impact of what we should expect to see, which is what is the context here in terms of how much skill acquisition and how much neural adaptation are we observing in parallel with this muscle growth. If you really wanted to understand is there a causal effect and does it matter, you would study this in circumstances where we're using a nuanced within subject statistical analysis. Uh we're collecting large amounts of data uh you know really nuanced just so you can you know sort out any coariantss you need to in a nuanced manner. um and you you're making sure that you you're creating circumstances uh in in the experimental approach or or the research approach, the the design of the study where you are not anticipating dramatic neural changes or massive shifts in skill acquisition. Right? So, we're not going to bring in people who have been leg pressing for 36 weeks straight and say, "Great, now we're going to do the study with squats, you know, and and they're going to spend the next 12 weeks learning how to squat, basically, and if any growth happens, it'll be coincidental, basically." Um, so anyway, you know, a lot of these studies where people will say, "See, there's really a lack either no proof or a direct lack of justification for the claim that muscle growth has a causal impact partially driving strength gains." They're almost always pointing to studies that really failed to meet these criteria of what you would need to address that question in a meaningful way. And again, I think the biggest misnomer, the biggest misconception I should say in this topic is that anyone is out there saying muscle growth is the only driver of strength gains. It it is so dependent on the context and especially when we're talking about beginner to even intermediate lifters. There's so much other stuff going on that that, you know, most people would claim muscle growth is contributing but is not the sole or even in some cases the primary driver. Um, which is a huge distinction. >> That's a great summary, Shrex. >> All right, beautiful. Do we have anything else we want to add here or is it time to uh wrap up the old show? >> No, I think we did a good job. We uh we we covered not only why we think there were sex differences quote unquote observed that were probably more systematic differences in untrained men and women based upon who participates in the research due to likely things that they did in their youth even when you control for uh factors related to uh people's jobs which by the way not all studies do. I think that's another thing to point out is that there is not only differences in what people might have done in their youth, >> but there is still only I think even though it's increased, if you look at manual labor jobs, much more men in manual labor jobs than women. >> Brother, you're not going to believe me. The audience won't believe me. I don't care. I'm telling the truth. This is my life. Okay? I uh was doing a study and there was a one one of the biggest people I've ever like had in my lab in terms of just pure muscularity. Um, this was a person who had not lifted weights in at least like five or six years. This was the most muscular person despite all the training studies I've done and studies with bodybuilders even. The person was massive. And here's the two things uh that were really responsible Helms. Number one, this is a retired uh professional football player. So, the genetics check. This man touches a weight, he grows. Uh, number two, uh, he was working, um, in a job where he had to move heavy boxes around. That was his training was I go to work every day and sometimes heavy stuff comes in and I got to move it from over here to over there. This man was enormous. I I nearly spit out my water when I was like, "So, what does your training program look like these days?" He says, "I haven't trained since the day I retired." You got to be kidding me. So, uh, yeah, it turns out you can actually get pretty huge by just doing very hard things with heavy stuff, especially if you have elite genetics. >> Yep. And a background of being uh an NFL player. >> Y doesn't hurt. Yeah. Um, no, that that that's beautiful. I think we did a good job uh getting the main points across. Um, if I may, I'd like to answer one question from the live chat. There there is a code to be broken here. This is a question from Buckeye 999 and and their uh their icon is the Ohio State logo. So during football season that that's how you get straight to the top of the list. I'm not going to lie. >> Question is, what's your take the I'm answering it because it's relevant. Helms >> question is what's your take on sample size justification and training studies? G power precision or none at all? Feels like most just recruit as many as possible then add a power analysis to satisfy peer reviewers. Buckeye99, you are correct. Um, and honestly, here's my hot takehomes. It's not the researcher's fault. In many cases, right now, I have a paper in peer review where I um I literally said I recruited a population or I I recruited this is one of the only studies in the world I've ever been able to say this. I reached out to the full population of eligible humans for this study. I tried to recruit every human on the planet who qualifies. Here's how many we got. And a reviewer said, "Why don't you go ahead and give me a sample size analysis?" I I nearly broke my computer saying, "Why would you ask me to do this? You are you are imploring me to tell you a lie and basically say, "Well, I guess I can reverse engineer a sample size analysis to make this number make sense based on some effect size related to some variable we're looking at. Or I could just tell you exactly why I recruited the number of people I recruited and why there is no possible chance I could have recruited more." Um, so yeah, the answer is yes. There's a lot of studies where they basically say, "We have enough money and time to recruit 28 people. Recruit 28 people." And then when they go to the paper, they say, "We put a number that makes no sense into GP power." And what do you know? It told us 28 would be fine. Um, so my my response in terms of does that happen? The answer is yes. Does it happen a lot? Yes. Um, is it always the researcher's fault or are they getting their arm twisted by reviewers? It's both. You know, some people have had their arm twisted so many times by reviewers that now they just do it and say, "Don't don't twist my arm anymore. I'll just give you what I think you want." So, that's not good, but it is what it is. Uh, and I don't condone it at all, and I don't participate in it, which is why I'm getting my arm twisted right now, and I don't like it. the approach I like to take um I'll just briefly uh acknowledge there's a paper by uh Daniel Lakens where he talks about I think six different ways to justify your sample size >> very simple very to the point and it's not always go in G-P power and make up a number um honestly I don't even really like GP power I prefer to just simulate data sets that I expect to observe and then just do it 10,000 times and calculate my actual observed power under the conditions I expect to see. And the reason that's really great is because you can do much more complex models that way. You you're not just stuck with kind of basic comparisons. But anyway, uh in the Leakens paper, justifications may come down to the old-fashioned I expected an effect size this large based on prior research and therefore I recruited this many people. That's the the most simple approach. Sometimes it's just like I recruited literally everyone I could and this is what I got. Sometimes, uh, Leaken says it's totally justifiable to just write in your paper, I had enough money to do doubly labeled water research. Sometimes you just only have enough money for 100 people. And that's that's big for doubly labeled water. So you just say, I had enough money for this and I did as many as I could. So I I am calling on the world. Let's just be honest about how many people we we recruited. like what is the what is the purpose of perpetuating these uh white lies that serve nobody homes? Why why do we do this? >> Cuz they force us to. And then the ironic thing is then you've done it. You have it in your paper. And you feel obligated to then interpret your data as though I oh I had a sufficient sample size. So everything I observed is a rock solid representation of the population when it's absolutely not because you're assuming a large effect. And if you happen to discover a large effect, it's almost certainly a fluke. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, uh I I I love the question and again it totally ties into um you know when you're looking at papers on some of these hot button issues and there's you know uh contrasting uh perspectives on it. If you're just viewing studies based on a p value less than 0.05 or not and you're not factoring in the sample size, you are going to walk away with some misinterpretations and thinking, well, this study totally, you know, contradicts that one. In some cases, again, we find, you know, if we did this study in a sample of 300 people, it's non-significant. If we did 600 people that are just like them, it becomes significant. Does that make the effect more meaningful? No, of course not. Uh maybe it makes our estimate a little bit more stable and precise by having a bigger sample size, but at the end of the day, the sample size is a huge factor whenever you're interpreting research. And uh we we need to stop doing this little game as a field where we just pretend to do a calculation that is useful to nobody. Uh but anyway, Helms, uh you are a hero, a champion. Uh led us through a fantastic episode talking through your article. that article if you want to really dig into the nuance if you didn't get enough uh in this episode and there is a lot more to this paper um I I would encourage people to check out the the full article by the good Dr. Helms with figures and tables and stuff which always help uh kind of solidify some of these uh you know more quantitatively heavy topics. Be sure you check it out in the next issue of the Mass Research Review. It goes live September 1st. You can become a member of the mass community by going over to massresarchreview.com. Um, and by the way, this issue we're I have to say, Helms, we're crushing it. We got a lot of really, really cool articles coming up this month. So, that is but only one of them. Uh, I think we've got, I don't know, eight, nine pieces of content this month, something like that. >> Always in that range. >> Always in that range. So, uh, a lot of good stuff coming up. Be sure to check it out. Maybe you're not ready to become a member of the mass community. Maybe that is too much winning too quickly and you're not prepared for that in your life. That's okay. There's other ways you can support Iron Culture. First and foremost, like the video. What are you waiting for? You know, go wherever you get the video, like it, rate it positively, subscribe, leave a very favorable review, five stars, six thumbs up, whatever scoring system you use, make sure you max it out. Um, and of course share it with a friend and join us Monday nights when you can. Uh, that does it for tonight's episode everyone. Thank you so much for joining us. Uh, we will be back with yet another episode in 7 weeks.