 that New Zealand does have a time zone. And it's an especially important thing because this morning, my wife, unofficial Dr. Lyon, successfully defended her PhD in geology in my enemy university, the Auckland University, or University of Auckland, I should say. I bet when you guys have football games, it is just, I mean, the butting of heads in that football rivalry. You've talked up collegiate sport in New Zealand enough that I know how intense it gets. I only recently found out that actually there is such a thing as AUT sport, and there is a very little known university league where the, it's basically the equivalent of like the chess club, you know, kind of size, you know, that there are some of them. And they reached out to us a couple years ago for our institute, the research institute, like, hey, do you guys have any postgraduate students who might be doing strength conditioning related stuff and can help the AUT sport teams? And I was like, we have AUT sport teams? But yeah, it is an entirely different world. People don't understand. Um, in either place, like people from the US are like, what do you mean there isn't university teams that aren't massive? And like, who do you support? And I get questions. Yeah. Americans all the time. Like, oh, so, so like, what, what teams is AUT good with? And I'm like, that's not a thing, bro. And then outside of the US, everyone's like, what do you mean 90% of the university is funded by the athletics department? And that's, it basically costs the GDP of a small nation to, you know, to do this. And then you have, um, because yeah, like if wait, when you're, when you're football, yeah. When your football team alone is a $100 million enterprise annually. Um, yeah, that's, that's a different kind of thing. Yeah. So like, it's not like university towns are not a thing in other countries or, or, uh, or places, but, but the, the economies of scale are a little different typically. And it's, um, and then, and then they're even more confused in the sport and exercise world. So like, oh, that's really cool. Then you must get the opportunity to work with these D1 athletes. And we're like, oh no, no, no, no. We don't get to touch them. We do, uh, extra credit for the anatomy one-on-one class students, you know, to, to come across. And, and then you also find out that's probably why like formal academic sports science took off after it occurred in, in, in Europe and, in the UK, which has probably had arguably the first sports science program. If you kind of look into the history of it, not exercise science. Anyway, I'm doing great because I'm so proud of my wife. She crushed it. And now we have one real doctorate, uh, in the house because sport and exercise, you know, equivalent of a solid associate's degree in a real science topic. And, um, no, I'm so proud of her. Uh, it's amazing. I rarely post things about my, my personal life, but this, you know, I'm overflowing with, with, with love, happiness, joy, and respect. So I had to go on the gram. Um, so I'm doing well. Um, and I think, I think that's the biggest news in my life right now. What's going on with you? Yeah. Well, I'm conflicted because I have to hold two things at once. Number one, I'm very happy for your wife. Um, very, very pleased that she's made it to this huge, huge accomplishment in her life. On the other hand, um, one of the things I like to do is any of my close friends or associates, I try to think of what are the things that I have that they don't have things I can hold over them, uh, to reinforce my belief of superiority. And one of the things that had been working for me as it pertains to you is I had a wife with a PhD and you didn't. Right. And now that whole armor that I built around my ego, um, that has shattered. And now I'm very concerned about how I'm going to navigate our relationship where I no longer have this kind of leg up on you, uh, in my very regressive perspective. Trex, I think you're forgetting that literally last year, I tried to take a shot on goal and failed. I went up for an attempt to get my pro card in classic bodybuilding. Once it opened up the WMBF and I fell short. Um, I am only a one category pro in natural bodybuilder. You are still the Deion Sanders. Now, one could also say that the person who beat me for that pro card went on to then win the world championship, which is why I interviewed them to, to, to uplift my stock. Yeah. You know, the better they do. Um, so, but I'm not sure. It's still, I'm not sure if any of the people, yeah, I'm not sure if any of the people I beat for my pro card necessarily won any WMBF world titles, but I haven't checked up and I certainly won't. I don't need to be looking into that kind of stuff. And nonetheless, amateur pro there's a, there's a, there's a hard line. And as we know in natural bodybuilding, someone who is a pro is independent of organization or the circumstance in which they want it better than all amateurs. That is one of the benefits of having such a clearly defined objective sport with criteria leagues funding. Um, in fact, they're working it into the NCAA structure as we speak at the moment. They're just worried about it, drawing too much of a crowd and taking away from football. They got to uplift these smaller programs, you know? Yeah, I hear you. But no, I, I relate to the idea of my wife also, uh, foolishly chosen actual science for her PhD. Her PhD is in psychology and I happen to believe I can't prove this because I'm a little bit intellectually outgunned. I believe she uses it to manipulate me, uh, emotionally. So, uh, at least you don't have to navigate that in your household. Uh, whenever I interact with her, I have no idea what's going on. Am I being manipulated? Is this some kind of psychological testing or, uh, conditioning that's being, that I'm being subjected to without any kind of consent? I have no idea. So I live my life in a constant state of paranoia. Unfortunately, Trex, my wife prior to her, uh, she's, she's a late stage, uh, career academic in this field. Um, you know, she's, uh, on paper she's, you know, in her forties, she looks like she's 28 and always will. Um, but, uh, so her career before rocks was animals and she was actually a, a trainer at the Auckland zoo, among other things for the primates as a primate zookeeper. And then she's a dog trainer before that. So she actually explicitly learned how to train and manipulate through positive reinforcement. So I'm fine with it. Um, you know, the, the, the behavior of primates and considering we're both intellectually outgunned, um, her ability to effectively train a, you know, pygmy marmoset is probably just as effective on me, if not more so. Yeah. So, so she looks at you and she basically sees a bonobo, uh, who, who needs to be just a little bit of guidance, right? Just a little bit of nurturing some of your behaviors and getting them to where they need to be. So very, very healthy situation. Um, but no, seriously though, huge congrats to your wife. Super exciting. And I hope you have a wonderful celebration planned because that, uh, that is your job. A hundred percent. All right. Uh, Helms, before we get into it, we need to, uh, do all of our promotional activities, right? So if you like the show, uh, do make sure that you are supporting it in any number of ways, make sure you like rate, subscribe, review, tell a friend, share a link, post it all over social media, post a story when you're listening and say, wow, this is a wonderful thing. I'm listening to give a five-star rating. That's really the only kind of rating that we're currently in the market for. Those are the only ones we're accepting at the moment. Um, of course, if you want to support our friends, use the code MRR10. That stands for mass research review 10. Use that at elitefts.com. Next time you're looking for some lifting gear or lifting apparel, that would get you a 10% discount off of your order. And of course you're thinking, wait, MRR10 is the code for iron culture. Well, duh. Mass research review is what makes this whole thing go. It's, it's the, what's funding the whole operation. Okay. So if you like iron culture, you like the mass research review. And if you really want to support us, the number one way to do it is head over to massresearchreview.com. Check it out. Take a look at some of the free articles. We've got some great stuff. And if you really love it, become a member of the mass community. We publish a new issue, the first of the month, every single month, never been late since 2017. Uh, and we bring you the best, freshest, hardest hitting, most useful evidence related to exercise, nutrition, you name it. If it's fitness or health adjacent, we cover it. And I think you're going to love it. Helms, what I forget? Nothing. In fact, I just want to shout out the most recent free article that is on massresearchreview.com. And that is the cover story for our recently dropped issue, uh, that Dr. Lauren Kalenza Semple wrote, um, titled the peptide problem. And I want to address that there might've been a bit of a social media kerfuffle in which I took, uh, many of the L. In fact, some of the comments were Helms taking a rare L here. Helms, clearly a shill trying to mislead his audience, uh, and on and on and on and on. And I spent most of the morning we posted that, um, essentially just having a tax on my credibility for hitting, except collaboration. Um, I love that. Yeah. You, you neither, not to get too, too much, too much inside baseball here, but you neither wrote the article nor made the post. And then, yeah, the whole comment section was like, Helms has jumped the shark. His credibility is tanked. It's all over. Uh, when will he just go away? You know what? I am the, the, the consummate, uh, you know, influencer who just drops clickbait. You know, in, in, uh, in, in defense of the people who attacked me, which is a ridiculous thing I don't, I don't need to be doing. Um, I can understand where they came from. Like we, we had talked about it on, on front page fitness. We had read the article, you know, it was written two weeks prior to this post and our headset was all in like, everyone knows what peptides we're talking about. It's the ones that have not gone through FDA approval, which you can only get through compounding pharmacies, which are for research purposes only, which have no human data, except for like a, a case report of people saying, yeah, I did that a year ago. I felt great. Um, yeah. And even like, yeah, go ahead. Like during the peer review process, cause we review each other's work before it goes to publication really, really thoroughly. Um, and I even left a comment in, in the article saying like, in this part right here, you should probably state the specific peptides we're talking about here. Cause obviously like insulin is a peptide. It's a miracle peptide, right? Like, you know, so we, you know, um, you know, um, some agles, all these weight loss drugs, the GLP one agonist, you know, so even within our conversations, like you said, we were so far past the like hemming and hawing of how exactly are we going to frame these very delicately in the article, but yeah, go on. Yeah. Like I think we were operating from this place of everyone knows what peptides are talking about. And then some of the first comments were like, man, what an idiot. Don't you know that GLP ones are peptides? No human data clearly blatantly false clickbait. And I was like, God damn it. We didn't mean insulin. Didn't mean semaglutide. What are you talking about? Don't you know? Everyone, everyone listened. Yeah. So everyone woke up saying, wow, I guess Helms is shaming people type one diabetics for using insulin. What the hell? Yeah. Honestly, it was a good reminder. And there was even a one comment like, wow, Helms always talking about being careful with this language and he drops this one. And I was like, okay, you know what? Pot kettle black. I'm good with it. Like, like this is a user learning experience. So I spent the morning responding to these comments saying, yes, to be clear, we didn't mean that. And then we changed the caption, which made me realize that no one reads captions because the comments kept coming. Um, and then they were claiming that we were just trying to do this to get people to just, you know, shill like, oh, you dropped a little hint. Didn't tell us enough, made it rage bait. And now we have to sign up for your research review. Last time I checked, people don't rage bait into paying you a $30 per month subscription. Um, so just to really clear the air, what did we decide to do? We released the article for free so you can read the whole thing. That still did not alleviate it. Trax, I don't know if you realize this. My prediction was, okay, if they're only reading one slide of a, of a carousel and not the caption, they're definitely going to read a 4,000 word article though, if they go to an external link. Unfortunately, that, that very logical premise was not shown to be true. So I started responding to comments just by saying, Hey, thanks for the feedback. Have you looked into the, the full article that we released? I think it'll clarify which specific ones we're talking about in parentheses that we also mentioned in the caption and, uh, unbeknownst to me, unpredictably, and as a surprise to everyone, people continued to not read the caption nor the full article and simply just attack me for being a shill, um, on the, uh, just the, the first image on the carousel. So yeah. So Helms, could I, if I worked really hard, could I win you over to the thesis? If, if I stated, if I laid it out very academically and very thoroughly, could I win you over to acknowledging the idea that frequent social media posters may in the aggregate be high in disagreeableness and relatively low in conscientiousness? You know, I, it, it does mostly comport with my experiences. So I, I'm, I'm amenable to that. I would need to see the data that you already presented a few, you know, yeah. So to go. So the reason I bring it up, I, unfortunately I'm a coward, uh, but I did have half a mind and it's also hard with algorithmic, you know, stuff. I wasn't sure how much visibility I would get and if it would be funny or if it would just be a total flop, I had half a mind to actually post in that thread and say, by the way, everybody like totally unrelated. I don't even know why I'm bringing it up. But also this month we have an article about why sometimes on social media, totally reasonable people end up getting into these very disagreeable and contentious discussions that really could be as simple as, Hey, what do you mean by peptide? Oh, glad you asked. Obviously not the ones that have gone through FDA approval, this new wave of peptides that are being obtained in wellness clinics and online pharmacies for which we have minimal data regarding safety and efficacy. And then the person would say, Oh, thank you for clarifying. Good day. Yep. That's the way social media works. People use the principle of charity. Assume the thing that makes sense, not the thing that allowed to call you an asshole or a moron or disingenuous or Charlotte. Yeah. So I had a really, I liked, I did. So one last thing, I got several people who made a very, very similar comment and they started with the premise, which I like because they're, they're, they're trying to canvas the potential options of what could be happening here. Two options. Either one you're a moron and you don't know what a peptide drug is or two, you're blatantly lying to your audience. I'm like, sweet. Is it possible there's a third option? I guess not. So which one do I choose or is it both? You know, two options. Neither one is good. You're an idiot or you're a jerk or maybe you're a jerk. Who's an idiot. Yeah. I would say next time you're in that conundrum, choose that you're, you're a smart jerk because I think at least you could frame a redemption arc down the line versus like, if you're just fundamentally stupid, I, that's going to be really tough for your credibility. Uh, I, there's been a few, there's been a few cancellations in fitness lately and I've been amazed at the goal. Uh, I'm not going to get into names and who and all that stuff, but there's a lot of people who nowadays, like the internet moves so fast and is so treacherously aggressive that they'll like literally just like lay low for 72 hours and then come back and be like, you know, guys, I've done a lot of thinking and I've decided like the things I've been doing for the last like 11 years straight publicly. I don't, I don't want to do that anymore. I'm just going to be a straight shooter and just like, you can trust me now. Um, so anyway, are we cool picking up where we left off? And, and they expect the audience to be like, yeah, I mean, it's been 72 hours. I mean, honestly, what a commendable way of owning up to your mistakes. I'm, I'm, I'm, yeah, I applaud you, sir, for the, this, this drastic change you've made. Yeah. Yeah. I saw, I saw one person who changed their facial hair, waited 72 hours and then came back and they're like, all right, like we're good. Right. I've undergone a lot of deep work, mostly with an electric shaver. Yeah. All right. Um, so anyway, Helms, are we ready to dive into the real juicy substantive content for today? Yeah. As I understand it, um, you have been watching this space for almost a year now, cause I think it was back in May of last year where we addressed the, um, honestly borderline comical and entertaining train wreck of retraction, internal pre-publication retraction versus preprint, then public reanalysis, science communication, snafu, uh, just traffic jam of nonsense of what was dubbed the lean mass hyper responder study. Um, and, uh, for those who don't remember, uh, and this is me recalling, cause I actually haven't been paying a tremendous amount of attention to this cause it's a little more in the public health domain versus the shame, the public for not being as jacked as a, uh, you are domain where I operate. Um, so this was looking at basically active, healthy people on keto who were quote unquote, lean mass hyper responders, egregiously misrepresentative name, which basically means, Hey, I'm healthy. I'm fit. And I have really good blood markers except for high HD, a high LDL. And that's probably not a problem. So let's look at the plaque accumulation. Oh shit. It looks like it is a problem, but it's probably not a problem because in my Facebook group, no one has reported that they've died. Is that a good summary of where we were at and we left off last time? So yeah, where we left off last time. And if you're a mass member, you can jog your, a mass member, you can jog your memory going back to an article I wrote, uh, back when the study first came out, volume nine, issue six. So a couple of years ago at this point, I think, uh, something like, or a year ago, but, um, yeah, June of last year. So I wrote an article, uh, that addressed it. And then of course, in episode 328 of the iron culture, I talked about, um, just some of the chaos with how this study rolled out. Right. And so, yeah, I talked about, I, there was not like a, there wasn't like a retraction element, at least not one that comes to memory, but it was basically like the details of the paper started leaking on like podcasts and Twitter posts. And then an actual copy of the paper leaked that was like already formatted for the journal. And then people were getting asked questions, like authors were getting asked questions about the paper. And they were like, I've never heard that value in my life. And I'm going to make sure it gets corrected before this gets published. Or like, I haven't seen the proofs. And it's like, but they're, they're floating around the internet. It was just really chaotic. And I, and I don't mean like, listen, chaotic stuff can happen to people that are very, very buttoned up. And so like, I'm not saying like that it's necessarily their fault, but the, I had never seen a more disorganized rollout of just communication of research findings, right? There's drafts that were floating around and people saying that that can't be the real draft. Cause I haven't seen the real draft. And it's like, well, it's formatted for the journal. I don't think someone's like, you know, going around mimicking that. Um, but it was just really, really chaotic. And yeah, there was a lot of tumult, uh, a lot of, uh, argument over what the study actually found. And so in a nutshell, basically they kind of came out with the paper and said, Hey, these findings generally suggest that, you know, there are these lean mass hyper responders. Uh, the fact that you have high cholesterol doesn't seem to be massively predictive of plaque accumulation, which theoretically would mean it's not particularly predictive of the downstream consequences of that, you know, like major, uh, cardiovascular disease and cardio cardiac events and things of that specifically LDL cholesterol, right? Not just total. Oh yeah. Yeah. Specifically LDL cholesterol that, I mean, we're talking about many folks in the paper that are over 200, right? Yeah. So we're talking about double the limit of what is considered high for, for like, yeah. And higher than total cholesterol. Yes. Yes. Yeah. So yeah, we're talking about, um, I think I don't remember the exact, uh, inclusion criteria, but basically to participate in the study, you had to have remarkably high LDL cholesterol and some of them, it was like sky high. So the general, the way the results were kind of framed was like, yeah, it looks like the, you know, the term that they used in the paper is plaque begets plaque. And they're like, your, your initial plaque at the beginning of the study seemed to be predictive of how much you would accumulate after one year. But you know, it looks like, uh, you know, it looks like generally speaking, um, these really high LDL values in these special lean mass hyper responders don't really seem to be of tremendous concern in terms of the progression of plaque accumulation and athero, atherosclerosis, a beautiful term. But, um, in any case, you know, there was, uh, multiple folks who had, you know, written commentaries, uh, and even submitted them to the journal and said like, Hey, we're, we're looking at the results here. First of all, the primary kind of stated primary outcome in the pre-registered, um, research report, or they, they, they pre-registered their, um, uh, protocol on clinical trials.gov. And so that's great. Like pre-registration is awesome. Um, however, their primary outcome that was stated in that pre-registration wasn't really clearly reported in the paper. There was a lot more emphasis on secondary and tertiary outcomes. And when you actually look at the, uh, percentage increase from baseline, especially occurring over a single year in these individuals, a lot of people who are really focused on cardiology, uh, as it relates to the diet, they were looking at it and they're like, this is like a really high risk group. If you, if you look at the rate of progression, that's being reported over one year. Um, so basically that was kind of where we left off was that the authors were like, Hey, this looks like a win for us. And then most other people were interpreting it in a fundamentally different way. And the rollout was really chaotic, but Helms, I am pleased to report that there is a new revelation. Now I want to get out ahead of this. And some people are going to say, Eric, you don't seem to have all the facts dedicated to memory. And this is Eric and me, the third person, Eric, uh, Trexler. You don't seem to have all the facts committed to memory. You seem to be, uh, flying by the seat of your pants. Uh, you seem to be generally jumbled, discombobulated and disorganized, but I want to give myself the benefit of the doubt. This stuff's new. This stuff is like kind of emerging on Twitter and YouTube over the last 48 hours. So I'll be honest, there are details that I like would like to have that I don't currently have yet, but, but here is kind of the, the general, uh, premise of what's going on here. So shortly after the researchers received a lot of pushback and they said, bro, if you look at your data, uh, which were the data, uh, in question were processed using something called clearly. It's like an AI, um, kind of software algorithmic thing that kind of looks at the scans and, and, uh, you know, calculates the, uh, plaque accumulation and calcification and things of that nature. Right. So they use this technology called clearly and those clearly scans were looking at, um, this, uh, plaque progression. And, um, basically as people were starting to say like, Hey, these clearly scans don't really seem to report, uh, support your conclusions very much. They said, well, we, uh, kind of agree. And now we're a little bit skeptical of the clearly scans. And so, and so what has happened over the last 48 ish hours is there's been this kind of flurry of activity where some of the original authors of the paper, uh, particularly the ones who are more social media engaged, have big audiences, things of that nature. They've come out and said, okay, so here's the deal. We analyzed these scans using two other methods. Um, and one of them they're saying was our, uh, one of it's called Q Angio. And it was, uh, I actually did find it is not listed in their pre-registration on clinical trials.gov, but it is, uh, listed in their protocol paper, which was published in a journal in June, 2024. So I would have loved to see that in the pre-registration. Ideally, you don't want to pre-register until you have all the details buttoned up, but they're like, Hey, this was the primary analysis approach anyway, which then leads me to wonder, why did you all, why did you publish a paper a year ago and say, after we publish the findings, we will get around to doing the primary method of analysis for these scans, right? So something happened where they said, we're going to do the clearly first, or we're going to do the clearly instead. It's not really pun intended. It's not clear to me how that decision was made that we're going to go with clearly for these scans instead of the Q Angio, uh, that was listed in this protocol paper. And so just so, so people know it's a very normal thing, which is a great thing. Uh, very transparent is to pre-register what you're going to do either as some kind of like a preprint, uh, or, uh, in clinical trials.gov. Uh, but basically saying, here's our document of what we're going to do and how and why. And then, uh, you also can publish a protocol paper where you go into a lot of detail about the method so that then when you're writing up the findings, you can just kind of cite it and say like, well, if you want to really dig into the details, it's over here. And so these are both kinds of forms of pre-registration in a way. Um, but yeah, there are some, I wouldn't say necessarily contradictions, but some areas where the, uh, protocol paper has a little more detail, uh, than the, um, than the clinical trials.gov pre-registration. But in any case, it is true that they can say, well, hey, we're just doing the primary analysis. But again, theoretically, the primary analysis should be the main analysis that's reported in that first paper. But they're saying we did that. Um, we did the, the clearly analysis in the first paper. We lost faith in that. Now we've done two other versions of the analysis, Q Angio and one other, and they don't agree with the clearly analysis. So what we did was we were able to have of the 100 participants in the study who did the clearly analysis, we were able to get eight of them to independently kind of redo their clearly analysis. So a subset of eight out of 100. And they're saying that, uh, basically something happened where they thought the original clearly analysis was going to be blinded and they have come upon the information that it was not blinded. I'm not clear on how that information came, became available. Um, I'm not really sure of the ramifications of what that means in terms of how theoretically, if it's a repeatable AI algorithm, you would think that the blinding, um, while good would probably not be that critical. But I, to be candid again, I don't really understand how this clearly scan works. Right. So I'm not going to come out here and point fingers and make all sorts of bold claims. I don't have the details or the information yet. This is like journalism work, more so than science work. I don't understand how that information became available, that somehow these scans were unblinded. Um, I don't understand, uh, why there's only eight reanalyses for the clearly scans rather than, I don't know, most, if not all. Um, my understanding is that they asked clearly to re reanalyze all of them and that didn't happen. I don't know why. Uh, so a lot of this is hearsay. A lot of it is, I think Helms, the key message here, very messy. Yeah. Why so messy? That that's, uh, that's one big question. But in any case, they're saying the original analysis of 100 scans, uh, 100 people with two scans, pre and post, that original analysis does not seem to be supported by the Q Angio approach, the other approach that they used, and then the reanalysis of eight of the 100 scans. And so it sounds like they are posturing. I believe that what I've, what I've gathered is that there's an expression of concern at the journal that published the original paper. And I believe that they have said they wrote it and said, we are concerned with the validity of these scans. And we are going to, I don't know, Helms, write a correction, retract and try to republish, try to publish a fundamentally different paper entirely saying, forget about that other one. It's not really clear to me. There's a preprint that I just saw that was uploaded, I think in January of 2026. So relatively recently, and they're looking at data from this study using the Q Angio results. And it makes absolutely no mention of clearly scans, at least my quick read of it before recording. So Helms, the, the, the short version of this is, I do not know what's happening with this paper. And that in and of itself is a very damning thing. It doesn't sound like they internally know what's happening with the paper there. I mean, normally when you write a retraction, there's, there's two ways this happens, right? You have concerns about another paper and you ask the journals in investigation and you might make a recommendation for retraction depending upon how you do that. But ultimately it's kind of in the journals hands, right? Um, and as we talked about before, unfortunately, nobody wants that to happen. Um, it's not in the best interest of the university nor the journals. Um, and, uh, yeah, it's, it's, it's going to take an infinitely higher amount of effort and way more time, uh, to retract the paper. And even then when it does happen, the retraction is not well read or cited, um, compared to the original paper, much of the damage has been done. So there's that whole problem in and of itself. The other, probably less common, but more responsible way of doing a retraction. And I've seen this in many, many forms. There was a, uh, actually accommodating resistance, uh, meta analysis that came out years ago. The authors themselves said, Hey, we made a mistake here. We're pulling this. Uh, we would like to, to, to correct it and retract it. Um, this one, it sounds like an expression of concern on yourselves and a request to reanalyze. So it's, uh, Hey journal, we would like you to investigate us because I don't know what we're doing. Yeah. Paraphrased of course, since we're wearing our, our journalist hats here. Uh, but yeah, that, that seems to kind of be where it's at is basically the authors themselves have said, we are concerned about the veracity of the data we published. And basically the, the expression of concern, uh, as I bring it up here, uh, basically just says the editors of the journal J ACC, uh, wish to inform readers that concerns have been raised regarding the integrity of the data and or analysis presented in this paper. These concerns are currently under confidential review in accordance with the journal's editorial policies and the committee on publication ethics guidelines. While this process is ongoing, the editors believe it is important to alert readers to the existence of these concerns. Uh, so it's, I'm just, again, Helms, I'm just being totally candid, not being snarky, no ulterior motive here. I'm extremely confused about what the plan is here because there's this expression of concern, um, which like, I don't know what the investigation would need to, if, if the researchers say, you know, we don't think our, our data are accurate. Um, in theory, you'd think that'd be quick, but it's actually not always the case, but I'm really confused by this preprint that I stumbled upon today, which is dated January, 2026, which does not cite the paper with the clearly results. It basically, unless I'm missing something, it seems to operate in a universe where that original analysis never happened. Well, I think the, what it sounds like to me is you, is you tell me about this Trex. Um, and I think we should also just make sure that in the confusion around this paper, people who maybe didn't listen to our prior episodes or read that mass article aren't totally confused as to what the hell we're talking about. Um, so I'm going to do two things. If you give me permission, I'm just going to give a little bit of context. I'm going to tell you what I, what I think is going on here on the partial authors. Okay. First context for everyone is just like, okay, what are we talking about here? The original study premise and hypothesis was, Hey, people following a long-term ketogenic diet who are active and have otherwise really good looking blood work and metabolic panels, except for having high LDL. Maybe that's not a problem because they have low triglycerides, great blood markers, all the other risk factors. We don't think LDL is an issue in those areas. Maybe it's a, rather than a causal mechanism of arthrosclerosis, rather it is a correlate or it's a, it's a moderator or a mediator, right? So they're probably fine. Here's our paper. And everyone went, actually, we think the actual scans of people's hearts using ultrasound or rather their arteries indicate this is a problem. And they went, well, now I don't trust the scans. Um, lots of weird stuff going on online, which is what kind of where you are now entering dear listener. If you don't know what we're talking about and clearly the, the method of analyzing the ultrasound data at large for a hundred people. I think it is a computed tomography rather than ultrasound. Oh, excuse me. Sorry. CT scans. My bad. Um, of the arteries. Now that's in question and see, and seen you've now caught up. So now what I think is going on here, if they've got a preprint and they're questioning their own data, it sounds like they want to get the old article pulled, right? Um, because it looks bad. Uh, and I'm just going to call a spade a spade. You know, you, you've been very diplomatic. I don't have any faith in these folks actually wanting the scientific process or truth to come out. I think they have an extreme bias, uh, whether they come by it honestly or not, it doesn't matter. Um, but that's just what I think. So I think they're just trying to make the old paper go bye bye. And they're happy to throw what they did under the bus and take the L, but they're going to blame it on the analysis and they're going to justify it with this N of eight. And now they're trying to get a new preprint that's out now. And they know, Hey, you know what, if you just do a preprint, it sort of doesn't matter if it doesn't go through peer review these days, you know, one downside of the open science movement in this case, um, maybe they're going to publish it. Maybe they won't. And I mean, obviously it's better if you get it in respected journal or even a semi-respected journal, and that becomes the, you know, quick look over here and result. Now here's where I think they maybe, and I'd love to get your thoughts here. Um, you can control the narrative to a degree as a large scale influencer on Twitter and on social media. And even if it doesn't go your way, like you said, you get the electric shaver out, you, you down, you, you've removed Twitter off your phone for three days. You're back. You're good. Start over. Slate clean. Attention spans. You're fine. New audience, maybe even better. Now you get the, a new crowd who is, who is, uh, who likes it when, when people get canceled or, or is anti-canceling. Um, we see it happen all the time, but when you actually put in a, a retraction request to a journal and they start the process of an independent review, they're not just going to review the one thing. They're going to bring in independent reviewers who look at the whole process. And I, I mean, some of these people are actual academics. Some are not so much. Some are attached to universities, but there's a lot of things that could be critiqued and reported. And the journal could come out and say some things that maybe don't look so good on the record. And I am, uh, kind of like someone watching a train wreck, maybe eagerly or rather that, that sounded terrible watching a car race. Um, when I don't think about the actual humans driving it, you kind of watch and you went, Oh, is this going to be an exciting crash? I wonder if they haven't set themselves up for potentially a bit of an unintended crash on the proverbial racetrack. I listen, I don't know. And like Helms, I know, um, the way I'm presenting this, uh, sounds a little like overly, um, wishy-washy, not making a huge, uh, definitive stand. And the reason is, uh, Helms, I don't, I don't know, man, I want to see what the company says that, that, uh, did these, uh, so clearly is, you know, a company owns this, um, algorithmic technology. I want to see what they say when, if they say, no, the, the story you've heard is not true or the story you heard is true. And we, you know, so that's going to be really big is hearing what they say to the general premise that not only do the original authors, um, appear to lack, uh, confidence in the, uh, the data that, the, you know, the, the analysis of the scans, but they're saying they also lack confidence in the process of how the data were handled, a matter of blinded versus unblinded analysis. And so it'll be really interesting because now, like, like you said, like, um, that's kind of a big thing to accuse somebody of. And so we may see that the company comes out and either says, you're right, sorry, we messed up. Or they come out and say, uh, that's quite a claim. And our lawyers were very interested in that, that you said that, and we'd like to dig more into that with, uh, rounds of discovery, uh, and, you know, get, you know, get plenty of billable hours racked up here. I have no idea how this go help goes homes. Um, and so basically what I wanted to do in this episode is basically walk down memory lane and remember how much of a mess it was to get this study published in the first place. Cause I'm very comfortable saying that definitively, the initial rollout of the data was a mess, which is crazy because the way this normally works helps as you write it up, you get it to the journal, they publish it. Then you begin talking about it. Look at the thing we did. Right? So the rollout was an absolute mess. It was very chaotic. And believe it or not, the current kind of flurry of activity in the last 48 hours is more of a mess. And I have way more questions. What's the journal going to do? How is this, um, clearly the company that owns this, um, you know, uh, analysis technology, how are they going to defend or not defend themselves, um, against these, um, you know, people questioning their, their, um, their technology. Um, yeah, there are so many, uh, loose ends here and, and I'll be the first one to say very candidly, this is not my primary area of research. I'm sure people are, listen, people who are into this topic are into this topic. They're going to go through this podcast. They're going to hear what they may not listen to this podcast. If it crosses their desk, they're going to say these, these idiot bodybuilders sound like they don't know much about imaging of the heart. And you know what? I'm not a heart imaging guy, right? So when we're talking CT versus ultrasound, you got me when we're talking about Q angio versus clearly you got me. But what I do know, Helms, what I do know is the scientific process, how you're supposed to do this stuff in a buttoned up way. And so I actually don't think it's, um, unless you're, unless you're alleging fraud, which is a big F word Helms, unless you're alleging fraud. Um, I don't think it is vindication for a researcher to say, Hey, I used a black box technology. I don't understand. And I don't think it actually went through proper validation. And I just have no idea what the data were that I published. That's not an excuse is saying I trusted this new tool and had no idea if it was valid or not. So I don't know how they're going. And I'm not saying that clearly hasn't been validated. I don't know. I'm not a cardiac imaging expert, but you can't just say as a researcher, you know, all that stuff I published, I guess now that I've decided after publication, I'm going to look into it. I don't think we should have done that. I think we should have done the other two ones, um, that we may or may not have identified as the primary analysis approach, but then it wasn't clearly wasn't the primary analysis approach because it's being done second or third in line. It's just really chaotic Helms. And so, like I said, I'm not a heart imaging expert, but I do know a thing or two about getting a paper across the finish line, doing the analysis in a thorough way and communicating the results of research. And this is honestly just a dumpster fire. Well said. And, um, you mentioned taking a trip down memory lane and I would encourage people on the same topic of how science is intended to be done. And at what point you critique it. And at what point you look back and go, well, why didn't you do that originally? Let's just go a little further down memory lane to remember a thing called NUSI. Remember that one? Yes. You know, this was the, uh, uh, an independent group that formed that said, Hey, you know what? We really think the, you know, carbohydrate insulin model is, is, is legit. Uh, we think the cause of the obesity epidemic is the rise in carbohydrates. And we think if we really look under the hood and do proper controlled experiments, we're going to see the ketogenic diet coming out on top and is the solution to all of our woes. And you know what, just to show how committed we are to this, we're actually going to get NIH, well, former NIH researcher, Kevin Hall, metabolic ward research. And we're going to compare these suckers in the most controlled way afterwards. And we've spent more than a year contracting this, funding it. And you know how funding goes, because both of us have been through this process. It's a intense back and forth to make sure that everyone involved thinks that the protocol that you're doing will answer the research question that you put forth. And then you go, okay, we're all happy, independent researcher above board, let's get her done. And then what did they do when the data came out and they didn't like it? They tried to throw Kevin Hall under the bus and they said, well, why didn't you do X, Y, and Z? And the answer is MFers because you told me to do this and I did it and you didn't like the data. And now I am a biased jerk, you know, which couldn't be further from the truth. And knowing Kevin Hall pretty well, the guy is not even like, he's not part of like big RD, like nutrition pyramid carbohydrates. He is as unbiased researcher as they come. He's a data man, you know, and just, he will go wherever it leads. And I always have tremendously respected him. And you know, the reason why he's not at NIH anymore is because he didn't feel he could do unbiased research anymore. So if you thought like, oh yeah, well, the government didn't allow Nussie to show the truth. This is a guy who just departed ways with the government because he didn't feel like the government allowed him to research the truth now. So I think that historically, you know, you know, how like history tends to paint a clear picture and distance. Kevin Hall looks good. And I don't know what's going on with Nussie these days, but this seems to be repeating the past where you have a vested interest, in my opinion, elements of it, at least, where you have a vested interest, a biased group who is doing quote unquote citizen science. And even in this case, contracted it out and then just said, well, you know what? We're going to throw that out of the bus and sort of throwing themselves under the bus, in my opinion, which is sort of what's happening here too. David Morgan Yeah. And just to clarify a couple of things, first of all, when you say that you think there's bias involved, it's really important to understand that like bias does not always mean conspiracy, right? It doesn't mean like, and it doesn't even, it doesn't even always mean financial bias. Yeah. It can be like hypothesis. David Morgan Yeah. I mean, it can be tough when you are, you know, when you have been a vegan for 41 years and you study plant-based diets, right? Because, and you think like that is something that is, you know, maybe the reason you adopted that diet is very meaningful to you personally. Right. And, you know, sometimes I'll read papers from specialized institutes that are fully committed to a particular branch of science, and they're studying that branch of science. And it's like, well, what are you going to do if your results said this doesn't work? Right. And not to throw it under the bus because it's not unique, but like, for example, I've seen studies on, you know, Ayurvedic herbal remedies published out of the so-and-so College of Ayurvedic Medicine. And it's like, you really can't, it's going to be tough to be the professor of Ayurvedic medicine, whose every third paper is saying, oh, by the way, that, you know, traditionally very important remedy we use doesn't work. Right. Like that's tough. David Pérez, Ph.D.: It's not to say no one would do it, but it is tough. David Pérez, Ph.D.: So I just want to be clear, like bias, we all take them into our research. The question is, you know, I think the scary ones are the ones that are number one, just like absolutely fully entrenched or even financially reinforced or number two, the ones we don't know. Like those are the ones that are really scary as a researcher. But in any case, that's important. The second thing I wanted to mention is I wasn't sure if you were doing this as an allusion to my mass article, but in my mass article, I actually talked about NUSI. And I said like, hey, there is a parallel here where at one point NUSI, I think somebody slapped a number on it and said, this is a $40 million enterprise. And basically they funded a couple of these little studies, the Hall one being the one that got the most interest. And yeah, the kind of chaotic aftermath and science communication breakdown basically led to a point where I was looking at some journalism that described it in 2018 as nearly broke. And this is something that really, I think it was founded in 2012. So within six years, it was described as nearly broke from being a $40 million enterprise. And I think by 2021, it was formally dissolved. So it was this big kind of like, hey, let all these idiot, you know, carbohydrate shills have been wrong forever. We're going to get the money together. We're going to do it the right way. We're going to make sure that they commit to a protocol that's going to be fair so that we can actually see once and for all that this hypothesis works. And they approve the protocol to the best of my knowledge. And then when the data came out differently, they said, what was wrong with that protocol we approved? And of course, they didn't frame the question that way, but that was the question. And so, yeah, you're, you're, it does have those parallels of like, hey, you know, we know that lean mass hyper responders are going to be just fine. Despite this sky high LDL, you have LDL 300, who cares? It's fine. And we're going to call our shot. We're going to pre-register our methods and we're going to report the, the data, you know, clearly and, you know, do everything above board. And we're going to finally show you guys that this is how it works. And to their credit, like pre-registering this, the, the protocol, good move, you know, publishing the protocol paper, good move. And even frankly, the, the initial analysis, like, I don't really have a, I mean, I have an, I have a belief of what the evidence support. Like I would have been very surprised if it's a good idea to have your LDL in the three hundreds for a couple of decades. So I, I had an expectation because there is science on this topic, but I don't have a big, like, you know, I, I don't have a horse in the race here that I'm really pulling for in a meaningful way. And so I think even with the initial rollout, while it was chaotic and hectic, kind of came out and said, okay, given that this is, first of all, observational, not randomly sampled, basically recruited, hey, are you a lean mass hyper-responder? Come out here. So very selectively recruited a group, only one year, which I mean, hey, that, that's a long time to do a study in this context with imaging and stuff. But we know atherosclerosis is a long-term, you know, it's a slow progression, right? So there were all these limitations. And even with all that, you know, the paper comes out and says, it's kind of looks like a high risk group, even though they fit the criteria for lean mass hyper-responder. Up to that point, I'm like, you know what? Yeah, that I'm, that that's pretty much how it's supposed to go, right? As you, you call your shots, you, even though there were some deviations from the registered protocol, it seemed like they, they were not particularly flagrant necessarily. Although I would have loved to see the primary outcome highlighted more clearly, but in any case, the, where it breaks down is now the data don't support the hypothesis and then what? And now it's turning in on, well, what if the protocol should have been different all along? And that's the, the, the key parallel with the, the new C stuff, which again, was ironically enough from the same general, not the same individuals, but the same general camp of low carb, high fat, ketogenic is the way to go. So we are seeing a pattern in that, in that realm. Yeah. And I think, um, I want to make two real brief points and, and, and a bit of a steel man case, throwing a bone and maybe silver lining before, I think we talk about the real issue here of around public science communicators, if I want to use a nicer term, uh, as one of them myself. Um, but maybe people who are helping produce science, who aren't the scientists leading the charge on the communication and maybe some things we really need to think about in the future as we move into this era where that is the means by which science communication occurs. It's happening on YouTube. It's happening in press releases happening on Twitter. It's not like it used to be where we had a different set of problems where media would get it wrong or, or be controversial. Now it's people actively involved in the process who weren't actually actively involved in the research, you know, or at least they have a, a primary motive of using the research to build clout promotion, et cetera, or something like that. But first these two points, silver lining slash throwing a bone here, um, the kind of the LDL denialism has led to some useful things. I could be wrong here, but before this kind of, you know, repeated attempts to downplay LDL because it's a pretty repeatable outcome of having high LDL following a high fat diet, even if it's low carb, even if you're healthy, all this stuff happened. I don't remember there being much focus on, uh, like lipoprotein fractions, like ApoB and stuff like that. Um, and it did lead to now a well-accepted consensus in the cardiovascular, you know, health community of saying, no, it's actually true. Like if, if you have high LDL, but you have high HDL, total cholesterol is under control. Everything else looks good. Triglycerides are low. And you take a look at the specific fractions, which are more likely to lead to plaque accumulation, uh, like ApoB and that's low or in the normal range, your risk profile is actually substantially lower. So LDL is maybe better represented in terms of risk by looking at say your Apo, ApoB or ApoBA, um, which is kind of another version of looking at HDL, like, like, uh, ratio. And that, that might be the best thing. Second to actually looking at your, your scanning your heart. So that's been a positive thing that's come out of this. And, um, the other thing I'd say is there's even a world where you could do this observational analysis with this preselected sample where you just have a different, a slightly different research question, which would be, Hey, LDL does seem to predict pretty consistently in various contexts problems with, uh, of the heart. I wonder if these other modifiable risk factors, such as being healthy and exercising and having a relatively, you know, a robust exercise protocol and a diet that could potentially be healthy broadly as it includes hope. I mean, if it's pure conical, maybe not, but you could look at these people and they're just following like a healthy ketogenic diet. And by that, I mean, it includes fruits, vegetables, micronutrients, all that good stuff. You, you can definitely make a pretty high fat Mediterranean diet, for example. Right. Um, yeah. You know, it doesn't have to be all saturated fat, although I'm not sure that you would see really high LDL in that case, but let's just say we took a group of people who they had all the other modifiable, modifiable risk factors, except for high LDL. Is that sufficient to offset plaque accumulation? This isn't an RCT it's observational. And we want to see, because we have this data on independent risk factors from epidemiology and short-term data, this could be useful. And we go, Hey, look at that. They do have high LDL, but because of all these other activity levels, we don't seem to see a progression of plaque or unfortunately, which probably the data seems to reflect better. There is a high accumulation of plaque. Therefore, LDL really, really is something you must control is not a mediator. We now know, not in a pure causal way, because we can't do that with the study design, but we have all these other, the presence of these other modifiable risk factors, and they were insufficient, at least in this group of a hundred dudes to, or they, were they meant only, or is it mixed, mixed sample? Um, honestly, it doesn't matter for my point, Trex, but in this group of people, um, to actually lower their, their, their progression of plaque development. Like, I think that would be a really valid thing to look at. Right. So yeah, I just want to put that out there. Coming in here with some clarifications. Um, 59% of the sample was male. Average age was 55. And the, uh, the mean value for LDL cholesterol was 254. Sheesh. Yeah. That's really high, dude. That's been, yeah, the mean, now, now keep this in mind. The mean value was 254 with a standard deviation of 85, but also keep in mind for the inclusion criteria. You couldn't sign up unless your LDL was over, was at least 190. So like, we know there were people that were pushing, you know, 400 plus easily. Yeah. Like way up there. If you talk to standard deviations, dude. Okay. Wow. Um, yeah. All right. So I just wanted to put that out there trying to, to, to do our due diligence of there are ways that this is still useful data, even though it seems to be a donater fire, as you said, but let's talk about not just the data. Let's talk about Trex. You and I both purport to be researchers as well as science communicators. Not everyone does those in equal parts. So I'm really not trying to throw any shade, but I would say that there are more and more and more people who are maybe on the promotional social media science as my brand tip first and then science second. And they, and they, maybe they're not attached to a university. Uh, maybe at most they make a lot of money and they decided to make my own lab or, or, or fund something like NUSI or whatever. And they, they, they then interact with the scientific apparatus. But we see stuff like this happen more often than is ideal. And I think the problem is the perception from the public because this can poison the well, in my opinion. And we've seen that happen in a lot of places, especially around COVID that there is a willingness to, you know, discard science and, and to view it in a light that could potentially harm society. And I think we see this, you could say stuff about RFK, the dietary guidelines, the current anti-science kind of sub movement within exercise science. And I will say, I kind of get it when stuff like this is happening, right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think, um, this kind of saga and others like it, I think highlight kind of two big things that are, I don't know if you want to call them issues or if you want to call them misconceptions that lead to problems, but, but here's the, the kind of two things that come to mind as we shift focus away from the, the subject matter and into the kind of communication meta narrative, right? So number, number one is, I think there's a misunderstanding about when we look at the science, what actually is the selling point is, or in other words, what are the barriers between, you know, any old person and doing good high quality science, right? So I think one of the misunderstandings is that if only a person with, and this is going to sound so conceited and ivory tower, blah, blah, blah, whatever. But I think a misconception is if only a person had access to the measurement devices, or if only a person had access to the money for funding a study, or if only a person had access to the data from a study, then that, that technically is just science. Like you, you go from non-science to absolute gold standard of science. And I really implore people to recognize as this stuff goes, continues to, to happen, that science is a philosophy. Science is a set of skills. And most importantly, science is a toolkit that is honed over training, you know, like, and I don't want to be in the position of acting like a gatekeeper. But I do want to say that if we start to see consistently that the rollout, the execution, the second guessing protocols, if this starts to be a hallmark of some of this more like citizen initiated science, science, and it's not good for science in general, if we decide that the way this is going to go is sloppy rollouts, second guessing, saying, well, we analyzed it three ways, and our next paper is just going to focus on the two. And we're going to pretend the first one didn't like there, there are elements of kind of basic first principles of science, key foundational elements of how you do it thoroughly and appropriately, how you communicate it, what the processes are. I think it's worth noting that the execution really matters here. And it's not quite as simple as if every person just had, you know, an ultrasound, then then they could be doing any any level of hypertrophy research they wish to do, right, there are. And again, it's not gatekeeping. It's just like, okay, you've lifted weights a few times, you read lots of articles, are you now prepared to be the best trainer in the world? Well, no, you're going to have to, like, figure out how it works and acquire the skills and get some experience and hopefully get that experience under the watchful eye of someone who's pretty good at it, right. And so I think that's one thing that we have to really keep in mind as this kind of thing develops more, right. And so that's the one thing. The second thing that I think is an issue is, as much as it sucks, science communication is generally worked in a slow, rigid process. And it's probably slower than it needs to be. It's probably more rigid than it needs to be. But here's the nice thing about that process of do the work, analyze it thoroughly, write it up, everybody interrogated internally, submit it to a journal, get it peer reviewed, and now it's published. The nice thing about that is that process creates a document that in theory gives you the information that you need to interpret that data. What I'm, my biggest gripe of all this stuff going on right now is now science communication in this context is happening on Twitter and YouTube. Twitter and YouTube move fast. The content of a tweet, the content of YouTube videos decided by one person. This is what's on my mind. And this is how I'm going to frame it. I don't have all the data or all the information that I need to actually really understand what's happening with this whole saga, this whole back and forth. And I think that's a microcosm of the problem. We are kind of saying here, these are like the general tools that seem to be associated with science, go do it, communicate it as you see fit, do things out of order. We're totally fine if the results turn out a certain way, looking back at it and say, well, what if we measured it the wrong way? And that's normal science. But like Helms, when a researcher, in theory, you know, what you're supposed to do is measure a thousand times, cut once, make sure that you feel really good about the measurements you're taking. And then after you interpret your research, it's published, maybe new stuff comes out. It's okay to second guess. Maybe there's a better way to measure the stuff we used to measure, but it's a slow, it's a deliberate process. And that decision of having faith in your measurements is not tied to whether or not they support the hypothesis you were testing. Perfectly well said. Terex, I'm going to try to tie a bow on this because you made some excellent points and I want to help the listener understand. First thing about gatekeeping. Right. The efforts by the scientific community to remain independent, be transparent, and ultimately democratize the scientific process have been tremendous. It's called the open science movement and the efforts that academics have had to try to maintain independence in both private and public institutions from both private and public influence. Whether that is an administration that wants to do things a certain way, which is shown through the public university or the funding mechanisms, or the money that might be involved in a private institution and their potential financial incentives. You can find researchers consistently trying to remain independent so they can do good, unbiased work. Science does not work. There's many issues with it. We've talked about them on Iron Culture and the most vocal proponents of this and people who have issues with it are scientists themselves. They have issues with the journals, they have issues with universities, they have issues with the funding mechanisms, and they are constantly critiquing one another. Right. So that is a separate thing, democratizing the scientific process and ensuring independence from saying that it does not require expertise. And this is something these are happening in parallel. They're two separate problems, the death of expertise, as well as trying to break down some of the institutional barriers to access and understanding of science by the public, especially in the fields of health. Right. Or anything related to it. And those are the those actually have been at odds because you'll have people who are focused on one deny the other, which is kind of what we're seeing here happen around COVID and it largely comes down to mistrust. And the mistrust is the second point I want to make. And there is some blame. And this is structural blame. Scientists are not trained to be science communicators. And what we have right now is a lot of academics have been around a long time and we're moving into a very new era of science communication, where even the media training that does exist in a university that's freely accessible to the academics there. Those people are out of touch. And I hate to say that, but as someone who you and I, we've self-trained to be science communicators, and maybe we're good at it because we are personal trainers and coaches. And our field specifically is about helping people understand these topics. And we and I was a trainer before I was an academic. Right. I have these skill sets. And I also understand the social media landscape to a degree. I can see how far behind we are. But there is now a skill set of effectively science communicating on the existing modern social media information age platforms. And there's the skill of doing good research and they're separate. And that means that we need to have a hand in hand collaboration process. That's not really happening. There's attempts at it. We're getting there. It's going to grow. But these are examples of it going really poorly. Right. The third point I have is finally, like, what do we do about that? And what should it look like? And what is the result of these kind of old mechanisms and scientists not being trained in this and kind of having a narrow view of what their purview is? If you look at kind of forward thinking universities, they have changed the processes by which they promote and hire people. There are many universities that are now acknowledging that impact is more important than traditional metrics of the number of publications you get or the quote unquote impact factor. And there's things like ALT metrics, which literally means alternative metrics of looking at how publication doing, which incorporates its social media engagement and posting. So currently now an academic is being charged with the skill set that they have not traditionally have of not just doing good science and publishing it. And these journals that are kind of separate from the worldview of the public, but also ensuring that it gets viewed through the alternative metrics on social media and the stakeholders in the public in the case of health science and all of its related fields, including sport, exercise, nutrition, are being taken up and used. So now we have a mismatch between the skill set of scientists and the actual metrics by which they are hired and rewarded. And there's going to be a lag time here. And if you look at the way that funding occurs in university structures, someone comes and says, they approach a researcher, a university group, what have you. And I've become far more engaged with this than I ever want to now as the co-director of the institute I'm in. And they go, hey, do this research for us. And there's a pretty good effort that the university is involved with. They get their legal team involved to make sure that the science itself is rock solid. The methods are done well, that you're stating openly any types of conflicts of interest. You're managing any problems and there's independence in the research process and maybe the actual publication. And then the scientists go like this, Drex, wash their hands of it, and they walk away because science communication has not traditionally been their job. And these contracts don't protect against the dissemination or the communication of it, just the actual publication itself. And that is what needs to change moving forward. These contracts need to actually start including that, okay, if we have a company or someone who is a social media personality or has a YouTube channel or is an independent foundation with its own media arm and ability to disseminate and communicate scientific findings, that the contract states that in those posts, interviews, podcasts, even tweets, that they must involve the initial researchers for say X amount of time. They need to approve the content. The interviews need to be done with them and to actively engage the people who understand the nuances in that content creation. And then of course, that'll be a negotiated process because you don't want to kill your engagement. You don't want someone who has no social media training droning on about, you know, a complex linear mix model for 30 minutes when you want to tell someone, and let's say everything goes well, what they need to do with their nutrition or training. So I get it, but we're seeing the costs of when they're not involved. We're seeing the misrepresentation, the confusion, and sometimes the loss of faith in science. So how did I do, Trex? I feel like I had a pretty good grasp on maybe where we need to go moving forward because I can look at this from a high level and say, I know how this could be done right, and this ain't it. Yeah. And it's, I think it's important. Like, you know, I, again, begrudgingly was like, okay, I don't want to engage in like cliche ivory tower gatekeeping, but also like, we might want to keep an eye on the gate to some extent of like how, how we're going to, you know, what we're going to frame as being scientific inquiry and treat as kind of similar levels of investigation. But I like the fact that you would kind of acknowledge, and I totally agree that what we need to have is a symbiotic relationship of people who are very skilled communicators, which most scientists are not, and people who are very skilled scientists, which most communicators are not, professional communicators, right? You don't, you'll find a lot of people who just as like a, on the side, oh, I happen to be an extremely skilled researcher despite no training in it or having dedicated any of my time to it, right? So we need to have this symbiotic relationship where researchers are doing research very thoroughly and transparently. Communicators are playing a huge role in disseminating that information while working in collaboration with folks who can say, you're a great communicator. I know very thoroughly what happened in the study. Let's team up and communicate those findings in a rigorous and clear way. And Helms, just to, I feel like I expressed many feelings in this podcast and many thoughts without a clear narrative. I do want to just kind of leave one last fragment of one of the reasons why I'm so jumbled and just like, this is not going well, how this is kind of panning out. So I'm looking at, you know, one of the people who was an author on this paper we've been talking about, right, with the clearly scans and all that, um, came out with, um, a blog post that is, I can't read the whole thing. Um, it's paywalled on Substack. Um, but, uh, they write about this particular project. It's somehow lumped into these clearly scans, um, and these revelations in the last 48 hours. But the quote is, while I've long been aware of the shortcomings of the scientific process and the meritocratic failures within academic medicine, my experience with this project was without exaggeration, the most disillusioning of my career. Um, he says, um, what unfolded here, uh, defied, disregarded, and wholly disrespected, um, those ideals of, um, aspirational ideals of research in ways I find difficult to fully articulate. I recognize that to many, particularly within academic circles, the facts I have recently and will continue to describe as the story unfolds further may strain credibility or even sound conspiratorial. To be candid, if I were hearing them as a, as an outside observer, I'm not sure I would accept them at face value either. So there is also a thumbnail on his Twitter where it says the people's era of science, and there's like an army of masked doctors that look very nefarious. And, uh, it's kind of being framed as a, somehow we did this study and yet there is what seems to be framed as a conspiracy of like the medical science apparatus that we are fighting against. And, uh, there's also part of this tweet with the scary army of, um, establishment medical doctors. It says, and special thanks for those behind the scenes who are nothing short of warriors for intellectual integrity and scientific truth, especially when it's inconvenient or even personally dangerous than tagging some of the coauthors on the paper. So the narrative's there, right? It's, uh, it's us versus the establishment. Uh, it sounds like a conspiracy theory, but it's just a legitimate conspiracy. We are the freedom fighters trying to make everything right in science, uh, up against tall odds, but we're just brave enough and crazy enough to be the ones to pull it off. Shit Helms. All that. Cause you, cause you have decided that you don't believe your data anymore. Like, give me a break, dude. My eyes have rolled back so far in my head. They may never return. They're going to come back around. That's the only hope. And then you're going to see the world upside down. So, yeah, but like, and then you understand why I'm just like, no, no, dude, like this is chaos. It's, and, and, and it's exactly the point I was making that, um, the death of expertise and the democratization of information and access to science, they need to be seen as separate. And this is exactly the post that confuses them and actually adds to the problem. And I'm going to try to demonstrate this by analogy and I'll leave the listeners. Dear listener with this is the final piece from Helms. Let's say we establish, that the, uh, healthcare system in a given made up country was maybe not functional because getting surgery would not be covered by most insurance. Um, or even if it did, it would still leave you bankrupt. And we decided, well, you know what the solution is, is we just need to make it so that anyone can do a quick online registration, uh, to become a doctor and then they can do surgeries themselves. So don't worry. You can't afford surgery. Just ask your wife, your partner, hell your dog, if it's a certain breed in some States, uh, can go online, sign up. And now you are a legitimate surgeon and you can just rent some space for far cheaper at your local clinic. And you can do heart surgery on, on your friends. That would be an example of confusing the two. And that's kind of where we're getting to here. We can't trust the established experts. In fact, their very expertise is what makes them untrustworthy. I've heard that narrative related to PhDs. So therefore we need to drain the swamp, clean them out, and you need to become your own health expert, or in this case, your own scientific expert. You can trust the data. It doesn't, you don't need to have training from people who have done research. We can like these, these do not need to be conflated. We can absolutely do everything in our power to make it so that health information, research, knowledge is disseminated to the public as best as possible. We remove jargon as much as possible from the scientific publications, and that we have a healthy marriage between science communication and researchers, and that we also upskill researchers in science communication and science communication, in science communicators in the research process. So that that handoff looks less like a bungled, you know, like high five thing between two very white guys, and actually has a really clean set of predefined baton passing. So you can win that race and everybody benefits. But yeah, I would just really urge people, please, we don't need to kill the idea of expertise to democratize information or health. Yeah. And just to solidify your point, the, the, um, the title of that, uh, Substack article I was reading from, it's called is medicine captured a deep dive into how pharma funding shapes medical narratives, how the status quo perpetuates itself and why science isn't the meritocracy we imagine. So yes, you are correct. So Helms, uh, I think in a nutshell, I just want to clarify, listen, we talked about a lot of weird stuff that I don't have answers to in this podcast, which is generally not a good way to start a podcast is by saying, here's some things I don't really understand or know about, but we're just going to have to hold onto our seats and see how this stuff shakes out. So in future episodes of iron culture, as, as more details emerge from this kind of emerging story, we'll, we'll do brief updates, nothing major, but, um, the short version is we are kind of in a new era of, of science and science communication where what used to be a wall between the two, um, is really not a wall anymore. There's a lot of, uh, reaching across, not through collaboration by, but by through saying, Hey, maybe I'll put that hat on instead. And I think the collaborative approach is probably where we utilize each other's strengths versus, um, leading to a little bit of chaos. And like you said, ultimately, um, potentially some, some things that undermine trust in the science itself, which is completely the opposite idea of, of good science communication, right? Uh, we should be always skeptical of any individual piece of science, but what we don't want to do is rattle faith in the concept of science. And so that's why execution matters here. Would you say perhaps that it is about being skeptical, not cynical? I listen, I learned my lesson. I'm not putting cynical or skeptical in the same sentence ever again, after you, uh, slapped my wrist for, uh, accidentally putting them on a spectrum where they don't belong. But yes, you, you, you are correct. We should be skeptical and not cynical. And, um, yeah, the kind of don't trust science. We need to do it ourself approach. Um, while I appreciate the spirit and I appreciate the embrace of rolling up our sleeves and getting involved in science, I think that we need to make sure we're approaching that in a nuanced and, uh, grounded way. Don't do heart surgery on your partner just because they can't afford to have a real surgeon do it, folks. That's a good point. That's very, very good advice. So Helms, I think that probably does it for this episode. Anything, uh, to say to the good people before we sign off? No, just, um, you know, make sure that you recognize our ulterior motives is just needing to make money. Head over to mass research reviews, sign up, head over to elite FTS and use the code MRR10 and make sure to give us a five-star rating thumbs up, likes, shares, and do things that help me perpetuate my financial motives and none other motives that I could ever possibly have. Yeah. I just want to say that to that question from the blog post, is medicine captured? Yes. And it's been captured by Eric Helms. That's right. Perfect. All right, folks, thanks so much for listening. As always, we appreciate you and we will be back in seven days with yet another episode. Thank you