What's up everybody? Welcome back to Iron Culture. It is me, Eric Trexler, joined as always by the Dr. Eric Helms. Helms, how are we doing in 2026? Oh, it's it's a bold brand new year. Uh, I'm excited. Lots of um big changes and big things coming up in my life. Probably the most notable is that it is the 20-y year anniversary of my wife and I's marriage. So, that's pretty exciting. In January, uh we have kind of a a rolling anniversary in January because we had a like a courthouse marriage early in January and then for our five-year recommmitment slash finally actually having a wedding ceremony when we could afford it, we had a later January wedding. So, we just choose sometime in January to acknowledge that it's our anniversary. So, neither one of us can be wrong as long as we get the month right. Yeah. >> So, low pressure, but big deal. 20 years, man. Makes me feel old. >> Yeah. Yeah. 20 years is a long time. Uh I got to be honest, man. My perception of time is completely warped. Um that's a huge flaw of mine is that I can't seem to keep track of my life or anything related to it. Uh, I think my wife and I have been married for a couple years now. I wouldn't be stunned if it were three. It's certainly more than one. Um, but our our we usually allocate more attention to the anniversary of our first date than the anniversary of our marriage. Uh, because we we kind of we were very adamant that neither of us wanted to get married. Um, and then >> over time I was like, I really would like to get married. And then I asked her and she was like, yeah, that'd be great. And so we were engaged for 6 days, went down to the courthouse and uh yeah, we we you know, we were old enough and financially in a place we could have had a wedding if it interested us, but I think both of us it's kind of like our worst nightmare was having a large wedding ceremony. So we uh we we got two security guards at the courthouse to be the legal witnesses to sign the paperwork and uh and the rest was history. So, uh, hopefully hopefully, Helms, my wife will put up with me for another 17 to 18 years, and we'll we'll be in your shoes celebrating that 20th. >> Well, it's just a hop, skip, and the jump around the corner. Just stay tuned, folks. Wait another 18 years, and we'll see what's happening. Put your bets in now in the in the comments. We'll definitely remember. >> Yeah. And we'll uh Hey, on that episode of Iron Culture, may maybe she'll come on, you know? I'm sure we'll be we'll be doing it every week for the next 25 or 30 years, so we we'll we'll join in then. Um, all right. Helms, anything else new before we uh dive into the good stuff here? >> You know what? Uh, just just want to wish everybody a happy new year and thanks for those who are joining us live and um no, we're just an exciting new uh a new era for for Iron Culture presented by Mass. That's all. >> I feel like a brand new man. I've already deadlifted in the year 2026. Uh for a person coming off a couple surgeries is a major revelation. Uh yeah, I basically worked myself until I felt ill today mentally and I was like, I can't think anymore. And so then I the nice thing about working two staircases above a weight room is you can go go down and deadlift. So uh I I feel stronger than ever before, Helms. Uh starting 2026 on the right foot and hopefully my abdomen will maintain its integrity and we won't have any revisions to our hernia surgeries. That is the goal. >> Well, I'm excited. >> Yeah. Trex plus deadlifts equals Eric is happy. >> Oh yeah. All right. Uh so Helms, let's get to the good stuff. Well, actually before I do that, we got to do get the stuff out of the way. Uh if you like the show, there's many ways to support it. You can like the video or like wherever you get the podcast. Uh give it a rating, subscribe, all that stuff. Share the show with a friend. Share with a few friends. Share it with all your friends. Uh even people you don't like, they can still listen. The downloads still count. Uh, if you want to be a member of the platinum level inner circle gold star membership of the iron culture audience, you could always check out the mass research review over at massresarchearchreview.com. It is the engine that keeps Iron Culture going. Iron Culture is presented by Mass. And of course, Mass delivers to you the first of the month every month, uh, the newest updates, the cutting edge science related to your training, your nutrition, and all tangential related topics that pertain to your fitness and performance and health and wellness and everything in between. And then, of course, if you want to support our friends, uh, the good people at Elite FTS, uh, our our our kind, lovely sponsors, uh, with whom we share a a lovely partnership. Uh if you're in the market for some high quality lifting gear, lifting apparel, I personally use their straps. I made the grave mistake of buying two pairs uh back in like 2011. I would have been fine with just one. They never break down. I literally have the second pair in my office now that I'm deadlifting again. Um and I haven't used them yet. Uh, so all I can tell you is that with me deadlifting like an idiot, using weights that were probably not appropriate based on my strength level when I was in college, I got at least a good decade out of those straps, which is way more than the typical shelf life for a pair of lifting straps. So, Elite FTS, uh, like I said, for your apparel or your gym gear, make sure you use our code, which is MRR10, that stands for Mass Research Review 10, for a 10% discount. Now, Helms, let's get down to business here. We've got some science to talk about and science communication, the philosophy of science, >> all intersecting in the world of lifting. So, this is very much our sweet spot. Um, >> also the history of science. Yeah, >> the history of science indeed. So, Helms, I sent you a message on Instagram. Uh, I happened upon a video. It was a video from a science communicator who was in the kind of lifting space. Um, and we're we're not gonna, you know, this is not like a call out video. We're not going to like name and shame them or anything like that. You know, as we've talked about in in recent episodes, we are highly interested in discussing ideas. We are not remotely interested in discussing people uh in in the well, we we like celebrating people that do impressive things, but we're not into the, you know, getting into the fighting and mudslinging things of that nature. So, we're going to focus on the claims that were made here and talk about why it caught my attention enough for me to send it to you. Um, >> and and so this individual as a science communicator really uh presents themselves as >> I would say, you know, there's that kind of spectrum in science communication, right? The I'll try anything. I'm just interested in what works. You know, the very open-minded, optimistic, sometimes so optimistic as to be gullible side. And then the other side of the spectrum is highly skeptical. And in some cases, you'll find the folks who almost view their role as playing defense against the fitness industry, right? And so I'd say this person falls very much on the skeptical playing defense side of that spectrum, which will come out when we when we talk more about some of the more philosophical elements of science and communication. But the claims here, Helms, no, don't want to um you know, do too long a windup here. The claims that caught my attention in this video, the first one was you can never determine whether self-experimentation is resulting in a meaningful outcome. And again, this is in the context of lifting, nutrition, those types of things. So that was the first one that caught my attention. The se that the justification, the next sentence also caught my attention. So they said you can never determine whether self-experimentation is resulting in a meaningful outcome because it is literally impossible to reliably calculate the significance of an outcome using a sample size of one person. And later on uh they they made the third claim which is you cannot determine if that data point is an outlier in the context of self-experimentation. So, Helms, uh, your initial feelings when I sent that to you, were were you as incredulous as I was, and did you immediately feel like you were going to need to talk me down, uh, from throwing a fit on live on the air? >> Yes, indeed. Um, I knew how frustrated you would be. Um, and maybe I and I don't want to I don't want to paint your emotional response, so you can of course share what your emotional response is, but being the professional you are, I also know you'd handle it well. Um, and it made me think of two really, really important things is one just how important in 2025 the three pillars of iron culture are. History, science, and culture. Because every time we see someone leverage one while being ignorant to the other, they make very predictable errors that someone who is aware of these other um fields of of of focus, you could say, uh would would see as that doesn't make any sense. When you're heavily heavily heavily siloed into a given culture, what you believe is possible, normal is skewed and biased. when you're heavily heavily heavily siloed into just what has been historically done, sometimes you can be surprised or resistant to change uh and not know like what could be possible in the future. Like I've definitely seen some people who are just so enamored by a Steve Reeves or a John Grimmick as to go like well they are the natty peak potential and nothing could ever extend beyond what they did. And from a stance of nostalgia and reverence, I understand that sentiment, but at the same time, they were coming off of just a few decades prior where lifting weights was literally a circus act. That's how rare it was. Gyms were were were rarified, strange places for a unique subculture. And people didn't understand why you do fitness because health and fitness were were were one and the same. And bodybuilding, if you think it's a subculture now, holy crap, back then. Not to mention there was a third of the people on the planet, right? So now you've got three times as many people on the planet and 10 times as many of them as proportion are lifting weights. Of course there's going to be people who surpass even the great Steve Ree and John Grimick. So these are just some examples. But one thing I'm really glad about having you on Iron Culture, my friend, is that I think more so than my than me. You have more of a historical knowledge of science specifically and also the development of statistics because you and I are both, I would say, perhaps not the most neurotypical gentleman in the world. And I express my special interests um in a different way than you. I have a diverse number of books on the history of lifting, but I know you are also an afficionado of the history of statistics, which I am not. And uh in our discussion you brought up how like hey literally some of the first uh I would say would you say discoveries or pioneering into the field of statistics we generally use in human research especially in medical or or sports history or sorry sport science or or exercise science directly conflict with the claim here. So I think maybe that's a good place to start is the history of stats. >> Yeah. Not to be hyperbolic, but to be kind of hyperbolic to make a point that the way I phrased it is this is probably the most wrong a thing could be if you view it through a historical lens. the idea that you can never determine whether self-experimentation results in a meaningful outcome that that it's impossible to make any kind of statistical inference using a sample size of one person because um literally like there's something called there there's an old story the lady tasting tea and it is essentially the it's widely viewed as basically the first formal conceptualization of null hypothe hypothesis testing, right? And the story goes, it's uh Ronald Ronald Fischer, who if you've ever done stats, you're like, "Wait a minute, that Fisher." Yes, that Fiser. Um don't look into his personal life or or feelings or beliefs on the world. Uh I'll I'll say that for all statistitians for the most part. If they're famous and they did most of their work before 1940, don't look into them. It's not good. >> Yeah, I think George Box is safe. But after but anybody before that just pretend they they are just stats people and nothing else. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Uh so anyway, Ronald Fischer invented like a lot of stuff in modern statistics. I'm pretty sure he's the guy who pioneered analysis of variance, the ANOVAs that we find in every exercise science paper for the most part. So the whole idea with lady tasting tea is Ronald Fiser Helms said maybe we're not the most neurotypical people. Ronald Fischer. I've never met the gentleman uh the individual, but I'm I'm very confident that he shares that with us because the whole premise is that he was enjoying tea with a lady, his friend, and she made the claim that she could taste that she could discern the difference with a cup of tea if you put the milk in before the tea or the tea in before the milk. Now, the average person who's enjoying tea with a lovely friend would say, "Oh, that's interesting." and they'd probably move on. But he said, "I'm going to spend an obscene amount of time destroying you with facts, logic, and novel mathematics that have never been considered." Uh, so he basically uh this claim racked his brain, destroyed his mental uh sense of wellness, and he decided, I'm going to invent null hypothesis testing to prove my friend wrong over a claim that is completely not impactful in any way. You know, it's one thing I've talked, I think, on the show about the the origin of meta analysis, which at least was like the British army saying, "Hey, we have a lot of soldiers dying of typhoid. Uh, we should look into this." But this is literally just a friend calling on a friend. And then saying, [laughter] "I'm going to change statistics forever over this." But um but so basically what he did um in this lady lady tasting tea story uh which was first published I think in 1935 is he kind of laid out a foundation for like if I disbelieved you but I wanted to be just from a probability perspective reasonably certain that you're full of how would I describe how would I set up run and analyze an experiment to do so and so he puts out this kind of replication process of I'm going to give you in a blinded fashion this cup of tea which had milk before the tea and then this cup which had the tea before the milk and the question was over repeated trials how many times do you get it right and and at what level of probability would I say if you're getting it right this many times uh I'm inclined to just simply believe you you know so he basically used this to kind of lay out the concept of null hypothesis testing what is your null how will you test it and and then what is the probability at which you feel reasonably confident? And so the reason that this claim kind of got under my skin was you know not only can you do null hypothesis testing with a single subject but it is literally the start of null hypothesis testing. And so I I think that you know this is uh one of those things and we talk about it in iron culture but studying history I I think the the term that you use the specific word that jumped out I think was avoidable um when you kind of introed this topic. So >> making avoidable uh misinterpretations and the thing about history is that it is basically I I when I was younger I wasn't into history. I didn't really understand why people study it. It seemed like it seemed like it was just old people with nostalgia for what used to be. But the older you get, the more you're like, "No, this isn't nostalgia. It's just you've seen the same mistakes being made time after time after time." And you start to realize that an appreciation and a study of history is just a shortcut. It's basically a cheat code to say, "What if I just don't make the mistakes everyone else did?" or at least as I as I cover new ground, I'm informed of the biggest mistakes that have been made in similar scenarios. Um, and so I think that, um, having an understanding of the history of statistics really broadens your perspective because Helms, I'm sure you've seen this, a lot of a lot of, uh, biomedical science programs, exercise science programs, they really kind of some of them teach statistics basically in like a like a cookbook fashion. It's like baking instructions. You follow the flowchart. If you have this and this and this, do the ANOVA. If you have this and that, but only that, then you do T test. It's kind of a flowchart. Here's your small collection of tools. Make the right choice, you know, but there are like six options here. But when you study the history of it and you see the origins, you say, well, what did statistics look like before ANOVA? What did statistics look like before, you know, before these kind of common tests? And what you start to see is like, oh, this is really just an exploration of the convergence of study design and having a good question and trying to falsify it. And it kind of broadens your perspective of what statistical inference really looks like. And I I think that aside from statistics, it's just so critical that uh that we really embrace uh how important it is to study history. And I think one of the one of the arguments that's really caught my attention and things unrelated to this lately, Helms, this is a bit of a tangent, but I've seen a lot of people in very different contexts kind of make an argument where they say, "Well, it's the current consensus. The experts say it's true." Now, far be it for me to make a blanket criticism of scientific consensus or expert agreement, but it's really important to understand that expert consensus or scientific consensus only is worthwhile if there's actual literature. You know, so there you're going to find in some fields that there is scientific consensus on paper about topics that are woefully underststudied. And that is dramatically different from a scientific consensus on things that are very very wellstied with rigorous work. And the reason I bring that up is uh I I did see in the comments of that post there's a kind of like I think I kind of saw the person say my my professors told me that the uh single subject statistical tests that exist are are dumb and not good. um which is a nonsensical argument but also even if it were the expert consensus it's really important to to recognize like labbotomy eugenics these were scientific consensus among experts of their time. We look back at them and these are things that were highly prevalent within our parents or grandparents' lifetime and you know we can look back and see how tragically wrong things can be when we refuse to kind of look into the history of how ideas come to be the scientific basis for it and if we just kind of use that mental shortcut of well so and so said it was true so I'm going to go for it. So, all that is to say, when we look at the history of statistics, the history of science, it leaves really important lessons that we really can't gloss over. That's all super well said, Trex. And I would also say I think we're probably being a little too generous to Let's just say that the comment of, "Hey, my professor said this," is an accurate representation of what the professor said and not a a hyperbolic version of it to try to help them defend themselves. I assuming that I think the professor is just wrong if that's the case because I don't think being I think when you're siloed within exercise science or you know kind of any anything even adjacent to our field you're not necessarily engaging with the top biostatisticians who have really thought about this a lot and I think if you were to look at the the the most heavily cited uh research and papers from biostatistitians on single subject designs, we would find there probably is a relatively strong consensus on a better way to do this. And we would just find out, oh, this is not something most exercise scientists are are aware of. Um, and I mean like this happens all the time in general design of research. Like I think I saw the first scoping review in med like in exercise science or sports science like a couple years ago, you know, like in like the 201s and prior to that people were doing systematic reviews and using them to do the work of scoping reviews because they didn't know they existed, right? So that's just one of those random examples, but there there's a ton of things like that where you you can't know what you don't know. So yeah, if you were to look at all of the uh methods used to pick out non-responders, responders, or individual response or all the things that basically Zach Robinson was on our podcast last time criticizing, you'd go, "Yeah, that stuff actually doesn't make sense." But when you get legitimate statisticians to think about this and talk about it and you look into fields where this has been thought of a lot more, you start to realize, oh, maybe our internal little consensus or way of doing things is just frankly not fully informed and we're just not aware of our blind spots. Because that's what I think is a better representation of this science communicator's approach. And I want to take a brief tangent and one say kind of why I think there's a specific blind spot there and why it's understandable but then two to talk about and this is almost addressing the person but it's not um that it's not just the claims that are made but also you need to critique and think about how does a person think and come up with claims because we can keep making making these same errors or keep pro promoting or following the same people who make predictable going back to that same word um logical fallacies or critical thinking errors I think is what this would be. >> Yeah. And that was the term I I said avoidable but it was predictable which is even better. >> Yes. Predictable, right? So So I think here's the thing when you think about in a narrow framing of population-based research where every individual is a single data point and they have only one contribution to a data set. Yes, it is impossible to develop a standard deviation from one single data point. But as soon as you start testing that person multiple times over time, all of a sudden you can conceptualize this as determining what is their standard deviation of that measurement. And then you could use the same quote unquote rules that we would use to determine whether or not that was a quote unquote real change or how large of a deviation from the norm was it. And if you kind of look at like say reliability research, bland altman testing, all these things in a very very narrow lens and you're thinking more about oh is this measurement reliable not remembering that it also encapsulates biological variability and then you can also think about what is the real change now all of a sudden you go hold on I'm using a very very limited scope. So yes, if I maintain myself as okay, I'm assuming that all research that's done in our field is meant to generalize to a population rather than actually tell us a fundamentally different question of did what this athlete, person, case series, case study, whatever, did this individual see a real change and did it was it due to cause and effect of whatever combined set of treatments came prior then sure you you could make this claim. But that is a relatively like why would you make that assumption? And then also if you were making that assumption here here's the philosophical part that really bothers me the um the immediate use of absolutes the high high level of confidence and then the immediate backpedaling to what my my professor said like oh now that I might be wrong and that people are coming in here let me just do an appeal to an authority. Right? That style of thinking tells you something that this person either through trying to promote themselves as being confident and reliable source of information, which could be a promotional thing, which isn't always bad. We all know what we need to do to survive and grow on the algorithm. Um, is giving an error of confidence, which which helps. um or they are coming at things with far too high of a level of confidence and they're shouting from the from the top of the twin peaks of Dunning and Krueger, which is something that it does come with a lack of awareness of history of having not been wrong very many times. But you hope with age you start to go, "Oh man, when I venture into new areas of thought, discovery, and things that I'm learning, maybe I'm not the first person who ever asked this question, and maybe I should start with this. This doesn't seem right. Why has no one else picked up on this?" Or, "Why are these claims being made? Let me look into it deeper." or or if I if I look into it and I think I'm right, not use complete black and white absolute statements and just leave the door open for possibilities. Just with the simple humility of going maybe there could be things that I don't know right now that are forever going to be true, always an absolute. >> Yeah. And you know, we we hate a straw man here. So I I I found the verbatim uh uh quote and it was basically pushing back into people who are like there's a lot of stats that you can do with single subject designs. They're very robust. They've been calculated out. There's there's a whole body of literature. You can look up the stuff John Faren has done. Like I've met the researchers who do this stuff and I've said hey I love your work [laughter] you know. So, uh, the response was, um, I'm in grad school now and they have hammered home how horrible n equals 1 tests are for in inference on population data. So, it's kind of like, well, grad school says otherwise. And also, when people are doing self-experimentation, what do they care about population averages? Like, the whole point of self-experimentation is I want to see what works for me. That's why the unit of investigation is the self. You know what I mean? But um I was I was smiling because um a lot of times you know you kind of mentioned the those twin peaks of Dunning and Krueger and this is in the context of I can empathize with you know doing science communication in grad school but if you look back at the stuff I did when I was in grad school the tone was very muted. It was not sensational in the least. Um because I was always thinking it it'd be like if you were reading like you're [laughter] like I'm going to read the autobiography of Benjamin Franklin and you get about 30% of the way through and then you're going out online say I'm the foremost expert in Benjamin Franklin history and you're like are you sure you don't want to see if there's like a big change that happens in the rest of that book? Like what if things take a turn? [laughter] you know. Um, and so I just in and when I would learn things in grad school, I would even when I thought I was on to something big, I would keep it to myself. And oh my god, Helms, was I glad because my biggest claim to fame, Helms, in grad school, I invented regression imputation, the problem. And and I I basically worked it out on my own because it came up as a problem in a study I was doing. And I said, "This to me is the most intuitive solution." and I shared it with a couple of my close colleagues and I said folks I'm on to something big and I I invented regression imputation and then later found there is a term for it. It is regression imputation. It was invented a very long time ago and uh also that's like three imputation methods in the past because we developed way better ways to do it. So, it's one of those things where it it's hard to say when you become a science communicator when is it time to actually step out in the limelight and share rather than learn. And the answer is you never stop doing either. but where you're at in your career stage and and unfortunately it takes a few goarounds, you know, in this whole cycle to figure out when you've actually achieved like bonafide expertise in an area to an extent that you're going to go out and say, "Oh yeah, I'm bucking the norm on this and I'm going to go out with a hot take." You know what I mean? Early in your career when something, this is like my general heristic I lived by early in my career when it felt like I was getting what no one else was getting. My initial default was I don't understand this. You know what I mean? Like there there's a very low probability that I'm the first person to get this given that I've been into it for about two weeks. And so I I think that's a really important heruristic for people who are maybe you're a fitness enthusiast, a fitness professional, and communication is part of the game. Social media content is part of the game. It's not to say that you can't speak on a topic if it wasn't if you didn't do a dissertation on it, but I think it it goes a long way to have some humility in terms of the tone and framing and saying, "Here's something I'm chewing on. Here's my perspective on it. What do you think? Let me know in the comments." You know, it's very different from saying, "I've got some extremely hot takes and if you disagree with me, you're an idiot." Like, it's a very, very different approach to communication. Well said. Yeah. And um I think, you know, is it worth maybe steelmanning a little bit some of the I I'll put it this way. I think a lot of a lot of the things that people do with anecdotal evidence with self-experimentation and and with and of one actual published study designs has many faults. Oh yeah. And >> like I would just refer people back to our episode with Zach Robinson where you know we we both you and I admitted that we didn't think about the variance in response within the individual and how when you repeat something it could be just as variable the next time and why oh a single time through a crossover maybe isn't enough to determine individual response. And that's why Zach did a double crossover, you know, and a within participant design, right? >> Yeah. And the great shame of that is that you recommended that uh as the study design, which is a very tedious thing in a long timeline for a dissertation study and somehow the history suggests that I took the blame for that. And I I still don't understand how that happened, but everyone suggests with within that dissertation committee that it was my idea um and that I was the mean person that made Zach do all the extra work and it was not me. >> It was definitely me. I I think um and the funny thing is it was I think James Steele actually pointed out this is what you'd have to do, but it would be crazy to do that. And I said, but is it that crazy? And and then you were just a bystander. I think I think hon this might have been one of those times where just that got got flipped. >> The great irony of it uh and I know we're we're I I think this is all fine to share publicly and we're live so it doesn't matter. It's happening too. >> But um I chimed into the conversation to say, "Zack, how long have you been in grad school? Like how much time left do you have?" um just because I was trying to figure out how unconscionable it would be to force someone to do this prolonged multiple trial crossover experiment and it was misremembered universally such that I was saying, "Oh, we need to keep this guy around way way way longer." When in reality, I was just saying like, "If this guy's been already been in grad school for 5 years, I don't feel comfortable asking him to do this." But anyway, as as you were saying, uh we we kind of admitted uh in that case that yeah, we we hadn't really given that a considerate considerable amount of thought. >> Yeah. Yeah. So I I I fully agree that um most of the individual response literature within exercise science uh and nutrition as well um is ignoring a very very large source of variance, the repeatability within a given person. And it's only been uh in the last several years um and I would say Zach Robinson is probably the worldleading authority at least in exercise science on this topic that we've had the ability to actual look at actually robustly look at individual response um to determine importantly here uh whether or not that response variation is due to some inherent trait of the person. Now with that said, um I think what does self-experimentation look like in the real world and we have you know anecdotal evidence or expert opinion is on the hierarchy of evidence and and anyone who tries to remove that is fundamentally not evidence-based. I think we need to acknowledge that anecdotal evidence is highly important and it simply not only is it just lower on the evidence but still on the evidence hierarchy. Not just worse, it also fills a fundamentally different role in evidence-based practice that in many cases cannot be fulfilled by science. Nor is science attempting to nor should it attempt to. But I think where people get it wrong is we always want to ascribe a cause to an observation when sometimes we can't know that. Right? So it is true that if you repeat the same intervention in the same person whether you're sitting in the the the seat of the coach or the seat of the athlete who is doing robust experimentation on yourself um you can observe trends that are are repeatable. You can't say that that's an inherent genetic trait or or that this is something that is unique to me or unique to this protocol. You just know that it is repeatable. It could be something related to a systematic environmental uh reality in in your diet, you know, like you can have two people consuming very similar diets with different soil composition in different parts of the world and one of them has a you know malnutrition issue, right? >> Yeah. >> You you you point >> all you know is it's repeatable. You don't know why. >> Yeah. if I can bolster with with even more stats history. I I love telling a good story of uh Clever Hans, the horse who can count. And that was a an an example of what you're talking about, which is a repeatable effect where the cause has been misattributed. Uh so Hans was a horse. Hans could count and also do some spelling. He was a very special horse. And so his trainer would tell him, you know, hey Hans, tell me what's 2 plus three. And Hans the horse would, you know, pound his hoof on the ground five times. He'd say, "Okay, okay, that's good, but what's seven minus two?" Five times, you know, they didn't always equal five. That was a coincidence. But he would give all this basic arithmetic and the horse would get it right. And he was telling people far and wide that, hey, this horse is genius. He can count. He can spell. And uh ultimately people came in and did uh independent testing with the horse without the train. And people with the trainer there observed it and they're like, "Oh my god, this is working." But if the trainer wasn't there and an independent group of people instructed the horse to count, it forgot how to count. It forgot how to spell. And so what was happening was there was a repeatable effect where the horse was anticipating based on body language what the trainer was anticipating and was just doing whatever it would take to get that next sugar cube basically. Um so that's an example where it was a repeatable effect but the cause was misattributed because in these single study design or you know single person designs even if we find a repeatable effect you may think it's because you ramp up your training volume and you're an incredible responder to high volume programming but maybe when you ramp up your training volume subconsciously you know oh god this is a lot and you start eating more and you start really prioritizing your sleep and recovery you start you There may be other changes you're making subconsciously when you go on these ambitious high volume programs to everything and it's part of the reason why we have many of the study designs we do like a randomized double blind placeboc controlled trial for say even blood pressure medication where we do want to extrapolate it to the population. Think about where someone's head is at when they are volunteering to be part of a blood pressure trial and the inclusion criteria is that they have high blood pressure. Once they get accepted into the trial, they're going to be highly motivated to lower their blood pressure. This the simple acceptance into the trial means they might start exercising. They might might start eating better. And that's why you see a placebo effect. It's not just magic expectancy effects. It is true behavior changes. You know, just like when you have people start tracking their diet, they're they're probably not going to get the same number of donuts at work and stick it on the scale, remember that, and write it down. They might actually not eat the donut at all. People start losing weight, you know. So, >> these types of things are are happening in these complex systems and among humans and they happen within the individual and they happen within groups. So we do need to be aware that discerning cause and effect is a huge challenge uh when you are dealing with anecdotal evidence. Um you are changing multiple things all the time and you do not have the parallel universe version of you who didn't do just that one thing. But you can say you know what I've tried this multiple times. I don't know if it's because of my genetics, my environment, or something else, but I do see the same pattern. And therefore, I'm going to act on that as a coach or as an athlete. And you would be a fool not to in my opinion. Um, but it's just really important to point out that most anecdotes are so much lower in quality than what we're talking about. you're not, you know, like a high level SNC coach who's actually sometimes running stats on their own data calcula calculating the the coefficient of variation and things like that. Um, they're not even, you know, looking at spreadsheets and just looking at trends in an athlete. It's just, you know, siloed groups of people in fitness saying, you know, I'm pretty sure everybody trains with low volume who's made made good gains. It's like, well, maybe that's just your algorithm feeding you a bunch of stuff, right? And what what's interesting about it is that I I like that you decided to steal man this argument because one of the things that I really pushed back on as I read it or heard it was just the the confidence with which it was it was delivered. But the the reality is in my opinion what we should be doing as science communicators in the lifting space is encouraging people toward a a very specific middle ground. And so there's kind of two sides of this uh this if we want to just really straw man and go into this really broad spectrum. You could say some people say you could never possibly detect anything meaningful from self-experimentation. And on the other hand, just do what works for you, bro. Don't think about it too hard. Right? Well, what we should really be doing, in my opinion, as science communicators, is highlighting the things we just talked about, the inherent issues with self-experimentation, not being able to find true causitive mechanisms, things of that nature. We should be highlighting some of the uh stumbling blocks that can get in your way when you're trying to interpret your own And in my opinion, we should be giving people the tools to equip them with how can you do self-experimentation better? How can you make better inferences based on your observations when you train? So, for example, when someone says, I I really hate high volume programs cuz I tried it one time and it didn't work. Maybe they they lean on some of these concepts and say, maybe you should try it twice, you know, because there could be other things that happen that one time. Replication is a fundamental principle that helps you make better inferences with your Trying to actually document things you're doing so you can actually standardize things well is another huge thing you can do. So in my opinion, it's not that we should be pushing people toward self-experimentation or away from I think we should be focused on equipping people with a better understanding of how to interpret their their own experiences. Um, and and ultimately I think that can go. It's not to say everyone's going to be out there doing permutation tests to calculate a p value on on their own. Like I replicated two different programs 10 times each in randomized order. It is probably not going to happen, right? But but we can still lean on some of these concepts. But Helms, if I may, I want to just wrap up a couple of the things we talked about and then move into what I think is kind of the real climax of the episode. really really uh um wrap things up uh in terms of hitting the what I think is the bigger picture concept here. So we talked about the the first claim um you you know you can uh it's literally impossible to reliably calculate the significance of an outcome using a sample size of one person categorically false. There's a whole body of literature on it. Many many different it's not just like one person who's out there publishing a bunch of op-eds on it. This this is a robust field of of statistical science. Um the the other thing is uh a related claim. You cannot determine if a data point is an outlier from self-experimentation. To me that's a pretty big flaw in logic in the sense that of course you can Helms if you brought in and let's forget all the replication stuff. Helms you brought in a client you started training them. You've been training them for 6 months. they've gained 26 pounds and they look leaner. You have no tools to tell whether or not that's an outlier response. You're completely lost in the dark on that. Of course you can. We can >> philosophically at the very least it makes no sense. But we even mathematically it makes no sense. >> Yeah. But but even if we put away all the nerd science and stat stuff, we know distributions of normative data. And again getting to the point of pragmatic self-experimentation, we should absolutely be comparing what we see with ourselves versus what we see from everyone else. Whether that's the people we train with in the gym, the people we've trained previously if we're a coach, or if we're more, you know, researchincclined, we can actually go look at the normative data and say in a metaanalysis uh of 80 groups across 68 studies training for an average of 10.4 four weeks, how much fat free mass does a human being gain when they do a resistance training program? Right? These these data exist and so we don't have to pretend we're completely lost without any bearings in terms of what to expect in terms of training response and we can we may not know why the results were so incredible, but we absolutely can discern if something is remarkable, unremarkable, fantastic, terrible, or extremely average. Right? You know, if you extend that logic of we can't determine what's an outlier to the practical world and really think about it. We look at Usain Bolt, you know, he runs a world record. We go, I mean, was that a world record? I mean, was that good? Tomorrow he might run a 13. >> Yeah. >> And that'd be his best and that's his normal. We can't We can't know. We can't know. we might as well just hand gold medals out to everybody or just cancel sports honestly because we don't know what's better than something else because they're all individuals. >> Yeah, >> we should just have a population average of sprint times. That's it. >> Yeah. So, those are the two things, but I want to focus now on the third one because I I think this is what really I I think is the most important from a podcasting perspective. So, you can never determine whether self-experimentation is resulting in a meaningful outcome. Now that is a verbatim quote and that's important. The term meaningful there >> uh that is a huge conflation a major no no in the statistics world of implying that statistical significance is meaning and that meaning is statistical significance. It's really really really important uh that that we separate those two concepts. uh you can have a meaningful result that because of various factors is not statistically significant at the group level. You could have a statistically significant effect at the group level that is pretty much meaningless. I mean I I've I've looked into some studies, you know, I did my dissertation on nitrate. You can look at like uh nitrate intake and blood pressure and find that at the population level your systolic blood pressure is like a point and a half lower uh if you or the the research specifically was on mouthwash which kills all the bacteria that facilitate that conversion of nitrate. So do I go out telling people if you use mouthwash you're on a crash course for hypertension? Of course not. We're talking about 1 millimeter mercury change in systolic blood pressure. It's it's nothing. But it but it's interesting, right? Because if you look at over 30,000 people, it's there. It's a thing that exists. >> If I may, this is actually something that we rarely run into in our world because we're always dealing with small sample size studies and we have to leverage metaanalysis to get large sample sizes in most cases. But this is a really common thing in the medical world where you do have large NIH funded studies, huge data sets, multi-sight experimental trials and exactly what you said I think is actually a great example. Blood pressure um because there are blood pressure medications and you have to think about the financial investment that a pharmaceutical company makes into a given drug and they don't do it based upon statistical significance. They do it based upon well an asymmetrical evaluation of risk. It needs to have an extremely low risk profile so that it it makes sense and can actually get through the approvals of whatever country it's going to get approved in. Uh and then secondly, it needs to be clinically significant. And while the statistical fights that we've had in sports science are the inverse of this, this is what happens in the medical world is typically the bar for clinical significance is higher for mathematical reasons than the bar for statistical significance because with a high enough sample size and this is I found just a fascinating aspect of the way null hypothesis testing works in the whole family of of permutation testing p values is that any difference in a mean will eventually become statistically significant if the samp sample size is large enough if if it persists. >> Yeah. >> So if there is a point if there's a one systolic or one diastolic blood pressure difference in two two averages if that's represented by two million people in each one it'll be statistically significant but that is not enough to make a clinical difference in terms of someone's risk of having a heart attack or having other complications related to blood pressure. So you would not see an investment by a pharmaceutical comp company. And there have been a tremendous number of drugs that have an effect that is just simply not worth it to be invested in or might come with a a high enough risk of side effects that an individual might go, you know what, I'm okay with that side effect. That's only a 1% chance. But if you think about it, a 1% risk of an adverse event in a drug that's being distributed to hundreds of millions of people is a big problem. Now again, and I'll give it back to you. I'll hand this mic back over in a second. I promise. In our field, this never happens, right? We we have arguments about, you know, for example, uh magnitude based inferences where we were making what is meaningful too low of a bar. We go, you know, anything that has a Cohen's small effect size with a, you know, 75% probability of being like real, we're going to go ahead and and call that meaningful. And eventually that just kind of became an issue because it was being treated with the same binary, you know, go no-go response rather than kind of a more holistic uh assessment of probability, risk, and benefit versus harm. Um that a p less than 005 or 006, you know, kind of decision would be be made. So um that that's why magnitude based inference largely got rejected in our field. um even though some of the ideas behind it uh from Will Hopkins were were quite good uh or at least from a um I would say a conceptual standpoint. So yeah, clinical significance is something that is largely not understood by exercise scientists but is a very very common conversation and well understood in the world of medicine and pharmaceuticals especially. >> Yeah. And just to spike the blood pressure of any grad students who are listening, when we talk about this relationship between p values and sample size, it also pertains to our test of assumptions. And so one of my like kind of fringe beliefs, it's not fringe everywhere, but it's definitely fringe in exercise science is like most of the people who are saying like, well, I know that my data are normal because of the Shapiro Wiltos. It's like, you don't know anything, dude. Like you ran an underpowered test and you got a high p value. you don't know if you're really conforming to a a a normal distribution with with your residuals. Uh same thing goes like I I've I've had people when I'm working with large data sets who are like, "Hey, did you do a Shapiro woke test?" I'm like, "Why would I do that?" And like I've heard people who are actual statistitians who they're they're literal what they would say is with a large enough sample size, the Shapiro woke test is a sample size test. you know, it's just it will be significant if you have a large enough group because you're never going to get perfectly normal data. So, all that is to say, when you're a grad student diligently doing your tests that your professor told you to, I just want to plant a seed of doubt that stresses you out because I don't have any good suggestions. But, uh but that that's a topic for another day. Um but anyway, uh the other reason I wanted to bring up that that um that third statement there that you can never determine whether self-experimentation is resulting in a meaningful outcome. Getting away from the stats and just getting into the premise of evidence-based practice. I I I think that that statement is a massive violation of evidence-based principles as it pertains to, like I said, evidence-based practice. So when you look at evidence-based practice, you can argue some people put it as like a ven diagram with three circles. Some people do it as more of a funnel because they want to create a bit of a hierarchy uh in terms of how you integrate that evidence. But evidence-based practice, I think it's very widely um accepted has three elements and you can talk about them as you know three legs of a stool, three parts of a ven diagram, three parts of a funnel, but it's the best available scientific evidence. That's your typical RCTs, the stuff we review in mass, the expertise of the clinician, and then the patient values and preferences. Basically, the individualized circumstances. And so when we talk about completely eliminating observations from self-experimentation, we're basically saying, "That's a nice three-legged stool you got there. It'd be a shame if I kicked one of the legs out, right?" Like, and I think what's most um what's most important to kind of highlight about that is that, you know, Helms, I know we've worked in evidence-based fitness. We write mass articles. We do podcasting. We've coached individuals. We've coached ourselves. And within the context of evidence-based fitness, especially when you're working with a client, it's not only that self-experimentation is important, it's that self-experimentation is kind of the only thing that actually matters. And so to me, that's why that that last statement is such a huge breach of that underlying principle of evidence-based practice is when you tell a person who's lifting, you know, uh even if we just lay out an example, right? So, a coach does an intervention at a client's request and the coach is skeptical. You've probably been there, right? Your client's really adamant. I want to try this. And you say, I don't think that's going to work, but fine. You know, it I see no reason to believe it would be harmful. We can give it a shot. Right? and it it works marvelously compared to that client's recent results. You've been coaching them for three years and this is the biggest spike in performance you've seen in in a year and a half, right? And so the coach says, "Okay, uh well, let's repeat that. Let's try that again. See if it was a fluke. See if and what do you know? It works marvelously again." So at that point, your your coach has two options in this scenario. They can either say, "Well, that's not supposed to happen and and never do it again." or say, "Great, we're making gains that we haven't unlocked in a year and a half. This is a a revol an absolute revelation for your training. Let's keep doing it until we run into some breaks here." Like, let's keep rolling with it. And of course, obviously, the answer is you roll with it. At the end of the day, a long-term engagement in fitness is an endless period of self-experimentation that is guided by the other evidence we have, the expertise of other practitioners and clinicians, the the peer-reviewed evidence that's getting churned out every single month. But at the end of the day, if you're a worldclass powerlifter and the thing that allowed you to increase your bench by 100 lbs wasn't supposed to work based on the recent meta analysis, what the hell do you care, Helms? Now, is that the most likely scenario that you're just going to be turning over these rocks and being what you 20 steps ahead of the science every every turn you make? Probably not. But again, we can't get too far out of reach of these basic principles that help us understand why we're here in the first place. And that is the experience at the individual level is what we're here for in virtually all elements of fitness. >> Yeah. I mean, I think it's worth going all the way back to why does exercise science use null hypothesis testing? uh random sampling and all the design fundamentals that we teach in a graduate level class. And it's because the default assumption of what we do with this information is to provide recommendations to populations. Whether that's a group of athletes in sports science, coaches, uh whether that is population physical activity guidelines or nutrition science, uh things that become pyramids or plates or or whatever the the given non-governmental body wants to do. So in that context there isn't really a place and I get it for the individual data. Um there is lip service paid to it of what happens when you are a clinician and you sit down and you talk through these guidelines with a person and how do you translate them into practice and then what do you change which becomes a whole complete inversion where eventually the only thing you care about is the observable patterns within that and then you're the We understand volume as a way of turning up the dose of the thing we're doing, right? Um, and I can determine whether that dose is too high for you or too less or or the right amount. But then when you're writing a review paper, recommendations, evidence-based recommendations for natural bodybuilders, I know some people who've written those types of papers. Um, they may be represented on this podcast. That is where we are purely looking at the highest quality level of evidence. We might give some nods to how this might be applied in the real world because practitioners are reading it. But ultimately it would be a disservice for us to look at cherrypicked single studies. We are trying to use the well done most recent meta analyses on this topic to inform those broad population level guidelines. And it's why we provide ranges and we provide levels of confidence and things like grade assessments to say, hey, the certainty of this evidence uh is is is higher or lower and why we have an evidence hierarchy so that we can make these population level recommendations. And I think where people really get caught up in the fitness industry and why there's this current fight back against the quote unquote science-based content is missing that that these are two fundamentally different things that you know like people respond and don't know what's wrong with it of okay well if high volume is shown in these meta analyses to reliably produce higher higher performances then why did Jeff Nippard get better gains in his video when he did lower volume you know and that is whether the person who says it realizes it or not. That's like saying, "Well, if gravity works, then why did this one time this astronaut let go of a ball that didn't fall?" Like there there is a reason and in this case it's cuz you're not in a gravity well, right? But assuming you don't know that fundamental principle, they don't need to conflict. They're different contexts, right? So we we just have to not assume that what we see in one person must always follow the population level data in a controlled environment when it is uncontrolled. And we just have to be comfort comfortable and this is a big ask because humans do not like uh like existential threats. We have to be comfortable with not knowing why an observation happened which we don't like. We like to make up all kinds of myths. Every culture has done it to explain everything we observe. And I I'm not taking a shot at myths or religion or anything like that. I'm just saying that's the way humans are. We like to explain things. And people who are interested in science sometimes even need to be able to explain things and want to explain them before they actually have a true rationale that is sufficiently robust to become like a theory to explain something in all instances. So, when we're dealing with individuals, when we're doing evidence-based practice, we need to maintain a level of humility that is open to the idea that this person might respond in a unique way, but also have a level of humility to say, "And we don't necessarily know why." And that's okay, and it doesn't contradict anything that we see in science. It just means that there's more to know. So again, just the importance of humility and curiosity when you're engaging with science because that is the fundamental underlying stance that you need to take philosophically if you want to be a true empiricist. >> Yeah. And I I think that's um that's such a great way to put it. You know, I I was trying to think of how to hammer this point home. And getting back to that, you know, kind of I want, [snorts] it's not a a dichotomy, but it's a spectrum of that kind of open-mindedness versus skepticism uh in this evidence-based fitness scene that we inhabit. And I think one of my biggest concerns about when people, especially early in their career, adopt the ultra skeptical posture and they get very much into the I'm going to defend you from the bad information out there. I'm going to debunk everything. You know, that that's kind of my posture in terms of content creation. I think that that immediate bias towards skepticism, and it is a bias, like let's not kid ourselves, I think it completely poisons you against curiosity. And I think that is a trap that a lot of people in evidence-based fitness fall into. And that is I've become so skeptical because I heard that was a virtue in the evidence-based scene that now I have I'm completely devoid of curiosity and when I hear something that conflicts with my you know PubMed link of the month that I've been really liking. Uh I don't react well to that and instead of asking why that would be or what the context is for it I say sounds like to me. and then I I make a definitive statement declaring that it's clearly not true, right? Um so I think that um evidence-based fitness collectively, we have to do something that's very very difficult. Like I don't want to pretend that this is easy to do, but we have to pre practice a level of skepticism without becoming cynical. We need to practice this kind of moderated even keeled version of skepticism that doesn't totally poison our curiosity and our open-mindedness. Um, and I think that what's interesting to me is, and I I'm not pointing fingers because I think I followed kind of a similar trajectory where when I knew nothing about science, I wasn't skeptical at all. You know, I I would read the muscle mags and say, "Oh, hell yeah. Let's do it." you know, like I believe me, I bought plenty of Larginine and branch chain amino acids for the both of us, right? So, initially I was like, I'm interested in this stuff and I'm throwing skepticism by the wayside cuz I'll take anything that works and apparently a lot of things that don't work as well. Then I started getting into science. And I think the point where a lot of folks become ultra skeptical and even bordering on cynical is like year one or two of grad school where it's like you're past the undergrad stuff. You've got your filter. You're really like getting into how to interpret research, but you're kind of like on defense and and wielding the sword like really aggressively defending against new ideas. And I think usually end of undergrad to like first year or two of grad school, people become hyper skeptical to the point of sometimes cynical. And then after you've been in the business for a while, and when I say the business, I mean doing research, you start to realize, oh, this is just another imperfect way of making observations about the world around us. And the observations I make when I'm doing a research study are fundamentally different than the observations I make when I coach my clients, which are fundamentally different than the observations I make when I'm in the gym. And at the end, which are fundamentally different from the inferences I make when I'm chatting with coaches at a conference and just talking shop and initially that year one grad school hypers skeptical, hypers cynical person has no interest in these other forms of evidence because they're all PubMed focused. And the longer you get into it, the more you realize, ah, that was a mistake. I I should have been more curious about other sources of information. I could have been I should have been more curious about information that pushes against my current beliefs and caused me to grow academically and intellectually rather than defend intellectually or academically. And I think that's kind of the big takehome uh from me is uh making sure that we maintain our level of curiosity and open-mindedness, keeping our mind open enough but not so much that it falls out. Uh, and I think that's I'm not going to pretend that that's easy to do, but I think that really is the challenge for evidence-based fitness. >> Well said. I have one final thought to add and that is it because I think you said that so well is that kind of the next leveling up from there of once you kind of have that humility sometimes via negative experience and touching the stove and getting burned of going oh there's value in different evidence whether it is from the research uh from my own experience from the experience of others whether they're athletes or coaches all those sites information cited is to then determine the different limitations of each one. Um because I think the the times where your brain falls out is when you kind of just you basically poison your own well and you think, "Oh man, I thought I knew everything." You come down from Dunning Krueger, but then you feel this loss of confidence because you're like, "I don't know what I know." Um but probably know more. And John Kylie talked about this after, you know, he kind of had his um periodization bubble like popped and can't predict outcomes. I know nothing and everything is just like it could have been because you're in traffic today. But once you are now open to the idea that there's a lot of other source of information, things the blind spots you had could be influencing it. This is when you can start to go okay well what are the limitations of the research? What are the limitations of my experience? what are the limitations of my coaching experience and what are the limitations of other coaching experience and then you move even further and you go I can actually start to quantify the likely contribution of these different things to this outcome it's not like that fight with your wife could make you lose 30 kilos of muscle by tomorrow right but it might mess up your your highskilled performance today right but to what degree right and and is that mitigatable and and where do you get the the strategies to to to mitigate it from which of those sources of evidence and that's the type of place that you want to move towards. Um so there is always a leveling up but that leveling up process for an evidence-based practitioner must include all of these sources of information and it's going to include a lot of humility and uh I think some degree of like you said touching the stove and being overconfident then finding out oops I was wrong. Uh, and honestly to some extent I think some degree of disillusionment, you know, if if we're being totally honest, I think uh I you can tell me if I'm wrong. I think most people that get into exercise science do it because they say, you know, this is this perfect or nearly perfect way of finding out all real truths in the world. And then you kind of see how the sausage is made and and you say, I still believe this stuff is useful and good and worthwhile, but there's more blemishes here than I thought. and and there's, you know, more more unreliable research than I would have thought. And so it kind of, you know, I think that that plays a big role in causing, you know, some of these people that um wave around PubMed links but have never really stepped foot inside of a lab and never been, you know, in the peerreview publishing process. I think a lot of them once they do take that step and get into it, they say, "Oh, I was really confident in some studies that looking back at it are really just weren't done very well." You know, so it's not to say that we should have less faith in research, so to speak, but we we need to, like you said, integrate all the information available from different sources and understand the limitations of each of them. And ultimately, that's the goal. You know, if if you want to silo yourself away and deal with only one leg of the stool, that's your prerogative. But you better understand that you are willingly tying a hand behind your back, you know? So, you can pretend it's virtuous if you like, but you're you're only doing yourself a disservice if the goal is to get beefy and strong. And that's the goal, right? Let's be honest. >> Should be. >> All right, Helms. Anything else you want to say to the good people before we wrap up? and uh close out the show. >> No, just thank you for tuning in. Happy New Year. And uh yeah, don't be the person who decided to sit down on a onelegged stool. >> Yeah, don't do that. And uh if you're in the gym and you see somebody that needs a hand, use your best judgment. Maybe it's the right time to be helpful. If they look like they're a little lost or confused, maybe they need to work things out on their own. But most importantly, make sure that you contribute to a welcoming environment in your gym. There's going to be a lot of people there this week that are not uh regulars. And uh what more could we want um as a fitness community than to have more regulars, right? More people who are joining the culture and uh you know, new brothers and sisters in iron, right? So everybody, thank you for joining us. Have a fantastic week and we will see you next week with another episode of Iron Culture.