 professionals in our audience today. Before we get into any of that, Lauren, welcome and thanks for coming to talk to us. Thank you guys. I'm super excited for this and I am also very excited for these topics. It's some of my favorites, so I need to dive in. So before we get to the topics, maybe can you give people some context to your background, your work within the industry, some of the interests that you have and anything else that would serve as a good basis into some of the stuff we'll discuss today? For sure. So I like whatever word you use, what do you say? You have a lot of interests. I was like, that nails it. Yeah, I have a lot of different interests in the space, but I've been coaching for over 11 years now and I started competing back in 2011. And so I've had many, many years as a FBC amateur competitor, then also as an IFBB bikini pro as well. So I had the competitive background. I went to Florida State for my undergrad and started as dietetics and switched to exercise science, did some undergrad research there with Dr. Mike Ormsbeet. And then eventually went to do the master's program with Dr. Bill Campbell for exercise science. But my research focused on how different types of diets affect weight loss and weight regain. So it focused a little bit more on dieting and particularly the post-diet phase as well as just eating behaviors. And then pretty much since then, I have just been coaching and speaking and educating. And then this past few months ago, this past year, I started at BackbitUSF for the clinical mental health counseling program. So I'm on the road to becoming an LMHC, which in ours, there's different licenses across different states. We're basically a licensed mental health professional counselor. There's different titles everywhere, but that is what I'm starting to do now. So really trying to bridge that gap between the physical and mental health worlds because there's so much overlap, but they're often discussed as two different things, which I'm hoping to make a small dent of a difference. Even from that initial introduction to your background, people will start to see that there's not a dichotomy, but there's been this interesting difference in maybe some of your background. So on one side, if we take that initial start in bodybuilding and that world within bodybuilding specific fitness, let's say, and what we traditionally and conventionally have done relating to dieting and how people think of that, to over time, I think you've done a, you've put a lot of focus on talking to people about transitioning after they do a diet or after a show or more long-term sustainable approaches, even now into this era where you're focusing a lot on the psychology and mental health side of that. So just maybe from a broad perspective, and this may be at the risk of being too broad, what comes to mind when you think about when it comes to nutrition and our health, this idea of long-term success that we're trying to foster in people and how that maybe collides up against some of our traditional ways of thinking about dieting, if that mess of a question makes any degree of sense. No, it makes a lot of sense. And this is really the crux of what I've been trying to figure out as a professional and how to help my clients and help other fitness professionals too, because it really is so important. And I think that it comes down to, in my impression, it comes down to how we're viewing diets and dietary behavior. So a lot of the research on rigid and flexible restraint is really where I got the launching point for some of this language. So if you guys are interested in that, highly recommend checking out that type of literature. But really, a lot of people are viewing diets or their next insert plan, program, whatever it is, as this short-term thing. They're looking at it as this destination. They want to lose X weight. They want to get ready for X event. Of course, this is a different conversation for performance and physique athletes. Of course, those have deadlines. But whatever it might be, they're getting ready for something. They're on a plan. And all of the things are geared towards, I want this now. A lot of that instant gratification. And even if someone is sold on the fact that I'm going to diet now for several months before I'll probably see any substantial progress, they then don't focus on afterwards. What is happening after? Do they, if they're working with a coach, do they continue working with them in that period? If they are, if they've been adopted certain behaviors, do they just drop all of those? And this is just really the classic, just yo-yo approach that we see with all diets. And this is not necessarily even just for people who don't have any food knowledge or food experience. This can be the people who do have a lot of food knowledge and experience. And despite their best efforts, they find themselves in these positions. And as we know, with calorie restriction, there are metabolic and hormonal adaptations. And there's nothing wrong with them. They're normal. They happen. But if we repeatedly go through these efforts and we never repair and we never recover, well, now someone's ending up in a worse place after a certain amount of diet attempts. And then what I'm really seeing now, unfortunately, is really this whole just pushback on the industry in general and just being like, coaching doesn't work. Diets don't work for me. Like, I'm just going to give up. And of course, this isn't just one conversation, but I'm just seeing this more kind of pervasive notion of just, I'm going to give up and like nothing works. And that makes me really sad. So I feel like that's really where our work is. But unfortunately, I feel like it's stemming from some of those, that black and white mindset around just food and change. But then also a lot of the coaching practices that have flourished over the past five to 10 years that have pushed people to be like, I've worked with three coaches and they've put me in this position. So like, now what? So that's really what I feel like we're up against is this like quick fix mindset still. And just like that on and off mindset in general. Yeah. My question was, so what you just described certainly makes a ton of sense. And I think we've seen a lot of folks in the bodybuilding and physique space kind of branch out into this area where they are acknowledging, Hey, the stuff that has been popular in this space from coach to client has really been leaving clients in a pretty bad spot. I want to be part of the solution, not the problem. And frankly, in my opinion, we've seen a lot more bodybuilding type coaches kind of steamrolled their way into this kind of like, well, I'm bodybuilding or nutrition coach slash personal trainer slash clinician. And I do therapy in a sense, even though I'm not really qualified or licensed to do that. So my question is what made you decide, no, I actually want to do this like all the way. Like I want to really do the thing and become a licensed therapist in contrast to a lot of other practitioners who have just allowed their scope of practice in their mind to bleed over into more psychological elements of therapy slash diet. And I love that question. And I think it's a very important distinction. So probably about seven years ago was when I really started just like looking into like psychology in general. Of course, I knew it existed before, but it wasn't something that was really on my radar of interest. And I really started to realize as I'm coaching more people, this is really the root of everything, behaviors and mindset and how we view things like this is really what's creating change or not. What is facilitating these differences? And so I started doing a lot of self-study and I felt like I got pretty good handle on some of the things that I could confidently share with someone and that I could confidently speak on. A lot of the things that I speak on in general, I root them in and I don't ever feel like it's out of scope because I'm certainly not saying like I am the therapist, I am the expert, I'm just relaying different ideas, different opinions, and also like here's what we know, here's what could be useful. And I think that that actually can make a lot of change for clients. I think that really like in general, creating insight and awareness to problems, really the first piece of anything. And that goes if you're working with a therapist or a coach or any kind of practitioner, like insight and awareness is really the root of a lot of these changes. So I never felt out of scope doing that. But what would end up happening was that because I would get clients to feel comfortable sharing things with me, I would get to a point where now we're at the door. And like behind the door is all of the things that they need to address that maybe are big, scary, and definitely out of my scope. And I realized that I could get people to the door, but I couldn't get them through because I don't have the licensure. I also don't have the knowledge. I only know what I know. And it wasn't going to be through self-study. I felt in my opinion that I would be able to do that. And I truthfully feel like if I could integrate both aspects for clients, that I could really help them, especially because many therapists, and this is not a therapist, but many don't have any training in this. This is not a specialty in terms of nutrition and movement and all that. That's not their specialty, nor does it need to be. We have zero classes in this regard, which makes sense because we already have a ton of classes to become a therapist. It is quite expensive training. Most people don't think, I don't know if people know that or not, but it's very expensive. But there's just no, they talk a little bit about there's some mindfulness based techniques, but there's like the, yeah, eating healthy is good for you. Move more, but there's no education on that. So it's not a therapist place necessarily to maybe talk about those things. But that is a very frustrating sticking point for a lot of clients because they will then tell me, because I've told people for years, hey, we've gotten to this place. Maybe we should hire a therapist. Maybe you should work in conjunction with someone. Maybe you need to exclusively get your resources to a therapist. But they come back and they're like, they don't understand. They don't understand me. They don't understand what I'm doing, especially if you are talking about a physique or performance client. That is a whole different type of person. And if you're not really accustomed to the behaviors or the culture of those groups, it does seem very absurd and obscure. And for sure, as we all know, there is absolutely disordered things that go on within those communities. But it doesn't mean because someone has a preoccupation with their body, because they're a bodybuilder, that they have body dysmorphia, right? There is lines to everything. So I also found that, OK, I could get to this door, but I couldn't get through it with clients. That's number one. Then number two, I feel like there's a huge community of people who are interested in like nutrition and fitness who maybe don't have a disorder, but maybe have some disordered thoughts and they want to go to a therapist, but they don't understand. And so that's really where I was like, you know what? I've felt this calling to go back to school. I didn't know what it was for. And I finally just said, OK, this calling is not just like a little thing. It's like this like gnawing thing for me now. So it's just felt like the right thing to do. Yeah, I am going to kick it back over to Danny in a minute, but I do just want to acknowledge I've reviewed so many applications over the years for people who want to work with a nutrition coach. And there are so many people who fall into that space in the middle where I say, you know what? I don't think I can just hand you over to someone who doesn't have any knowledge in this area. Like, I don't know if the typical fitness coach is going to be able to do this, but I also know if I send you to the typical clinician, they are not going to be able to address the needs and the goals that you put in your application. And I can definitely say that for years, I've noticed that there is this kind of space in the middle where a lot of people are slipping through. And sometimes they even find themselves in a really tough space where no good coach would be willing to work with them because they don't have the tools necessary, but no clinician can help them reach their goals. Very few clinicians will have the knowledge needed. And so the problem is it's not that these folks say, OK, then I guess I won't do anything. What happens is systematically they get funneled to the worst possible coaches, which is the only people unscrupulous enough to say, I'll take your money. Exactly. And that is it's so hard because a lot of coaches find themselves in this space. Like you said, Eric, OK, I know I could do some good for this person, but am I also going to cause harm? And of course, we never want to cause harm, but we also have to weigh out. Is this person, if I don't help them, who are they going to go to? And this is what I started finding, too, because a few years ago, if you were to say, hey, I think I'm seeing some of these patterns and you've shared some things with me that seem like it might be better addressed with a mental health professional. Now that used to be like, oh, OK, now it's like I've been to three therapists. I've been to an inpatient clinic. I've had four coaches and now I'm here. Can you help me? And now I'm I and I don't know if this is just the people that I reached out to me because of the types of things that I share, which probably part of it is. But now it's very interesting because now mental health within certain communities, it certainly is stigmatized still, but it's much less stigmatized. So many people have gone to therapy, but a lot of people have gone to a therapist that maybe wasn't the right fit or they went somewhere for two or three sessions and they're like, oh, I didn't see any progress. It's just like coaching, right? You sign up for a three month package. What can we really do in three months? We can do a little bit, but we're not really going to fix everything. So the same mindset can apply to counseling. But now we're in this interesting space. Like you were saying, there's a lot of people who are falling through these cracks. And that's really where I just got to my point where I just I need to at least do something. I certainly cannot fix all these problems, but I can at least maybe put some kind of a dent in it and also potentially then teach and educate other professionals in this space on like what is appropriate to talk about? What is it? And that's really what like is the guiding light for all of this. Yeah. They just did the big national conference for dietitians in America, the FNCE. And I gave a presentation there with Dylan Baer, who's a suzy coach. Basically, our topic was, is bodybuilding a healthy endeavor, essentially? And we talked a little bit about some of these really messy lines in physique sport where, you know, Lauren, you were talking about, is body checking indicative of a body image or eating disorder? Maybe, depending on the scenario. But how are you going to be a physique athlete who never checks in on what their physique looks like? So I presented a figure during this talk where it was, here is a normative physique athlete behavior. And then the row below it was, here is where that crosses over the line into disorder eating or body image disorder. And I do feel like for a lot of people in the audience, it was like that meme where they say, find the difference between these pictures and it's the same picture. But I do know that there are at least like four people in the audience who are like, yep, of course, obviously. So I'm glad that people like you are finally addressing this niche area because it is so hard to distinguish where does a normative physique athlete's behavior or just normative dieting behaviors in general, where does that slip into what could be pathological? And I actually just committed to doing the addiction and substance abuse concentration. So within that, of course, within addictions is behavioral addictions. And a lot of times there's all these dual diagnoses that people can receive. And sometimes you see a substance abuse issue and it really it's an eating disorder issue or some other type of behavioral addiction or like vice versa. And of course, within the bodybuilding community, we see a lot of that, whether that's, of course, steroids, but also just other types of substances that people are using or abusing during contest prep, which is so normal, right? Oh, it's super normal to consume excessive amounts of stimulants and nicotine every day because I'm eating a thousand calories. But then when prep's over, do those behaviors go away? Do they linger? Did they create other issues? And is there a rebound effect from taking those away? And then now you're eating more. It's so complicated. And that's where I think that all of this stuff really affects everybody. And I think that it's really exciting that the industry is moving in a place where we're understanding that these things are overlapping and we're getting to more of like an integrated space, so to speak, to use those kinds of words. But we still are obviously very, very far away. Yeah, the physique community is definitely one of interest that I would really love to serve as a counselor moving forward because it is very misunderstood by right, like anybody, like anyone in their life, let alone a counselor who like you said, all these red flags are popping up like, okay, on the intake form, does this person have every possible like issue? It just it doesn't make sense if someone isn't aware of all of that, nor would I expect someone to write? It's just everyone has their own zone of expertise. I'm not going to pretend to be an expert on training rehab from an injury. Definitely way out of my scope. So I think that everybody has those niches. But yeah, it's very and it's not just I think a lot of times the conversation can go just to physique players, which you weren't saying, but I do want to highlight this because anyone listening who's not a physique competitor, who whether they're an enthusiast themselves or whether they're a coach, a lot of times lifestyle clients like general population, non-athletic clients also dealing with a lot of these issues. And this is actually why I started becoming so interested in this as tracking macros seemed to be the best thing ever 10 years ago until clients couldn't track. And then I started having issues with clients, not that they were here, they just couldn't. They would crumble without that. It would crumble without these barriers and insert whatever. It could be tracking macros. It could be some kind of an app. It could be some kind of a plan, whatever it might be, that rigid mindset that I was talking about in the beginning. Lifestyle individuals are dealing with this and it's certainly not everybody, right? We could look around and we were like, wow, a lot of people could probably use dietary interventions. But for the people that this is an issue with, a lot of it still is stemming from like lifestyle clients. And many times these are emotional dysregulation issues that like food is becoming that outlet, which then can also be substances as well. And it's this whole interplay. I think it's important that you said that we can use bodybuilding often as an example because it is the natural extreme position of this and it's really useful from that perspective. But as you said, this is common, I would say, across the fitness industry. And to maybe mirror what Erica said, recently I had to give a presentation on body image and eating disorders to a group of gym owners. So basically things to be aware of. And I just remember in the preparation for that, going through some of the literature, as you've both noted, if you start looking at some of the things related to disordered eating, the cognitions and the behaviors, and you start looking at what are common things that a lot of people who are, let's say, into fitness would do. And some of the good examples are some of the surveys they've done for personal trainers, as an example. Some of those range from 20% to 60% of those personal trainers and surveys meeting the kind of what different authors would put as a cutoff for having disordered eating behaviors and cognitions. Again, distinct from eating disorders. But nevertheless, there is this huge degree of concern then that people would have. And I think then we're left with this question of that some people pose. And I would love to hear how you typically respond to this, Arniv. There are some people out there that no doubt would say, well, something like bodybuilding, because that is the most, let's say, extreme form of this focus on dieting and training. Is there even a way that that can be done healthily? Or is it simply that we have to mitigate those harms, but nevertheless, it's going to be a net harm? And I think this is, I'd love to hear your input on this as well, Eric, given that you've presented on this. But I'd love for you both to maybe dive into that a bit more. I feel like the negatives are mostly always going to be there in terms of the physiological side effects. We really can't escape getting to basically essential levels of body fat, what that is doing to the body. And it takes a very rare person to be, as a female, 10% body fat, to not be really hungry and food-focused. Of course, there are genetic outliers who naturally are leaner, which generally they do better and have more longevity in bodybuilding because it's easier for them. But especially with the advent of divisions like bikini, which I can speak to because I mostly coached bikini athletes and I've repeated great years in that division, and also men's physique, these are the, oh, well, this looks like a normal division. This looks normal. This looks healthy. When in reality, as we all know, as competitors and coaches, it's not quite what it seems. But there's still that perception that, oh, this isn't as extreme or this isn't as bad for me. So even in that context, I would say outside of the very genetically protected individual, getting that lean physiologically is going to create some issues, which then psychologically will also do, right? Like the constant food focus and the hunger and the weird routines. And it's hard to say, is the person who has all of these tendencies drawn to bodybuilding or does bodybuilding create? And I think that it can go both ways because I think that in order to be successful as a bodybuilder, you have to exhibit certain obsessive tendencies. You have to have control over your environment. You have to be a little bit neurotic, right? Like those things are all going to make you successful as a bodybuilder. But I think that with everything, it just comes down to like knowing the individual. And if you're self-coaching, knowing yourself, because there are definitely people who fall into this where they start to have the kind of normal, what I would call just like decrements and side effects of prep. And that's normal. Hey, getting a little food focused, really tough sleeping last night, like really ready for this to be over. And like, that's all normal. It's really concerning. Someone's telling me that if after the show, someone didn't place very well. And now they are having this whole mental spiral because they feel like their self-worth has been like, just it's crumbling. They want to compete again for validation. We started to see these like more external things that why someone's choosing to do it. And I feel like that is even more prevalent again in, not always, but in bikini and men's physique, just because of that improper mindset of this is easier. I can do this all the time. Whereas like with bodybuilding, most people aren't like, oops, I'm going to be, I'm going to become a bodybuilder by accident. Like you generally are like, I need to take a lot of time off. I need to have, like, it's just not as much of an accident. So I think that there's really not a good answer here, but I would say that I think some of the harm is always inherent, but I do think that the, that can all be reversed. It's more so why is someone choosing to compete or continuing to compete? And what are the other negative consequences on their life? If someone is prepping and they have chosen to prep in a way that like completely isolates them from their family and their friends and their work is productivity is like really tanked. Well, that's not going to be something that I would recommend unless they are, unless they wanted to get a divorce and get a new job, which like the chances of that happening are probably pretty slim. So I think that for most people, we have to look at like the net effect and where are the other areas that it's affecting more in that kind of like biopsychosocial kind of realm. And that's really where I see more of the harm and particularly in the divisions where it's pushed to just do another show, just get a little leaner. You look a little watery, just do one more, one more. And it's always, it becomes almost that like behavioral addiction becomes that. The dopamine seesaw is no longer on the, this is pleasurable. And it's like, I'm running away from pain. I don't want to deal with other things. So like, let me do another show. Let me get that spike one more time. So that's really where I see some of the negatives. Yeah. I think my view of it is really similar in the way I typically frame it is when we ask, is, is competing in physique sport or bodybuilding healthy? First of all, the question is for whom, right? Because people with different predispositions will respond very, very differently to being put types of scenarios where they are exposed to everything that comes with competing in physique sport. So the first thing I try to do with this question is eliminate the possibility of a one size fits all answer. Having said that, when we move forward and dig into it, I think when asking if any endeavor is healthy or unhealthy, you have to think about are any changes, any adaptive responses to this endeavor, are they clinically relevant? Are they practically relevant? And what is the level of transience when it comes to these effects, right? So for example, there are a great many endeavors, sports and other hobbies where you would say, I will not suffer any clinically relevant adverse effect of competing. I will, there will be some elements that are a pain. Basically there, there will be practical relevance where this might make my quality of life a little bit lower for some period of time, but that will be transient in nature. It will be for a certain period of the year or a certain period of my preparation or for these four hours on a Sunday afternoon, right? So with any endeavor, we can look through this, this framework. And when it comes to physique sport, there are some people based on their predispositions for whom they will look at these, at these factors and say, will I experience physiological or psychological adverse effects of competing that are clinically and practically relevant? Like Lauren was saying, I think you could argue that a large percentage of people, that answer is going to be yes. However, for a similarly large percentage of people, those effects are going to be very transient in nature. And so as long as they are going into that with genuine informed consent, meaning not just you've been warned, but you understand what that warning means. You know what you're getting yourself into. I think there are a lot of people who can compete in physique sport and generally look back and say, you know what, that had a positive or neutral impact on my life. Like for me personally, I look back at my storied, historic career as a physique athlete and say, you know what, that was just fine. I don't think it made me a better person, but it was a way to kind of explore the topics that I enjoy intellectually. And I don't walk around with a bunch of scars from having previously competed. I think there's a lot of people in those shoes. And there's some people who look back and say, that's the best thing I ever did. Best thing that ever happened to me. It's the first thing that really helped me build self-efficacy and convince myself I have the discipline and determination to take on challenges in my life. Right. So there are those people, but there will still be a percentage of the population largely due to predispositions. Are those genetic? Are those due to experiences earlier in their life? Probably both. There's probably a big time biopsychosocial element of these predispositions, but there are some people who look back and say, I really wish I didn't get into that. And so I think what's important for people like us who have the ability to communicate to people about physique sport and even do research about physique sport is what are the best ways that we can implement screening procedures to basically steer those folks away from competing or steer them towards seeking treatment for whatever those predispositions are before they engage in those types of behaviors. So I'm not a clinician, so I can't say whether or not it's a good idea. If you're someone who has high predispositions to, if you're just like off the charts in terms of like neuroticism, body image concerns, terrible relationship with food. Lauren, you can tell me maybe even someone who seeks the care of a therapist, a clinician, perhaps that clinician would say, I never want you going near this stuff just because we've come so far in your treatment. What do you think about that? Is there for someone in that situation, would you say physique sport is just not something that's on the table? Or is it the type of thing where it's, you know what, this is probably, you'll probably slap me on the wrist for this analogy. Maybe it's a bad one, but the one that comes to mind is I'm an alcoholic. I haven't had a beer in 20 years, but that doesn't mean it's going to go well if I start drinking tomorrow. You know what I mean? Yeah. And I would say that I'm probably not further enough, further along enough in the program to give a appropriate counselor answer, but I'll use my perspective. And I would say that I think it really depends on like, where is that person? So as an example, I grew up with an eating disorder. I was anorexic for many years, very, very young and had a lot of issues or surrounding that with other obsessive compulsions and exercise issues and all of that. But it was never really about food. Most eating disorders are rarely about food. It's about some other kind of larger emotional dysregulation. When I decided to get into bodybuilding, to your point, most people in my life were like, hey, let's pump the brakes. You know what I mean? Like, what's this? This looked a lot like what you were doing a few years ago. And I was like, no, no, no, but it's different because I can't just starve myself. I have to eat enough protein to have muscle, which of course, that was a very oversimplistic view of it. But I was also 19 and just excited. But at the time, I understood why everybody could have been concerned. But I also appreciate that people in my life were supportive and they were like, all right, keep an eye on this, but we'll be supporting you. And it never turned into, it never, it never triggered those things because for me, those things were never again about food. It was more of other issues that I took many more years to uncover and figure out. Certainly 19-year-old me didn't know all that. But I would say that for some people, there are, it is definitely contraindicated. However, I think that with substances, I think that's even more different because of how substances can really rewire our brain to use certain things. So I feel like it's with the substance kind of correlate there. And that's a good one because that's one that a lot of people have issues with, with alcohol, right? Like alcohol and nicotine, I would say THC probably rising within that. For certain individuals, it might be better to just have full abstinence. But that is also because of how things are like rewired in their brain, like in terms of that substance. Whereas with the behavioral stuff, it is tough because there's so much overlap there. But I would say that if someone is really coming from this in the space of, I really like, again, the intrinsic reasons of why do they want to do this and also fully knowing, okay, am I understanding that if I get into this and this does trigger these other things that I used to experience, will I have like an exit strategy? I think that would be probably a good way to approach it because then you're giving that person that autonomy, but you're also like, let's build in like, okay, the green flag is turned yellow and now there's 15 red flags. Like we need to maybe end this. So I think that that's going to require obviously a lot of like self-awareness, but I think that if someone has struggled with those things before and they haven't cultivated that level of self-awareness, probably shouldn't do something like a disease competition. Yeah. And I would imagine, you know, a skilled clinician who has built up rapport with that, with that patient could probably also, like you said, have some of those, keep an eye out for some of those indicators that the green flag turns into yellow, which may turn into red. Also, you could imagine a scenario where maybe you dip your toes into this and you almost have more like checkpoints. So, okay, well, we're not going to say, Hey, we're doing a bodybuilding show in August, but maybe we say, okay, we're going to start tracking what we currently eat, quantifying what we eat. And then maybe you add a layer to that and dip into some of these things that may go into that preparation process. That is not a recommendation, by the way. I'm at this point speculating like a fool and I yield the remainder of my time and hand it back over to Danny. But all of that is to say, yeah, I think we could talk for a very long time about whether or not physique sport is a healthy endeavor. But that also, as we've said many times, also goes into, maybe this term's a little overused, but just general fitness culture or diet culture, certainly not iron culture. Iron culture is perfect, but diet slash fitness culture, where we've gotten so accustomed to borrowing the tactics of physique sport that in a lot of cases, the distinction between physique sport and serious fitness enthusiast comes down to whether or not you have any plastic trophies and you've ever applied a really thick tan. But that's kind of all there, there's still folks who will never step on a stage who are doing the exact same behaviors. They still get the thrill and disappointment of instead of stepping on stage, I'm going to post a particular thing on social media. And instead of going for the one of the trophies they're handing out, there's a certain number of likes and comments I have in mind that will either satisfy what I'm looking for or leave me very underwhelmed and dejected. So all that is to say, these fitness habits that have worked their way out of physique sport and permeated into general fitness culture, they can be a double-edged sword. There's no question. And ultimately you have to assess the impact and the sustained nature of what kind of changes are occurring. I'm glad you mentioned that because it was one of the points I wanted to raise that this is certainly not a bodybuilding specific issue. And in fact, someone could probably make the case that the way the fitness industry now is that there's some of the motivations at least that could be more problematic, let's say, could even be more common. Because first of all, there's just more people generally in this fitness area. But also if we're thinking about the motivations, I know and both of you know people who compete in bodybuilding who have competed for many years, whose true interest is in the actual sport of bodybuilding, right? The preparation to actually present something on the day on stage almost as a kind of piece of art. And that's the kind of idea. And that's probably the originally was most people who got into that sport pre-social media area, let's say. Now we have a situation where sometimes physique sport is used by people as an excuse just to get lean or as an excuse to end up with photos or whatever the case may be. Or as you say, people have used those tactics purely for their own interest in fitness more broadly. And maybe more of those motivations are away from the actual sport that this thing is versus some of the other things that potentially at least could be problematic. And one thing that I did want to connect that to, and it actually relates to I think the first question you raised, Eric, and I'd love for you to go further on this Lauren, is that there is this movement now from a lot of people who are well-meaning, who want to bring in some of these ideas about fostering a better relationship with food for people who are getting into fitness, using approaches that are not super rigid. And one of the potential problems sometimes I see is the misuse of some terminology, but also a misunderstanding of what some of those ideas are. So for example, people talking about, oh, we're going to use a diet plan that is intuitive eating. And really, if it's intuitive eating in its most strict sense, it can't be a dieting plan per se. Or one person saying, we have services and we promote a healthy relationship with food, but at the same time you actually look at what they do most of the time, and it's the traditional transformation photos or a six-week shred type thing. Not necessarily that they're not allowed to do that, but there seems to be some contradiction in some of the terminology they're borrowing and what they're doing. So I'd love for you to maybe talk about some of the specific terminology that can be useful, that people in the fitness area can bring in, and why maybe we need to be careful that we're defining these things and understanding them appropriately. Yeah. And I love, love, love, love that point. And I think just to round out what you guys were both saying there, remember how I was mentioning when people are starting to use more external motives is when competition perhaps can go awry. I think that's the same thing for that kind of gym influencer culture. It's the same exact thing, like how we were talking about, now they're doing this for maybe the likes or the engagement. And then really what that does, who that also harms, is the lifestyle client who's just seeing this. Because now I think a lot of people have an understanding that like, okay, even though bikini looks, you know, even though bikini athletes look like regular people, that's really hard. But if I'm just following this influencer, you know what I mean? Like, of course I can look like them. They're a regular person. And that, then the lifestyle client who is juggling like a high-place career, doesn't have the same athletic background, has two kids, takes photos with the light and like the backlit, does a pose. And they're like, why don't I look like this person on Instagram? And you're like, there's so much. So to you guys' point, the same issues have trickled down into that culture, but then that still permeates clients who maybe don't know how that's all working. And they think, yeah, well, I can't, I just do this. Why can't I look like that? And then that is what continues the marketing of the like, yeah, we'll help you with, you know, your relationship with food, but let's do this challenge. And I often say like, I don't have anything against challenges. I do think that for certain people, I think that having something that's a little bit more rigid, as much as I talk about flexibility, I mean, that's more rigid. I mean, that's a time course. I'm not going to say that that doesn't kickstart certain because it absolutely does. And there's been plenty of times where that has been successful. But for many people, as we know, they just fall into challenge or challenge. And there's in between times, they just fall apart. And then they do another challenge. So what you were saying with what language do we need to be careful of? I would say the intuitive eating one is this very, very interesting whole mess, in my opinion, in general. And I think it's because there's a confusion of how people are implementing it and also a confusion of the individual who's asking for it doesn't really understand also what it is. Because the client or the potential client is like, I want to intuitively eat, but also drop 15 pounds and then improve my relationship with food and get stronger and fix my blood work. And you're like, OK, these are all competing things. And that sounds really nice for an Instagram post or like ad to say, like, we do all these things, but we can't do all these things at the same time. So if we're going to intuitively eat, we have to actually learn what's in food first. That's generally at least how I approach it. And there's numerous ways that we can do this. And then I also think like at some point it's an intuitive-ish eating. That's my perspective. I always think that you're going to want to use your previous knowledge to then guide your choices, even if there is no tracking metric. But I think that a lot of people get these terms wrong because they're trying, like the clients are trying to ask for all these things and people are trying to just satisfy those through marketing terms, sales tactics. But then when it comes down to it, are they actually doing that? Are they even asking questions on their check-in form that are related to this? Because if someone's not even asking this, then how are we going to fix any of these things? Are we asking about someone's relationship with food? Are we asking them about their barriers this week? Are we challenging them with different things and seeing how and where they succeed and where they fall apart? That's what coaching is. And if somebody's just offering like a program, there's nothing wrong with that, but that's not going to do the same thing. So I would say that, yeah, the intuitive eating movement is a confusing one because a lot of people now, and like I was saying before, people are coming in saying like, yeah, I've had X therapists, X amount of coaches. I'm all messed up. Fix me. People are like, I'm tired of tracking because they only did it in this really, really rigid way. So now I don't want to track ever again. I want to intuitively eat, but there's always the but. There's like the litany of still requests that they have. So it's like, what would be better is maybe we adjust how we track certain things. And that doesn't just mean tracking doesn't just equal macros. It doesn't just mean three numbers. There's a whole bunch of things that we could track. We can learn to moderate hunger and satiety. We can learn to actually like portion size. We can learn to just eat a certain amount of fruits and vegetables. Like those can all be things that we're tracking. And then eventually that does become a little bit more intuitive. So I think that, yeah, that's one of those terms that's not good. I use it properly enough. That's not a good term. It's just not used properly. But I say that still the, that challenge mindset still kind of permeates the culture mostly because going back to my very first point, like people want that. So a lot of times coaches are responding to what consumers want and consumers want things done yesterday. And that's just where our space is at. And I think that people are just very overwhelmed in their lives. People are very busy. And for you to be like, great, we're going to take six months to build some insights around. They're like, I don't care. Let me hire the coach who's going to give me the plan that's going to drop weight or let me take insert whatever. So I think that we're often fighting against the just human nature aspect of things because our society has become so, so infiltrated with this kind of instant gratification and what fits with a lot of other things, which like certainly that has benefits in some areas of our life, but that certainly doesn't have benefits in things like our physical and mental health. As you say that, thinking about some of this disconnect that sometimes can happen, that as you say, we want people to have autonomy and their own choice and freedom and what they would like to get from this process. And that is part of it, but also acknowledging that they have been exposed to many ideas for a long period of time from society broadly in the first place. And then second, the fitness industry that may be counterproductive. And then second, and I'm sure that you'd be able to speak to this much better than I, but there's probably a lot of underlying psychological frameworks that we all have of how we are perceiving the world. Some of them might not be very useful. And if someone had maybe gone through a process to understand those better, maybe they might not have this particular goal. And so there's a lot of complex things going on. And so then a coach is left in this weird position of how do I help this person with something that they say they want, but knowing that there's all these other things going on that ideally might help them a bit better for lack of a better term. Yeah. So I would say I always try, and this is where my coaching style has definitely evolved a lot over the years, which I think everybody does hopefully, but I do a lot more like, okay, I'm going to see the big picture of what's going on. And then if we're at this crossroads of either goals or either what to do next, I generally like to lay out two different things. Like here really, or it might be multiple, but ideally I like to try to break it down. Like here are the options, giving them that autonomy to choose because it really isn't my choice to do something. Or if they're saying, I really want to do this. And then I'm saying, I think we should really do this. Recognizing that we might have to meet somewhere in the middle and maybe even somewhere closer to their side, depending on where they're at. But if that is still going to be a net positive, then I'm still looking at this as a win. And I think a lot of coaches run into issues because a lot of coaches are by nature, like fixers and want to fix everything. And we see a problem. We want to change it. We want to help them. And we're doing this with the best intentions. But oftentimes we were seeing this as this detached person. So of course we can see all of the problems. You know what I mean? We can see all of this really clearly because it's not our life. But for the client that they're navigating everything else that's going on in their life. It's just like anytime we've tried to make a change, like it looks so simple, but then how many times does it not work for us? So instead of the coach can often get in this place where they're like, well, now I've identified the issue. How do I fix it? Sometimes just creating that awareness is enough for right now, because that might be the biggest insight that that client has had for maybe ever in this area. So for a way to say that we need to fix it right now when this could have already put them in a way better position. So sometimes for the coach, it's about, it's less about like, how do I fix and more like, how do I see the big picture? How do I present different options that are going to educate the client, that are going to help the client forward, but also recognize that that might need to be on their own terms and their own time. And this certainly I know is a kind of longer coaching strategy, which is challenging because then you also have that same client who is, hey, I haven't made any progress, but that's where we can always go back to be like, listen, this is what we're doing. I'm balancing all these things out for you. And remember how we, how you decided to make this choice. This is what we're following. So sometimes it's also about reminding the client, this is why we're doing this and looking it back into that bigger picture. But it is tough. It is. I'm not going to say that it's like a fast process and it's definitely a harder one, but I would say that once the clients get it, then they're like, oh, okay, wow, I can actually make real progress now. And I don't know again, if it's just the, the, by chance, but a lot of the people that I work with are at that place because they come to me, they've had multiple coaches and they're like, I'm finally ready to like do something. You know what I mean? I don't care how long it takes. I'm ready to do it. So I definitely sometimes have that luxury of working with coaches and working with clients in that capacity because they want to make those changes. And I do recognize that, but I always just think of like, okay, are we getting someone a little bit farther ahead than they were? And I know Eric mentioned something about this at some point. Are we keeping them out of the hand of a coach who's going to put them in a worse position? Because that's really also what we have to balance out. Again, if this is where their position is and then I'm all the way on the other side, if I push them all the way to my side and then I lose them to now a coach who's going to do something egregious, well that, who cares that they did my thing that I wanted for a few weeks? I would rather either meet them in that middle space for even closer to their side as a way to push them forward, just possibly a bit slower. As we start wrapping up here, there's probably two areas that maybe we can flag for, first of all, for practitioners and then more broadly for people interested in this space. First, for those people who are working as practitioners, either in nutrition or in the fitness industry more broadly, and who maybe aren't going to be in a position where they can have full qualifications in all different areas, but are in this kind of middle zone where we want to help people. Do you have any pieces of advice of where to start and how to make this so that's not so overwhelming, right? Because there's so much that could be given and it's such a broad area and people feel overwhelmed. What would be the kind of first entry point that you might say, okay, here, before we get overwhelmed, here's some places you can start that you can do as you are continuing to coach people and help people without feeling you need to either run away or go full on into this. Yeah, yeah. No, for sure. I think a great place to start actually, is this on video? Are we like video right too? Yep, we have video. Everybody can see. Motivational Interviewing in Nutrition and Fitness. It's a fantastic read from Clifford and Curtis. So motivational interviewing is something that in the way that is presented in the book, not all fitness professionals need to do it this way. This is like consult phase. This is they don't recommend diets. So it's, you know, you can read it, but you can read past that if you don't, if you're not interested in it. But I think it just outlines a lot of really great aspects of motivational interviewing, just in terms of communication with clients. And I have found that a lot of times really getting to, at least starting to uncover some of these things really just comes down to communication and how are you communicating? How are you asking questions? How are you listening as a coach? If people actually just listened more, they would really be in a way better spot, especially coaches. So this is a great place to start. And then of course, if you're interested in any of the things they talk about, there could be a great launching point. And so it was interesting. So as we've been going through one of our classes, it's just like an overview of a lot of the different types of theories. And I would say that there are, there's theories that as I'm learning about them, I'm like, oh, that has a name. Oh, I didn't know this was a thing, you know, like, cause I just, it's something that I've just done. And I think certain types of certain techniques really lend well to a lot of, a lot of coaches. So things like it's called like solution focused brief therapy, or some of the like cognitive or the behavioral techniques. If somebody just does like some look into that, right, that of course falls into like self-efficacy, evidence commitment therapy, which just some of like the concepts there, I feel like can be really useful for coaches specifically, because it's very like behavior oriented. I think those can be great places to start. And then people can just see what am I interested in? Then do I want to take a CEU type course? Do I want to take a course from another fitness professional in the space who's sharing things like this? And that's where I would, I would probably start. I don't think that most people need to go back to school. If they have any inkling or desire to learn about this, it's definitely not something that everybody needs to do. But I would start there and then really see, okay, like what are some techniques that I could try with clients to help bring awareness maybe to some situations? Because again, the goal for you is not to get them through that door. It's really just to bring them there. And they're going to have to do that anyway, even if they are working with a therapist. So that's where I always feel like this isn't crossing a line because this individual is going to have to do this, whether I'm there or not. I'm only there to potentially help them and highlight the areas in which, you know, food and movement and possibly substances are involved in how we get there. So those would be my recommendations at the start. Yeah. I was wondering if you might reflect on something you've learned in the process of going back to school, digging into kind of a more formalized academic look at the things that you've been engaged with for so many years. One of the areas that I think is really fascinating is that the fitness world, especially in the physique side of it, everything is short-term, right? It's always, here's a 12-week plan. Here's our prep, which goes into our first block of our office. You know, everything is three, four months at a time at most. And then when you start getting into, because I've also been in my research getting more into the intersection of mental and physical health rather than purely physical health. And when you start branching out into that literature, you realize there is essentially no interest in short-term outcomes in the health behavior literature. If you change a health behavior a few weeks at a time, and then they revert back permanently or semi-permanently to baseline, that's generally perceived as essentially a failed intervention in a lot of contexts. So my question is, as you have gotten more exposure to this more academic look at some of these psychological processes and how they interact with health behaviors, what are some things you've taken away in terms of creating long-term change for clients that fitness professionals might work with? Do you approach that differently based on what you've experienced so far? I know you're still fairly early in this degree process, but what does that look like in terms of reflecting on a kind of a shift from a very short-term focus to a long-term focus? How can we basically benefit from your observations without all of us in a degree? So I think one of the biggest things that I've learned so far really is about how to communicate and how to better listen and better facilitate conversations. So one of the techniques, basic techniques of therapy, and you guys, if you're listening, you'll probably be like, oh yeah, my therapist has done that before. And I would do this sometimes before with clients, but now I really make sure that I do it because it is so powerful. If somebody says a word or a phrase and you want to highlight it, you'll be like, highlight. Because you might, as a therapist, not really know where they're going with that. You might be confused. You might want them to expand on it. And then they might totally take that in a different direction than you anticipated. So a lot of times what I like to do is take out words or phrases that clients are either using like once, or maybe if they're using them very frequently. And a lot of times these are like negative, like dramatic term, right? In the term, in like the fitness coaching space. And that's really what we need to center on. Because I always feel like whatever the client is sharing with us, that's what we need to, we need to be able to help. Our job as coaches is to help them come up with those solutions by us asking the right questions, putting the right things in place. Then those things can be like revealed to them almost. And sometimes that does involve the coach having an active hand. I'm not trying to say that the coach needs to be not active at all. Because if the coach says, hey, let's do these three things this week. But then also I'd like us to think on this, or I'd prompt something here, or I notice you keep sharing this. What does that all mean? So all the few things that we ask them to do, which are very like cut and dried, they can do those. So they feel like, okay, competent, nailed it, got things done. But also now, because this is taken care of, now I have the space to focus on, yeah, why did I say that three times in this update? I didn't even notice that I said that. Why would I talk about myself that way? Why would I respond in this sense? Just taking an easy example, somebody has an event and they they overeat because that happens at so many events, right? Okay, well, that could be 37 reasons why someone did that. So instead of me just saying like, better get on it tomorrow. Yes, let's get on it tomorrow. Here's maybe some strategies to get back on track. But also let's reflect on how did you feel? And again, using whatever words they were using in this situation. And that's what a lot of therapists are doing. Of course, there are absolutely therapists who are using more structured techniques. Like if you are into like the whole CBT stuff, DBT, all of that, it's very structured. And I don't really, I like a lot of their techniques. I don't think I align necessarily with their practices personally. But of course, they lend themselves really nicely to research because researchers developed them. So they work a lot easier than some of the psychodynamic approaches for finding out like response. I guess one of my questions is as a practitioner or clinician starts embracing more of these practices and start being a little bit more, being a little bit more tuned into some of those signs saying, well, let's, let's put a pin in that and come back to it and revisit it. And as clients start to engage in these processes of not just doing the next thing on the sheet, but actually thinking, why are we doing this? And why did I respond this way or that way? Do you find that that helps shift clients toward a more long-term focus that perhaps leads to more sustained behavior change? Or is that as a clinician and practitioner, is that something that you have to consciously reinforce in order to help a client shift their focus into a more sustainable kind of perspective? No, I think that by handling a few things like that are right in front of them, giving them some tasks that they can do that, again, building that self-esteem, see that confidence, that then once that noise is quieted down, then that frees up space to handle these like deeper things. If someone comes to me and they're like, I haven't been able to be consistent with my nutrition. I've fallen off of the last five diets that I've tried. I haven't been in the gym. My life's fallen for it. I'm really anxious. I'm not gonna be like, let's tackle your anxiety. Like, how are you feeling? No, no, no. Let's handle these things first because these are a little bit easier or one would say they're a little bit easier. They have more concrete steps because a lot of times, a lot of this stuff could feel so like ethereal to people that they're like, I don't feel like I'm making progress for six months. Then one day they're like, oh, what you were saying makes sense. Now I get it. I'm like, I know. I knew you were gonna get it. You just, you know, it takes time. So I think that handling those certain things first then frees up the space because if we can get things like their nutrition and their training and all those healthy habits on closer to autopilot, then we're able to handle more of the emotional side of things. But I feel like it's really challenging to not do it that way, at least in my estimation, again, as I've been doing it this long. So I would say that it comes down to figuring out a few things that they can like nail so competent in. Then we free up that emotional, cognitive space. Now we can ask these deeper questions. And then that in turn, they've had some success. Now we're getting some deeper answers. They can now integrate those answers and create that to be longer term change. So I do feel like it does feed itself, but sometimes you do have to have those short wins. And like, sometimes you've got to have external motivation. Like I'm not going to sit here and be like, everything must be intrinsic for this deep. No, sometimes I'm just going to look for it. That's also okay. You know what I mean? Like going on a trip, want to fit into this outfit. Got it. So here for it. Let's create some of these things that also let's make sure that we do address some later stuff too. So as always, it's kind of like that balance, but I do think that can become more long-term after we've created those kind of like short-term wins. And that means- Yeah. Yeah. That's a great answer. And it really makes sense, even in just like the broadest sense on the topic of like mental health and therapy. If someone is just absolutely in despair, in a really rough rut in terms of like clinical depression, their therapist is very unlikely to say, okay, let's try to resolve this at the deepest, most fundamental level, and then we'll put your life back in order. They're probably going to say, hey, what if this week we try to wake up at the same time every day and make sure that we get back to showering every day, right? Like just little things of like, how about a breakfast that you love to help you get out of bed at the same time every day, take a shower, eat breakfast. We'll deal with the deeper stuff later and we'll find out why we're staying in bed for extended periods of time where every time we're in a rut, it's hard to do some of these kind of day-to-day activities, but there's very clear parallels where with fitness, of course, we do want to dig into, okay, why did we run into this particular thing time and time again? But for now, just get into the gym on Wednesday, right? I don't even care if you go in, sit in the sauna for 10 minutes and leave, but just get in the door, right? It's like sometimes those small wins really, really can make a huge difference and kind of spur that forward progress so we can start really attacking the bigger things later. Absolutely. With that, I think we've already given people plenty to chew on and enough ideas for them to go and investigate, particularly some of these things that you brought up, Lauren, that they can go and look into, whether they are a practitioner themselves or someone who has just been facing some of these concerns that you've outlined that are common to all of us at some point, I think, in different ways. So hopefully this has served of utility to people. And so I want to say thank you, Lauren, for coming and sharing your perspectives and your time. And also to Eric for, again, for your insights and questions and for kindly co-hosting. And it's been a pleasure to both of you. Yes. Thank you guys so much. This was amazing. Okay. And that concludes us for today. Thank you everyone for listening into this discussion. Of course, if you are a practitioner and you want to hear from any of the three of us, in fact, you can get some of the information about the Sports Nutrition Association, of which we are probably members of the advisory board there. That will be linked up in the description so you can check some of that stuff out. And hopefully you join us again for either the Iron Culture podcast or Sigma Nutrition Radio. And thanks for listening in. Take care.