>> What's up, everybody? Welcome back to Iron Culture. It is me, Eric Trexler, joined as always by the Dr. Eric Helms. Helms, how are we doing tonight? Uh to be honest, I am in a position of great despair and guilt um because this is the probably I think hitting rock bottom. I know we've hit rock bottom before in Iron Culture, but this is like the we're tumbling down a mountain and maybe now we're at the bottom of it. It's not Monday. It's not Monday anywhere. And here we are. So, there was commitments made over the course of the, you know, almost 7-year history of Iron Culture that we'd be here every single Monday until the end of the world. Uh and we're just blatantly breaking it. And that is unfortunate. But I would just ask everyone, all of the long-standing Iron Culture fans to give us a little bit of grace because this is actually an act of us trying to pull Trexler back from the depths of overworking himself to the bone so he doesn't have to do two podcasts on the same day, both Front Page Fitness and Iron Culture. But this is the day we're going to be recording moving forward. And our schedule's changing a little bit uh and we sincerely apologize. Do you think I I groveled sufficiently, Trex? Yeah, I think uh long-time listeners will be confused over the uh you know, uh self-flagellating apology for saying, "By the way, we're going to do a different night." Uh and changing it by exactly 24 hour uh not exactly, but changing it by about 24 hours. I I think uh as as far as it goes with uh free weekly content uh spanning years, I feel like it it's a pretty good bargain and we've built up enough equity that people will arguably be okay uh tuning in 1 day later. And of course, a large percentage of people view it late anyway. And so, they will experience literally no change in their their viewing pattern. Uh How dare you suggest that some people are not that the entirety of the Iron Culture following is not live with us right now? I know we have I haven't checked the YouTube metrics, but I'm assuming 10,000 people currently watching live? >> You would be surprised. Uh so, I would encourage you not That's not the kind of surprise you want in your life. This is not like when you walk you walk in after a day's work and oh my god, my friends have gathered to celebrate my birthday. The The live chat number right now would be the opposite of that if you are anchoring your expectation at 10,000. But uh nonetheless, every single person in live chat is appreciated and valued. And we love that you join us live. And honestly, bonus points to the people uh the real sickos, as they say, who somehow knew we were going live on a Tuesday night cuz now that I think of it, I didn't tell anybody. Uh but but they knew >> it up on YouTube yesterday, though. Yeah, it existed on YouTube, but I did not on social media alert anyone to it. So, the page has been up and idle uh indicating that we would be live. But yes, so we are like you said, Helms, as a gesture of grace to me, uh the uh I would say clinically introverted person who has been doing like 3 hours straight of podcasting every Monday after a full work day, which also involves human interaction and now involves uh multiple lectures on Mondays. Basically, the choice was either split this up a little bit or I potentially die. Uh cuz it my my understanding of my medical condition of introversion is that if I push it too far, it could potentially be be fatal. So, in an abundance of caution, we moved it. >> to adjusting your contract. Um once you said, "But what if I die?" I went, "All right, it's going to be a challenge to have a co-host who is actually not alive. So, I guess in this instance, uh we can let you go back on your contractual obligations. So, I don't want this to be assumed that this is a pattern that's going to persist with us willy-nilly uh changing, you know, the the the things that we've agreed to. Um but in instances where it will result in your death, then I'm okay with some of that. All right. >> types of modifications. Well, I appreciate it. The audience uh appreciates it. I assume there's going to there's going to be at least one person, Helms, who says, "You know what? I could never make it on Monday nights, but Tuesday nights, I will be there." So, folks, the new normal time is Tuesday nights at 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time. I'm just now realizing I need to change our little border around our live stream cuz it still says Mondays. I forgot that thing even existed to to be totally honest, but uh but in any case, here we go, Helms. Uh before we get into it, though, uh a couple things. Uh first of all, if you like the show, make your make sure that you like, rate, subscribe, review. We encourage five-star reviews. That's really the only type we're looking for at this particular moment. If we ever broaden our horizons and are open to other reviews, we'll certainly let everyone know. So, like, rate, subscribe, review, share the show, uh tell a friend, et cetera, invite a friend, send the link, spam the link. Send it to whatever list serves you have access to. In addition, if you really want to be a top-tier uh platinum level uh Ring of Honor supporter, you can become a member of the MASS community. The MASS Research Review is really what makes this whole thing exist. Uh it is the title sponsor of the show. Uh it is a tremendous research review, the first of the month every single month. We let you know basically what's happening in fitness, exercise, nutrition, specifically with regards to the research. We're not going to give you all the hot fitness gossip unless it actually warrants some degree of commentary. If there's some substance to it, we we may address the hot topic. Uh but but never uh you know, the the gossipy rumors about so-and-so. It's always what everybody's talking about as it pertains to new evidence. Uh and in this case, we got a little into that uh you know, this upcoming issue uh on February 1st. We got a little bit into that because the headlines have been dominated uh and there has been an online uproar about I know, Helms, I'm going to I'm going to I see what you're doing in the outline. But there's been a huge uproar about the dietary guidelines, and that's what we're going to talk about in today's episode because we do have an article forthcoming, which will be not only in the MASS Research Review, in those hallowed pages behind the uh the fortress of a paywall, but we will also be making that particular article free of charge, if memory serves. But before we do that, Helms, we have to also tip our cap, literally, to our our dear friends at Elite FTS. Uh that is another way to support the show is to support the people who support us. So, we have a lovely partnership with Dave Tate and company over at Elite FTS. So, if you want to support us and them, if you're in the market for any lifting-related apparel or gear, head over to elitefts.com. Buy all the beautiful things, put them in your shopping cart, and when you're going to check out, put in that code MRR10, MASS Research Review 10. That'll get you a 10% discount off of your order. So, Helms, as I was getting into, uh you know, there's been an online uproar about these uh these new dietary guidelines produced by the United States. So, I don't know, Helms, if they've made their way out to New Zealand, but they certainly exist here in the States. And you know, it's really interesting because I I'm sure we all know this being Americans. You wake up the day that the new dietary guidelines come out, and it's really jarring because you go to your restaurant, all the offerings are different. Uh you go to your grocery store, it's completely restructured because these things are taken very seriously, and their implementation uh has an immediate trickle-down effect into the way you navigate the food environment. Uh but Helms, we have so much to discuss because this has been very controversial. Uh some are saying it's a return to ancestral wisdom, some are saying it is a brazen departure from modern science. Uh opinions are many, some of them are politicized. Uh so, we are going to on this episode cut through the noise and talk a little bit about what these dietary guidelines are, how they came to be, why this cycle of uh guidelines was so different than the norm, and uh what what the stuff ultimately means for us. So, and anything you want to uh tee up here before we dive into it? No, I I I was trying to find a cap to tip to Elite FTS, and I realized I had no cap. And then I realized that's a good thing for the youth, having no cap. I've heard. And I think uh people are really going to like this episode cuz it might sound dry, dietary guidelines, but honestly, this has history, science, and culture baked into it, which people are going to be surprised by. And I'm going to say something mean to everyone else in the evidence-based fitness community or those who identify it. I don't think anybody has gotten the full story on this right yet. I've listened to a lot of content, and there is a substantial amount of missing nuance uh that is related to the structural aspects of how the DGAs are constructed, their history, uh and the important departures from it or additions to, I should say, in this round that I think are really eye-opening. And just the complexity of how these things come into play. And I can't even take full credit for this. Um just want to give a shout-out. We had some uh anonymous, can't give them true credit, um PhD RDs who were involved in policy uh who gave us some insider information on this and and a peer review to make sure that we did not have the blind spots that I am criticizing about the rest of the evidence-based community. You're telling me that the shadowy figures who have been distorting the dietary guidelines for all these decades are now working through you? You are the puppet, and they are pulling the strings to make sure that they get their bias and propaganda disseminated just the way they like it? Nay, Trex. What I'm saying is that shadowy influencers who would otherwise be using me as a puppet to persist and continue this conspiratorial dietary takeover of the souls of our nation uh are actually finally crawling out from the depths of coercion um not into the light fully cuz they're still getting you know have like the voice distortion and and like you know that that dark thing but they are the whistleblowers. They are the ones who are who are finally speaking up about these conspiracies and giving someone who's in the limelight like ourselves who are protected to some degree via our public nature uh the ability to speak truth to power. You just reminded me one time I saw an interview with someone that they were doing that whole that whole setup with the like voice distortion and like they do the shadow so you can't really see any of their uh but um they didn't do it well so feel like maybe they were like new to the camera equipment or something but they're like well by the time we get to like post-production we're not going to be able to see a thing and it basically just looked like a person with bad lighting uh but but you could see like pretty much every distinguishing feature about them so I hope they're doing okay Holmes cuz it was they they were alive. They did not want to be seen and they were very much seen. Uh but okay Holmes let's let's dive in here so like you were saying um a lot of people are not quite getting this right uh or at least they're missing nuance even if they're getting to you know some of the even if the vibe is right the the details are are lacking so a lot of folks uh seem to think the dietary guidelines are just like a static thing that the government puts out um you know but but there's a lot of different acronyms a lot of different uh various groups and people and all sorts of you know DGAs DGACs RDAs uh and there's normally a standard process by which this stuff is all put together and in this case it sounds like that process was um amended uh or or kind of Depends upon how you want to cut amended putting it lightly circumvented maybe would be uh another way of of talking about it but um uh fill us in here so how is it supposed to go and and what what went down this time? Yeah so I think the the big so I'll I'll I'll actually call out some content that I've seen that has got it wrong and why the distinction matters we'll get to. Um some people have talked about probably the unanimously liked thing about the new DGAs the higher protein as oh they changed the RDA. Um the RDA did not change. The RDA famously of being 0.8 g per kilogram um the DGAs do recommend a higher protein intake as high as double it on the upper end of the 1.2 to 1.6 recommendation without the RDA actually changing which is I think quite interesting and we'll get to what an RDA actually is but it's actually much more related to uh what do we think will cover the minimum basic requirements of a certain proportion of the population from protecting them from malnutrition. That hasn't changed. Uh the the National Academy of Sciences which is yet another you know federal government body is the one who sets the RDAs and then typically the DGAs are formed to reflect the RDA but they're wholly separate bodies. So And that causes some DGAs just go ahead. >> I was going to say that causes some difficulty when you kind of it's so common I'm I've done this a million times but when you oversimplify and say the US government says blank uh and so like in this case if you take that shortcut you'd say the US guidelines now recommend approximately doubling the US guideline for protein. Exactly. Which which is not very true or helpful. Correct. And even if you dig into the more specific guidelines you'll find that the macronutrient distributions in the DGAs still could include the RDA even though part of the guidance now says 1.2 to 1.6. Um and that goes to kind of the history of how DGAs work. So that's kind of where we need to start. So there's there's a National Academy of Sciences right? They set RDAs that's a wholly separate process. There is the Dietary Guidelines for Americans which operate on a five-year cycle uh and then there's the things that inform the eventual dietary guidelines which we'll get into and the formation of those is relatively complex. Then there's what the current administration did on top of all of that. So one of the things that I think this administration generally has done and I don't think this is necessarily controversial is they've talked about the existing things in Washington broadly are overly bureaucratic corrupt and we need to come in like drain the swamp uh and be the the change in government and this is I always find this just I'm I'm speaking generally about politics globally over history not just the US that when you have someone come in who says I want to run the government cuz the government sucks I always find that very eye eyebrow raising like you know especially when there's not a true revolution and it is someone coming into the existing structure through the existing approach and it's not a revolution it is just someone coming in and kind of playing people's populist heart heart strings and their frustrations I always question that. Counterpoint. Yes. Well no you explain why then I'll present my counterpoint. Oh thank you that that seems like a reasonable thing to do. Um so it cuz if you're going to buy into co-opt and operate within the structures that exist but the structures are the problem explain to me how that works. So then you but like I said the thing is you wait do they go okay are they coming in to reduce bureaucracy and actually be a catalyst for change and reform? And typically in my opinion Trex that's not done by adding to an existing bureaucratic process more complexity and less transparency. That is my preamble to what we'll eventually get to as I walk through the history. Now do you have a counterpoint to that to to to to to make this I have a counterexample. Uh have you ever watched a television show called Parks and Rec? >> [laughter] >> Yes and I know where you're going with this. Ron Swanson I'm on board. uh very adamant that the Parks and Rec Department should not exist or if it does exist should be privatized and work in more of a for-profit function. He recommended putting in coin-operated machines where if you wanted to use any kind of equipment at the park you would put in a few tokens or quarters um and a lot of people would say that uh that show was better with him and by extension that Parks Department function better with him as the the true maverick reformer who came in and uh had some fresh ideas. Well I can't disagree with that at all um and honestly if there is if someone was like you know what screw Ayn Rand I just want to go with Parks and Rec for a justification of my political beliefs I'd say fair play and I actually respect you a little bit more. Nice. I'll say that. Uh okay so let's talk about where these DGAs came from. So the first thing that happened was actually in 1977 a very simple 10-page pamphlet came out from quote unquote the federal government which outlined some very very basic uh here are some goals that you should follow for dietary health and honestly they really weren't that bad Trex which is which is which is bonkers you know it's basically like honestly it's the core principles that that we have kept for the last almost 40 years since or no no no I'm sorry I can't do math almost 50 years since right? So this you know these >> five when these came out. Correct and or I guess that that I I think you made me younger than some claims of how old I am. But uh yeah in in 1977 uh these these guidelines came out from the federal government and they could literally be encapsulated in a 10-page pamphlet which you can still find and um we can either put those in the show notes or you know when we release the whole thing but you know these amazing nutrition in your health dietary guidelines for for Americans can can fit on like one profile based you know Instagram story now. Eat a variety of foods maintain ideal weight avoid too much saturated fat and cholesterol eat foods with adequate starch and fiber avoid too much sugar avoid too much sodium and if you drink alcohol do so in moderation. So you mean to tell me we did 50 years and probably like 20 billion dollars worth of nutrition research and >> [laughter] >> and we should ultimately be falling back on that 10-page pamphlet from 50 years ago? Yeah those big things truly if you look at the evidence base um the most charitable thing we can say is that we have more precise estimates about those things not that the directionality and if it's changed. >> Yeah no I I I I certainly I don't mean to misleadingly suggest that it's been yeah but but it's very funny to me that if you were were to ask people all along the way and you know especially you know people who have been clamoring for a lot of this nutrition reform they would have told you in 1980 and 1990 and 2000 and 2010 we know virtually nothing about nutrition right? And and then you look back at it and you're like well 50 years later it looks like what we thought we knew we we now know even better. Yeah now I will say that that that the literature on some of this stuff was not developed as much as would be appropriate for DGAs. Um because what happened uh when this came out and it came out from the USDA as well as uh what became I think the US Department of Health and Human Services, which is still what puts out the DGAs today. Um in 1980 in the early '80s shortly after this release in '77, there was a congressional hearing and they said, "Listen, I we need more engagement with the actual nutrition science apparatus that exists in the US before we willy-nilly go putting out these 10-page pamphlets and and telling people what to do." So, this was what started the formation of the DGAC, our second uh now or our fourth instance of alphabet soup cuz we've got US Department of Agriculture, National Academy of Sciences, US Department of Health and Human Services, and the DGAs, and the RDAs. Well, now we've got the DGAC. Now, you can find stuff on PubMed that does the whole outline of what the DGAC is, and we have a 30-plus year uh track record of following the same outline, and it has evolved over time with the times. And this is where I think if we were to rewind the clock maybe a couple years before we were currently criticizing the government, we would be defending the government from the last prior iteration of the DGAs against baseless claims related to it being a non-transparent, heavily industry-influenced process. And I will say at least at the DGAC level, that could not be farther from the truth. So, the DGAC importantly though does not set the DGAs. There is a a trans a post-processing phase, if you will, from the initial data acquisition um from the DGAC to actually writing the dietary guidelines. But, I would say to the credit of the dietary guidelines history all the way until this this one, um largely what the DGAC committee uh puts forth is reflected in the guidelines. So, what is the DGAC? This is a vetted for conflicts of interest uh selection of nutrition researchers, many of whom are RD, so they have the clinical experience as well, across a broad range of nutrition for health and the general populace uh range that the federal government contracts, but they are volunteers. So, they are not, you know, paid. They're any conflicts of interest need to be managed, and then they are given the resources of the federal government essentially in the form of aids and access to resources so that they can do a very arguably rigid process of systematic research synthesis with some equivalent to kind of like a grade terminology of how good is this evidence before they're even allowed to make a recommendation. And they must consult the public, and their meetings all have to be uh transcribed, recorded, and fully documented. They can't meet outside of them. Uh and they have to do them in in modern times live-streamed. Uh so, the idea that it's actually a shadowy room that nobody knows about, and the people on the committee are essentially food lobbyists, corporations, and the globalists who want to control us with, you know, recommending tomatoes and carrots, really really couldn't be farther from the truth. The only critique that I would say is valid, and this is true, you can find historical instances, is that what the DGAC recommends and then what is finally put into the guidelines is not a perfect one-to-one. So, as an example, for the present cycle, the DGAC still happened just like the last one. There was a 421-page report written by the DGAC. And this became a like 160-ish page report of what the dietary guidelines were last time, or if if I recall correctly. But, the the DGAs to the typical American or like what you and I see are typically the uh the public-facing guidance that comes from that after the fact. And I think the most notable instance of that, if we fast-forward from the '80s to when the government said, "Hold on, you you two agencies. I I I want to see the scientists actually inform you." And then in the '80s onward, we start having the DGAC informing the DGA process every 5-year cycle and the establishment of how this works, in 1992 after the last DGA cycle, they went, "Right, we need to do a better job of communicating the stuff to the public. So, we're going to take the DGAs and put it into heuristics that are more public-facing." Because where the DGAs really operate, and if you look at some of the behind-the-scenes documentation, it is basically targeting two groups: clinicians, uh people who are policy makers, and people who are in a position of setting large-scale standards and changes. So, one thing we are going to talk about is does this even matter? Do Americans even follow the DGAs? And in one way it is factually accurate, and we have peer-reviewed published research to say no, they do not. But, it is not factually accurate to say they don't matter. They don't influence American society or the way people eat because of the structure of things like food programs, the Department of Defense, the Department of Education, a public school system, health care services, etc. etc. etc. So, we'll get to that. But, in 1992, um and this was right when I was in grade school, Trax, the food pyramid came out, right? Um not the best pyramid, not even the most legally defensible ideal pyramid. We know what that is. Third edition just got released, Muscle and Strength Pyramid is out. >> going to ask if you got any royalties when they came out with that initial food like if they licensed to the concept of a pyramid from you. I'll say this. You can argue about whether the legal precedent was there first and whether or not my very real Delaware lawyer team won the lawsuit against the US government with the pyramids, but notice what came out this time. Is it even a pyramid if it's inverted, Trax? The 2025 to 2030 launch, the government finally backed down and did an inverted pyramid cuz they knew they didn't want any of that Helm's smoke. And they're not Do you think you're going to release it just within weeks of when I put out my books and have an actual pyramid? No, they didn't want that smoke. Yeah, that's the real reason it's inverted. No, I think um you know, now that the uh Helms versus the people of the United States, which was on the was on its 190th appeal, I think they finally gave out. And honestly, having defended that 40-year lawsuit uh or pursued it in your shoes, uh I think you can say that's a billion dollars well spent. 100%. I I mean, there's a reason why I'm going to be in catastrophic generational debt um and that's the main reason I've chosen not to have children. It's just so it dies with me. Uh but, well worth it. Well worth it. >> And look at the bright side. We don't do debtors' prison, so you you still get to live. Uh we we don't currently do debtors' prison. I'll give you that. Yes. Um like many things, uh the US government's a little less unpredictable than uh than it used to be. So, we shall see. So, anyway, 1992 is the release of the food pyramid, and there are actually some notable um distinctions between the DGA guidelines that preceded it and it. There was a much greater focus on whole grains and avoiding refined grains and sugar in the DGAs uh the DGA DGAC guidance, but the pyramid is just a little more like, "Hey, generally carbohydrates are good." And I don't think that's an invalid critique. And like most fitness myths or uh dogmatic beliefs, we've talked about this, misinformation, disinformation, there's always a kernel of truth. So, when you hear the narrative that America is sick and we have been poisoned by bad dietary guidelines and we've been influenced by big food, and we were, you know, demonizing fats uh and promoting sugar, you know, for the last 30 years and that's why the obesity epidemic is here, that is false, but there did seem to be some influence, probably from industry, which did result in some slight changes in the the food pyramid. I think that's an accurate take to think that might have been part of the the reason why the DGAC guidance was ultimately maybe not represented perfectly in the 1992 pyramid. Do you think that's fair, Trax? 100%. And yeah, I think there's you Nuance is really tough, Helms. You know, it's it's just not it's not easy. Never was. It's not getting any easier these days. But, here's the thing. You got to find that middle ground between being like totally naive and so cynical that you can't function in society, right? And I think when it comes to like Skepticism, not cynicism, right? >> Exactly. So, so for example, in this particular case, the ongoing persistent existence of food lobbying entities would suggest I I don't think all these food industries have just been setting money on fire, large huge bundles of money for like 70 years straight and had no returns on that. Like the the fact that food interest lobbying groups exist tells you they are there to purchase some degree of sway within some kind of framework and guardrails, right? And so, ideally we'd prefer frankly that those didn't really exist, at least not in in the context of, you know, trying to, you know, get Washington to budget this way or that way. Like you could understand having, you know, groups to advocate on behalf of, you know, dairy farmers, soy farmers, whatever, you know, just to kind of say, "Hey, we're you know, we're struggling because of this, you know, crazy tax that get put on this thing, right? So, I understand, you know, having, you know, essentially public spokespeople for an industry, but yeah, there's definitely like food lobbying groups that spend a lot of time in Washington, D.C. and spend a whole lot of money there and clearly they they want to get something, right? Um and it's okay to acknowledge that and say I wish that weren't the case, but it also doesn't mean, you know, forget everything that we believe we know about nutrition. There's There's got to be some space in the middle and even if there is a little bit of tug-of-war that's kind of moving the center line on some of these topics a little bit to the left, a little bit to the right, it doesn't mean that, you know, every person on every committee associated with this is completely bought and paid for, right? There's There's levels of nuance and gray areas. And and very importantly is that I think the formation of the DGAs, yes, there is probably some corporate influence because that's ultimately federal agencies to federal agencies who are at the whim to some degree, even with the checks and balances we have in the US system, to the current administration who is to some degree influenced by uh the the the the PACs, the lobbyists, the corporate influences, wherever the hell they got their money to get elected, and the you know, people in various positions who have uh maybe spoken or unspoken obligations to people who helped them get in power. That final little process of then the DGAs getting formed, yes, there's there there's there's corporate and political influence. The DGAC, though, I think is actually about as close as one can get to ensuring that there is not anything more than just personal biases, the same type of biases you and I have as researchers. We believe this based upon our interpretation of the data and it is biased because we operate in a in in a human mind and there's no way around that. Um so, the DGAC, I think is is from an evidence-based perspective, there are data to indicate uh they are not victim to wide-scale bias that would influence those recommendations, but the DGAC recommendations then ultimately get have to get translated. But, I think there's a limited degree to which they can be subverted for the final guidelines, which takes us to what the heck would different this time, Trax? So, really uniquely and quite interestingly, the narrative that has come from the paleo, carnivore, low-carb, and ancestral health kind of >> Easy easy easy easy, Helms. Now Now that I >> Not broadly. Now that I I did my post-doc in evolutionary anthropology, so this is the grift that I'm I'm paving the way for. So, easy with all the pejoratives, but but go on. So, there are certain segments within these communities which are very conspiratorial. Can we Can we acknowledge that? >> Yes. These are Okay, they're they're they're they're they're radical bad apples. They don't represent the broader paleo uh diet-focused community. Um but these these these these radical bad actors, these fundamentalists who don't represent the true principles of what you and the other good people on team evolutionary biology believe have generally promoted this narrative that we are poisoned by these guidelines, corporate influence, big food, which again, like you said, has a grain of truth. What's crazy to me is that that narrative has now been adopted by the current administration and was their justification for, believe it or not, adding an entirely separate second committee on top of the DGAC. And again, this sec- this second committee, the purpose was to cut through all the bureaucracy, that is? The second committee explicitly basically has the same exact goal as the DGAC, but the justification for their existence is that the prior administration, I guess the Biden administration in this case, was so heavily influential in the DGACs that it became politicized and it was all based upon, I think the main justification, if you read the preamble, because this second committee's whole justification for existence uh is to basically be a peer reviewer and auditor to the DGAC, which of course has its entire peer review, auditing, transparent process that's established for over 30 years, but apparently what we really need is a second committee with less oversight, transparency to just basically completely countermand and do whatever they want. Um and and function, while it's presented as we're another layer of peer review, it's basically saying, here's an excuse for the current administration to have license to do what they Trax, how we doing? Okay, we are back. My internet dropped. Trax, how we doing? Okay, we are back. My internet dropped, but it's back live and we can just pick up right where we were. Okay. Okay. All right. So, where was I? I was saying, I think I think when we cut out, I was mentioning that they basically created a second committee that was presented as another layer of auditing and peer review, but essentially functioned as the license to countermand and do whatever they wanted. Correct. >> Under the veneer of there being a fundamental issue with the DGAC, which was largely put forth as the last administration, what would be the Biden administration, having too much of a equity focus. Um that trying to uh serve for political reasons um you know, groups for equity for politically motivated ideological reasons, they were not following the evidence. Now, the interesting thing about that is if you talk to if if you if you listen to some statements by, say, like uh Professor Christopher Gardner as an example who served on the committee, they had a mandate to try to provide more information to underrepresented groups for the 2020 to 2025 cycle and the 2025 to 2030 cycle, but because of the systematic guidelines in the literature, essentially could do almost none of that because there wasn't enough data on um these, you know, not as well represented uh ethnic groups or age groups in the literature. So, they had to kind of fall back on going, well, we don't have that, so we're going to have to kind of assume that you operate in the same way as the other humans that have been done in nutrition science. So, uh there's a specific Instagram reel which I linked from uh Christopher Gardner and there's even a a longer interview with some of the DGAC folks on Sigma Nutrition Radio, which I think are both worth listening to, where they talk about this process and they explain how they had a mandate to do certain things by by the government, which you could argue is politically motivated, positive or negative. I'm not here to make statements about values, but the facts are is that they weren't able to create specific guidelines for specific groups in America, even though that was what the pol- politicians mandated them to do. So, they had to ultimately to say, here's the data we have, so here's what we can present. So, the primary critique that you will find in the actual second committee's preamble um largely falls flat if you actually know what the DGAC could do. So, the second committee is called the Scientific Foundation for the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. So, now we have the Scientific Foundation for the Dietary Guidelines for Americans as well as the Dietary Guidelines for American Scientific Advisory Committee. They both exist and they both presented competing reports. Um unfortunately, though, the processes for the DGAC, which are well-established, transparent, rigid, systematic, they're not I'm not saying that the this new committee doesn't have any oversight and it's not transparent or that it didn't do a good job, but if we compare what was created, there's a 421-page report that was done over a longer time period with a larger number of people with a more transparent process who were vetted and followed a a rigid systematic process of creating their guidelines. And then we have an eight-person committee that only has one RD. Um and they are leaders and I'm not saying there's anything wrong with the people on this committee. You know, if you're a nationally recognized nutrition scientist and the federal government says, "Hey, we're going to form a second committee and we want to have you inform the dietary guidelines." You're going to say yes. I would, right? Um it's just the way it is. And then they're going to do what they do with these reports. Ultimately, the blame falls at a higher level here. So, I'm not saying there's anything wrong with this this group. Um with that said, this preamble claims they followed an evidence-based process that it had oversight and all those things and they didn't have conflicts of interest. I would say that that may be true, but everything can be quantified. Not everything. Many things can be quantified. And if we were to say, which of these two processes or these two committees probably has a more foolproof or protected system for ensuring that it's evidence-based and that it's not influenced by uh bias, it's going to be the DGAC. It's very difficult to objectively uh you know, claim that. So, anyway, what we have here is an added layer of complexity and bureaucracy from a administration who's saying that it's going to make things less bureaucratic. And ultimately, their report is basically saying, here's all the things that the dietary guidelines have been recommended to do. Here's where we agree in part, disagree, or uh or or or or fully like fully agree, partially agree, or disagree, and we've changed it. And it's very clear that the dietary guidelines are just based upon the second committee. So, the DGAC, these volunteers who have worked from the last cycle until this one, um, are understandably a little a little ticked off. Uh, basically their advice was not followed. And in some cases, that could be construed as it didn't matter in terms of the actual what? So, I'm talking about the how right now, and I think the how is problematic, right? Added complexity, reduced simple sorry, reduced transparency, and okay, that's not great cuz I have much more confidence in evidence-based rigorous, transparent, robust process. But, what are the actual guidelines becoming? And I think that's where we can talk about next. For the most part, you could say this doesn't matter, Helms, like basically the guidelines tell you to do the same thing. Or some people online will say, "Oh my god, this is a huge departure. This is going to, you know, give people cardiovascular disease." And you hear other people saying, "Actually, this is great. Less processed food, uh, you know, more protein. This is what we've been needing forever." And then even on the extreme ends, you can hear people saying, "Finally, you know, where there's there's people are talking about how seed oils are bad and how beef tallow is good to cook with and butter isn't the enemy and we're stopping the war on fats and we're stopping influenced by, you know, big grain." I think none of those perspectives is entirely accurate. Um, and what is being promoted and the lip service to some of those extremist groups I talked about that's being paid, I don't think is actually being reflected. Like if you took a a someone who was hardcore carnivore, and if they just heard some of the things that politicians have said, like an RFK for example, rather than what's actually written, they might have some some whiplash. They might think or even what's shown in the pyramid, the inverted pyramid I should say, versus what's written in the actual current DGAs, are not the same. So, we can quibble about the what, and we're going to get into it. I think as a mass, uh, the four of us, we have basically four things we want to talk about as far as the what, but the thing we really wanted to talk about initially is people are really missing the how the process was subverted, how robust the process was before, unfortunately, and not this time cuz it got subverted, and that the RDA, the DGA, the DGAC are not the same, and that you have the USDA, the National Academy of Sciences, uh, the Department of Human and Health Services, and now this new committee all operating at the same time, and it is far more complex than people realize. So, that's kind of where we're at. Things have happened. Uh, this new cycle of DGAs have changed, and now maybe we should talk about like the what. What actually has changed? And in some cases, not much. In other cases, surprising amount. Yeah. Yeah, so let's dive into the what. I think you made a a strong case for, you know, the the difference in procedures and and the shortcomings of of how that would play out, but uh, first things first here, a topic uh, very near and dear to your heart, we had the protein change which you alluded to previously. So, the recommendation in the DGA uh, jumped to a daily intake of 1.2 to 1.6 g per kilogram. So, uh, what what are your just kind of reflections on that change in isolation? You know, I think in isolation, this is hard to argue is anything but a a relatively positive change. Um, I think everyone in the fitness industry immediately thinks about things like, you know, the Morton analysis which you and I both would argue is outdated. Ironically, this new committee used that as justification for this. I don't think they should have. Were they Were they Were they just going through like volume three of Mass, and that is basically the basis for the new guidelines? Pretty much. Okay. Yeah, exactly. You know, they're going off the second edition pyramids. Before we move on to the next one, remind me to ask you about the pyramid. But but yeah, go on about protein. Oh, we'll talk about the pyramid cuz that's kind of like the uh, the communication um, around it which is quite different than the actual written guidance. So, yeah, this this in this this suggestion of consuming between 1.2 to 1.6, actually at the higher end doubling the RDA, is associated with better health. Now, the fitness industry focus on that, and we immediately think of meta-analyses on people doing resistance training Right. >> as as the kind of evidence. And that does really change things. And if you told me, "Okay, I can wave a magic wand and the entire American society starts lifting weights and exercising or consumes 1.2 to 1.6, it's either lift weights and consume the RDA or double the RDA and don't lift weights, every time, hands down, I'm saying I want everyone to start lifting weights. So, I think it's important to acknowledge that a lot of the data which shows, "Hey, this is a good protein intake range." is because it supports resistance training adaptations. But, even in absence of that, if we just look at epidemiological data and interventional data, it's pretty clear that metabolic health, musculoskeletal health, all cause mortality, um, are generally, although a small of effect size, better when you're consuming in this recommended protein intake range than below it. And I think the data is relatively clear on that. So, that's, like you asked, in isolation. I think the the problem though is that while I can say academically in isolation, this is a good thing for sarcopenia, you know, satiety, body composition change, um, you know, protein isn't eaten in a vacuum. People don't eat macronutrients. They don't even eat foods as you said, they eat diets. So, what really is going to happen here is that people are given a collection of recommendations that they're not going to read, but they are going to see this inverted pyramid which I'll talk about next. And they're going to make changes to their diet, and they know they're supposed to eat more protein. And the way most Americans eat protein is not through, I don't know, non-fat high-protein Greek yogurt, whey protein, uh, egg whites, and, you know, boneless, skinless, grilled chicken breast and cans of tuna, like maybe I do, but through, you know, "Oh yeah, yeah, so like let's let's have more barbecues, right? Or or cheese or or what's high in protein?" They may be misinformed, they're like, "Oh, nuts, right?" So, this comes to how things are communicated, not just what is specifically communicated. The inverted pyramid, let's talk about it. If you actually look at it, what you see is something that I would argue really doesn't reflect the written guidelines. You have, you know, at the bottom uh, of of this pyramid, you've got grains, right? And it doesn't even in in indicating you should consume less of this. And what shocks me, Trax, is it doesn't even necessarily specify refined grains. It says whole grains at the bottom, like the least important thing here, and it has like a bowl of oatmeal and like a loaf of bread. And I'm like, "Oh my god, like there it doesn't have pictures of sugar, cereal, or things like that to be the least important, you know, like item of your food." It says like basically whole grains should be the smallest component of your plate. Now, going back to it, the 1992 pyramid was released after the DGAs. It had some issues, right? What was almost universally loved by educators and RDs, and that was really useful, was the MyPlate transition, which I think either happened after the 2010 or 2015 version of the DGAs. A set of online interactive tools and a visual plate which helped Americans understand what what their actual meals should look like. This was even adopted by the athletes plate that is being used in the sports hall at the IOC and like in the Colorado Springs. This is what sports dietitians use to help athletes construct their sport performance supportive diet that also is in line with dietary guidelines. So, like plates and these visual representations and these interactive tools were universally loved. And the MyPlate tools were awesome, and they were actually quite different and improved upon the pyramid, even though, you know, these conspiratorial segments of the the nutrition kind of ecosphere are constantly attacking the pyramid, which we haven't used in 30 years, right? '92. So, MyPlate, pretty cool, but it was released after the DGAs. It was based upon them. The unique thing in addition to having the second committee for the current DGAs is they released the inverted pyramid with the written guidance. And also, if you go to myplate.gov right now, it redirects to realfood.gov. And realfood.gov, honestly, if you'd showed it to me and I couldn't see the address bar, Trax, I would think it was probably the nutrition page of a CrossFit box somewhere in Middle America, right? Because it looks exactly like that same conspiratorial messaging. It actually literally starts with a statement that says, "America is sick." And then it talks about how the prior guidelines, again, from the government, this is the government talking about itself in retrospect with these conspiratorial tones, um, misled you. After misleading, biased, uh, you know, prior guidelines, we now have a sick America. It doesn't explicitly say that, but it certainly uh, suggests that, if you will. Now, we have the new truth, and then it shows the new pyramid, and then there's the message to eat real food. Now, this website may change. This is happening very quickly, but here's the exact quote, just people know I'm not being hyperbolic. For decades, we've been misled by guidance that prioritize highly processed food and are now facing rates of un- unprecedented chronic disease. And then the sequence ends, and there's the message to eat real food. I just find this ludicrous. We've never had guidance to eat highly processed food. The closest little factoid of of of like nugget of truth here is that the DGAs in the '90 the '90s, the written guidance was to eat whole grains, and that whole grains and carbohydrates were the bulk of your diet, and then there was no distinction between refined and whole grains when that actually came to the public-facing stuff. So, there's that. You could argue that. But now, we have an inverted pyramid that is saying eat the minimal amount of your diet being whole grains. At least that's the the visual message. And here's what's even crazier to me. If you look at the written guidance from the current DGAs tracks, what do you think is still still the largest proportion of the recommended diet based upon number of servings? What am I supposed to be looking at to give you this answer, the pyramid or the DGAs? Well, >> The The The DGAs I I I know what what their number of servings are. >> Yeah. But based upon the the inverted pyramid, what would you think in terms of portion sizes is the uh, the the the largest part of your plate based upon that visual? So, here's the problem, Helms, and this is what I was going to ask you about that I I told you to remind me. So, I was discussing this with uh, the Dr. Loren Cordain so simple, and I can't Maybe my brain is broken. I can't make sense of this inverted pyramid. I don't understand the directionality because there seems to be some introduction of an X and a Y axis where it has previously always been vertical. Um, if you were to ask me what I'm supposed to eat, I would just say turkey and broccoli. There you go, right? There's a whole turkey at the top next to a huge It could be a tree not scaled right. >> It could be a tree maybe it's GMO. It's GMO. >> Yeah. >> It's the same size as a whole uh, clearly either a whole Christmas or Thanksgiving turkey head of broccoli, for sure. So, either way you shake it, I think the most charitable interpretation here is, okay, I think the visual space being taken up at the top, and then it tapering down indicates what you should primarily be eating is protein, dairy, and healthy fats, and vegetables and fruits, and that should be the dominant part of your diet, and then a very very small amount of of whole grains at the bottom. >> Right. >> Um, and if you had if you try to give it in in being charitable here, again, maybe an inclusion- based rather than an exclusion-based framing on this, cuz it's true, there are no processed foods, uh, depending upon how you define that on this list. Maybe, okay, it's all \{{}quote} real foods. Maybe everything is good to be eaten, but you but whole grains are just a small port and you part of it, and you primarily you should be eating uh, blocks of cheese, whole turkeys, broccoli, peas, carrots, and steak. >> And they would they went out of their way to show a >> More than salmon. They went out of their way to show a whole bunch of white on that steak. That is a heavily marbled, very gristly steak. It certainly is. >> So, so this was my my big concern, Helms, was that um, I looked at this at first and was just like, what is the like two or perh- maybe there's three dimensions I need to be accounting for here. I cannot make sense of what is supposed to be the priority. And to make things weirder, actually going to this realfood.gov site actually clarified it for me a little bit because they broke it at least in that as you scroll through, it's kind of one of those annoying interactive like web app things, but it broke it into three sectors. There's protein, dairy, and healthy fats with a dividing line, and then vegetables and fruits, and then another dividing line, and then whole grains. But in the actual pyramid, they forgot the dividing line in the middle but between the protein, dairy, healthy fats, and the vegetables and fruits. And so, basically, like if you were to ask me to give an honest interpretation of what this pyramid says, it would be don't eat grains. That's the only >> actually a line over the the the whole grains, you know? >> Yeah, there there was a borderline that basically built a fence to keep whole grains out of the pyramid, basically. And that is the only directionality that I can really uh, ascertain from this image. Like I Otherwise, like if you're telling me top to bottom is good to bad, then it looks like the base of my diet should be a giant hunk of cheese. If you're telling me that it it's better as I go from like left to center, there's all sorts of instances where that doesn't make sense. So, I can't tell if if near the top is good or on the boundaries is good or toward the middle is good. The only thing that jumps out to me is don't eat grains. Yeah, that that's essentially like no matter how you dice it, you're you're interpreting that whole grains are either the smallest part of your diet or should actively be excluded. But Trucks, in the written guidance, whether you believe it or not, just like in prior iterations, the by number of servings, whole grains are still the highest proportionally recommended food group. >> [laughter] >> In the written guidance. Yeah. Um, so in in in what would you say is >> That got through this second committee? Well, that's the thing. It's like they I guess like there's only This is why it's important just to acknowledge like how much political influence can you have in the US system, at least in this stage of our history, without it being just so blatant that it's obviously like entirely corrupt? And the answer is not enough to totally change the DGAs. So, while we're quibbling over this visual representation that doesn't actually follow the written guidance, cuz the written guidance is largely the same. It still recommends almost all of those same seven things that were recommended in 1977. I would say 80 to 85% of what was recommended in the last cycle is still recommended this time. Cuz even if you get, you know, the the the protein and the the the high fat and the maybe the the cholesterol heart hypothesis skeptic researchers together, they're still researchers, right? They can't completely deny evidence. They might interpret it different than you and I. They might be out of step with a certain few things or a little more skeptical. But ultimately, you know, like the guidelines broadly still suggest eating whole foods as they have, despite the the realfood.gov website. They've never recommended eating processed foods. Um, they haven't explicitly recommended against eating processed foods in the same way, which is the next topic. But what we're seeing here is that broadly hasn't changed, increased recommendation for protein, which maybe with a good visual aid wouldn't be an issue. But right now, what we see is don't eat any whole grains, and it should be steak and whole turkey breast, maybe whole chicken, not even breast, sorry. Whole chicken and whole turkeys, right? Yeah. >> Yeah. I, along with some of the other guidance, which we're going to get into when I'll ask you about when we get into the the fats side of this, I don't think the protein recommendation is going to result in this proportional increase in protein and commensurate decrease in, you know, sugar and and unhealthy fats to to it get it like we would recommend in practice in the fitness industry. I think it's just going to be people going, "Cool. So, I guess I'll just keep going to barbecues." You know, that that's going to be the the the substance to this of actually what happens. Yeah. And I think something that's also worth noting is uh, seems like about every 6 months you read an article on some kind of like, you know, health-related website uh, that that basically says like, "Panic. Americans are eating too much protein." Basically just means like, "The RDA is only 0.8, but people are averaging 1.2 in this new study." And it's so it's like, if you think this is going to have a dramatic like popular Even if we even if we assumed widespread adoption, uh, the idea that just in a vacuum saying we're going to eat 1.2 g per kilogram now, the idea that that would meaningfully or or tangibly impact health, even if implemented uh, under the best, you know, scenarios or conditions, it's probably not uh, going to have a huge difference because Americans generally didn't eat the RDA level of protein anyway. We we often go above it um, because we like meat. >> Yeah. We like to eat meat. >> Yep. Um, yeah, but anyway, Helms, so you you kind of led into uh, discussion about fats because you said like, "If the idea is we're going to increase protein and have, you know, uh, concomitant reductions in like sugar and unhealthy fats, one of the big challenges there is the definition of healthy fats has been a little bit distorted. So, um, healthy fats was redefined uh, correct me if I'm wrong, to include animal fats, full-fat dairy, and eggs um, with an explicit recommendation to use butter and tallow for cooking. Um, and so, if those are defined as healthy fats, and uh, Helms, you you've been way deeper in these recommendations than me, um, what then would be an unhealthy fat? Yeah, that's a great question. I think I think it'd be good to to get your perspective on this because I there is >> [sighs and gasps] >> a lot of nuance to what do we consider a healthy and unhealthy fat. And I know you've done some deep diving into the research here, like the heart health hypothesis it's been attacked by those kind of same conspiratorial voices, but it's it's tough because you're fighting an uphill battle with what the actual research says because it's not just cholesterol that's bad. We go, "Okay, hold on. So, there's HDL, there's LDL." Then then we go, "Well, there's LDL, but there's also apoB." Uh and the other ones are a little fluffier and they don't get stuck in arterial wall. And it's more of an issue if you're also an apoA allele carrier. And by the way, you know, saturated fat does drive up LDL, but not all saturated fat. So, there's there's some like there's myristic acid, there's stearic acid. Like it becomes very complex. And we can take a step back and we can say, "Well, there's very clear science as to what happens when you reduce LDL." And then a step back further from that, what happens when we reduce, you know, dietary sources of LDL and keep them at different levels. And that's kind of the level about as quantitative or specific as you can get for public health advice to actually be taken up. We can't start recommending specific, you know, like hydrogen-carbon chain locations of fat and then talking about the interaction effect of of genes in public health guidance. Yeah. So, it's challenging, but the guidance specifically, just like I think there's a disconnect between what the pyramid shows as far as what you should do with health guidelines versus what is Sorry, what you should do with whole grains versus what the actual written guidelines say they should actually be the largest part of your diet in terms of servings. There's a similar disconnect in the fat guidance. So, they specifically do um explicitly kind of add a few fats to what is considered healthy. Like don't get me wrong, they still say like, you know, fish, olive oil, those things are good. And they do actually recommend, ironically, nuts and seeds, but not oils cuz that changes everything. Yeah. And they have an argument which you I'm sure you can speak to. But they have a disconnect as well as they retain what has been there for decades a less than 10% of calories from saturated fat guidance while including animal fats, full-fat dairy, eggs as healthy fats. And here's here's the crazy part, explicitly recommending that people cook with butter and beef tallow. Those are called out specifically, not just olive oil and other other types of oils that are on that healthy fat list. But that's called out specifically in the more public-facing guidelines. Which I mean, at best, this is just going to be a a mathematical challenge. But I don't know. I I want to kick it back to you. You've done a lot more of the digging into the the crates, per se, with the research on, you know, heart health, fatty acid types, propensity for it to actually lead to cardiovascular disease outcomes, and all-cause mortality. Yeah, I know. I mean, I think you did a good job summarizing it. I mean, if if someone were to say, you know, what what is the kind of statement that could be packaged for public health in a way that would be both practically useful and reasonably in line with the evidence, it would be you should limit your saturated fat intake. Like like that would be the kind of the thing that's fit for purpose in a public health messaging perspective. Now, if someone were to come in and say, "Well, actually, there's these complicating factors." They would be correct. And so like it as a like in the weeds, you know, enjoyer of nutrition and metabolism scientist, I can say, "Yeah, like it looks like, you know, if we look at these three different common saturated fatty acids, which are present in varying [snorts] proportions in different types of you know, foods that are considered high in saturated fat, we see that each individual fatty acid has a different impact on the blood lipid profile, which then has a different impact on the long-term risk of atherosclerotic, you know, plaque formation, heart disease, etc. But again, and this This semester I'm actually teaching a new course here at Duke that's physical activity for public health. So, we don't do too much of the nutrition, but it's definitely got me more It's got my brain thinking more in a public health kind of vibe. And you you have to be realistic in terms of the messaging. This is one of the reasons why Helms like um you know, we have limits typically in nutrition guidelines on sodium intake, right? And uh the reality is there are going to there's some percentage of the population genetically that is sensitive to sodium in the diet, and when they consume an excess amount of it, their blood pressure goes up. And since hypertension is so prevalent and that's a non-negligible chunk of the population, the general recommendation is limit your sodium below what is honestly a fairly low level compared to average intakes. And that's because for most people in the population, that will either help or not harm. Uh but there is a small percentage of the population who is actually like inverse salt sensitive, where when they go on a very low sodium diet, their blood pressure goes up. Right? And so for public health messaging, sometimes we have to just kind of say that broadly speaking, generally for most people, limiting sodium seems to be the move, but if you have hypertension, talk to your physician so that you can troubleshoot that and get individualized advice. So, again, the the public health messaging, it's important to highlight, is not "I promise you, individual, if you do this, you will be in the most healthy spot you could possibly be, right? This is for the general population what seems to be setting up the vast majority of people for good health." And that's obviously a very layperson distorted kind of definition. But anyway, all all that is to say I I think it's good that they retained the recommendation to limit saturated fat to no more than 10% of calories. That seems to be a strong recommendation and has been utilized for quite some time. And like you said, Helms, um it's just going to be very tough when you see on the top row in big font, you got a big old hunk of cheese and those turkey thighs and, you know, big old juicy steak, and say, "Yeah, by the way, here's all the good healthy stuff that's really really large on the picture. Just make sure you have less than 10% of your calories from saturated fat." It's going to be hard to do that. Um and then when it comes to, you know, seed oils, you know, they they advise against consumption of them, you know, due to concerns about oxidation, mostly driven by mechanistic stuff. And especially like what's-his-name? Is it um Carnivore MD? Uh What What's the seed oil guy? He like moved out to Costa Rica. Yes, I Paul Saladino. Yeah, Paul Saladino. So, if you really want a deep dive into what people worry about when they panic about, you know, seed oils and all the mechanisms and and it's always going to go into, you know, petri dishes or or rodent models. There's all that out there, but you know, basically, when we start looking at like what practically and tangibly happens when we actually get people to move their you know, seed oil intake or or polyunsaturated fat intake up or down, when it moves up, uh people either appear to get healthier or have no change. Um and so it's really really hard to sell me on all the mechanistic panic about seed oils when, you know, maybe you don't want to feed your your pet rat a huge amount of of seed oil-based chow. >> genetically bred Yeah, your your your genetic mutant rat who is your pet and you want it to live a nice long life, maybe you think about what kind of chow you want to give it. But when it comes to humans, we have like actual randomized controlled trials where we have manipulated just are we going to give you more saturated fat in these muffins or are we going to give you more of these seed oils? And giving sliding more seed oils into their diet makes them healthier. So, if that is the panic, uh I'm I'm fine with it. I I will take that risk head-on of accidentally improving my health. So, yeah, the fat stuff it's a mixed bag. I I think the net of it is is pretty negative, but I at least I'm glad that they seemingly forgot to remove the the limit on saturated fat cuz it doesn't really make sense with all the other stuff. Yeah, I I think this is probably another instance where like I I I I I would guess, I don't have any evidence to back this up, that even on this new committee, there was substantial internal debate. Um because I I >> Yeah. you know, just knowing the publication track record of some of the people on this committee, I think some people probably would have been a little more bullish on there's no issue with saturated fat. And others would have been like, "Listen, how do we get around this this data?" And they probably came to a thing where they're saying, "Well, these specific foods are probably fine, but overall saturated fat intake needs to be limited." I'm I'm guessing that's what it looked like. Yeah. >> Um Also, given the specific recommendation of full-fat dairy, really briefly, cuz I think this is kind of interesting. I'll get into the weeds for people who are interested in um dairy and why it's sometimes important to focus on food and food matrices, not just the content. So, like if you think dairy, you might think butter, cream, and you might think yogurt. But nonfat yogurt, hard cheese, soft cheese, full-fat yogurt, butter, and cream are all made from the same place, you know, like cow milk, right? But they, because of their food matrix, is going to have a different impact on various aspects of heart health. So, dairy is full-fat dairy is less consistently shown to be related to heart health when you control for other factors. That is true, and it's also the largest contributor of saturated fat to the American diet. And as you said, saturated fat does tend to be a strong does tend to be a strong indicator for issues with heart health. So how the heck can those things all be true? Well, there are essentially like a there's like a three-layered shield in certain types of of dairy related to the food matrix. So like there is the the actual what's called the MFGM and that's the milk fat globule matrix. So essentially the the fat in dairy itself is encapsulated in these globules which prevents a fair amount of its own absorption somewhere around 10 to 20% depending upon the source from actually being absorbed. So it's essentially moving through digestive tract not being fully absorbed. So when you have full-fat dairy it's essentially like inbuilt to be 15 to 20% less of its fat which is you know largely saturated fat. And then there's another aspect um that the calcium content inside of yogurt and the fact that it can drive your digestive tract to be shifting the acidity a bit that creates what's called saponification which just means like the creation of soap and it kind of flushes out fat from your diet broadly. So if you eat a high calcium diet largely from yogurt where this is primarily found it kind of blocks around like you know 4 to 6 g of fat just generally throughout the day and that adds up over time. So you're getting that in in full-fat yogurt uh you're getting that kind of shield and you're also getting this like cholesterol and and calcium blocking effect and the fermentation the viscosity also slows the absorption rate and has more time for the matrix to do its thing. So you see this effect more consistently in yogurt than you do milk even though they are they should be having some of the same effect. Now in non-fat milk you're not getting that MFGM but there's no fat right? And then non-fat yogurt you're getting the effect of the like the matrix of calcium and protein and and the viscosity and the fermentation but there's no fat for it to not absorb from itself. So there's these multiple layers and when you're talking about butter and cream you've essentially removed them all due to the processing. So it's one thing I'd be okay with saying okay listen they're they're they're cool with full-fat dairy and from a like a pure heart health reductionist perspective not a problem but then when they go to recommend cooking with beef tallow and butter I'm like okay now now we're stretching the limits of credulity. Um and more importantly is that we have an issue with overall excess calorie consumption as well and there's no way around the fact that full-fat dairy is a higher calorie liquid. So it's not going to be providing the same kind of satiety. And this is where I think we can you know talk about this later as we talk about maybe alcohol and and also the the processed food recommendation but to plant a seed for what we're going to talk about later this doesn't just impact the decisions that individual Americans make and what they put in their shopping cart it impacts things like school lunches for disadvantaged and lower socioeconomic people who maybe that's the only square meal they're really getting is their school lunch program or women's infants and children the WIC program or SNAP program. So we'll talk about that in a second but all this is to say I would be okay with them saying listen we don't have to exclusively go with like non-fat or low-fat dairy some limited exclusion of full-fat dairy especially yogurts or harder cheeses that's probably fine and it's certainly better than say red meat and definitely better than processed meat. If someone had said that like okay you created a tier list here of what's more likely to cause heart health issues even though saturated fat might be equivalent between these two sources don't worry about the full-fat Greek yogurt. I I would think that'd be fine but that's not what they said. They said include more full-fat dairy making it sound like it's better than non-fat or low-fat dairy which I would not put them like ranked in that way. And then explicitly said oh by the way butter and beef tallow good to go which I think is just completely contradicted by the the the totality of evidence. Yeah I I agree. I I I must express some a small level of concern Helms because before we recorded you mentioned that it was my job to rein you in and kind of keep you moving along here and you've you've referenced at least three more major topics for us to discuss and I just I do want to surface the comment that we are over an hour and 20 minutes in so what I'm going to humbly suggest is that we give the ultra concise look at processed foods and alcohol and then allocate a little more effort or more focus and attention to the kind of big picture messaging. How does that sound? Okay. Here's what we're going to do. You're going to model for me how to do this cuz I I am if anything just a wannabe Trex. So talk to me about the alcohol recommendation. >> I'll take the alcohol alcohol very concisely was funny okay. So the reason I say that is I was it it was really interesting because I saw that the the guideline come out and it basically said limit alcohol. Period. Previously it had said limit alcohol to no more than one daily drink for females and two daily drinks for males. Now when I read that with a very literal perspective which is the one I carry with me always I said oh that makes sense. We used to kind of suggest well maybe honestly light alcohol intake is better than none. Like so maybe we can treat one or two drinks as from a health perspective totally equivalent if not better than zero. But newer research has come out and what we find is a lot of those previous analyses that we kind of you know really hitched our wagon to scientifically they were really confounded by for example people who are of such poor health that they cannot drink alcohol. So they go to zero alcohol by default because they have an existing medical condition you know where alcohol is just off the table. And so when you do more thorough analyses more nuanced updates we kind of find the from a purely physical health perspective the most healthy alcohol intake is none. And when you have a little bit of alcohol it's a little worse than none and when you have a lot of alcohol it's a lot worse than even a little. So there's this non-linear risk zero is great a little bit is fine but not optimal but you're not talking about major risk elevations. But once you start getting into the moderate range now we're saying okay you're you're increasing your risk of various chronic diseases and when you get into heavy drinking it we just always known it's absolutely disastrous for your health. Like that's never been a debate. So I I I saw the you know the recommendation limit alcohol and I was like oh cool so we're not confusing people and saying yeah zero two drinks it's all the same. We're we're just letting people know the the healthiest intake is zero. Um but then Dr. Oz notable scientist notable thought communicator notable leader in science came out in front of a podium and someone asked him to elaborate on that. Re- really quickly Trex. Yes. When when this got pointed out to me I was like why do we care what Dr. Oz says having forgotten the change in his status from him just being the Dr. Oz cuz I haven't been in the States for for 14 years to actual public health figure. Yeah. Still just blows my mind that that's where we're that's where we're at. >> Dude he he ran for Senate. Like he was almost a senator. So anyway Dr. Oz is no longer just like shilling raspberry ketone supplements as a miracle fat loss drug now he's doing things of import in front of podiums. But he was asked to elaborate on this and honestly Helms I'm not even going to like bash him as if there's some kind of like malicious intent there's not. He just looked like he was asked to explain something and he forgot whether or not they turned the dial up or down on alcohol. Like like he forgot. Wait a minute was our guideline more permissive than the old one or less permissive? And so what he did was he offered an explanation for both and it was a one-minute it was literally like less than 60 seconds. But he basically started off by saying you should the healthiest intake of alcohol is zero. And I was like perfect end of sentence step away from the microphone. But then he said but on the other hand a lot of people get together and drink so yeah a lot of people get together and drink socially and social isolation has its own health risk and if you look at the blue zones they seem to love their wine and they live basically forever if as long as you don't check their birth records. And so it was just a a mess. So I was in this really weird position to fit like cuz of course I have friends and family members all over the political spectrum basically people took from that what they would and and it was very politicized and distorted and confusing and so I was basically in this weird position where I had to sit down people on all sides of the political aisle and say in an apolitical way Dr. Oz is an idiot. After moving past that fact uh the recommendation as written is an upgrade that is more compatible with our best evidence available but the way it was communicated completely detracted from that improvement and made it seem as if the as if the guideline is actually more lenient and he literally said in the quote at after he was kind of saying but you know you don't want to be socially isolated go have a drink with your buddies people in the blue zones drink all the time they seem to be fine. Just don't have alcohol for breakfast which made it seem like he was basically saying honestly it's 5:00 somewhere. Just you know if you want to have a few a night I'm not going to count. So it was it was just a mess of communication while also acknowledging like I actually think the the guideline itself is better. So basically just avoid restaurants when happy hour is 8:00 to 9:00 a.m. and everything else is is on the table. >> Yeah so It it's true just you should minimize your alcohol to the extent that it suits your lifestyle. If you do engage in some degree of drinking, ideally that would be social drinking where it is limited moderation each time you drink and moderation in terms of the frequency of your drinking. And I know several entities have suggested maybe putting a per week limit of something like one or two drinks per week, which I think gives people sufficient balance to go uh you know, enjoy a drink with their their spouse, with their business associates and and have the best of all worlds. I think you did a great job with that. And not only am I going to take the ball and run with it in that same concise manner. Uh you did a good job of reiterating how some of the issues we've had are not just with what is written or what is being indicated, but how that's communicated. We talked about the inverted pyramid and its issues. We've talked about the Dr. Oz, you know, public statements. Um and that extends as well more broadly into the process food recommendation. So, overall, I think it's a really good thing to say you should consume less processed food. And, you know, if I'm going to be strictly in line with what I've said previously, approach goals are better than avoidance goals. You could even frame, "Hey, eat real food." in a positive light. Assuming we're all on the same page with what is processing and what is real food and that these guidelines are targeted at the right people with the right level of nuance. And it's where those assumptions fall down where the issue is. So, the first thing is they did not use ultra-processed food as a definition, which I'm not sure if that's a good thing or not because right now ultra-processed food is a loaded term in the scientific community that is being debated. And ultimately, ultra-processed food by Monteiro and colleagues, it's a clear definition, but it is based upon the degree of processing, not the healthfulness of a given food. So, something like a nonfat Greek yogurt is more processed than a full-fat Greek yogurt, right? Something like whey protein or milk protein concentrate are different degrees of processing. If you take a perfectly good, you know, tuna or salmon and you can it, all of a sudden it's more processed, but it's also more convenient. It lasts longer. You'll be more able to get into food deserts, etc., etc. And if you're a personal trainer and you're sitting down with someone who has the socioeconomic status to hire you at $100 per session three times per week, telling them to eat more real food is fine. But when you say that to the entirety of the American society and we look at the current economic climate where the foods at the top of this inverted pyramid are far more expensive than processed foods, which may still be healthy in certain classes like I just discussed, now we've got a problem. Now we're communicating things that we're not all sure on the same page. There's not necessarily scientific agreement as to what is ultra-processed food and there's definitely not agreement to what is highly processed, which is the intentional language here. And I think you can contextualize it a little bit by saying, "Hey, eat, you know, whole foods. Eat real foods. Eat single ingredient food items." And that is valid advice, but the problem is, and this is the final thing that I'll dovetail right from it, just to really be clear, the new guidelines say eat minimal amounts or less or whatever the verbiage is where you're looking of highly processed foods. I agree with that and the data does suggest from Kevin Hall nonetheless and other NIH-funded studies that eating more highly processed or ultra-processed foods results in excess energy consumption, increases in adiposity, and risk factors for all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease, and metabolic disease. Not debated, right? But, that is because there's a lot of covariates between ultra-processing, hyperpalatable, saturated fat intake, sugar intake, lower fiber intake, and all of these individual nutrient effects and food matrices that have been removed. So, we could probably piece tease apart why ultra-processed foods are a problem. And there are enough instances that it's an issue to where certain processed foods are actually good that we don't want to be cutting out. And that is a challenging nuance to communicate to the public. And it's a potentially tone-deaf at best thing to be telling the general public when people are relying on things like social programs and federal programs. And that is the next topic that I'm going to just immediately go to so we're efficient, okay? So, academically good, highly processing. But here's an issue. Americans don't follow guidelines. That is true. People do not carry around the 164-page pamphlet from 20 to or 161-page pamphlet from, you know, to 2020 to 2025 when they go to the grocery store. This is a clinician-facing document that's supposed to help policy makers and doctors, right? They're not going, "Oh, what should I buy?" when they're going down the aisles looking at the cereals. As a rule, Helms, we do not like being told what to do. It doesn't matter how good your your stupid little guidelines are. Once you tell me to do it, I'm going to tell you, "I think I'll do anything else. Thank you very much." America. America. Yeah. And I think it's a combination of not just that, but also the decisions people make are going to be based upon the short-term incentives and rewards that dominate our lives, especially when we're living check to check. And and also it's just it's just hard to connect what I had for breakfast today to whether or not in 20 years I die 5 years earlier than I otherwise would have. Or whether my quality of life is lower cuz I don't have the counterfactual to compare it, right? What tastes good, what's affordable, these things are going to be dominating uh what what do we have access to like in food deserts that are going to be dominating our decisions. So, Americans don't follow the guidelines, but it's really important to understand that the policy-facing DGAs, which is what they are primarily designed for, and clinician-facing DGAs are going to have direct impact on what do government buyers purchase and put on their menu and in front of people like members of the military, members of social service, uh education like systems like the national school lunch program may be forced to remove yogurt. It may be forced to have to only use full-fat milk. Uh and in, you know, the lowest like socioeconomic status communities in the US, it's not Africa. We're not dealing with a complete lack of calories. We're dealing with things like obesity and metabolic disease where the majority of the foods they consume are hyperpalatable processed foods and they're over-consuming calories. And giving them a higher calorie liquid, you know, consumption for the the one square meal they get, that's probably a mistake. And there's going to be potential other issues with that. So, the DGAs need to be quantifiable and enforceable on the federal policy side of things. So, this is going to create some issues and it might have substantive changes which do impact the most vulnerable Americans when we're talking about how is it going to impact women, infants, and children, the WIC program. How is it going to impact what was called, you know, food stamps back in the day. How is it going to impact the the school lunch program. How does it affect the guidance that's given through things like Medicare, Medicaid. So, all of this stuff is not considered by the typical talking heads in our space. We just go, "Yeah, Americans don't follow the guidelines. It doesn't matter." But it is going to change one out of three meals for, you know, every American going to a public school who is buying or who's getting the the subsidized school lunch program. It's going to impact women and children in lower economic status and people who are getting government assistance. It's going to be impacting uh the elderly. Uh it's going to be impacting a lot of people who we care about, who we don't think about because we're going, "Right, well, what do I buy at the grocery store? What do my clients do as personal trainers?" And I understand that. Honestly, until I wrote this article, I did not know this. So, I'm not sitting here going, "How dare you not think about this?" I'm not a public health RD. I'm a sports nutrition researcher, right? So, this has been eye-opening experience to write these guidelines, Trex. And I think it's really critically important to understand that the DGAs are not just things that are ignored, uh but they do in influence a substantial amount of the food that is in the US society. And unfortunately, I think the ambiguous terminology related to processing and the inability to quantify or the challenge in actually making some of the math work that you talked about in the fat section may create some actual negative health impacts despite their best intentions. And I don't think anyone's intending to harm anybody with these these DGAs, but I do think that the rush to get them done and releasing public-facing documentation and images simultaneously with the DGAs and having this kind of cultural zeitgeist of we're going to try to connect with this ancestral, anti-establishment thing as we release it in this fanfare and honestly pandering to that community and talking about how it would used to be bad back in the day and these misinformation from the last administration, this politization of this process is going to have measurable negative impacts. And I don't say that as someone who's on the left and right spectrum. I say that just saying, "Hey, the politization generally, regardless of which way you go, is potentially going to harm people or at least confuse them." But, the final thing I'll say, Trex, is that if you were to look at the current dietary guidelines for Americans compared to the last one, I'd say they're actually in more ways than not further away from the evidence base, particularly if we talk about the saturated fat, or rather some of the dietary fat guidance. That's That's my take. Yeah, and I think um I I agree and I I think in some cases, as they were trying to work toward what is Let's be candid, a contrarian point. They ended up introducing new terminology, eschewing old recommendations, introducing new ones that are so vague as to, as you're alluding to, lead us away from a health-promoting dietary pattern in the broadest sense. So, for example, it was a lot simpler when we could tell people eat more vegetables, eat more fruits, eat more lean proteins. Once you start saying, "Well, no, get like a good fatty steak." And then you're like, "Well, crap, now we have to adjust the definition for what is a healthy fat." And they're like, "Well, crap, but we didn't really change how much saturated fat is permissible." So, now you're just kind of stuck in this like people who have no business to be playing macro Tetris are now playing saturated fat Tetris trying to fit all of their new healthy fats into this dietary pattern. And in reality, what we used to just say was, "Well, try to eat mostly lean protein sources. You don't need to go out of your way to get fat in the human diet. It will be there, believe me. Like, if you've ever prepped and your coach says, "Hey, by the way, we're going to do a real serious push here." And you're down to 35 g of fat per day. You don't have fat sources. You have protein sources and carb sources, and even those are starting to get whittled down just to make it possible to hit your your fat or stay within your fat limit. But yeah, if we're talking about like getting enough fat to have a healthy diet, it is not a consideration. So, when we just told people, "Hey, some legumes, some nuts and seeds, lean proteins." It was all very simple, Helms. And did people do it? Broadly, no. But was it at least like cohesive and did it all fit together in a way that if followed would have nudged someone toward a healthy dietary pattern? I believe so. So, I'm I'm in this weird position where I I don't online, you know, get into a lot of politicized stuff. I I try to I aim to be both when I'm in the classroom and when I'm just out public-facing, I aim for people to really not know that much about where I'm at politically. Like, cuz it's just not my thing. But in this case, in a purely apolitical sense, like I wasn't like pissed off and like shaking my fist about these guidelines cuz I don't think they're tragically worse, but it is kind of silly that we're treating it as if we kind of like had this massive paradigm shift. In reality, we retained most of what there used to be, and the substantive changes that we see are in the net unhelpful and actually somewhat counterproductive. I I do like eating more protein. I do like um limiting alcohol. If we could message that well, that would be preferable. But But yeah, in the net, I think we just said uh "You idiots don't know what you're doing. We're taking charge." And then eventually just kind of messed it up. Yep, I tend to agree. The There's basically three issues here. How they were developed and the addition of a oversight committee that didn't act as oversight, but had less oversight on itself and was like a countermanding committee. Um there was those relatively minor in the grand scheme issues with the what. Um although I Man, the saturated fat one's kind of a tough thing. It's just illogical. Yeah, it's it's just tough to You can't square it. But largely the communication, right? So, I mean I actually think it probably wouldn't be that bad if you could wave a magic wand and go, "Yeah, beef tallow, butter, and full-fat dairy are on the menu, so long as you don't go over 10% saturated fat." I'd be like, "All right, well, that'll be just It'll be a frustrating diet to write, but it is possible. It's possible, [laughter] right?" But it's possible for you and I or a registered dietitian with a tool like MyPlate. It's not possible from going from a flash website that talks about, you know, the evils of the last dietary recommendations and go, "Oh, how do I do that, government? You just eat real food. Catch you later." You know? So, yeah, it's not like they have a MyPlate interactive tool yet. And maybe they will, to be charitable. But I agree that I think the main issue is the communication, not necessarily the what. And then a secondary issue, which I think a lot of people are not aware of, which I'm glad that we're kind of being a voice on, is that there was a whole other new committee added to this. This has increased bureaucracy and reduced transparency despite this veneer of simplicity, eat real food message. So, yeah, that's the mass position stand. And I think the final thing I do want to close out with is is that um we have a lot of American listeners. And obviously this will directly affect Americans, but there are other bodies outside of the US, believe it or not, people from the US. There are other countries, even. And they're not all just countries. There is actually some functional societies outside of the US that I've heard. Um and the use of that terminology was a joke and alluding to a comment of a politician. I don't actually view any countries as shitholes. >> The The live chat has destroyed you. Your career's tarnished. I've been canceled. All right, well, I tried. Yeah. Well, in this last bit of fumbling through my cancellation, I do want to point out that, for example, the UK, they have had guidelines based on a similar evidentiary practice of collecting systematic reviews and having oversight, as well as the healthy diet indicator criteria, which I think I butchered that name, but you've written about this in mass. How there is the um I think the 2015 and the 2020 guidelines from the World Health Organization, which they take nutrition researchers that are not attached to any single government, and they've developed the these criteria. And actually another one that I mentioned offhand that I didn't intend to bring up, Athletes Plate, which is sports dietitians from University of Colorado Springs as well as the Olympic training facility, they've all independently done a similar like systematic evidence-based process, and they have remarkably similar guidelines. So, you can look to the last DGA cycle. You can look to the UK guidelines, which I think were developed in 2015. They're They're due for an update, but still. You can look to the 2020 healthy eating indicator criteria from WHO. I think I got it right that time. Um and they come to extremely similar recommendations. Maybe quibbling over like, should it be 10 or 12 g of fiber per 1,000 calories, right? Yeah. But generally it's like eat more fruits and vegetables, legumes, lean proteins, and you know, reduce consumption of saturated fat, sugar, sodium, and overall processed foods when they go out on that limb. But often they don't. They just kind of describe the bad aspects of them. So, if you look at those and you value being evidence-based, you can say, "Where do they differ from this current cycle of American guidelines?" That's the kind of that That's the issue. That's That's the one you can go, "Maybe that's where the the current subversion of the process led us astray." Yeah, and you know, to to even reinforce your point earlier, you were talking about how this stuff does actually matter. It is true, we had someone Java Guru in the live chat mention that many schools also serve breakfast for a lot of low-income students. So, for a lot of people, these will at least have the potential to impact at least two of the meals that they consume on a daily basis. And in many cases, those are the two most reliable meals and the two most nutritious meals historically, you know? So, a lot lot of potential for some some issues here. So, I think you did a fantastic job talking through the process. I learned a lot reviewing your article, which will be available soon on at massresearchreview.com. Is it available yet or available soon? I don't think they This This is a Mike Zourdos might even be watching this. He often does. But it'll be available soon, if not immediately. But I think soon at massresearchreview.com. Um check it every day. That's my recommendation broadly. Just make that part of your daily schedule now. Wake up, check massresearchreview.com, and then go about your day. But But you talk in in even greater detail about these guidelines and other guidelines that you can cross-reference. But But ultimately, I think you did a great job kind of summarizing this. And if I could throw in my final two cents, Helms, I it's so disappointing. So, I I joked about how, you know, ancestral eating and and you know, paleo was my next grift. Um but it like all jokes, there's a little hint of truth to it in the sense. I'm not I'm not going to become a paleo grifter, but um I was recently making slides for an undergraduate course talking about energy balance. And you know, I do like to incorporate like any any research or any teacher is going to be more engaging when they can lean on some of the research that they do or their lab does. And so, I'm incorporating some of the stuff that Ponzer lab has historically done with the Hadza community in Tanzania and with other hunter-gatherer groups and even looking at archaeological evidence of you know, historic hunter-gatherer groups you know, from what we've been able to ascertain. And um what's what's really kind of sad about it is you can construct what I believe is a coherent and rigorously defensible narrative explaining how the modern food environment has deviated in tremendous ways from our kind of ancestral food environment and drawing clear parallels to how that has generally not served us well in industrialized affluent economies. Um it you do not find a lot of, you know, uh hunter-gatherer groups that still have essentially zero market integration where we have rampant obesity. It doesn't exist. Um so you can kind of talk through the these these these ideas of the abundance of calories, um hyperpalatability, uh way the ways we've modified food to make them super palatable, way too easy to eat, way too fast to eat, and they also we've optimized foods to what are normally our evolutionary cues. So from an evolutionary perspective, if we simply just ate the way human the same way that you'd find any species in you discovered a new species, you'd say, "What does it eat?" You know what I mean? Like there's like a few basic things about any species. What does it eat and when does it sleep? Is it nocturnal or not? And what is its dietary pattern? If you were to describe the human dietary pattern in our kind of pure ancestral form, we follow our taste buds, and we seek out things with high energy density, and usually what leads us to that is palatability and food texture, and we also, as a rule, as far as I can tell, every human community that's ever existed cooks its food. Like every single one. And why do we cook it? Because it changes the texture and the mouthfeel. So we basically have evolved to just go you plop us in any environment, high latitude to low latitude, we may be almost vegan, we may be almost carnivores. You drop us anywhere on the planet and there are two guarantees. We will seek out things that are as palatable as we can find with the highest energy density we can find, and we will cook stuff. That is the human diet. And now that we live in a food envi- historically that would lead us to berries, whatever meat we could hunt, and a few other miscellaneous things, and we would have a BMI of 22. That's how it's always worked. But now when you seek out the things with the most pleasant mouthfeel, the highest energy density, the highest palatability, now we end up in a situation where you can mindlessly overeat in some literally randomized controlled trials 500 800 calories per day. And all it takes to become obese over the span of your adult life is overeating by less than half a percent. An extra 4,500 calories a year perpetually from the age of 18 to 55, depending on your height and and various characteristics, I've modeled it out. You get obese by overeating by that much. So yeah, when we drop this uh you know, atomic bomb of lifestyle change where we hardly move and our food environment is completely different, like you can make a smart ration- rational kind of explanation of here's the ancestral kind of rationale for why things have not gone so well for us in the last few decades. But you don't have to then go to like, "By the way, have you thought about eating more butter?" It's just like it's such a such an own goal where it's like you you could have really played this well and still ended up with good guide- dietary guidelines. And the thing that's really frustrating about it is the dietary guidelines that were in place really did go a long way in putting guardrails to kind of help us through this modern food environment in a way that you could tie back to this kind of ancestral rationale of like, "Oh, well here's why we need to put some limitations on these extra fats that find their way into our diet, these these sugars that we don't necessarily need in abundance, right?" So that that's long-winded and a bit of a tangent, but it's just it sucks because if you go the ancestral route in terms of just kind of explaining to people why we're in the situation we're in with overweight and obesity rates in excess of 70% in many populations, you immediately like get boxed into this like, "Oh, well this guy's a quack." And it's like, "Well, no." Many quacks do like to go this route, but [laughter] there's a way to go this route and not be a quack. So I I do feel compelled to defend the actual rigorous work that that's being done to evaluate what is kind of the default ancestral human diet, how have we deviated from that, and and ultimately that's where dietary guidelines come into play is helping us navigate this insane revolution in food that's happened over the last 10,000 years, and let's be honest, the last 60. You know what I mean? Like we can talk about the agricultural revolution, but even then there was like 9,800 years of like pretty smooth sailing, right? And then then just in in the matter of no time, you know, the the way we've changed our food environment, like I said, in the last 50, 70, 80 years has been just absolutely astronomical. So Helms, all that is to say, I think you did a fantastic job, and folks, if you have zero patience for some of these uh um discussions related to ancestral diets and what we can learn from them, you are going to dislike my content more and more by the day, I think. No, you did a fantastic job at that. Um for those who are looking for some some more depth, like we said, we've got it on the website soon. Um we're also going to be uploading an audio summary that I do, which I promise will be shorter than this one, probably to the tune of 20 to 30 minutes. I will commit to that uh that you can listen to. Um and folks, the one thing I will say is I dodged the bullet releasing the Muscle & Strength Pyramids just before these new DGAs dropped. And I also protected myself cuz now I will refuse to update my books until the next set of DGAs are in line with the evidence better. So I'm basically good. I don't have to write another book at least until 2030, Trax. So that's good news. Yeah. But I just want to say thank you to everybody for tuning in to this episode of Iron Culture presented by MASS. We really hope that this was an informative take on the history that has influenced the creation of the the DGAs up to the to the present moment. Uh the the culture uh that has influenced it because the left-right political spectrum in the US is absolutely a cultural phenomenon, which unfortunately has influenced these DGAs. And also the science. So you understand where uh the aspects of the what are actually closer in line with the science, even if they weren't communicated well, cuz again, it's not just wholly bad or wholly good, these new DGAs. Uh and uh now you are were educated and hopefully better informed, maybe not more optimistic for our future, but nonetheless, you know the MASS position stand on the DGAs. Uh we want to thank you for tuning in. Make sure if you need lifting straps or any type of lifting gear, you head over to EliteFTS, and you use our discount code, that's MMR10 for MASS Research Review 10. And of course, if you really want to help us out, then do subscribe to MASS Research Review. If you like that free content, trust me, that is just the tip of the iceberg of the type of stuff we have for our subscribers. So we want to thank you for tuning in, for listening, and we will catch you not every Monday from now on, but with this new recording time on Tuesdays. And I can't wait to see you next week. Take care, everybody. >> [music]