 naringin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin, what's going on everybody welcome back to another episode of iron culture uh man I swear the trucks and I do still like each other um but no it's just this Eric on and that's because we find that three's a crowd and who needs a co-host when you've got a co-host because I am welcome back from the obelisk dr. Efernan, published author, which we'll get into in a moment, my good friend, an iron culture history extraordinaire who brings the true historical lens from an academic qualified standpoint, which much like having a degree in sports science, having a degree in sports history is not that impressive. But together, we are moderately successful academics compared to real academics. So welcome back to the podcast. I have just so many avenues and lanes to take that, but I'll just say thank you. And I'm glad that you've moved on from making potato jokes. Hey, you know what? That was the main reason why Omar, quote unquote, left. Blah. Yeah. So he did preempt his own canceling. So you know what? More power to him. I think a lot of people wouldn't have the, the wherewithal to understand needing to do that. Um, but no good, you know, kudos to him. So we appreciate him falling on the proverbial. I'll say sword, but whatever you cut potatoes with. It was a different time. It was 2022. At most. Yeah. I think it started with us. I didn't know what a Sabrina Carpenter was by then. No. So I, finds a change. No. And as a historian, you know that one of the most unfair things you can do is judge historical figures like Omar Esau. Um, on, on, on, on the modern standards of ethics. And we would never do that to our, our good friend. Um, rest in peace, at least as far as YouTube and the fitness and dirty is concerned. Is he dead? No. Did I talk to him literally two days ago on a text? Yes. But how dare you judge him? Listener. Oh, but listener. Now that I've just, uh, gotten angry at you and said, how dare you do something? Let me ask you to do me a favor and give us a like, give us a follow, give us a subscribe. Give us a five star or thumbs up or whatever it is for this given platform. Um, if you are someone who was offended by the prior scandals, uh, know that we do apologize. And if you are thinking about rating us, just meditate on that until you feel comfortable absolving us with a five star rating or a thumbs up and then come back to do the rating. And then finally, for those who really want to support the podcast. And by that, I mean me because daddy got to pay the bills. Please check out mass research review because this is iron culture presented by mass. And if you're interested in understanding how to apply the latest science to all things, fitness, health, and especially lifting, uh, check out mass research review.com. Consider becoming a subscriber. And, uh, additionally, if you want badass lifting equipment sold by a badass group of good people, head over to elite FTS and you can use our partner discount code, uh, for Dave Tate and all the co over there. And that is MRR 10. And that's for mass research review 10 to help you remember it. So now that I've appeased the corporate overlords and that the last bastion of, of capitalism that will exist, at least in iron culture, um, we're going to move forward and talk about the egalitarian topic of fitness or what should be and how it went global and how it became something arguably less egalitarian. But nonetheless, Connor Heffernan, before we jump into your new book, I just want to say, how you doing, man? What's been going on for you? I'm good. I told you off air that I lifted some stones today. Um, so I'm not sure if I'm going to be coherent. There were special stones. You've had David going on this. There were special stones. They're not any stones, Eric. There were special stones that other special boys have lifted in the past. So I'm happy to say that a friend and I, you know, we drove for several hours. You know, we, we, we became men in front of each other. That was a very interesting experience. And the cows and the goats and the sheep did judge our efforts. I have never felt more, I suppose, emasculated than watching literally a herd of cattle looking at me doing the, like, it's very much a visual feature. You know, the cow chew. Yeah. Like, as I'm trying not to break my back. Oh man. I'm horribly lifting these stones. Were you with David? I'm not sure. No, I was with my good friend, Dom. Um, but I see like, much like Omar, I see David regularly. We're trying to get lifting stones categorized as living heritage in Ireland to protect the special stones for special boys and girls. We like to lift the special stones because we all need to protect our hobbies. That's what 2025 has taught me. I need to ring fence all of the things that I like and discard the rest because I like what I'm allowed to like. And I don't like what I'm not allowed to like. And I've always played it down the center. Eric, that's just who I am. You're excellent. Can you follow this? I love it. Um, so I, I have some semi-tangential, uh, relevance. I would say good news for this topic, but a mixed bag with how it makes me feel. So a long time ago, I spit into a tube and mailed it off to a company. Um, 23 and me, I was very interested in, in, in, in. Ah, yes. Yeah. I got that for, I think Christmas when I came out to New Zealand and I've been, you know, looking at the updates and they've had like seven updates on your ancestry. Um, and you may remember that when we were out last time filming documentary footage, they had recently done an update and I found out that I was 2% Italian. And that's gone. So the good news was that at that time I embraced my heritage by doing offensive, um, accents from people who were generally from New York and questionably Italian or connected to it. Um, a different time, a different time, right around the same time that Omaha was still involved. So you can't judge me on that either. Um, no, uh, you're literally not allowed to, um, they did the most recent update and that is now gone. I am no longer Italian. So I had a good run, but that 2% obviously had to get allocated to other places. Uh, like I said, we're a sports scientist and a sports historian. I'm not a mathematician, but I think that's the way percentages work. And guess who is slightly more Irish now? This guy. Your boy. You know? Oh, wow. Uh, so it's, it's, it's, it's, the alien paddy cap is out of the way. And just lucky charms and all kinds of things like that. And I find my still. Let's, uh, I'll find you. Okay. I'll, I'll, I'll leave, I'll leave me some taking this one. Hey, how dare you restrict my heritage at least until the next update from 23andMe where I find out that I'm actually fully English. It's highly change your personality. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. And that's honestly, that's a real risk because it has gone anywhere from being nearly 50 to 70% English to English and Irish to Scottish English and Irish. So like, and now you're longer Italian. Your genes are colonizing themselves as well. Like there seems to be this like genomic material battle going on. There's currently a struggle to see how much of my Irish genes can actually maintain their independence. So it's mirroring history in many ways. So, yeah. I'm, I'm here for it. There's a joke to be made about your incredible, uh, weight loss at the Irish genes, but I'm not gonna. I'm a, I'm a, I'm a, I'm a circle the airport. Of course. But boy, I try and land that one. Yeah. Like right now I might be able to get away with that joke based upon my 23andMe report if I made a t-shirt out of it. But I think more safely for the long-term health of iron culture, you're the only one who could even say that there is a joke to be made, but we should definitely not make the joke. Fair. I'll write it down in my offensive list. Yeah. You just, you just text it to me and call it something else. I'll text it to you later. Yeah. All right. Awesome. So, so you've been lifting some stones. Um, and you've been writing some books. I've been writing some books. I've just written a book when fitness went global. It has a tasty cover on it and lovely pictures of half naked men and women, which as we've established, as I'm not a real academic. Is what is what my life is. Hey, I'm you, you study the history of those people. I help those people get even better looking when they're half naked. You know what? So. I'm. Get even tastier. And now my tangential throw to you, sir, across the digital divide. So the premise of my book is defined on a single question. When did people begin exercising the same? So, you know, when, if you ask people about this, they're usually going to say like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Jane Fonda in the seventies and eighties expansion of gyms. And what I do in the book is I bring it all the way back to the 19th century and show how a number of different exercises and systems began to spread around the world. So you have gymnastics going all around the world, yoga, club swinging, jujitsu, which was seen as physical culture in the 19th century. Oh, there we go. Club swing. Very much a visual feature. That's right. For those of you who are not on YouTube, you're missing out on seeing some light reflecting off the book that we're not actually talking about. One that Connor previously wrote the visual medium. Oh, stimulating. Nonetheless, you're, you're a, you're a four time published book author now, aren't you? Four times. And you know, once I hit five, if anyone's a fan of nineties wrestling, which I assume everyone is our age, uh, Booker T would say he was a five time champion. And he would say five time over and over again. So once I get that fifth book, I'm just going to wander my house screaming that at random points. Five time published author. When that happens, I'm going to have to find a Booker T shirt that says five times on there. I'm going to hook you up. I mean, right. There you go. Um, and I would say this is probably my best book, which is to immediately denigrate all of the other books that I've ever. No, no, no. It's saying that you're, you're, you're an evolving, improving, evolving over time. There you go. Well, it's one of those things where, and I said, the singular question is when people begin exercising the same. And it's something that really interests me. And I think interest the history loving portion of the, of their cult, because it's not a question of when did people in Dublin begin using the same exercises as the people in Boston, as people in Moscow, as people in Paris, Spain, pick your poison. So in the book, I look at how did these systems spread in the 1800s? Cause you have gymnastics, you have weight training, you have various forms of physical culture, calisthenics, kind of merging into these different countries. And like historians kind of get that you show them the evidence and they're like, okay, I get that. And the thing that really interests me, which does tie into your current successes is what did that do? So what I look at in the book is I say, right, here's all of the evidence that people in South Africa and South America were using Sandoz bodybuilding exercises in England. But that created something that we've never really talked about. And I call it a global body. And what I mean by that is if people around the world are beginning to use standardized exercise as they did in the 19th century, it begins to standardize ideas around fit and healthy bodies. So even if not everyone is doing the Ling gymnastics system, the Yang gymnastics system, Sando, yoga, whatever the case may be, the actual norms around what a fit and healthy body are begin to become the same. And there's a great example of this in the book. Irish man, F.A. Hornibrook. Hornibrook by name, Hornibrook by nature. Heyo. Workshop that one for a couple of days. F.A. Hornibrook. You can laugh at any point, Derek. F.A. Hornibrook sees Sando, the world's first modern bodybuilder in Ireland, 1898. He moves to New Zealand prior to it. Hey, I like that guy already. Right. You know, first, when he said Hornibrook, I was interested. But when he said New Zealand, he got my attention. He moves to New Zealand, opens up a PT studio, a Sando exercise school. A couple of years after that, he goes to Fiji. He opens up another PT studio in Fiji in the early 1900s. There's a picture in the book of him and his clients in the Fijian physical culture school. He's wearing his evening wear. They're all wearing traditional Fijian garb. And they're all doing a front double bicep pose. Let's go, Connor. Yep. Yeah. Two pages later, I have an Irish man, Martin Willis, at the same time, the same year, mid-1900s, doing a front double bicep pose. And I mean, that is my book. It's okay. People began exercising different parts of the world. But our ideas around fit and healthy bodies begin to globalize around that time. And obviously, it intensifies in the 1900s. It intensifies with Arnold. It intensifies with Jane and CrossFit and everything that's come after it. But in the 1800s, this is the first time in world history that these systems begin to spread. But it's also the first time in world history that trained bodies begin to spread across borders. So I'm very excited. I tried so hard to find many other examples of photographs of people in China and Japan and South America doing that. I didn't. But I tried really hard. And I found one. And I'm allowed. And because it's Hornerbrook, it's funny. And it'll stay with you. I'm excited to hear more. But I will say, I actually just think this is, before I lean into the comedy, it's really fascinating to me. Because, like, things are way different in 2025 than they obviously were in 1925. But in many ways, certain elements are very similar. Or at the very least, if you're a student of history, you can see where the roots set a precedent that we've just kind of kept carrying out. Like, these cultural zeitgeists didn't happen from social media exposure or official professionalization of sport because we have an international weightlifting or powerlifting or bodybuilding body. But for those things to emerge, having these global bodies, having a social media platform that is largely intrinsic to fitness, at least the visual aspects of the more bodybuilding-centric fitness, you have to already have a society that has a demand for something like that, that's on the same page, to then be connected. And to, like, the idea of going viral, that virality means that we can have something that reaches all these people who are on the same page or see things the same way. So, for that to happen, this stuff has to precede it. So, I think that's really interesting. You know, when I think about people like kind of, like old man yelling at the cloud style, Ah, these bodybuilders today, like, the real ones don't have Instagram accounts or they're just trying to promote themselves or they're, you know, they're fit influencers first, bodybuilders second. And I'm like, you know, if you really looked at what Sandiow was doing with Coco and these spring-loaded dumbbells or if you looked at, you know, the professor back then to the way science-based fitness has been denigrated now, it's all echoes of the same thing, you know. And the drama that you see, like, that was between the weeders and Bob Hoffman and the drama that you see today and just kind of the Jerry Springer of fitness, the reality TV shows, the dopamine drip of looking at the falling apart lives of narcissists, whether it's online or happening in print media, it's been there for a hundred years plus. And, um, for those who don't know, for those who are kind of a little bit newer to the cult or you've been focused on our more, I'd say science forward era of being iron culture presented by mass, um, this might be a new concept to you. And when we say physical culture, I think it's just important people to understand that you could view that in probably two broader definitions. And I'm sure Dr. Heffernan here will, will probably give his thoughts on this, or at least let me know if my concept is right. You could say that's the study of generally humans doing hard movement for non-utilitarian purposes, uh, which is not always been around. Almost all fitness stems from something that is necessary or becomes a ritualized version of it, like gymnastics with military service or, um, strong man coming out of tests of strength to see how useful you were to the tribe or village. Um, you know, full stoker, full strong, that's, you get this position on the fishing boat and the equivalent of that across many different cultures, you know, stone lifting being a test of being a man or a woman in Irish stone lifting culture, which we got to see when I was out there in Galway. Okay. We're so rare. ways for different reasons. Um, but probably in its more modern form, would you say it's right around that turn of the century, kind of 1900s understanding of quote unquote contemporary fitness? Yeah. And you're right. Which means that my sport history degree is all for nothing because I don't hold any knowledge whatsoever that others don't. Or I've just talked to you a lot and you have educated me and you're an excellent master of pedagogy. How about that? I'm asked for something, but we won't go into that. The, um, no, but you're, you're right. There's, there's different ideas around fitness and physical culture is a very like strict term that's used for the late 1890s, really up until the 1920s, 1930s. And that's our early modern fitness industry. It's when you start to see the first recognizable bodybuilding shows. Sando, Eugene Sando, world's first modern bodybuilder host his show in 1901. You know, the first world weightlifting competition in 1891. You have strength competitions for strong men and strong women, which would be kind of early precursors to powerlifting in the 1890s and early 1900s. And all of that kind of growing in that era that the kids on TikTok and Instagram might call bronze era lifters or bronze era physical cultures. The other point, which is something that I tried inspired by Adrian kind, the philosopher of fitness in the first chapter, I ask, you know, is there an innate human desire for strength? Because biologically, our bodies are designed to be strong or at least to get stronger, you know, and let me bastardize your field for a minute. I bet you can do a great job. That's that TBT. Help me out here, dude. Come on. I really need this. I'm on the cult. No, but you know, you know, we, we know this, you take on a resistance, your muscles break down. In theory, they'll get stronger barring some sort of medical, uh, problem. So at the same time, so we're able to get stronger, but at the same time, our bodies crave stability and preserving calories. So we're this mess of contradictions, but at a cellular level, we are designed to get stronger. That is different though, from when people look at the idea of play, which stems into sport. Very famous book, Homo Ludens, which talks about, you know, this innate human desire for play. And I ask, is there an innate human desire for strength? If there's not an innate human desire for strength, our societies are based or have historically been based around the idea that we need to rely on our physicality. And what's interesting is you, and the first chapter of the book looks at, you know, thousands of years of religious texts, medical texts, military texts, educational texts, talking about why we need to be fit and strong. In the 1800s, we don't need to be as fit and strong anymore because we have industrialization. We have people moving into office jobs, moving away from agrarian and fishing societies into cities. So the actual need to be strong diminishes. So what do we do? We start to introduce artificial systems of getting stronger. Gymnastics, weight training, calisthenics, yoga, jiu-jitsu, stone lifting, weight training, club swinging, all of these things, which is now the modern parallel. Because like, in theory, we don't really have to, like, I can get on an electric scooter if I want to give myself a brain concussion at a high speed. You know, I can go to my office, I can get an elevator, I can sit down, I can order food directly to my desk. I can eliminate the need for a lot of physical health. If I get an IKEA flat pack, I can hire someone from my phone to come to my house and build said IKEA flat pack. And while I watch and go, yeah, I would have used that Allen key wrench, I would have done that as well. You know, but at the same time, our societies are continually trying to push us into moving. And the physical culture movement, in particular in the 1890s, is at, like, this high point of, well, we don't need to be fit and strong ever again. You know, even soldiers, they're saying, well, like, we have machine guns now, so, like, we're good. You know what I mean? Like, you know, you eat that extra. They didn't have the candy industry that we had. You eat that extra licorice. I feel like licorice has been around for centuries. I think they had your basic, like, caramelized sugar type stuff that was pretty. Right, yeah. Like, you know, the World Fair, you go there, cotton candy, like, did stuff. Yeah, I mean, they weren't quite with funnel cake technology. But I feel like you could get some pretty good sweets in World War I, you know? The funnel cake technology had not yet reached the pivotal point that we were at now. And flan was just a pipe dream at that point, of course. It's movable. Hmm. But you had, I'm getting distracted. You had, though, this push in the 1890s and early 1900s for people to move, be fit, be healthy. And then you had people introducing solutions into that, like, buy my dumbbells, buy my equipment, buy my workout course, get a gym membership, get a gym subscription. And to your point about the long tail of fitness, when you look at the physical culture industry, which emerged in the 1890s, that provides the script and the playbook, which still exists today. Like, I love fitness and the fitness industry, but its marketing has not evolved from the 1890s. Because you look at, I know you know this, a bodybuilding course from Eugene Sandow in 1900. It's be a better man, perfect your body. Here are my measurements. Track your measurements. See if you can reach, you know, my standard. You have to use my specialized equipment, my specialized workout. This will make you a better man, a better husband, a better student. You can cure yourself from incurable diseases just using physical culture. You have the judicious use of facts and figures. 98% of all of Sandow's clients were cured of an illness, including cancer, using physical culture alone. He had doctors endorsing him. And it's not just Sandow. You have all these people doing this. Charles, that's exactly. But even from Sandow to Bernard McFad, you know, Sajan Moss, you had a number of people who, Alan Calvert certainly as well, who are pushing these workout systems and modalities. And you also have the rivalries. Like, Sandow sues Josef Salai because he said, you stole my dumbbell pad. And he literally destroys that man's life. He sues him. He gets him blackballed from the physical culture industry. He's an Austro-Hungarian writer and coach living in London. 10 years later, he'll actually donate money to Salai's, like, relief fund. And someone sees him on the street and they're like, we need to do a fundraiser. And Sandow, I will, I will save that man. You're like, you are the worst type of meathead. But all of those systems exist. And the marketing of it exists. And the idea of how do I get people involved? Well, we're going to do before and after pictures. We're going to do measurements. We're going to do bodybuilding shows. We're going to do nutritional supplements. You see all that in the 1890s. And in a global context, what's really fascinated me in this book was looking at Sandow. Eugene Sandow was born in Prussia. He moved to England in the 1880s and he sets up an empire there. He does world tours. He goes to the United States. He goes to Ireland. He goes to Australia, South Africa, New Zealand and India. I found Sandow's books and workout equipment being sold in Japan where he never visited, China where he never visited, parts of South America. So his stuff is all over the world, even in places that he'd never stepped foot in before social media, before what we would see as a mass or modern fitness industry. So not only is his equipment being sold around the world, his marketing is also being sold around the world. Yeah, the stuff he's selling and the way he's selling it, it's all become homogenized. You know, yeah, you like following, you know, success leaves clues is a big thing. That's not just what athletes do. It's a huge part of what businesses do. So I did it. It doesn't surprise me, but I find that fascinating. I want to take a step back. What motivated you to want to write this book, Connor? How badly I'd written the other three books. No, and one of my favorite, I wrote a small pamphlet, The History of Physical Culture. I said this to you off air. One of the quotes legitimately is like, yeah, the information is good in this, but whoever the editor was clearly had a brain concussion. I was like, I did play rugby badly for a number of years, so I don't think all the gray matter up here is working, but I didn't think it was that bad. But one of the things that motivated me to write the book was my fascination with how fitness spread across borders. So I wrote a book about physical culture in Ireland, and I kind of talked about, well, Irish men in the 1890s and Irish women were reading like French physical culture magazines, American bodybuilding magazines, English bodybuilding magazine. I wrote a book on Indian club swinging, which is one of the first kind of modern fitness fads. Yes, there we go. And that's all about how this form of exercise, which originated in India, Pakistan and Iran, goes to Britain in the 1820s. And from the 1820s to the 1850s becomes a global practice. People are swinging clubs around the body for health. And then I was asked a very simple question is, why was it just club swinging? And I realized it wasn't just club swinging. It was gymnastics. And it wasn't just gymnastics. It was yoga. It wasn't just yoga. Jiu-Jitsu was spread as physical culture. It wasn't just Jiu-Jitsu as physical culture and bodybuilding exercise. So I became fascinated by this, but also by how fitness practices became similar. But then I also became really interested in, well, what didn't spread? And so some of the things that I found, which did surprise me was, you know, weightlifting is a sport in the 1890s, but it's not a global sport because the French refused to lift using the Italian weightlifting rules. The Italians refused to use the British rules. Even though weightlifting is in the first modern Olympics in 1896 and again in the 1900s, there's no set rules for weightlifting until the 1920s. And really, that's just because the Germans and Austro-Hungarians have been banned from weightlifting and other modern sports because the whole First World War thing, upsie-dupsie. So they were banned from modern sports. And when they were out of the picture, the French came in and said, OK, this is what we're doing. So like weightlifting didn't spread. Stone lifting didn't become a popular practice, even though people would travel to lift stones. There's a story of George Hackenschmidt visiting someone in Germany and lifting his special, you know, strongman lifting stones. Stone lifting was part of the Paris Olympics. They would literally, as in the gymnastics session, as A-50 kilo of stone. What year was the Paris Olympics overhead? It was 1908. I can check these things. But early 1909. It's kind of unfortunate how, like, we generally see things in fitness as always progressing towards the current place we are. But I think people forget that there are decades-long periods where there's kind of a recession, literally and figuratively, before things then move forward in history. If they do. And they don't always, you know, like, when we say society, like, we are often talking about the, like, nations that have inherited prior societies that literally collapsed and don't exist anymore. And there are periods where things go away. And that happens within many segments of society, like fitness or stone lifting. I think it's really cool that David Keown is almost single-handedly, of course, he would give a lot of credit to a lot of people around him, resurrected a history that never went anywhere, as an example, but was stamped out by, you know, the colonial influence of Britain on Ireland. And, like, it's great that it's coming back, but it did go away for centuries, you know? And I think that's just a really interesting thing to remind people of, because sometimes we kind of have this distant view on history generally. But then we can also have this close view to what's going on currently, and that basically you can just tell if someone's more cynical or optimistic on how they view it, and what they're queued into, and what sources they're getting information from. But I think it's just a really important thing to kind of understand. Like, this is not a straight line. And this is actually why I'm very passionate about the value of history for people in the fitness industry. If you walked into any gym in the 1860s, you would see Indian clubs. And that would not matter if you were in North America, in Europe, in South America, in parts of Africa and Asia. Indian clubs were part of the majority of gym cultures. By 1890s, they don't exist. But, you know, like, within reason. So you have the dominant fitness paradigm in a global context, before this is even like a global industry. And they don't exist. And they certainly don't exist. Listen, there's some people on Instagram, because there's always some people on Instagram who are like, I've taken this traditional, you know, blah, blah. Some of them are very, there's a guy called Paul who's amazing. He's a real one, to quote common. But you see a lot of people doing things that are like, this is the way that things should be done. This is the way, this is the best way to be fit. This is the best way to be healthy. And then that goes extinct. And actually, an episode yourself and the other Eric, who I will eventually meet. I'm not comparing them, but I feel like I've been with daddy Eric for quite a long time. And mommy Eric left for cigarettes. And I've never actually met. I'm starting to think it's you with like two different masks. Anyway, you know, you did that episode with Jim about the previous eras of evidence-based lifting. And you build and you build and you build. But there are moments in each of those eras where something is the dominant way of doing things. And that can die out. So like I wrote an article many, maybe a year or two ago, on the history and evolution of the back squat in the US. And the point of that was, if you understand the history of this movement, you will understand that it has never been a set movement pattern. There has never been a single agreed upon way to back squat. And that for fitness professionals should give you the utmost freedom on how to choose exercises that suit your client or your specific needs. And I think if you understand that exercise has, the way people exercise has always been contested, that should free you up so that you are not a knees over toes guy, no matter what the case is. Or, you know, the knees can't track over the toes, no matter what. Or the bench always has to be down here. Or we always do three sets of five. Or we always do, it should actually free you up and give you encouragement to look at things holistically and have a big toolbox because you're not, there's no one agreed upon metric or way of doing things. And that's what this book, I think, is lovely to see how these things literally were created in the 1800s. And even at that point of creation, they were really controversial. There's a point in the book where I talk about a literal dispute over pommel horses and parallel bars that goes to the Prussian government because some people want to bring parallel bars into the Prussian Gymnastic Institute for Soldiers. And some people don't. They have a multi-year government inquiry in this and have court debates that are so contentious that people are asked to leave the court all over whether or not we should use parallel bars. So it's always been contested. And rather than being cynical about that, and I do have my cynical days and my cynical hat, it's a rainbow because it's ironic. It can, I think, give people a lot of freedom. And it can also free you from, if you look at the marketing side of things, how these messages have just been regurgitated again and again and again. But I really like your point about, you know, these things can't disappear. They can rise in prominence. Like even the sport of weightlifting, if there wasn't a First World War, we won't go into what that would have meant for geopolitics. But it could have meant for weightlifters that, you know, instead of the clean, the snatch and the press, as the military press was an Olympic lift up to the 1970s, it could have been a one-handed lift. It could have been, anyhow, it could have been, you know, kettlebells. It could have been lifting for wrecks. It could have been lifting for endurance. All of these things were things that were tried out. It could have been a deadlift, which was used in 1891. Yeah, the also part of the thing when we had a clip on to talk about that. Yeah, yeah, I understand. Might not be this weird niche thing. It might be the dominant way of expressing yourself and weightlifting, which I can't even really imagine if that was the dominant view. Because we're so siloed, right? And just as a small aside, again, for those who maybe are not super keen on the historical, you know, third of iron culture. Give me two minutes just to shout at them. They'll come around. I can bribe them. You understand how fitness works. Yes. You do. Pencil neck geeks. Okay. Sorry. Well, actually, almost that attitude is, I think why we do get segmenting is because, like, if you listen to a lot of people, when science comes up, they will view it as almost a dismissal of the wisdom of the prior generation. Or they will see these young kids, like, they're disrespecting the old school. Why are we trying to reinvent the wheel? We know what works. And I think it's really a mistake to not see how synergistic understanding historical and scientific data can be. Because the limitations of sports science are notable. And, of course, the limitations of well-researched and historically curated anecdotes, which is essentially what the record is. If we want to use it for, hey, what should I do as a bodybuilder, are. But they go so well hand in hand. Like, if you come across scientific research or someone communicating science, because this is more likely where it happens, in very, very black and white terms, and it directly conflicts with what really seemed to work for literally centuries, then you know at the very least the claim is too strong. Right? And I think history keeps you grounded in reality. That, you know, before people were influenced by the most recent study coming out, they kind of figured out, did this work? And I'm not saying that what bodybuilders were doing in 1950 was the best or better. But it got the job done, and it helps you know what is possible. Or at the very least, when certain people with these dogmatic views in fitness, which always is going to be happening, have very, very limiting views or claims about what is optimal or how you can get there or what you should be doing or what you should not be doing. You can be like, yeah, but I'm pretty sure for centuries people were squatting that way. Or I'm pretty sure for centuries people were training that way. Or hold on, for four decades straight, people were training with full body and upper lower splits and with a higher frequency and volume and only free weights. But now I need to prop my arm against the back of a cable machine to get a decent, you know, bicep growth? Maybe, but maybe not. Yeah. And a really nice example of that was when we were in Metroflex and we visited the gym of Roddy Coleman and we were talking to the owner and Ronnie's training partner. And it was really interesting talking to you about that because the way, at a surface level, one could say that the way our accounts trade is very different to the culture in Metroflex. But then when you strip back and you look at, there are core tenants in both. And we did talk about this and we're like, you know, okay, Eric might not train like branch Warren in a way that might injure himself. Still the funniest cut scene ever. People are too young to remember generation iron and France runs like, I've never got injured a day in my life. And then he hops on a horse to ride away and the horse kicks him off the back. The timing. It's the ideal. And I like branch. It was just, it was like a over the top comedy. But, you know, when we talked about this, like, okay, so the, the sets and reps and exercises are different, but there's a core, there's a core joining together in effort and consistency and patience over time, but progressively pushing yourself. And that is where I think that history can come in handy where you can say, well, okay, well, there's success leaves clues, you know, and that we know that there's an intensity of effort is needed. But then it can be applied to what this generation understands and knows and how that can work. And also an understanding of, okay, let's look at say the 1970s and you look at Arnold and Franco and Zane and all of these people. But if you don't realize that they grew up doing weightlifting, like Olympic weightlifting, because that was a dominant paradigm. That explains a lot, actually, outside of drugs and everything else, why their physiques and their physique standards are very different. Because in 30 years and now people don't grow up doing Olympic weightlifting. They grow up doing either powerlifting or just straight into bodybuilding. So obviously they're going to be different. And obviously the standards are going to be different and the metrics are going to be different. But if you don't understand that and you're just like, well, well, golden era looks better than the present day. And it's like, okay, but if you strip all nuance out of this, you get a really black and white understanding of fitness. And fitness has never been black and white. And the core tenets that you can agree upon is it's important to be physically active. And I can go back to the Bhagavad Gita. I can go back to the Bible. I can go back to the Quran. I can point to any religious text which talks about the need for a healthy mind and a healthy body. We can look at old military records. We know that a fit and healthy body, whatever that means, some form of trained body is generally conducive to insert outcome here. That intensity of effort is needed, patience is needed, and some form of progressive resistance is needed. And then after that, it is for what purpose. And when you look at the history, you'll realize that what purpose has always changed. When Sandow is promoting bodybuilding, he's promoting it for people who have never done weight training or bodybuilding in their lives. They don't want to be overly muscular. They're not competing in bodybuilding because there's only like three real major bodybuilding shows in the early 1900s. They just want to look better naked, genuinely. When you look at the 1940s and Mr. America, John Grimmick, he's a trained weightlifter who's moving into bodybuilding. So what's his purpose is to be a good weightlifter and a great bodybuilder. When you move into the 1970s, you know, Arnold, it's all about the body and bodybuilding. But he spent years indoctrinating himself with powerlifting and weightlifting and now bodybuilding. The what outcome has always shifted. So it's actually not fair to compare different heroes, different physiques in that vein because the metrics that they have tried to hit have never been the same across time. Even powerlifting, for example. And you could say, well, it's been standardized squat bench deadlift over time. But no, even the weight categories have changed. Depth standards have changed. Equipment standards have changed. Even something as objective as powerlifting or weightlifting, the outcome and the desired outcome has always been different. And the technology and mechanisms have changed. And this is a long-winded way of saying it is dangerous to box in your thinking. And it is dangerous to be dogmatic within fitness because the history of fitness shows that things have always been evolving. And fitness has always been like jazz. It's always in reaction to what came immediately before it. And if you pretend like it's always been the same, you're going to have a bad time, to quote South Park. Yeah, and more importantly is you'll start to feel disillusioned and not a part of a community that you've really felt a sense of belonging to and that's given you a lot of agency. Like there are a few Facebook groups that I don't participate in but I follow. It's just people sharing a bunch of pictures of old-school bodybuilding and lifts from a prior era of powerlifting. And it's like 80% I love it. It pops on my feed and I'm like, oh, I had no idea about this champion or wow, I've never seen that picture of Sergio Oliva. And then 20% it's a bunch of people who are just talking crap about the current era. Some of them hating on the level of drug use. Some people saying, you know, bring back the true golden era of natural bodybuilding. Why are these guys getting shredded? This looks terrible. They look sick. Like, you know, I catch some heat from the old-school guys. Like, yeah, you look better 10 pounds heavier. And I'm like, dude, I'm competing. Like, you know, like. Yeah, there's a spores. Yeah. And, and like, I could see the physiques better when they were running 11 second 100s. You know, it's like, dude, like. You're. Or, or people who, uh, like I've even had people who are, it gets to the point where they get out of touch. Like, um, there was a comment about depth on one of these old lifts from like, kind of like the. Because, man, powerlifting has changed so much just in the last 15 years, 20 years, right? And there was, this person was like a contemporary powerlifting fan. Like, Westside is still their conception of the popular version of, of powerlifting. And someone was, basically said, I don't know if that was the standard in the bar or whatever. And they're like, well, who even cares about IPF lifting? And I was like, everybody now? Like, that is the whole sport. Like, the Fed that this was done in doesn't even exist anymore. And half of those guys are dead. And they didn't leave a legacy. You know, like, there, there, there's, there's a, there's a Netflix video. Which, which is great. And I'm not, I'm not shitting on the Westside, guys. There's a tremendous amount of history there. And they did, you know, mold the modern culture. But, I mean, I, I just can't imagine personally. With all the time and effort and investment and rich exchange. Giving and receiving from the powerlifting community. To 20 years from now being like, well, you guys don't know nothing. It's all about when I got a Sitco was the, you know. You know, like, it, it, it would just be like a tragic end. And I think it's something that you do, you don't have to do. You can stay opting in and you don't have to constrain something wonderful to not let it grow. And I think if you understand, I think, I think this is why history is important. Because historians could be like this. But I actually find in personal experience, most of the time, they're not. Or at least on their best day. Because they understand the fluidity of it. And they understand it isn't just like people making choices. Because it is, especially in fitness or competitive sport. It's always people responding to the constraints that are in front of them. You know, like, you know, like Bob Paris being like, I never wanted to be this big. You know, I was chasing this. But what was demanded of me to place higher, right? Or like, frankly, like if we think about weightlifting technique and how it's changed. You know, and like the way Tommy Kono taught it versus now. Like, there was a rule against the bar touching your body. On the front side of your body. So, like, you will probably know who this is. You know Precious McKenzie? Yes. Yeah. So, famous weightlifter. And, you know, he's actually, he was an international figure moving from his home country. And eventually settled and became like a national treasure of weightlifting here in New Zealand. He came out to North Sport Olympic Weightlifting one time. And he was showing like, like, just to, because that's where he was, you know, from, from originally. And kind of where he was involved. And now he's involved. And he's like this icon of the sport. But he was competing decades ago. And he started actively trying to teach and correct one of the lifters there. Like, no, you need to jump forward. And. It prompted this discussion. And this very uncomfortable discussion. Because even to the young lifters who were, you know, decades removed from his era. There's a sense of veneration. And you want him to be the man. Like, oh, I want to learn something. And I remember when I, you know, rest in peace. When I got to see Tommy Kono in person. I think in 2010. He did a seminar at Body Tribe. Chip Conrad's old place in Sacramento. It was awesome to see. And you want to hold him on a pedestal. Because they come from an era that formed your current era. Like, you literally would not be there without their influence to some degree. Or it wouldn't be the same. But they have concepts that are no longer relevant. And it doesn't necessarily mean that it was better then, worse now, better now. You just understand, like, oh. Like, if you can't brush the front of your body with the bar. The bar is going to be forwardly displaced. So you have to jump forward to stay underneath it. It's not just like, oh, God. Like, never meet your heroes. They actually didn't know what they're doing. He was just competing in an era where he was less competitive. And he had good genetics. Like, no. No. Like, they were adapting the constraints of their time. Yep. We're adapting the constraints of our time. But we're still quintessentially and fundamentally expressing that same human need and desire to be strong. It just looks different. And, God damn it, just get with the time. It's because then you can still connect with that same core beautiful thing that makes the iron the iron. So, rant over. Go ahead. No, but this is the important thing, right? So, I, admittedly, I don't usually do shitty things. But I was like, I wrote an article on my website about, you know, why did bronze-era lifters have small chests? A serious question to a stupid, or a serious answer to a stupid question. You know, and people would be like, oh, because, you know, in the 1890s and physical culture era, you know, a big chest was feminine. That's why, you know, that's why they didn't do it. And I politely point out in the article that the bench press hadn't been invented yet. And that to do a chest exercise, you would do a pullover and press, where you'd get into a wrestler's bridge and you'd kind of do a pullover while you were on the ground and then you would press. But then even that got bastardized because it was a competitive lift. So, rather than pushing from the chest, you would lower it down to your belly and kind of belly press it up. So you'd almost kind of like hump the bar up into the air, smashing your belly into the- Yeah, it was like a pullover glute bridge thrust, hit, press. Yeah, yeah, lift, yeah, pullover, yeah. And- But by the way, Brett Matreras invented the glute bridge. I don't know if you knew that. Patent pended. Yes. Patent pending? I probably have. I have a rat. I have a rat. On the machine. That man has done more for asses than anyone else. That's- In modern history. That is quite the claim. And I know one person who has been knighted who would disagree with that. Uh, sir, mix a lot. So, uh, you will, you will- I'll take that back. Okay. Brett, I love- Dave, you did get back because of Brett. But it's important because if you don't know the history, you're like, oh, well, I'm going to A, take on this really stupid, uh, you know, explanation. No offense. Some offense. But B, you're not going to actually appreciate how exercise selection is inherently defined by the equipment that you have access to and how that equipment availability will impact the kind of body that you can- Yep. You can build. I remember once being very privileged to train with Frank Zane and he said, you are the outcome of the equipment in your gym. He was like, no matter what, you are- Fundamentally, you are the outcome of the equipment that you train with. And at the time, I was like, I don't know, that's a weird thing to say. But then, you know- A hundred- Right. A couple of different gyms. He's a hundred percent right. You train in different gyms and for different reasons. And you realize that important. So when you don't accept those confines, when you look at, say, okay, the early 1900s, the dumbbell and the barbell begin to be popularized and mass-produced and standardized. And we begin to see more and more people shifting away from dumbbell pressing in strength competitions to barbell pressing in strength competitions. And kettlebells begin to kind of fade out. They're still being sold, but they're not being used in competitions because once barbells get standardized, we can increase the weight and we can get more weight onto the back. And that fundamentally changes people's bodies, fundamentally changes sports, fundamentally changes the conception of strength in sport. But if you ignore that, it creates problems in your thinking. And even you look at the path not taken. There's a moment in the book where I talk about Gustav Sander, who created really the first modern gym equipment. This is in the late 1890s, early 1900s. Anyone look up Zander gyms. I don't know. Z-A-N-D-E-R. He was a European inventor. His equipment was sold all around the world. He won design and business competitions for his equipment. He had health studios across the United States in the early 1900s before they went out of business. And you look and you have like early prototypes of like lap machines, chest machines, leg extensions, leg curls. People would say that Knopfless, which revolutionized fitness in the 1960s, was largely borrowing from Zander. Arthur Jones said he didn't see Zander's equipment until after he'd created the Knopfless machine. But it was weird, though, because they seemed to be based on the same thing. Well, Arthur Jones was always a very truthful figure from the scientific experiment. He did with Casey Viator to his completely unique and non-influenced marketing strategies and inventions. I mean, so who are we to? Where is the lie, Eric? Where is the lie? That's right. I don't understand why people would ever denigrate such a kind man. Yeah, but there's a moment. And Randy Rouch's book is interesting. There's a moment, though, in fitness where like Zander's equipment is beginning to become popular. So what would have happened if Zander's equipment had become super popular? And Alan Calvert, who creates Milo Barbell in 1904, the first mass manufacturer of dumbbells and barbells, and completely changes the game in terms of promoting strength support. What if he goes out of business in 1905? And the people who are selling fitness equipment then are Sandow, which is light spring grip dumbbells, you know, no heavier than five pounds. Squeeze it really, really hard. Or Zander, who's promoting health equipment. Or if it's an older health lift, which is partial dead. Like there are all of these roads. Yeah. Does Bob Hoffman even take the same two jokes? Exists. Yeah, exactly. And what's that do for Olympic weightlifting? What's that do for bodybuilding? And is there Mr. America? But like, just because we've ended up where we are right now, doesn't mean that was a foregone conclusion. That was the thing that was so interesting for me in the book was looking at these clashes between these systems. And there's no reason, in theory, why one would get more popular than the other. It's just the ebbs and flow of time in societies. But like, each of these things fundamentally shape where we end up. Yep. And this is where I think it becomes very pivotal to understand, even a little, like, even like an itty bitty, teeny tiny piece of history. Because I know in the last Mass article, you had a historical video. And it was really, no, but it's really cool. Because people I was looking at, and then looking at the feedback, this is so awesome. I can't believe. And yeah, if you like titrate a little bit of history, you'll connect it and you'll begin to see fitness in a much more open, fluid, constructive way. Because I think that fitness is at its most beautiful when it's art and science. You know, when it is Vince Garanda, the bodybuilding coach in the 1960s with Larry Scott inventing the preacher curl, because they're like, maybe there's a better way of getting that, you know, getting that peak on the bicep or Garanda to stay with them. Doing mad stuff with lateral raises and dips and sternum pull-ups and all that. That's incredible. Not because he... Motorcycle roads. Yeah. Exactly. But all of these things where he's like, there's no rules. Like there are certain movement patterns, like pull, press, push, et cetera. But there are no rules as to how I... Like there are no 10 commandments as to how this absolutely has to look and how to be and how to feel. And Garanda and a lot of that generation, because the old generation is better, Eric, just by the way. Yep. But like a lot of them were dogmatic, but there was a sizable number who knew their history, but use that history to free themselves up to do things that would achieve the outcome that they wanted in the present. Yeah. I think the, like the 70s and 80s and that tension between Wieter and Hoffman, I find really interesting because there is this individual level desire to specialize. I really, I actually just want to be a bodybuilder. And then there is the structural opportunity to do it that way. And then there, that creates the reward system and the technology becomes available for a Garanda to be like, well, okay, what if we did just train to maximize muscular size? What would that look like? And then it becomes this, you know, you've got these people who've been embedded in this way of training forever and they start to explore. And I really wonder what that was like, you know, because you brought up Frank Zane. Like if you look at some of his posts today, because he's been, people look back on him and they go, oh, he is the, the aesthetic, uh, version. He, he's now conceptualized as the, the, the precursor to the more aesthetic focus, classic physique style thing. But he shared that same history. There's actually a hilarious, I'm almost positive, you know, about this commercial. It's a hilarious commercial. I want to say in the early eighties, uh, promoting Pabst Blue Ribbon beer. Yes. Of all things. Right. And. Classes bear around. Yeah. And, and, and, and they, and, and remember that he is a three times Mr. Mr. Olympia at this point and reasonably famous because he was in the overall pumping iron sphere at the peak of the fitness airstream. Yeah. So you're thinking, okay, well, if they were going to promote this guy at this time, what would they do? They would have him promoting bodybuilding. Um, but guess what he's doing? Olympic weightlifting. They're doing, he's doing a clean and jerk. And then he enjoys a Pabst Blue Ribbon afterwards. So he's kind of like generally kind of just a lifting, you know? And it might seem like, like in today, if we saw a video like that, we would be like, oh, the corporate execs don't know what the hell that they're doing, or they think bodybuilding is too gross or too sexually explicit. And that to be clear, I don't know what went into the story of that. That might've been the case, but also two things were very apparent. He actually knew how to do a clean and jerk was the first thing I noticed that it was very competent. And I really don't think there were probably any bodybuilders competing as early as the sixties. When I think he did his first show, seventies and eighties who hadn't entered a weightlifting meet, right? Or, or, or an odd lift meet or something like that. I think Arnold, if you look at his history, he'd done like 10 dozens of them, you know, it was just weightlifting, powerlifting, just downlifting. It's just part of it, right? It's part of the thing. And it really was this cultural revolution. The idea of just doing bodybuilding, not having athletic points, separating it. Um, I think, you know, people just don't realize, like, another really thing, interesting thing, like NPC, the national physique committee, it's an odd name, right? It was literally the subcommittee in the AAU underneath strength sports for physique sports, because it was seen as one spoke on the wheel of it. And that name is retained today. So like, I think it's easier for us now to look at this post by Frank Zane and be like, Oh, if you want to improve your silhouette and have a, you know, this, this kind of aesthetic physique, you need to train the peripheral muscles, like your forearms, your calves, and, you know, don't let your waist get thick. And he's talking about things that, that makes sense from kind of that aesthetic lens. And then we co-opt him into what we think is the modern conception of that classical aesthetic physique. But, um, I tell you what, as someone who's a historian, I'm looking at these things when I see like, Oh, classic physique, and you have to hit like the side chest a certain way, or you have to open your hand on the back door by something like, what are we doing here? This isn't classic. Like, this is just like, this is what it's like, what we currently think of as classic, right? So becoming exposed to just a little bit of history, it can help you better understand what came before and contextualize those experience. And I just don't think most people would guess that there's probably a weightlifting meet out there where Frank Zane was clean and jerking, probably close to 1.2, 1.3, 1.5 times his body weight, right? Like that was a good looking clean and jerk. I don't think there were real plates. I don't think he was like, this is what I'm going to do, but you just don't get to be a competitive bodybuilder at a high level in the sixties and seventies without doing weightlifting. It's, it's just, it was part of the way that he was brought up and you can see it in that ironically, beer marketing. Yeah, exactly. So who among us has not been on a weightlifting platform? You're like, this would be much better if I was hammered. Perhaps blue ribbon. I know. I know my coach when I trained with Olympic weightlifting thought that. At least he had it after. It was a post-workout, uh, imbibing. So. But you know, if you look at like Tom Platz, you know, like the quintessential, the quintessential, like mass monster, let's say from the waist down. Um, but that sounds far too sexual. The quad father, where did he learn to back squat? Yeah. Olympic weightlifting. That's right. And he's, he's very clear on that. And that's why it is interesting. We look at, so the kind of modern fitness industry has been around 200 years, but the specialization era has been kind of like the eighties to now. And really you would say it's intensified massively from the two thousands to now because more spaces have opened up for powerlifting, you no longer. And I say this was so much low for earlier, but powerlifters, you no longer have to be a motorcycle driving hell's angel. Like, you know what I mean? Like, you know what I mean? Like, full fast over heavy weights, uh, multiply after. Yeah, exactly. You no longer have to be that. Like even the Olympic weightlifters, you no longer have to like dig an early grave for yourself. Cause you're doing the Bulgarian system, you know, like on the, the bodybuilders, you no longer have to do weightlifting and powerlifting or, you know, or general, just training with machines. Cause there's no bodybuilding clubs nearby, or there's no access to bodybuilding and there's no bodybuilder in your town. So even that has been like a leap, like a really significant leap in that specialization period, but it's still all filtered through all of these different, you know, eras and pathways. And I think sometimes that's where it is just fascinating to take stock. And we've talked about, you know, your own career in the last year where you're like, I needed to stop and take stock. How difficult it is to do that. Yeah. And certainly if you're looking at your, even just a sporting context, like even natural bodybuilding. And you talk about the people being like, oh, they're shredded now and it doesn't look as good as 10 years ago. I was like, but why are they shredded? Yep. Because the sporting standards have changed. Equipment, exercise, information has changed. It's a sport. So people are pushing to extremes because that is how you stand out. That's how you get a podium place. And we need to account for that nuance within this because fitness did used to be one thing. Certainly our modern fitness industry is physical culture. You're right, Eric, you would do your Olympic lifts. You would maybe do some power lifts. You would do some bodybuilding. You would maybe train like Tommy Kono, the Olympic weightlifter would do some months in bodybuilding training, some months in Olympic weightlifting. He encouraged other people to do that. He was proficient in all of those different modalities. Whereas now we've gone into one modality. And I think though, because we've gone into one modality, there is a danger in thinking this is the only way or the right way. And I know we've talked about that, but that's where I think it is so fascinating to look at both the 1800s, but the 1900s and the 2000s and just see half naked men and women. Amen. Across multiple. Oh, listen, all the naked men and women in my book are dead now. Hey. So it would, if you're into dead. Long not to study them. Yeah. Dead naked people. Then you have a, you under the market, Connor. Tell you what? Um, no, no, no. But in all seriousness, I think in many ways, this book is kind of at the heart of the mission statement of iron culture, kind of uniting the tribes, understanding the different places. And it's not the elimination of the tribes, right? It's the uniting of the tribes because we're acknowledging that specialization is necessary and it's an evolution that is not necessarily a step back. If your values are one, ones that are a little more holistic or you don't, or you want to draw the line in the sand differently for where, where health or performance are, that is all good. And, but, but I think to your point, Connor, it's like right now, we don't have people who are specializing, uh, by choice. And then they have kind of like the Renaissance man or woman or person view of all of the options and where they came from. They just get exposed to one style and they also co-opt whether they realize it or not, the limiting beliefs and the lack of creativity and approaches that come from that community. So you're closing off training, uh, nutrition and lifestyle approaches by being hyper-specialized without that fundamental underlying knowledge. And it was something that I'm really grateful for that I've been exposed to so many different things and became a student of the sport because I make progress faster because I'm more open-minded to trying certain things because I'm not buying into certain dogmatic beliefs that are purely from one subculture like hit and bodybuilding or the Bulgarian system and weightlifting or, um, you're benching with, with your lats and powerlifting because you're focused on, you know, the, the, the multiply limitations of bench press or, or, you know, high frequency is training a muscle group twice per week. And hold on, do we have to view it as, as, as a muscle group? And what about all these weightlifters are like, what I trained this morning, you know? So, so I think all of these things are, are consequences we don't really recognize and that we've talked about on iron culture. But if you want to see like, how do we get here and how do you have that perspective of being the Renaissance person while also deciding to specialize? Cause that's just what you're going to do in the modern era to, at least to some degree. And that's just also going, well, I like this aspect of fitness more. I think your book again, when fitness, when global, the rise of physical culture in the 19th century is a excellent way to kind of start that journey and get an overview and understand not just cool stories of what it was like, but how did we get here? Which I think is a really important conceptualization. So, and I think you've done a really good service, not only to the lifting community, but I would say if you enjoy iron culture and you like listening to us talk about this and you are literate, but there's at least a 30% chance if you're someone who follows Connor and I, then you will I've loved the latest OECD. Yeah, yeah, exactly. You will probably really enjoy this book or is it available as an audio book, Connor? Not yet. My dulcet Irish tones remain solely for the cult. Well, you can have almost anything read by AI quite well. So I would advise you to ask an AI app to read in a lovely Irish accent to you when fitness went global. No, no, no, Christopher Walken. I'm good with, so when fitness went global. Yeah, no, that's perfect. No, I like that. Yeah. I knew you had that one in the back pocket, just ready to go. Always. You gotta have the, the Christopher Walken impression in the back pocket. Or even though. Like a real person. Come on. Get that there. Okay. Yeah. So singing the praises of when fitness went global. Uh, I definitely encourage everyone to check it out. Um, Connor has not yet sent me a copy and I'm not a good enough friend to actually purchase it and support him. So I haven't read it yet, but I know he wrote it and I have read his other books. So I will say I, I, I can guarantee you based upon no evidence whatsoever, but his historical track record that it's going to be awesome. Um, but in all seriousness, I actually would love to, to read this in a new year. I need a, uh, a new book. I'm just coming to the end of a fiction book I'm reading and I, I could, I could do me some good physical culture history, but I encourage everyone to check it out. Um, and, uh, and yeah, do a little learning this holiday season. Yeah. Yeah. But buy it for someone you like, buy it for someone you have. Just read the history. Be curious. I just want the world to be curious, Eric. I'm right there with, be curious. I'm right there with, just ask questions and read. I don't care what the questions are anymore. Yes. I'm just asking questions. I mean, a lot of people said, please. Please. Yes. Yep. Connor. No, this has been an awesome discussion. Um, congratulations on the book. Um, anything else that you, you want to say before we, uh, we, we, we sign off and, and get back to our lives, you in the evening and me in the morning. Before I go and sleep about the stones that I left it today, just to encourage people to engage in history in any way. Sure. This isn't even about my book anymore, but just there's iron, uh, there's the strongmanproject.com strongmanproject.com by the Stark center. It's a free online archive where you can learn the history of individual people and get access to. A wasn't of workouts, diet stories. I'll just type in, in search for our bodybuilding strongmanproject.com is wonderful. The Stark center, UT, Texas has early runs of strength magazine. The first modern strength magazine that you can access on your phone online. You have iron game history. You have the tight tan slacks of Dan. If you type in the tight tan slacks of Sushka, I think it is. Yeah. It'll come up. And there's like 20 years of free articles from decades ago. Like literally the world is your oyster. You have rogue fitness documentaries. You have my own website, physical culture study. God, you just saw. Or how long is it going to take him to say physical culture study? At least you said it. You have Marcus of Barbell Films. You have Golden Era Bookworm. There's so much history out there in so many formats. You have podcasts, you have videos. And I say at the end, it doesn't matter if you're going to be a PT, expert scientist, sports scientist, an athlete, whatever the case may be. You know, just training by yourself. A little bit of history and a little bit of curiosity will improve you. It will improve the training that you're doing, the way you think about training, the way you interact with other people, if you apply it in a spirit of generosity. So please, for the love of God and all things holy, the old gods and the new, be curious. I think that is a fantastic final message. So Iron Cult, be curious. But there's one thing you should not be curious about and whether or not this was a monster episode, whether it deserves five stars. The answer is yes. And of course, will we be back next week? The answer is also yes. So I hope you've enjoyed this episode of Iron Culture. Please head over if you want to support the show to massresearcheru.com, where yeah, sometimes we even go into a little bit of history and we often intertwine it in the articles we write, especially if they're my articles, because it's really good to contextualize things. And then finally, I would say, hey, if you need some equipment that will last the test of time, that will be with you in new eras of history, head over to Lead FTS and use our code MRR10. And thank you so much for listening. And we will catch you next week in the next episode.