What's up everybody? Welcome back to Iron Culture. It is me. I'm Eric Dxler here alone once again. Uh Helms did not bother to show up uh as as I understand it. Still doing various travel activities relative to uh bodybuilding competition. I have not actually talked with Helms uh since his show, but my understanding via social media uh unless he has con concocted a narrative that is fundamentally untrue and gone to very great lengths to reiterate that. Uh it appears that Helms uh had a top five finish at the WNBF Taiwan Pro show. Uh which uh first of all, congrats to the good doctor Eric Helms. Uh very awesome to be taken home a medal at a pro show. Uh I saw pictures. Uh he looked awesome. His competition looked awesome. So uh really really good stuff there. My hope, this is what is not yet resolved. My hope and my prayer is that in addition to his medal, he will be given a very large novelty check and on that large novelty check will be written an even larger sum of money. So, I am not sure if that's the case, but if our next episode shows the two of us in a very elaborate studio with very clear uh technology upgrades, you can uh be assured that we had a giant windfall of cash uh due to this competition success and that we reinvested all of it into building the official Iron Culture uh studio. So, fingers crossed. I'm I'm sure the audience shares that hope with me. Um, so as long as hope uh as long as Helms is able to bring home a very massive windfall of cash from his uh recent success, then we should be able to offer you a much higher quality product uh here at Iron Culture. Now, speaking of highquality products, folks, if you want to support our friends, listen, you're part of the Iron Culture. I get it. You have needs. Uh those needs are currently not being met. And that's because you need gear. You need lifting gear. You need lifting apparel. Uh and what you have right now is letting you down in a big way. So, if you want extremely high quality lifting gear and apparel, we're talking bands, wraps, straps, you name it. Uh excellent t-shirts that will catch attention, positive attention. Make sure you go to eliteftts.com. Uh that's Dave Tates operation over there. First of all, enjoy their content. But when you're done enjoying their content, uh check out the shop, buy that highquality gear, and use our discount code, which is MRR10. That stands for Mass Research Review 10. Uh so that you can uh get a discount, help our friends, help us. Everybody wins, right? Um speaking of supporting people, if you like the show, uh make sure that you do what you can to support it if you're into that kind of thing. So like, rate, subscribe, review, share it with a friend. Uh tell everyone you know. And if you really love the show and you want to support it, always a good idea to check out the good old-fashioned Mass Research Review. Go over to massresarchreview.com. It's where we review the newest, most cutting edge research every single month. Whatever is new in exercise, nutrition, uh, and all tangential related fields, uh, we are bringing that to you the first of the month every month with written content, audio content, video content, keeping you on the cutting edge of what is new, relevant to your health, fitness, wellness, performance, physique, strength, etc. All right, folks. Uh, I am nothing if not a man of my word. Last episode, I promised I made a commitment to you that the jazz music would be back, the full countdown. And in indeed, it is back. Uh, so I'm I'm a man with many flaws, too many to count, but I have delivered the jazz, and I've been told by many that that's the best part of the show. So, uh, I'm getting a lot of appreciation in the YouTube live chat over here, and I I appreciate the appreciation. Now, here's a here's the deal, folks. Um, there are, let's see, aside from just absolute pandemonium, uh, talking about the jazz music being back, every comment so far is about a recent dust up in the evidence-based fitness world. So, um, it makes sense to address that on the show tonight. Um, it's kind of like what everybody's talking about in the evidence-based fitness space. So, um I will address it, but I'm going to zigg where other people zag. Okay, so if you're not aware, there's a whole big dust up in the fitness world. Um basically, um I'm going to mess up the names, and I don't I'm not being dismissive here. Um I famously do not consume much fitness content at all. So, I'm I'm going by the comments here. I'm hoping hoping I get everybody's names right names correct on this. So, it sounds like um a person named Solomon Solomon Nelson made a video about Mike Israel um kind of going through his dissertation and you know identifying uh a bunch of you know things like you know spelling errors, citation errors, um errors in tables whereas standard standard deviations didn't really make sense. Um, so things of that nature, but then also kind of offering broader commentary on whether or not, for example, the research was original enough to warrant passing. Uh, you know, was the research completed with adequate proficiency to warrant passing and ultimately awarding the PhD degree? You know, were there too many errors in it to to justify awarding the PhD? So, basically, uh, I think it's like a overhour long initial video. Um, and then Mike and Milo Wolf made a response video. And then there's all sorts of additional content and confusion and layers to it. Um, and so just to kind of put my cards on the table, have I consumed all of it? No. Have I consumed much of it? Also no. I'm just generally aware of who are the characters broadly, what seemed to be the claims. And as of the last time I checked in on it uh earlier today, I still didn't fully understand the situation and feel like I had enough information to chime in in a meaningful way. Um cuz you know that's that's how you do it. Uh whether you like it or not. I mean, one of the reasons that our show has painfully low listenership is that we are kind of of that um that general approach, which is let's let's not be first uh to levy an opinion. Let's wait hear you know people argue out the details of this and wait more and wait more and get all the information we need and then ultimately reach some kind of a of a conclusion. So, uh, if you came to, uh, Iron Culture, um, or specifically me, Eric Trexler, to get the, uh, hot gossip and, you know, reckless speculation and immediate knee-jerk reactions, my first question would be, uh, what are you doing here? That's never really been never really been my thing. Uh, I I don't really like to get into anything that's kind of inflammatory, gossipy, etc. uh and on the rare occasions that I do feel inclined to do that, I'm always the last uh to to the topic because I want to take in all the information and make sure I fully understand uh all the details of of what went down. So, with that being said, without knowing all the details and having a lot of confidence in exactly what went down and when and why and how, um, that doesn't mean I'm not going to talk about this, but I generally, if you've followed my content for any amount of time, uh, I much more prefer talking about ideas than people or personalities. And I much more prefer, when warranted, to talk about how to think about fitness content rather than what to think about fitness content. So, with that being said, uh until I get more information, I'm not going to sit here and just like say this is exactly what happened. Uh I'm assuming that this part of the story is not true and this is the good person, this is the bad person, and and instead of me just giving you all those kind of uh pre-digested conclusions while acknowledging I don't have all the information I would want, instead of doing that, I'm way more interested in talking about two main things uh in this podcast episode. And I think this one may end up being shorter, but usually when I say that before recording a podcast, that means it's going to be 15% longer than normal. So, so we'll see how it goes. I expect this will be a little shorter, but instead of uh, you know, diving into who did what, who said what, who's in the right, who's in the wrong, and then casting judgment on the whole situation. Um, there may be a time and a place for that, but I just want more information, and I want a minute to digest it and kind of really collect thoughts before I share them. Um, I'm more interested in a pair of questions that I will address pretty thoroughly uh on this episode. Uh, number one, what is your favorite evidence-based fitness professional's PhD really represent? Uh, and number two, if if for some reason somehow your confidence in your favorite EV evidence-based fitness professionals PhD were rocked or threatened or challenged, uh, how would that impact your view of their their content or their advice? Uh so the question really is this PhD um this kind of indicator of authority that um you know certainly does signal something to people uh in the fitness space. What does that actually really mean? What does that really represent and what does that do to the way that we take in uh the information that that's being presented by that person? So I wanted to take a minute as somebody um I do in fact have a PhD. Um, so I'm one of those people who makes fitness content and has a PhD. And uh, so I wanted to take a minute to kind of take people behind the scenes a little bit in terms of what this whole process looks like, what actually goes into it, what does it really mean? And more importantly, probably what does it not mean? And so my goal is that by the end of this episode, people will have perhaps a more measured, more nuanced perspective of how they view not just the PhD, but really any credential that is perceived uh to represent expertise in in a particular area. Um any kind of credential that leads someone to say my views on this, my perspectives, my my ideas should be given a heightened level of importance or consideration. So, we're going to talk about um where credentials come into play when we're interpreting content that's being made. So, the first question is what actually goes into a PhD, right? Because a lot of the stuff with uh with Solomon and Mike um is basically it all comes down to a dissertation document, right? And so I think it's it's worthwhile to to zoom out a little bit and discuss what actually goes into obtaining a PhD because if you look in most uh most thesis and dissert dissertation documents that I've ever reviewed or submitted um it may vary by institution but usually the dissertation will say like this is a thesis project submitted in partial fulfillment of the degree blank blank blank whether it's a master's thesis or or a PhD dissertation. And that's the terminology we use in America is thesis for a master's, dissertation for a PhD. That does vary in other regions of the world because nothing can be simple. Um so first of all, what goes into a PhD? Number one, you got to get into a PhD program. Okay. Um so someone has to decide, okay, there are in many cases limited spots here. In some cases, they may be funded spots. So, some person has decided, we're going to go ahead and at least let you into the program. Now, the barrier to entry for a PhD program can vary a lot. Um, you know, there are some PhD programs where, for example, there are very limited spots. They have a high rejection rate. uh if you get in, you will be fully funded when you're there, which means not only are you getting in, you're also essentially in a roundabout way getting like a a fully paid scholarship or fellowship to pursue your entire PhD. Uh there are going to be some programs where just the admission part alone, if you get into that program, it really says a lot at least about your competency uh leading into that program, whether you came in with a bachelor's degree or a master's degree. If it's a a highly competitive program where people are really fighting over those spots and you get in, then it at least says something to the effect of you being a a proficient student leading into that experience. Um, now, but like like I said, uh, just because someone has a PhD doesn't mean they went to that kind of program. It could be they went to a program that is um, you know, not particularly selective. Maybe they even in I've heard of some programs uh, they're less common in the sciences, but I've heard of some programs where you actually have to pay your way through it and pay out of pocket uh, to do your PhD. I've always told people, at least in my field, never pay for a PhD. Simply do not do it. Um but but there there in certain fields certainly there are programs out there where they'll basically say hey if you want to come do this and just keep paying tuition every semester. Um okay like we don't have limited spots uh you're paying out of pocket. We don't need to worry about you know filling different assistantships or or you know research positions. Like you can just come and take classes and take tests and write a dissertation and then leave. Uh so so there's a lot of variation in terms of you know is getting into a PhD program an indicator of extremely high aptitude and success or not. It really depends on the specifics of the program. Now once you're in a program what does a PhD entail? Uh it's going to involve uh some advanced coursework. So in theory this should be c usually to get uh if you're pursuing a PhD in a particular field it is broadly assumed that you have already uh demonstrated mastery of the kind of undergraduate if not master's level content within that field or at least within the key um prerequisite courses. So the idea with the PhD is that your coursework uh looks a little bit different um than it would have looked when you were doing your undergraduate coursework. So you should be taking things uh with a much greater level of depth as you're getting into it. Um a lot of times the courses just feel different. You know, a lot of times you're digging more into original research and doing more discussion and kind of higher level thinking about it more so than just kind of, you know, here's, you know, how uh mitochondria function during exercise and then take a test on that. You know, usually it's uh digging into the original research and and really kind of pushing into some more nuanced elements of of the field. In addition to your advanced coursework, you're you a PhD ought to certainly have some degree of research element to it. Um, generally speaking, you're going to do research to build skills which lead into dissertation research, which uh, you know, in theory, the PhD is intended to be a doctor of philosophy. Um, that's what the PH is for is philosophy. And so the idea is when you finish a PhD, you should have the level of research uh skill and experience to say I'm now someone who can generate new knowledge in this field. Uh so basically uh a vague way of of of uh putting this and I'm sure purists will correct me uh very aggressively on this but you could kind of think of it as like an undergraduate degree is hey you have demonstrated that you know the stuff in this field uh with a high level of proficiency and then with a master's a lot of times it it's obviously mastery of that of that information and you could also think of it as being not only do I know the content, but I'm able to kind of synthesize that content into kind of little iterations and combinations of putting things together in a way that's more advanced than the kind of we give you information, you give it back uh associated with an undergraduate degree. And then with a PhD, uh it really is uh in theory more focused on the generation of new knowledge, you know. So I understand um not just the content in this field at a high level but also the kind of uh the kind of philosophical like philosophy of science such that I can you know produce new meaningful knowledge and then finally usually there's some element of either teaching experience or practical experience that's mixed in. So a lot of people during their PhD they may teach a lot of courses they may uh instead do some kind of assistantship as a uh coach. Uh so there there's a different ways that you can do that but there's usually some kind of teaching or practical element. So, uh, a lot of the questions that have been coming up lately as people have kind of commented on this whole situation is, uh, first of all, who decides whether or not someone did a good enough job, uh, in their PhD and and that process is fairly straightforward. Uh, so you get into a program uh, which again is that first barrier to entry. At that point, uh, as a student, you're going to form a committee of faculty members, um, who are going to ultimately decide if the project you're proposing is, uh, is appropriate, if it's adequate. They're going to assess your progress as you pursue that project, and then they're ultimately going to, uh, you know, evaluate how you did um, as you defend your dissertation down the line. So, a lot of different universities have all have all sorts of different uh requirements of who can be on your committee, who must be on your committee. Sometimes you you have to have an external person who's from outside of your department or even outside of your university. Um I've seen a lot of uh research committees that are international in scope. Um so so they all different universities have their own way of kind of dictating what the composition of that uh that committee uh must be but at the end of the day that committee is who is essentially giving the student a series of red lights, green lights or yellow lights along the way. And so uh a student the committee will there will be a chair of that committee who's the student's main adviser. And I I've heard of scenarios where a student gets into a PhD program and is just not doing well from like day one, you know, and there there's always some kind of background to it. It's rarely that they're just not intelligent people. It's usually that they just don't have the passion for it or there's something going on in their life that's really detracting from them being able to kind of bring their their full awareness and presence to what they're working on. You know, more often than not, it usually has to do with stuff going on with family, stuff going on with mental health, stuff going on with physical health, there's often some kind of barrier where if you get into a PhD program and immediately things just start going really poorly, there's usually some kind of extenduating circumstance. But usually in those cases, uh, in the the chair of the of the committee will will pick up on that and start to say, "Hey, like this might not be for you. you know, it may not be maybe it's the right thing, but at the wrong time. There's all these things going on in life. Maybe you need to address those. Maybe um maybe you it doesn't seem like your heart's in this research stuff. So maybe you should do a master's and then you know move on to uh you know starting a career rather than doing a more extended PhD. So so there's you know that whole kind of like first step is just getting into the program. You start your courses. You start some preliminary research. a at that point, you know, after you do that a little bit, you're going to get to the point of actually proposing a dissertation project. And so, you're going to write up this big proposal, give it to your committee. They're going to read it over, kind of chew on it. They might grill you a little bit. Uh, usually in departments I've been in, you have to actually kind of defend your proposal in a weird way. So, um, defending it makes it sound like it's kind of final, but you basically write up your proposal, say, "Here's my research question. Here's why it matters. here's how I'm going to do it. And the committee is basically supposed to to determine at that stage, is this project worth doing? Are you really carving out a research question that is worth investigating and warrants, you know, is appropriate at a PhD level? You know, I've seen some uh I've heard of some scenarios where a doc student gets to that proposal step and the committee says, you know, this really the way it's written, it looks a lot more like an undergraduate thesis or a master's thesis. And for you to do a PhD project, we need you to go we need you to do more. We need you to go further. And it may be that you need to incorporate more lab skills. It may be that the scope of your question is too narrow. I wouldn't say too narrow, but just too small an impact. and maybe there's a way to address that in a more meaningful way. Um, but anyway, it's the committee's job at that proposal stage to decide assuming this this person uh does everything right proficiently, is this the kind of project that we would award a PhD for if it's executed well? Um and then of course the other side of that question which the the committee also is responsible for is is is this even feasible? You know, I I I have definitely heard of scenarios, especially at like a master's thesis level, where a student writes up a proposal, gives it to the committee, and the committee goes like, "Brother, it's going to take like $200,000 and like 9 years to do this study, and you have $15,000 in two years cuz it's a master's thesis." And actually, we're already 6 months into it. So, you have a year and a half. And also, you have to like finish your data collection before you analyze and write it. So you you have like 12 months basically to get this thing going if you start today. And also where's the other like $185,000 coming from? So sometimes the committee uh has to kind of push you to make it bigger. Sometimes they have to push you to tighten it up and be a little bit more um a little more practical, focus more on feasibility. Uh and so then after that, you know, the the doc student will do their thing. they will try to deliver on the project that they proposed. Do all you know collect the data, analyze the data, write up the document, give it to the committee, go defend it to the committee, and the committee will will ultimately decide basically did this student do a good enough job. Uh and generally speaking, uh it it's not to say that you cannot fail a dissertation defense. That's fundamentally not true. But there are so many barriers to entry and checkpoints along the way. It's it's highly unusual uh that a doctoral student will get to actually defending their dissertation and then the committee just says absolutely not and don't try to fix it. Just no. You're just done. Usually when that happens um basically someone I've heard of scenarios where the dissertation project just falls apart uh and just doesn't materialize. Right. So that person never gets to the defense. They they propose, they start trying to do the study, the thing just falls apart. Again, there's often usually some kind of extenduating circumstances there as well. Uh something in the family, mental health, physical health where things just don't go well and they say, "I'm I'm going to go ahead and uh and bow out here." And there is something called ABD, uh which is like I forget exactly what's all all but dissertation, I think. Um, but it basically means that you you I I I skipped a step before usually before you do the dissertation, you take your comprehensive exams, which is literally literally just exams where you are demonstrating uh that you know all the PhD level knowledge you're supposed to know. Uh so basically you you get into the program, you uh ultimately are going to learn a bunch of stuff, take comprehensive exams to show that you know what you did, you know what you're supposed to know, and you have the uh the kind of knowledge base that would warrant awarding the PhD. And then the dissertation piece is off on the side. There's kind of these two different components. Did you learn and demonstrate knowledge of all the PhD level stuff? You know, that's the uh comprehensive exam. And then also did you go and do this project and execute on it? That's the dissertation side. So there are some cases where people will uh take all the classes, pass their comprehensive exams, maybe propose a dissertation, but then realize this dissertation is not going to happen. It's just never going to happen. And then they will take their ABD. So it basically is instead of having a PhD on their resume, they just put ABD and it means hey I, you know, maybe I did a bachelor's and a master's. I worked on a PhD. I did every part of it except successfully defending a dissertation. Um, so anyway, like I was saying, uh, you know, the the process is on the research side. You know, get in, start doing some research, propose a study, do the study, and then defend the dissertation. There are some rare instanc There's rare instances where the person proposes but never gets to the defense. There are some scenarios where somebody gets to the defense and they basically say like, "Okay, you did broadly what you said you were going to do, but um you know, maybe this document's a mess or your statistical analysis was wrong." I've actually heard of a a situation where someone fundamentally misinterpreted their uh statistical output. Like they thought they were looking at these numbers, but they were actually looking at those numbers. And so literally their whole document like 150 page document was written based on things that are fundamentally not true. It was just like you you look you were looking for numbers in this table but they were actually in that table and therefore every conclusion that you made is not just wrong but complete nonsense. The the numbers do not actually refer to what you think they refer to. So in those scenarios where it's like okay you did the project the data exist the data are usable. we just think your document's bad and or we just think your analysis needs major work. In many cases, they'll say like, well, why don't you like take this back and work on it and we'll we'll try to do this again. Um, or they might say, okay, you've passed in principle, but we're going to give you extensive notes and you need to go revise this thing really heavy heavily. So, there there are some situations where where that kind of stuff occurs. So, all that is to say there there's going to be multiple kind of check-ins and obstacles and uh barriers uh that you have to or hurdles I guess that you have to clear along the way. And at the end of the PhD, if all goes well, basically what that means is you showed up, you usually spent somewhere in the ballpark of four to six years in this program. uh you did some teaching, maybe you did uh in in our world, maybe some coaching along the way, but most importantly, you took a bunch of advanced level classes. You demonstrated uh you got good enough grade grades in those classes and then you took a big comprehensive exam over everything and demonstrated uh adequate knowledge on on the comprehensive exams and then you proposed, completed and defended a dissertation project. uh produ producing a document that ultimately your committee decided was adequate for awarding the degree. So that that's I I mentioned a thousand words ago, probably more than that. Uh when a dissertation says completed in um uh partial fulfillment of the the degree, it's because there are those kind of other elements that that go into it, especially the comprehensive exams being a another major component. Now, when it comes to, you know, you're into fitness and you want to get information from people who know their stuff. And so, maybe you're getting information from people who say, "Hey, I have a bachelor's in exercise science or I have a bachelor's in nutrition or biochemistry or I have a master's in this or I'm a a doctor of physical therapy or I have a PhD." um you know it makes sense that people want to know especially when there are contrasting or or kind of conflicting opinions um what what does this PhD actually represent? What does it mean? What what does what separates uh the halves versus the have nots in terms of the people with PhDs versus the people without them? and how do I kind of rank order that um across all these other different dimensions and credentials when I'm trying to assess who might be uh a reliable source of information and when you are viewing a a person's credentials in that way and in this case I'll specifically talk about a PhD it's very important to keep in my opinion three points in mind uh number one is that not all PhD programs have a similar focus. Um, and what I mean by that is especially in like exercise science, uh, you're going to find some PhD programs when you look at how they're built and what their, uh, their graduates end up going and doing down the line, you find that they're very teaching oriented. Um, you know, you'll look at a department and say, even if I wanted to do a bunch of like really intense research, this place doesn't have the resources to do it, right? So if you want to do like serious heavy uh heavy research in a PhD program in a department, you need to make sure for example, let's say you want to go out and get a huge grant. Um you know, we're talking several hundred,000 uh for for a grad student grant. Do you have grant administrators uh in your department and university who can literally administer that grant? There's a lot of stuff that goes into managing a large grant, especially if it comes from a federal source cuz you have to do all the documentation and reporting and make sure you're not breaking any of the rules of what happens with federal grant money. Um, so you could apply all you want for massive federal grants, but if you don't have the administrative u infrastructure to actually deal with that, um, your university is going to be like, "What do you want us to do with this thing?" or or you know, they may try to help you out with it and it may be just an absolute nightmare. So, there's a lot there's a lot of departments where they say, "Listen, we just don't do a lot of this stuff." Um, I I've talked to people who were at uh smaller schools that did offer some PhDs, but every time they tried to run a supplement study, the IRB would push back big time. And we're talking about supplements with very well-known safety, but they would just say pretty much straight up, we are we don't have a medical school here. We don't do these kind of like biomemed pharmaceutical type interventions. It's not what we do and we don't want to take on the liability of getting into that business. And you know, my friend was like, "Dude, I'm I'm like we're talking about like creatine, you know, we're not I'm not I'm not giving them some like off label or like, you know, uh some drug that's still pending approval by the FDA. This is like straightforward stuff." And they said, "Still, it's not what we do." So, uh, you're going to find some programs that are very teaching oriented and even if you wanted to do like huge ambitious research projects that were, oh, I want to take muscle biopsies, okay, with what equipment? You know, how are you going to analyze it? You know, if you don't have a, you know, quarter million dollar wet lab set up to actually do the assays and the tissue samples that you want to do, you're not going to do them. Uh, same thing, there's going to be, uh, you know, some departments that are very teaching oriented, some that are very, uh, focused on application, you know. So you might there are some select few programs in exercise science where they really uh you you spend a lot of time in the gym, a lot of time in the weight room actually working with athletes uh more so than being in what we would consider it kind of a standard biomedical lab type setting. So, you know, there there's some uh relatively few, but there are some PhD programs that are heavily heavily focused on application and saying you're going to be spending a lot of time working with athletes and your job is to learn at an expert level how to make them bigger, stronger, faster. Uh, and then of course there are PhD programs that are very researchoriented. Um and even within that there are pro going to be programs that focus on different types of research and uh different scopes of research capability. So I I've seen some very serious PhD programs but then when you dig into the SE I mean not but um but these are very serious researchoriented programs uh one of which I actually considered applying to but when I looked into it basically all the research that was happening there was very um very epidemiological in nature you know there were not a lot of like hands-on in the lab type studies that were going on and that's the kind of research I wanted to do was getting in the lab uh rolling up my sleeves uh safely with a lab coat covering and uh you know putting on the goggles and doing doing the work. And so um I I found some uh researchoriented departments that were very serious. They were all about research and they they were they had the infrastructure to do big time uh big- time grants and and things like that, but they were not set up for the kind of lab work that I wanted to do. And so what what you have to figure out then is is the the main takeaway here is just not all PH PhD programs have a similar focus. Uh so when someone says I have a PhD in some field that is related to exercise, physiology, nutrition, believe me that can look like a lot of different things and it's not to say that one is better or worse than the other but it's important to understand that you know you are talking about fundamentally different experiences which means that ultimately they may share the same credential on paper but the scope of expertise the area of expertise, the the type of experience they have, the type of knowledge and skill set they built along the way looks fundamentally different at these different types of programs. So with that uh context in mind, it's kind of weird. Um it I won't say weird but it it's difficult to defend uh a perspective in which you're looking at the you know three people with three PhDs in these exercise related or physiology related fields and saying oh so they all basically did the same thing for that four to six year period. That's not a safe assumption to make. And what you may find is for what I'm interested in this person over here did a lot of the stuff that makes sense for me to follow. this person over here, they earned their PhD and that's great, but like you know maybe they did their PhD at an extremely teaching oriented uh department and this person over here I have a very nitty-gritty research question about lab techniques that they actually used during their PhD. you start to see it's very clear that those two individuals are are not equally capable of giving feedback on on what you're looking for or at least we would we would have to seriously doubt that they have equal um uh credibility or perspectives on that specific topic. It doesn't mean that one's a dummy and one's smart. It means you have a very specific need and these people had fundamentally different experiences and different skill sets that they built during their PhDs. even though on paper they both have a PhD in seemingly related fields. Important point number two, which I think is obvious to everybody, um when you're and this isn't just about like the current dust up, but this is just broadly speaking in general when you see two PhDs on Twitter yelling at each other, uh you know, saying you're an idiot. No, you're an idiot. Uh not all PhD programs have the same level of rigor. Um so certainly that can differ a lot from field to field. Um, I can tell you with a great deal of certainty, like listen, I, you know, my my PhD program, uh, I really I'm happy with the selection. Um, I thought I got really good training. I thought they pushed me, uh, in a way that was ultimately good for my development. That's great. Um, it it was not a cakewalk, uh, by any means. Um but like even having said that I can tell you that I for example uh collaborated uh with someone doing a PhD in physics. I I've collaborated with mathematicians. Let me tell you brother PhD in physics a PhD in mathematics at like a serious institution with really high expectations. I wouldn't wish that upon anybody. I mean, great if you can get it, but man, um, you know, when I would talk to a a a peer of mine who entered their PhD program the same year I did at a fair, you know, a pretty solid institution with a pretty good reputation. Um, but I was working in my field, he was working on mathematics. um man, he would tell me just like the vibes and just what what that program was like and what the expectations were and the number of people who were entering their eighth or ninth year of the PhD and like listen you go from field to field stuff gets a little different even within a field you know when you compare this university to that university um you know there are going to be differences in just straight up what are the expectations what are the skills you're going to develop who are the people you're learning coming from and like at the end of the day it's really important to recognize that like a PhD program is more like an apprenticeship than it is like going through an undergraduate degree. So you're going to have a small a small group of faculty that are going to be teaching you uh the finer points of of becoming an academic in this field. And so, you know, if you're working over here with these like world-renowned experts who uh, you know, are are have really high expectations and also have just insane levels of knowledge and experience. Um, that's going to look very very different than, you know, a a place uh a different university with different faculty where people maybe don't have a similar level of of achievement and maybe are just a little more lax and they're like, "Yeah, it's no big deal, right?" like do what you can and then get out of here in five years. So it's going to look very very different in terms of of the rigor, you know. So um so it's really important to to keep that m in mind. And again, when you're looking at two people with PhDs arguing on the internet, you can't just say, well, it's a tie. They both have PhDs, so they're both equally uh credentialed and credible. Uh you really have to dig into, okay, what were their PhDs in? What what kind of program did they focus on? uh and you know, how rigorous does it seem like that program might be? If I'm if I'm going to even bother trying to break it down to who has, you know, the the the the upper hand in terms of who should uh have a more credible opinion, but that's not even necessarily a good indicator. But these are the things that that come into play when you're saying, well, this person has a PhD. Well, what does that actually mean? Turns out it could mean a lot of things. Uh another important point uh number three here is that even from within the same exact PhD program, not all graduates are going to have the same level of talent, insight or expertise. Uh so a a great example of this is look at any law school every year uh especially at like pretty solid institutions uh you know really highly rated law schools they're going to crank out somebody at the top of the class who's going to go like you know defend ultra high-profile clients or work their way up to like you know a step below the Supreme Court. Like the these are people that are going to be getting the most desired positions in the legal field. And at that same exact year, that same exact law school is going to crank out someone at the bottom of the class who limps to the finish line, gets through, barely passes the bar exam, and ends up with just a fundamentally different career. Um, and I know, listen, I get it. There's also people have connections. Maybe someone near the bottom of the class goes and works at, you know, Uncle Ted's law firm, goes right to the top. But you get the idea, right? So um it's it's not true to say that every person even who came from the same program in the same field and even with the same primary adviser, it doesn't mean that they're all equally uh knowledgeable, skilled, talented, etc. So as I talk about these differences between PhD programs in terms of their focus, their rigor, uh even variation within a program, uh in terms of just success, knowledge, intelligence, whatever, my goal is not to make you more obsessed with the credentials and saying, "Well, these two people are arguing. Screw their arguments themselves." instead of looking into the veracity of what they're saying, I'm going to now do a massive deep dive into exactly how they spent their PhD time. That's not what I'm advocating for. Um, but what I am suggesting is that, you know, right now with this whole dust up, there's there seems to be a lot of discussion about, you know, what is a PhD, what goes into it, who gets one, uh, it to, you know, what does it take to actually say that that PhD is warranted? uh and therefore what is that what is ultimately afforded to a person who has a PhD. At the end of the day, it's really important to recognize that having a PhD versus not having a PhD. When we're trying to evaluate the type of content a person's creating, we should not be viewing that as a binary indicator of success or knowledge or intelligence or expertise or anything of the sort. uh you know it it is a very very broad categorical element of what ultimately might contribute to a person's uh claim of having you know some kind of expertise in an area. Um but at the end of the day what a PhD actually means uh we can view it in the broadest sense uh as something of a symbol uh you know and that symbol does not necessarily mean I am you know one of the smartest human beings that's ever walked the planet. um it more so reflects what is this person committed to and what do they value, right? So a person with a PhD probably the most accurate way to broadly summarize or generalize what that really means is at the very least I know that they have a high level of commitment to learning in the field that they chose for their PhD. It's a safe bet that they have some degree of value for scientific evidence and research. Generally speaking, it'd be really painful to go through a PhD uh program and to not have any regard for the scientific method or the value of research. Um it may also signal in some cases that this is a person who thinks credentials are important. Right? Those are when you're looking at, you know, someone has a PhD. What does that truly reflect about them? It means that they were they at least had the right combination of intelligence, aptitude, and grit to work their way all the way through the end of it. And they probably fall in at least one of those boxes, meaning they have a high level of personal commitment to learning or they have a high level of value for scientific evidence and research or they just thought getting the credential was very important. Uh so so to to my that is my best effort of saying what does a PhD actually represent or or symbolize. Um at the end of the day um you know when we see that someone has a PhD it means that the person who mentored them as a grad student the the chair of their um of their dissertation committee uh ultimately observed their work over years and decided that they were ready to leave the nest and take the title with them. So it wasn't time to boot them out the back door. They they were they said okay I've been observing your work for years now. Um I you know you passed your comprehensive exams, you passed all your classes. Uh I'm satisfied with your dissertation work, you're ready to go. And ultimately uh you know the the um the chair of the dissertation committee uh certainly has to come to that conclusion and then the the committee itself has to vote in the affirmative uh for that conclusion. So when you're looking at someone else's um achievements uh and whether or not they should have gotten a PhD, you know, at the end of the day, um usually the person who's more qualified to make that assessment is the one who's been observing their work day in and day out for years. And you know, if if they've made that conclusion, I I'm generally inclined to to take their word for it. Um but that's just my perspective. if you feel differently um or if there's a particular adviser who you're like, "Well, I don't trust their word. You know, I I see who you did your PhD under and I don't I don't have any value for their assessment of your work because I don't I don't I don't like their work either." You're you're completely within your rights uh to make that determination. And I'm again, my whole thing with this podcast is I have no interest in telling anyone what to think. Um but hopefully in providing more context uh so that they can develop their own opinions on you know not just the current uh you know dust up in fitness but there's a lot of people out there who have a credential create evidence-based fitness content and it's valuable to kind of think through very carefully with full visibility into the process what do I actually take away from this credential and how much do I feel it really bolsters uh their argument or their positioning within the space. So, um, one other thing I'll mention is, you know, if you're, let's say that, uh, you have, you're looking at somebody, you you looked up who they did their PhD under, you say, I hold their advisor in very low regard, and I do not respect their opinion whatsoever. At the end of the day, uh, you know, the academic world is essentially an industry where there's two kinds of currency. One is currency, money, and the other is reputation. And so you could identify little instances where people you said, "Ah, this grad student's a dud. I probably ought to just boot him out the back door and say, "Go away." But it'll be easier to just say, "Okay, let's let him limp along and finish this thing and get him a degree, right?" But at the end of the day, neither academics the the advisers nor institutions like to make a habit of granting PhDs to people who are blatantly unqualified. The reason being it just makes everybody look bad and ultimately causes a lot of reputational harm uh if compounded with you know doing it over and over and over. So, a good way to think about that is like if anyone's ever asked you to recommend them for a job or imagine that your least reliable, most useless friend who you love dearly, but you know, you know that they cannot be counted on for literally anything. Imagine that they asked you uh to recommend them for a job. And not only that, but the job they're asking for this recommendation for, the owner of that company is someone you very much care about, right? You certainly do not want to put this person in harm's way by recommending someone who's going to just tank their business. Um, it also will reflect very poorly on you if you make a habit of just writing these blanket recommendation letters for people who are not qualified for the jobs they're uh that they're uh applying for or just a terrible fit for these jobs. So at the end of the day, you know, your reputation is a resource whether you're uh a PhD adviser or a department or an institution and you really don't want to get in the habit of tarnishing that reputation uh by you know sacrificing standards and and you know give awarding degrees to people who are just fundamentally not capable of representing your department well uh when they take that to their next uh position or or take that forward in life. So, um, those are all just things to keep in mind, uh, when you're looking at, you know, what does a PhD mean, uh, and what does the route look like for people to get one. Now, I want to get more I want to get away from the credentials and actually answer some questions that I think are much more important than credentials themselves. So a lot of times uh people who are consuming fitness content will look at a PhD and kind of use it as a mental shortcut and just say without thinking too much about how they got that best case scenario, worst case scenario worst case scenario of what that really represents about them and and their skill set and their knowledge level. I'm just going to take a mental shortcut and say they've got the PhD. I'm satisfied. And it's just an onoff switch. you either have one or you don't. At the end of the day, we can probably do better by by asking better questions. So the question generally that you're interested in is not does this person have a PhD. You're really more concerned about more direct questions. So for example, how do we know if someone is an excellent researcher? There are people with PhDs who are excellent researchers. There are people with PhDs who aren't. Um, and that doesn't mean that the people who aren't are bad at everything. It may just mean that they went to a they they did a PhD program that did not really focus all that much on research. You know, maybe it was more teaching oriented, more practically oriented. So, the best sign that someone is an excellent researcher is not that they have a PhD necessarily. The best sign is that they've done a sufficiently high amount of nuanced research that is generally held in high regard by other subject matter experts. So a good indicator that you are an excellent researcher is that you do excellent research regularly often and your research is wellreceived by the research community people who are also equipped to evaluate that work. So in many cases we need to just get straight to the point of what we're interested in. Right? So if someone is saying I am recommending this thing on the basis that I am an excellent researcher and therefore I'm qualified to do so. If them being an excellent researcher really sways your opinion about whether or not you're going to take their advice on that, well the easiest way to to to look into that is look into their research record. Do they publish highquality research on a regular basis? Right? Another thing u maybe uh the question is not is this person themselves an excellent researcher but how do we know if someone at least just knows their stuff about researcher right because not every film critic was an award-winning film director right there are people who really devote a lot of time into uh learning how to evaluate and interpret research without doing a ton of it themselves. And so the best sign that someone knows their stuff about interpreting research is that they've done a sufficiently high amount of nuanced research evaluation and that those evaluations they've done reflect number one a deep understanding of research both in terms of the theoretical aspects and the practical aspects. Um and number two uh this person's uh evaluations previously have ultimately produced a really good track record of being accurate. Right? So when they call their shot and say this is a really good study, um hopefully more often than not that ends up being the consensus and the findings that they're you know really hanging their hat on turn out to be fairly reliable uh in in you know generally speaking. So, if you want to know if somebody like knows their stuff about research, again, uh the best way to know if they're good about uh if they're good at evaluating, interpreting research, and then disseminating those perspectives is at the end of the day, what's their track record? Are are they actually just good at that thing, right? So, it's important to zoom in and not just say, well, if someone has a PhD, clearly they know all their stuff about research. Now I will say a PhD in theory tends to be at least to some extent a researchoriented degree. It is a good uh baseline indicator like hey uh all things being equal if someone has a PhD and has published a bunch of research. I generally am going to assume that they kind of know what they're doing uh when it comes to research. But at the end of the day, if you taking their advice seriously is completely contingent on you believing that they are good at doing their own research, you need to actually dig into their research. If your opinion is absolutely tethered to the belief that they are good at in evaluating, interpreting, and relaying uh their views on research, then you need to go back and look at their track record and see, are they actually good at this stuff? when they call their shot, do they hit it out of the park or do they strike out all the time? Right? Um, now whether or not your evaluation of their opinion should be tethered to those things is a fundamentally different question. Um, but but ultimately at the end of the day, uh, I think it's really important to assess your own assumptions and biases when you're evaluating content creators and kind of deciding, am I critiquing the person or the argument? Um, and you know, sometimes you'll find that you're getting a little caught up in the credential without actually thinking, does that credential actually represent what I think it does? And then more importantly, what it what I think it's supposed to represent, does that actually matter to what I'm going to do with the information that they are putting out. whether they're arguing with somebody or evaluating a study or giving a research program, it's really important to think through every step in that chain of assumptions to decide how am I going to view and interpret the information coming my way. So, moving on, how do we know if somebody is able to get themselves pretty jacked? That one's pretty easy. If they have at some point in their life been pretty jacked, I'm inclined to believe that they know how to get themselves pretty jacked. At least they knew it at some point, right? I don't think you need to stay in top tip uh tip-top shape forever to to have an opinion on fitness. I say that as a formerly very fit person who's in the worst shape of their life. So, there's some some motivated reasoning going on there. But, um at the end of the day, uh you know, once you've climbed that mountain, you generally know the way back up. Um, so yeah, if if that is if that is what you're tethering uh your uh perception to, if you're saying, "I will not listen to someone unless I believe they can get themselves jacked." Well, then you don't need a PhD uh to tell you whether or not that's the case. You can just figure out, has this person ever been really jacked? Now, how do we know if someone is able to get other people pretty jacked? Well, most straightforward way is that they have an established track record of helping people get pretty jacked. whether it's through their their one-on-one coaching, programs they've made, content they've created, uh maybe apps they've created. So, again, the whole the whole idea here, the whole point of this is when you're deciding whether or not to take someone's information seriously or apply it, you need to think through what hurdle am I actually asking them to clear? Almost never is the question, well, unless they have a PhD, I'm not into it. More often than not, the question is, this person is interpreting a study they did not do. I would feel better if I believed that they were a very skilled researcher or an extremely uh well-versed interpreter of research. And so then you go and look into that. Um, if you are, if they are creating a program and you're like, I have no interest in even opening this program until I've sufficiently convinced myself that they have a track record of making other people get really jacked. Well, then go look into that. That's not what a PhD actually represents. Uh, now finally, this one's really tough. Uh, how do we know if someone is an excellent communicator or an excellent teacher slasheducator? I'll just say educator to keep it more concise. This is probably the hardest one. Um because a lot of times we like to believe that whoever is the best communicator is necessarily the best educator in this space and and that's they're really fundamentally separate things. So, if we're being like completely on the nose, uh, very literal, really any person who draws a crowd and and tends to have a large outsized influence on opinions is probably a a pretty good communicator. They found a way to leverage what they got to communicate in a way that is clearly bringing people in the door and ultimately swaying their opinions. Uh but then of course the big question is is the information that they're communicating actually trustworthy? And in my opinion that's kind of one of the big differences between a good communicator and a good educator. A good educator isn't just uh you know a good communicator like I said can just get a lot of people interested, keep them on the hook and convince them of things. But for them to also be a good educator means the things that they are convincing people of are true and useful and the people that they are communicating to, if they're a good educator, are going to walk away with a high level of knowledge and the ability to actually apply that information. So, um, if you've got a bunch of engaged followers and they believe what you say, then you're a good communicator. Uh if your followers, whether that's a big or small group, know their stuff because of you, then you're a good educator. When you put that together, if you've got a huge audience of followers who know their stuff because of you, then you are a good educator and a good communicator. Uh and so it's really important not to conflate those two things. There are people who are really good communicators uh in our space and in any space. There are people who are really good educators and then there are a select few who are good at both and and they end up developing a huge audience of people who are highly educated and are you know applying good information and ultimately uh having a lot of success because of it. So at the end of the day uh how should we assess ideas and the people who form them in this crowded space of online fitness experts? I would argue that we should probably do it in a manner that is more similar to how researchers engage with other researchers. So a researcher and I'm speaking from experience here. I've done a lot of collaborative papers. As a researcher, I'm not I'm never sitting down and saying I really need a collaborator to make this paper work who has a very specific skill set. and then I find someone with that skill set and I say, "Oh, you only have a master's degree." GH, never mind. That is never the case. I similarly, I never sit down and say, "I need this skill done that that's going to really make this project work. The problem is I found someone who has that skill and they're perfect for it, but uh their PhD is in nutrition and I wanted someone with a PhD in exercise physiology." You would never do that. Same thing. I would never sit down and say, "I really need someone and I found the right person." But the problem is their PhD comes from a university that's ranked 111th in America and I really need someone from a top 10 university. You just that's just not how researchers view it. So when a researcher is looking for expertise, which is always how these collaborations form, they are purely focused on I need to find someone who can deliver on the exact task or skill or subject matter area that I need here. And so I'm going to not look for who has the most prestigious degree or got their degree from the most prestigious program uh or who has more years of seniority. What I'm going to do is say I'm going to go look into the research in that area and figure out who's doing the best stuff in this area who knows this better than anyone else. Um and so what I found is that when researchers are engaging with other researchers or when educ when academics are engaging with other academics the one of the things you do is you get a really refined scope of of the people I see in this broader network who seems to be a generalist meaning they they are pretty good at a wide range of topics and skills versus who is who has a high level of expertise in a very narrow area of focus. Uh it's always good to have a general idea of does you know this person has a lot of breadth across topics but not a lot of depth in in any individual one. This person has a tremendous amount of depth in this very niche topic or skill but then outside of that they're they're really not going to be super helpful. And as you're going through and figuring out, okay, what is this person's focal area? What is that person's focal area? Does that person have three topics on which they have pretty good knowledge? Or are they really a onetrick pony? which sometimes is the right person for the job. You have to go around and and really get a sense of not just does this person have the right degree or the degree from the right school, but for what I am trying to get from this person in a collaborative sense, are they bringing to the table what I actually need? And so again, that's why I asked all those questions previously of how do I know if someone is a good researcher? How do I know if they're good at interpreting research? How do I know if they are good at getting other people jacked? Usually, those are the kind of questions that you're actually asking about your fitness professionals that that make content in the space. And almost never is a PhD going to make or break that determination. There may be times where you say, "Hey, I just need someone who has a track record of making really great programs." Um, and that person may not have a PhD. uh you might be saying,"I want to I want to get information on this topic from someone who knows this so much deeper than any other person in the world." Well, in that case, you're probably going to reach out not just for someone with a PhD, but someone who's published six papers on that topic. Um and so this comes up a lot in in uh fitness, health, wellness, this whole space where um you know there are going to be people I mean so so often I will kind of put a caveat where I'll say you know hey I am going to speak about a researchoriented topic that is uncomfortably outside of my scope of expertise. That is usually me kind of uh in the cases where I say that that's basically me saying pretend that I'm taking this like PhD badge as if I'm like the sheriff of the town and putting it on the table. Okay? So please don't believe where when I'm venturing out of my scope of expertise and I know I am. Please don't take these as the opinions of a PhD holder because I don't have one in this area. Right? So it's just really important to think through very carefully uh when a person has a PhD in what areas do I believe them to be a true expert in what areas do I actually need them to be a true expert uh and think very carefully about that and so like I was getting at with with research collaborations as a researcher what we do is we try to get a good sense of what everybody's good at where they have blind spots where they have really novel expertise really deep expertise uh we use their track record uh we cross reference with people when you know if if I'm looking into uh you know a debate about how collagen affects tendons and I see two really uh qualified people disagreeing on it based on research you better believe I'm going to start reaching out to people in my sphere who have expertise on that specific topic I'm not just going to go around and look for anyone with a PhD or anyone who's a physical therapist right so it's just really important to be targeted about uh what what do you really need to convince you um to take someone's argument seriously and how much weight are you actually placing on credentials, especially in scenarios where those credentials aren't even really pertinent to what you're leaning on them for. Uh so I I think kind of my broader point here is I I think um it's probably a good idea to ease off of the credentialism a little bit in general and to think in a much more targeted fashion. uh not just I only listen to people with PhDs and they are inherently more qualified and give better information than people with master's degrees who are better than people who have bachelor's degrees. It's really just not um an effective way to look at it. You should think more like a researcher and say imagine I'm assembling a team of colleagues to do this research project. I need to not just look around for people with a credential. I need to look around for people who have a track record in being good at this specific thing and a credential is is very much a secondary thing. So, just to put like a a a more uh direct um example in the mix, right? Uh Lane Norton has a PhD that was very focused on protein metabolism. You know, he did a bunch of research with different protein sources, branch chain amino acids, things like that. So, if you had a question about uh how much protein should I eat every day, I feel confident that you could go to me or Lane, we would both give you an answer. May not be the same answer, but it'll be an answer that is highly compatible with the best evidence available, right? We may have some differences about I lean a little lower, he leans a little higher. I don't know. But but that's an area where, you know, we both have a track record of making products that address that, making content that addresses that, um, you know, getting deep into the evidence on that topic, you'd be fine going to either one of us. But if you had a very, very nittygritty question about protein metabolism, you'd probably want to go to him on that. Uh now if you had a really nitty-gritty question about how metabolic rate changes, you know, in response to energy restriction and exercise, which is like the focus of my my research these days, I would hope that I'm a little bit more on the cutting edge of that specific topic. Now, it doesn't mean that I know nothing about protein metabolism. It doesn't mean that Lane knows nothing about those topics. I'm certain he does. But you get you get the idea that I'm getting at here, which is that uh it it's really important to kind of get a sense. You get as a consumer of information, you get to have a whole menu of folks that are out there creating content, you don't have to subscribe to I'm completely behind this person for all topics. You get to actually sample and ask multiple people and even sometimes encourage them to argue with each other and see which which uh which outcome you think or which uh case that you think is more persuasive after considering you know the credentials of each person, the expertise of each person, the track record of each person. So it's important to recognize that uh it's great being the content consumer because you get to assemble your team of experts to answer the question that is pertinent to you. Um, so absolutely lean on more than just do they have a PhD or not. And the the other thing I wanted to bring up with Lane Norton before I got a little sidetracked there is Lane Norton again, his PhD was on uh protein metabolism. I I think that's a fair kind of in a nutshell uh what it was on as a focal point. Would you feel comfortable uh using a powerlifting program or taking powerlifting programming advice from him? I would uh he's he's got a track record of being very strong, helping other people get strong. Um as far as I can tell, again, getting back to like what is your direct thing that you need to convince you to take this person's opinion or perspective seriously, I don't need uh him to have a PhD that's specifically focused on programming variables specifically for powerliffters. uh it'd be cool if he did, but at the end of the day, I've seen enough from his track record on the practical side to say it's worthwhile uh to to take that opinion with uh uh to take that perspective very seriously, right? And so that's why I was kind of getting at earlier all these questions of well do you if you really if if you really were of the opinion I only take powerlifting advice from someone with a PhD. It's important to recognize that Lane's PhD has nothing to do with his ability to help you put together a powerlifting program. But I'm still extremely confident um that at the end of the day he can very much help you put together a powerlifting program. And the reason that matters is because as it pertains to putting together a powerlifting program, he might as well not have a PhD because that's just fundamentally not not what it's in, right? Like his he did his PhD purely in a nutrition department, not in not one of those like hybrid exercise and nutrition departments. It was a nutrition department uh under a supervisor who is an expert in protein metabolism. And the project was on protein metabolism. So again, if you're willing to take Lane's advice on powerlifting programming because he has a PhD, that makes fundamentally no sense because his main uh in my opinion, his most impressive credential that would lead you to take his powerlifting uh advice seriously is the fact that he's damn good at powerlifting and he's been helping people get strong for a couple decades, right? So I think we need to break away a little bit from the credentialism uh and at the bare minimum really contextualize what does this credential actually mean and frankly do I even care about that for the purposes of what I'm asking. Um so again I have a PhD and so it would behoove me to say you should only take advice from people with PhD preferably if they're shorter than 510 for sure. Uh they must have competed in natural body. It would make sense for me to want to say you need to create all these little uh you know um boundaries such that you you only trust me and I'll never let you down. But at the end of the day that's just not how I view it. So that's not directly helpful um for people who are chomping at the bit to get to the bottom of this current dust up involving uh Solomon and Mike. I'm sure they will help you get to the bottom of that. They can handle that uh themselves. And you know, I'm intrigued uh to to get all the information um before I I kind of levy any opinion on it. But personally, in the interest of being like proactive and hopefully useful, I think it lends itself to a much broader question, which is what do we make of these credentials? What do they represent? And more importantly, how do we actually go about finding information uh from the people we want our information from? And again, uh, it's it's very, um, uh, impressive, you know, that that Lane has a PhD in protein metabolism. That PhD does not make him better at giving powerlifting advice. And yet, I think he's a good person to get powerlifting advice from. So, uh, my my kind of parting reiteration is, uh, as you're going through and evaluating arguments that people make, there may be a case, the the first line, obviously, the first thing you do when you're seeing someone make an argument or claim online is evaluate the argument or the claim itself. By by far, that is the first thing you do. That's the most important thing you do. But only in instances where you are really befuddled and you're saying, "Man, I'm seeing this person make that argument, this person make a different one. I kind of want to compare whose word I'm giving more weight to these two individuals, who do I really trust more?" um you know and and if you find well this person has a PhD but you look into it and it's in a topic that has nothing to do with the debate this person over here maybe not have a a maybe they don't even have a degree in this area but they're like coaching multiple world champions with the strategy that this question is about like there's going to be times where where the PhD is highly informative when you're trying to decide whose um perspective am I going to give more weight to but there are also going to be situations where it becomes fundamentally irrelevant because you find oh this person has a PhD this person has a masters this person is a practitioner with no such degree um but the topic they're arguing about has nothing to do with that person's PhD or that person's masters or even that practitioner's uh main focus of their practice so at the end of the day you have to lean more on a person's track record and the veracity of their argument itself more than getting too bogged down in the credential. All right, folks. Uh hopefully I didn't uh beat a dead horse too severely there. Uh I hope that this was somewhat useful at least in kind of giving you food for thought about um you know in this fitness space where there are so many arguments and debates and it can be really challenging to figure out whose argument you should put more stock into. Uh hopefully this gave you kind of a a mini template mentally of kind of thinking through well for this question what would I really value uh as expertise? It may be a PhD, it may not be. Um, and that that'll kind of help you sort your way through those arguments because I will say like in the fitness space I it's relatively easier for me to kind of sort through two people disagree, you know, because this is an area I spend a lot of time. I can, you know, critique the argument itself, look at the evidence that's relevant, and I can also kind of decide of these two people, who do I feel like this is really more in their wheelhouse? But I deal with this all the time. I, believe it or not, do have interests and questions in life that extend beyond nutrition and lifting weights and energy expenditure. And I deal with the same uh annoyance when I I go um and I'm interested in getting an answer for something that is totally outside of the scope of anything I would pretend to have expertise about, just not even in the realm of health or fitness or anything like that. and I see two people who seem credible and they fundamentally disagree and one of them must be wrong because the you know the two people arguing their ideas are are absolutely mutually exclusive. Um so all the time I have to shake off that frustration and confusion and just get back to the basics and say okay I'm going to maybe search to see if there is a broader consensus on this. Um if one person is bucking the consensus do I think they're making a a legitimate argument? uh if so, do they have uh an established track record or some kind of background that would convince me that while the consensus is leaning this way, they are actually correct in pushing back the other way against that consensus. So, this is a a transferable kind of perspective and skill set of trying to get to the bottom of this stuff that even when you feel really strong that you've developed expertise in one area and you think, "Oh, cool. I don't have to think through all this crap anymore." you're going to have questions in other areas. Anyway, so hopefully this was reasonably informative and insightful. Um, I'm looking into uh the chat and I see uh a very disappointed person here. Oh, my phone changed orientation. They said uh no knee-jerk reaction and instantly condemning one camp or the other. How dare you? So, I apologize severely uh for letting everyone down and not having a knee-jerk reaction. Again, I would refer you back to my entire online footprint for my entire life as to why anyone would expect otherwise. But, uh but no, I I appreciate everyone who joined in on the live chat. Uh as always, really appreciate the support for the iron culture. um because I failed to have a knee-jerk reaction. Normally, I would apologize and immediately resign, but since Helms doesn't show up anymore, um then then it would just be, I guess, a camera looking at a blank wall for about an hour, hour and a half every every Monday night. So, I will postpone that a shameful resignation and uh at least until Helms gets back. Um got a comment from Work Overtime Fitness says, "Longtime listener, first- time commenter. Thanks for all you do. Appreciate it very very much. Like I said, thanks so much to everyone in the live chat. Once again, uh if you want to support people, if you're in a giving mood in this trying time in evidence-based fitness where everybody's yelling at each other, uh how about supporting the the good folks over at EliteFTS and Dave Tate, go to elitefts.com next time you need some lifting gear, maybe some lifting merch. Use our code MRR10, Mass Research Review 10, for a 10% discount. Uh, in addition, if you want to support us very directly, make sure you like, rate, subscribe, review, share with a friend. And if you really love the show and you want to keep it alive and viable, consider becoming a member of the Mass community, the Mass Research Review. You can head over to massresarchreview.com to learn more about how to stay on top of that research every month. So, everyone, thanks so much for joining me. Everyone have a fantastic week and I will be back I believe with Helms in another 7 days.