 aromasin, Meghanlisart Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise Exercise science. Um, and, uh, it's laying on me. I can't stand this guy. Yeah. We had to have a pretty strong back and forth debate to even allow this episode to happen. So I do appreciate, um, the time you've spent, uh, studying Buddhism and becoming at peace with things, because I think there's a prior version of Eric where this episode just wouldn't have happened. So, um, yeah, I've grown up a lot and I've also realized that you can't conquer your foes unless you face them head on. So this is me trying to destroy James and his career. Spoken like a true Buddhist. I love it. Um, no, that's great. And, uh, yeah, before we, we actually let James speak on his own behalf, because that's not a thing we do here at iron culture very much, at least not in the first 10 minutes of banter. Um, let's just say, Hey, we hope you folks have been enjoying some of these prerecorded episodes with the guests we've been having. Uh, we're trying to mix it up and also bring some of the live episodes where we engage with our audience. We are absolutely going to be getting back to that. Um, but we want to make sure that we're also getting these deep dives on the specific topics and leveraging the expertise of the folks we have in the field. So if you've been enjoying that, please do help us out here. Uh, you can give us a subscription. You can give us a follow. You can give us a thumbs up. You can give us a five stars, whatever platform you're on. We greatly appreciate it. That's what this show thrives on. And of course, if you really do want to support iron culture presented by mass, then supporting mass would be of great help. We're actually going to reference some of the work that we've done in mass in a specific conversation. Um, but yeah, if you want to join, uh, myself, Dr. Trexler, Dr. Lauren Kalenza-Semple and Dr. Zerdos, as we put out monthly content, we would love to have you. And if not, that is all good. Just keep joining us on the podcast, keep helping us out. And finally, I'll say, Hey, we're, we're only weeks away from the four of us being in Austin, Texas for the annual sports nutrition association conference where each of us, the whole mass crew is going to be presenting alive. So if you want to meet us, get some time, just grab a cup of coffee between presentations or heckle us from the back of the room. We highly encourage that. So definitely check that out. We'd love to see him in person. Yeah. And the last time I was in Austin, Texas, uh, I got a little too rowdy over on sixth street. So that could happen. You never know. Uh, and another thing about Austin is, have you heard of the bats helms? I have not only heard of them, I've seen them. Yeah. So you got to go, if you don't care about fitness, that's fine. Frankly, no one does. Certainly James doesn't, but bats are cool. And there's this bridge where at like, right when sundown hits, like a million bats fly out all at the same time. People gather around to watch. It's really, really cool. So if not for the fitness come for the bats. Yes, absolutely. I can echo that. Um, when I was there with my wife, who is a huge animal lover and animal expert, uh, she was enthralled with the bats and, uh, it's, it's pretty cool. She's like, Oh, that's a big flock of those aren't birds. Oh wow. Yeah. Yeah. Although little warning in the interest of our virology buffs out there, do not interact with these bats. Yes. Do not let them go through their thing. Don't, don't try to, uh, you know, get them to land on you. Nope. Nope. This is, this is how a pandemic start according to conspiracy theorists. So, uh, which as of course we, we endorse the right conspiracies here on iron culture. Well, with, with all that said, and now that people know that they can both get nutrition information as well as a bat experience that they should maybe keep a, a visual experience rather than a tactile one tracks, maybe we should let our guests speak. So Dr. James Steele, welcome. Thank you for joining us. And, uh, how are you doing? I'm good. I'm good. Eric, Eric's is Eric squared. I'm very good. I'm very good. Thank you for having me on. Um, actually this is, this is the second time I've been on. I was on, uh, way back when with you and Omar, I think, um, we did a session on open science. So, uh, yeah, it's, it's, it's good to be back. Uh, listen to some of the shows lately because, uh, rumors and whispers have been going around that you guys keep on, uh, mentioning my name and, uh, you know, I prefer, well, you know, let's stop this kind of like coyness and why don't we actually get on a call together and, uh, you know, we can float in person. That's what we wanted, you know, instead of having people pass you notes, um, just to come and talk to us, you know, so we're, we've moved from middle grade, sorry, middle school to potentially high school level of, uh, personal interaction now. So no, really appreciate you having you on. Um, and for those who don't know, yes, Dr. Steele has been on before talk about open science and in the iron culture documentary that is currently being edited. He also has a really big role there as I visited Solent university, which was a ton of fun. Um, so I think to give people a little bit of backstory as to why I was facetious saying that, uh, you're trying to be hated by the exercise science community. I think you do, in my opinion, a very good job of bringing up very relevant critiques and not on a kind of small scale, not on things like, Hey, you probably should have done a different statistical analysis. Let me just write a letter to the editor, but kind of big picture, like, yo, there's some ways that we are doing things as a field, um, that are out of step with modern scientific philosophy. Um, and I think that's pretty understandable when you have a field that was not started within science, it very much emerged out of practice and it is very much an applied field. Um, you know, we see similar things in psychology and sociology as it's advancing. And while it may be a bit of a painful process to examine some of our own issues, especially for people who feel like that has maybe come at the expense of the way their work is perceived. Um, ultimately I think you're doing good work. So one of the, uh, the, the shots across the bow of the roots of sports science that I want to call out to is actually, um, a textbook chapter, which is, I don't think it's fully gone to press yet, but you authored it. Oh, has it? The copy is just above my head on the show. Oh, okay. So it is, it is fully out. Okay. So people can, so you are now influencing the youth. You have, you have harmed the next generation of sports scientists. You've, you've turned them against tradition, but, um, no, in all seriousness, you wrote a, I would say a provocatively titled book chapter called the myth of periodization. And I wonder what it's about. Yeah, it's about myths. Um, but actually I think the framing of myth is quite interesting because it perhaps is not what the typical person in the evidence-based space would think. Cause when they think of myth, they think of like myth busting. Um, and I think you did a good job. Oh, again, it is quite provocative of, of framing. Hey, what is the difference between a myth? And more importantly, what do we really want? What do we, what is a theory? Um, because people have framed periodization as a theory and to give a little bit of background context before I kick it over to you, I would say that, you know, we've talked about the emergence of exercise science, which very much came out of medical science. And there are some pretty cool history there, but I would say the history of quote unquote sports science almost paralleled the development of our modern conception, at least a periodization. Now, granted, long-term training planning has existed for thousands of years. Don't get me wrong. And you can find historical, you know, texts dating back to that across every culture that, you know, had physical activity. But the Matveev kind of, you know, Western or linear periodization that came out of, uh, you know, his work is sort of the inception and the birth of quote unquote sports science. And it was very much, you know, inductive versus deductive, right? It began with, here's what a bunch of athletes are doing seems to work. Let's talk about this and then try to back figure out why that happened. And you can see the echoes of that mentality in what we do. And I think that's pretty normal when you think of a practitioner led developed science. Um, and that maybe is not the way that it should end up, even if it's quite normal for things to start that way. So I would love to get it kind of from the horse's mouth because I know that there were some ruffled feathers in response to that. Uh, in mass, I wrote specifically about the quote unquote periodization of war, which was your book chapter and the various publications since I'd say probably John Kiley was the first one to kind of put his hand up and go, you know, some of this stuff around periodization doesn't make sense to me. Um, back in 2012. So it's been more than a decade of people pointing out some of the issues, at least with the way periodization is represented, uh, if I want to give the most charitable take and the most recent kind of chapter in that back and forth is not only your book chapter, but also, um, the critique of it, uh, titled the myth of the myth and opinion by stone at all. So this is, um, a battle between steel and stone, which you can't make this stuff up. These are real last names, uh, in this area. Exactly. Quite literally. Wait, that's why he misspelled my name and the, uh, in the first instance in the paper. So he could actually spell it as steel without the E. Yeah. He's trying to steel man you, you know? So there we go. There we go. I completely miss that. Yeah, man, you're, you're, you're, you gotta, you gotta give the, uh, the old man some credit. You know, he's been in the game a long time. He knows what he's doing. So, um, for those who don't know, Mike stone is the easily the most prolific, uh, academic in the space of studying periodization, at least in the U S he's been doing his thing at ETSU for a long time. And, um, I, you know, Trex and I actually got to meet him when we presented out in Finland in 2018 at a conference. And, and, you know, he's, it was pretty cool. We got to sit down and have, have, have a meal with him and talk to like, literally before Trex and I were born, how exercise science and sports science was conducted. So I do want to be clear, like all respect where respect is due. We, we do stand on the former work of others. Um, yeah. And I should mention this man is about the iron. Like he, he is absolutely, you can't fake it. This man is all about it. So you, you gotta give a tip of the hat to anyone who's been not just in the broader culture of iron, but when you put a good, like six or seven decades into it, like that, that commands respect. Oh, we trained together. Yeah. There wasn't just that we, like he, he was out there squatting with Kyle, you know, is the POZ student he was with. Uh, he was also doing a lot of good work. Um, he might've finished his PhD now, but anyway, nonetheless, um, ate with the man, talk science with the man, watched him do some low bar squats. Um, you know, he's still, he's definitely hitting depth. It's no joke. There's definitely more than one wheel on that bar. And, uh, you know, he's, he's where I hope to be in terms of health, mobility, training, and longevity in the field at that point, uh, in my life. So respect is where respect is due. Um, and that does not necessarily stand in contrast to the fact that we as a field and in any scientific field, our job is to ask questions, uh, debate, and come to a consensus of how do we move the field forward? So I would love to get kind of your take, James, on what is the issue with periodization more broadly? How does this connect to the way we conceptualize things? And what is the problem with calling periodization a theory, um, in your mind and where do we need to go? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I should say as well, well, you know, the greatest respect to, uh, to professor stone. Uh, I'm, I had lunch with him as well back in 2016. Now, uh, a little bit before you guys were at the, uh, international conference on strength training in, uh, Kyoto, Japan at the time. And, uh, it was really nice to be able to sit and just chat with him. It was like, it, like you say, he's, he spent so long in the industry. It was like sitting down with like grandfather, you know, grandfather iron and, uh, and hearing his stories was, uh, was very cool. Um, and also no, I don't think anyone else could rock socks and sandals like, and pull it off like with just such flair. Um, so yeah, absolutely. Um, so maybe, maybe I'll give you a little bit of background to the chapter as well first, because, um, I don't want to give myself too bad, uh, uh, a name amongst, uh, the proponents of periodization because I secretly didn't, for me secretly, it's not really a chapter about periodization, which I think we'll, we'll get to. Um, so the book itself, um, myths of sports performance, um, I got invited to, uh, contribute a chapter to the, uh, to the book. Um, and originally I was actually going to write a chapter around, um, effort and its perception, which is another topic of, uh, of my, um, of interest to me. Um, but the more I got thinking, the more I got thinking about the concept of myths, um, and the concepts of myths within science, the more I thought that this was a really good medium to sneak a little bit of philosophy of science under the noses of, uh, sport and exercise science folk, um, without them really noticing. It's a bit like when you, well, Kiki's just walked off now, but it's a bit like when she has to have some medicine, put in a little bit of cheese or something, something that tasted a little bit better, something that's a bit more appetizing because most people don't want to read about philosophy of science. Um, so it was my little sneaky attempt to do that. And, um, if you read through the chapter, um, which is, uh, we pre-printed the chapter before it went to print. So it's, it's openly available on sport archive for anyone who wants to take a look. Um, there's, there's a few different sections to it and you can probably get a feel for who had the bigger contributions to different sections on it. So obviously, uh, Dr. James Fisher, Jeremy Lanerke and Sam Buckner were, um, co-authors on the paper and Jeremy and Sam in particular have done a lot of work, um, critiquing periodization from the perspective of the studies specifically that have purported to test the concepts within that kind of broader, um, theory. Um, and so they contributed kind of those sections, whereas my aim was really more to kind of introduce some of the, um, broader philosophy of science concepts. So first of all, you know, when we talk about myths, what do we mean by myths? And when we talk about scientific theories, what do we mean by scientific theories? Um, and you know, most of the listeners, I'll probably mention a few like names, which are, and I'll try and sort of like, uh, not take for granted that people know who these people are, most people will have probably heard of Karl Popper. And if you've got any minimal level of philosophy of science training in your, um, you know, degree level studies, then, um, you probably will have heard of Popper, black swans, falsification, and so on. Also, he invented the jalapeno popper, which a lot of people don't know. He did as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And that's the theory of how good they are has standard for test of time. Many severe tests, everyone loves them, you know, highly corroborated theory. Um, but anyway, the, uh, so Popper always held that, um, most scientific theories actually start in their origins as myths. Um, essentially there are kind of attempts to explain what we observe, what's going on. Um, and typically when we think about the word myth in a kind of colloquial sense, we think of it, like you said, said, you know, within the industry, people think of it in the sense of kind of, um, incorrect beliefs that people have about, you know, what works and maybe why it works and those sorts of things. But in essence, you know, myths are not too different from theories in that they're attempts to explain what we observe. They're attempts to kind of give meaning and structure and explanation to, uh, um, to the world around us. So they, they kind of rest within what the philosophers call ontology, which is, you know, they're trying to explain the reality that we see. Um, but from Popper's perspective, the problem with myths and why he didn't consider them to fall into what he considered to be scientific theories was the fact that typically myths are not sufficiently developed enough that they are under his kind of criteria of what demarcates, um, science from non-scientific ideas. Um, and to clarify, like not everyone accepts Popper's demarcation criteria, criteria. If anyone wants a good up to date kind of, um, I say up to date, it's still up to date. The paper's like from 1983, but Larry Loudon's, uh, paper on the demise of the demarcation problem is a really, like it's written for the lay person as well. Like it's, it's really easy, easy read about the different ideas of what can, what, what constitutes scientific versus non-scientific, um, uh, methods or belief systems or whatever, which I always chuckle out when everyone's like science-based training is this. And I'm like, meanwhile, the philosophers of science over here have been debating the demarcation problem for millennia since Aristotle and they still can't agree on that, but no, no, no, no. Uh, the Instagram and YouTube guys have figured out what science-based training is already. The dead giveaway for science-based training is that they say hypertrophy instead of muscle growth. Yep. That's it. Wait, isn't it pronounced hypertrophy? And that's when you get someone who is, who really understands, um, they know that they're going for all of the trophies, especially those in the hype. Exactly. Exactly. Anyway. So, I mean, the, the main problem though, is that, um, at least from Popper's perspective, and if you kind of subscribe to a broadly speaking kind of falsificationist perspective on, um, what constitutes strong scientific research, he sees it as we start off with a theory and a theory is our attempt at explaining how reality works, whatever portion of reality you as a scientist want to be trying to explain. So for us, that's how we respond to, uh, training stimuli. That's how our body adapts. It's how, uh, we can manipulate the variables within training stimuli to kind of try and produce different responses. There's a whole host of different areas with, in our little slice of reality, in our disciplinary field that we want to try and explain. Um, and typically the more developed sciences like physics and kind of, uh, more developed, uh, um, biological sciences, chemistry, and so on, they have through millennia got to the point where they have varying theories of, um, sufficiently precise degree, but they can use those theories to then make predictions about what they should observe. And then they can design studies to go out and test those observations. And this is where Popper's, from Popper's perspective, um, deduction or deductive logic, like the ability to say, if my theory were a true explanation of the world, then we should observe this if I do this. Like that's just a logical corollary. It's a, um, derivable consequence of our, of my theory that if it's true, we observe this. And if we don't observe that, then that means the theory is not true. Um, and so this is kind of a whole kind of simplified version of like Popper's philosophy of science, which is to say that what we do is we attempt to falsify theories and we try and put those theories through strong tests and those theories that survive those tests become more corroborated. Um, we don't say they're true, but we've become more convinced that they are closer to the truth, even though literally taking any theory is, is, is false. Um, but we hope that by testing our theories and they survive these tests that they get closer and closer to the truth. So to go back to the theory, uh, at the periodization example specifically, when you take that into consideration, uh, one of the reasons why I kind of say, I'm not saying that periodization is wrong from this perspective, but it's to try and frame what we would need to do to be able to say, this is a scientific theory and this theory makes very precise predictions and we can go out and test those predictions and try to falsify the fear theory. Um, so one of the problems is typically the way periodization is framed is it's a very loose kind of, I mean, it's a whole host of different kind of models and theories and things like that, but by and large, they're all very, very, um, imprecise. So they are, you know, you can take, uh, uh, relativity theory and you can make very, very precise predictions about, you know, the, um, um, deflection of light as the, uh, of clit happens and all of these very, very precise predictions can be derived from the consequences of that theory. If we take it assumed to be true, and then we can go out and make those observations and test them. Um, whereas with periodization theory, kind of at most often, we might be able to say, we would expect that this program would produce better results than this program, or maybe if we do things in this order, we might get better results. We're not quite at the stage though, with it, where we can make very precise predictions that we would need to, to be able to then design studies to actually test them. So you'd be hard pushed to go in and ask any proponent of periodization theory to say, say, okay, well, how much in terms of S-SWAT-1 or M, um, on average, would we expect this group to do better than that group? And then design a study to be able to test that specific prediction that's been derived from that particular periodization model that fits within that broader theory. So the fact that the, um, the kind of quote unquote theory is what we would call deductively infertile. It's not immediately obvious what you could deduce as the consequences of the theory, isn't one of the reasons why I kind of provocatively argue it's not quite got to the theory stage yet. It's still kind of in the mythology stage. Um, there's other bits and bobs that go on around it as well. So I think there's still kind of some social, cultural, and historical, and allure of kind of the Eastern Bloc success. And there are elements of like more colloquial traditional mythos and kind of things that I think tie into it as well. Um, but other things, for example, are also, um, things like, uh, uh, misborrowing of auxiliary theories from other fields. And I should clarify, actually, this is actually a really good approach for fields, which are still very, very early on in their, um, kind of scientific development to actually use what is called analogical, uh, abduction. So taking ideas from other fields and basically asking the question, I wonder if things over here work the same as they work over there, particularly in fields where they've got more precise theories. So we can actually take them and say, say, okay, well, you know, let's try and kind of rejig this so we can make some precise predictions. Um, periodization has tried to do that, uh, or at least tried to borrow some theories, but they've used them in almost kind of like a, um, what's the word I'm looking for, for kind of more of a narrative set sense. They, they, they've become kind of like post hoc explanations for things, as opposed to being used in a kind of more, um, appropriate sense of theory borrowing, which is to say, take them, use them as scaffolding to try and build a more precise theory to then actually go ahead and test. So, yeah, so I think there's a lot of kind of, um, philosophy of science, philosophical ideas and concepts that could be adopted and taken more seriously in our field, not only in periodization though, because I think this applies to the field, broadly speaking. We're a very inductive field at the moment. We make observations and then we try and extrapolate from them. We may have some loose kind of theories, but they often amount to kind of, like I said, before we started recording, like the, the A's are bigger than the B's. This group might do better than that group, which is a very weak prediction to make. Um, the more precise the predictions a theory makes, the more risky any given test of that theory is. And then if a theory subsequently survives that test, it's a, it's better evidence to corroborate that theory. Um, and I'm very, very much influenced by this from an epistemological perspective. So I, I find evidence that follows this kind of, um, epistemological approach far more convincing than lots and lots of like small little inductive studies with all of the gamma of kind of problems that you guys have discussed recently with other guests, uh, and you've talked about and written about in mass, like sampling variance issues with measurement error and these sorts of things affecting the power of our tests and the whole host of other kind of questionable research practices, which we talked about previously when we discussed kind of open science developments. Um, so yeah, I think, uh, I, I'm, I feel like I've waffled a little bit there, but to try to kind of summarize things in as clear a way as possible, but I think we can do better and we, and we can actually, people think we're not yet as a field in a position where we can start to do science like that. Um, but actually I think we are, and I think we've actually got a really good example where, which we've, uh, uh, presented recently, which shows we can actually do science in that kind of strong theory and, uh, deductive, uh, deductively derived precise hypotheses that then we can then design strong, uh, risky tests of those theories. That's great. I'm just going to share a quote anecdote if I may. Um, so the, the work I'm doing here at Duke is really, uh, pulling me out of my academic comfort zone. You know, obviously I've studied regulation of energy expenditure a lot, but I kind of split my time between evolutionary anthropology and sociology, um, working with more of the psychological and sociological determinants of health. And, uh, it was really exactly a testament to what you're saying. I mean, every field is going to have its own strengths and weaknesses, its own blind spots, its own, uh, kind of, uh, tendencies for better or for worse. And, um, you know, if you don't spend time outside of your field, you don't really know that you just know science as it is presented to you. Uh, so the first paper that I put together as the lead author in my kind of sociology side of my work, I sent it to my advisor, who's a trained sociologist. Uh, and he was like, I, I like generally what's happening here, but where's all of your theory? Like, and I was like, well, what do you mean? The introduction says, here's two, you know, two paragraphs on what the problem is. Here's what I'm going to do. And the results are going to be the payout, you know? And he's like, well, but you kind of got to give me some more about, you know, why are we doing what we're doing and what is the, the bigger theoretical model that's kind of underlying this whole thing. And it was, um, that happened just like a couple months ago. It was like the first time that I realized like, wow, yeah, there's, there's definitely some blind spots I have just because I've been publishing in this very siloed field field for a while. And, um, yeah, it's not until you kind of peek around and either zoom out and look at more philosophy of science or kind of, you know, embed in an entirely different field and start to say, oh, like some people really put a lot more time and deliberate thought into that theory building and model building. Whereas I think in exercise science, um, the, I've definitely been, I've definitely interacted in circles with exercise scientists where, um, it is often believed that we just have a, we just have a need to generate data. Um, and the, the role of the exercise scientist is data generation and the, the utility of that data will be identified at some time, you know, but it's kind of just like, Hey, we need more data. Everyone go generate data. We'll figure out what to do with it later. Um, and so it is, uh, when you start to interact with folks in other fields, especially other fields where the, I I'm just kind of going off the cuff here, I don't have a grand idea of, you know, I'm not really, um, making a strong hypothesis here, but I do tend to find that you, my interactions with scientists in other fields, the less painful it is to produce a data point, the more emphasis there is on theory building and really strong theoretical models. And I do think that that's one thing where in exercise science, it is a laborious process to produce a data point. Uh, it is very effortful, very time consuming, very resource intensive. And I, and I do think that that may play in at like a subconscious level to this idea among exercise scientists that producing the data itself is the work, you know, because it is such a, I mean, anyone who's run a training study is just like, I remember, you know, my, my wife is, um, she's a, she was trained in social psychology and did a lot of survey research. And when I first found out that you can do studies where you put them up on a survey platform on Friday, and when you come into work on Monday, your data collection is over, I almost lost my mind. I had like an existential kind of crisis of like, what am I doing here? I've sunk 400 hours into this training study and I can barely see the end. Um, but yeah, it's, it, it is kind of interesting to step out of the exercise science silo and see some of these other fields where theory building really is what, what is viewed as the effortful process and ultimately the payout rather than the generation of, of data. Yeah, that's, I think a great look behind the curtain of kind of how different fields work. And I get to see this a lot, uh, because here at AUT we're under the school of sport and recreation, and there's a big mixture of people who fall under sports leadership and management, sports leadership and governance and sports coaching who primarily do qualitative work with some quantitative survey based data like you described to support it. And then you have all the people in SES, sport and exercise science who live pretty firmly in quantitative land. Um, again, like I've said many times, terrible theme park, don't go. But, um, when we do our proposals, they fall because they're under the same school. Um, they fall through the same process, uh, of the confirmation of candidature. You have the same reviewers. And when you go to one of the sports coaching, um, you know, confirmation of candidature presentations, they have so many slides on methodology. And that means something very specific. We don't have slides on methodology. We have a slide on methods. It's just, here's what I'm going to do in the lab. And their slides on methodology is talking about for my work, I'm going to accept this interpretation of reality and how people interact and what knowledge will derive from it. And what are the limitations and what we can and can't know. And something like, say, critical realism might get brought up. And sometimes when there's mixed methods work, the brave souls who are from SES who want to dabble a little bit in doing something like, uh, let's say a Delphi study where they're trying to get expert consensus, or they want to do, uh, you know, one-on-one interviews using thematic analysis to, to, to probe and get more hypothesis generating information and to give a little more experiential color to the quantitative survey they might've done. We do this a fair bit, uh, actually when we're trying to directly serve, say bodybuilders or powerlifters, we want to talk to coaches and athletes, what do you do and why, and what do you think about it? Cause that ensures that the quantitative answers we get are more directly applied and framed in a way that's useful to the beneficiaries of that information. We're trying to serve a community, right? So when we have to delve into there, that means we typically have to have a confirmation of candid share reviewer who's expecting some methodology. And often it's like, uh, we're doing quantitative analysis, empirical research here, and then I'm going to try to get this right. And that's often where we really expose our ignorance. Um, and it makes sense when you think about it, if your entire field is generating a research that is based upon two people just talking in a relatively open form format, there needs to be some type of perspective that frames that. So it's useful information rather than just kind of something that is, uh, an, an anecdote, you know? Um, so it's very much outside of the typical way of thinking of your quantitative sports scientist. And then to go back and kind of give an example of, you know, what, what was James talking about with these scaffolding and these borrowed theories and how do we kind of make sense of the world? You know, in sports science, we just do a whole bunch of disconnected studies and we look for patterns of when a is better than B. And often it's like little case, a large, a italics, a, it's almost never the same. Hey, we don't have replication studies. We have similar enough studies where we're looking for things that carry through and then we can kind of back calculate and figure out, Oh, you know, that probably happened this way. And it's muddied by things like we talked about measurement error sampling variants, but a great example of kind of how we understand this is it's very obvious that the general adaptation syndrome doesn't perfectly explain the way we adapt to training. Like, like there's not a very clear thing where, Oh, if you do too much, you just die. Right. Which is kind of the, you know, the alarm reaction of you do too much. Like, yeah, if you put a person in a vat of, of acid, there's going to be some responses in the body that's trying to maintain homeostasis. And if they get out, you know, they might be better at regulating acid-base balance later, if you kept exposing to that, or if you put them in the, probably a better example than a vat of acid would be like heat exposure over time. There'll be some adaptations, but if you leave them in that hot thing for too long, they're just going to die. It doesn't really work like that with like benching, you know? So we have, okay, well, that's kind of like overtraining syndrome, but it doesn't work perfectly because overtraining, that's a whole can of worms. So then we come up with something called the fitness fatigue model, which we kind of layer on top of general adaptation syndrome. And then we start to get an acknowledgement that, oh man, the biopsychosocial model actually explains all this quote unquote background noise of everything that is not going on in the gym and then in our bodies. So, okay, so we've got gas, we've got fit, you know, fitness fatigue, and then we've got the biopsychosocial model. And all of that together means that I don't have to be too specific. And it does adequately explain the variety of responses we have. And some of those come from within our field and some of them are outside. And sometimes we haven't really updated our understanding of the models that are used and borrowed from other fields as they evolve. And that's a very common thing. So I think hopefully that helps people understand exactly what James is talking about. It's that type of process. But you were alluding to specifically, James, that it doesn't have to be this way. And in fact, you've done some work that is done framing it from a more theoretically grounded perspective. So could you talk to us a little more about that? You kind of left us on that cliffhanger. Yeah, sure. Those are some really interesting examples as well. And I will just briefly mention and do a completely shameless plug for another book chapter that I've written, which is an introductory book chapter on philosophy of science or cycle of foundations of sport and exercise science research for a forthcoming research methods book that will be coming from the Society for Transparency, Replication and Openness in Kinesiology, and talks to a lot of the things that you've mentioned there. So it introduces students and maybe even established researchers to concepts in the philosophy of science like ontology, epistemology, axiology. I mean, did you guys get taught like basic logic when you were at school? You know, like for most people, they've never heard of an implicative syllogistic form of logic before. So all of that kind of stuff, I've tried to synthesize and present in a digestible manner in that chapter. So that's also so openly available and I'm updating at the moment. Out of curiosity, James. So like in my PhD program, we did have a series like a one semester crash course on philosophy of science. I'm not sure a lot of it really stuck, but at least there was the effort on the front end, which I've come to appreciate. How did you get into this stuff? Was this a formal rigorous training that you undertook or has this been kind of a hobby horse that you've been chasing up through papers and chapters? It's honestly just been a bit of a hobby horse of mine and I can't really place where it originated from. I think even early on during my undergraduate and then into my postgraduate studies, like I always had this kind of niggling thought in the back of my head of, I wonder if there's a better way of doing this. And that just kind of motivation, I think was what drove me to then try and explore outside the field and try and understand. I've been referred to as a kind of disciplinary tourist before, before, because I like to go visit other fields, see what they're doing and bring it back and pass out the souvenirs, hopefully to our field and then see if they'll give them a go. So, but I was thinking of an anecdote of mine as well, actually, during my, we have something called a transfer viva here, which is kind of when you register on a PhD program, you register on technically what is called an MPhil slash PhD program. So you have to, you do your first couple of years and they contribute to your PhD, but you can't stop and just be awarded the MPhil. Um, but you have to transfer into like the full PhD. Um, and I remember in my, um, my oral viva for my transfer, um, evidently one of the examiners had just done a quick, uh, uh, reading of like, what are the sort of questions I should ask the candidate? And one of them was, uh, can you talk to me a little bit about your ontology and epistemology and what sort of philosophical stances you take? Uh, but they were utterly unprepared to actually receive a quite in-depth answer from it after I'd been recently reading, uh, Popper and Lakatosha and started, uh, uh, pontificating about them and their ideas and how they influenced my work and, uh, and whatnot at the time. But it's, it's really just been a hobby horse and, and I've, um, the more and more I've dove into it, the more and more I've loved it for its own sake. Um, but honestly lately it's always had kind of like some pragmatic origins in it in the sense of like learning this will help me do my science better and it might help me, um, explain to others how to maybe do their, their work better as well. So yeah, uh, no formal training. Um, so, you know, take everything I say with a complete pinch of salt. Um, you know, I could be completely wrong. Probably am. Well, that, that seems to be, um, everyone who dips their toes in philosophy walk, walks out of it saying now, just to be clear, I could be extremely wrong and likely am that that seems to be like the hallmark of anyone who's like, I've found philosophy readings to be terrifying. I, I did, I did not enjoy them the way you do. I remember, um, maybe I would now that I'm older and, uh, a little bit more comfortable with uncertainty, but it seems like if, if you are not someone who gets a weird sense of intrigue from uncertainty, philosophy readings are one of the, one of the most painful experiences that you could ever find between pages of a book or, uh, or article. Can I just say though, I do think it's important, especially to be part of a graduate program and framed in the right way. Um, I wrote an article for mass called basically on, on pseudoscience and what to do about when you see it and whether it's misinformation or disinformation. And in my readings to write that article, one of the things I came across was a study and, you know, not a great study from the framing that we just had a verse B, which is better, but they looked at two different graduate programs that were otherwise identical. I think they might've been from different years or similar programs that had one, uh, change. And in one, it was your typical methods class, which is what I had. So I didn't get introduction to philosophy of science outside of, um, some of the stuff within the quantitative realm or of what's correlation, what's causation, frequentist stats, et cetera. Right. So it's, it's embedded in there, but it wasn't intentional. Um, and when you compared students who were given this methods class or this design class, if you will, versus those who were given specifically a logic class and the measured the number of, uh, what they called untenable conspiratorial beliefs. So it's not just saying, Oh, you, you believe in something that the internet says is a conspiracy, but things that you hold two beliefs, which actually contradict one another that shouldn't be able to exist at the same time. The methods class had no influence on that, but by the end of the philosophy class, those actually reduced. So this is actually teaching people to be better thinkers. And it's one of the reasons why we often see people who are academically robust in their background, or may even have what you would describe as like high intelligence. If we think of from just a kind of a raw processing power, but have some errors in their critical thinking. So I think a prescient example of an untenable belief, just so people know what I'm talking about would be to say, there's a, you know, global multinational conspiracy against say health, you know, or something like that. Um, the medical and scientific establishment and governments are doing something to, uh, do, do, do, have, they have bad intentions for us to control us through health or nutrition or something like that. You might keep people unwell. Exactly. You might hear it about the dietary guidelines, for example, or you might hear it about the way we deal with infectious disease, very common during the COVID era. The same person will often then state that the governments are incompetent. They're not using good evidence. Um, they're unable to roll out these things, what they're doing are ineffective. And you don't get to state that the same entity that can maintain a global multinational conspiracy across political lines, geographical lines, and even non-governmental agencies and dealing with individuals in the medical and scientific establishment is able to do that, which is a huge effort and burden to be able to do as well as being too incompetent to do the basic function of government. You can choose one, but you can't choose both, right? That's an example of having those untenable beliefs, because if you don't understand logic and if you have strong emotional ties to something, it's very easy to not even tap into your own critical thinking skills. Although they may be well-developed, you may have them, but if it's just simply, Oh, I have a prior belief. I know I'm right. I have a conclusion and let me work backwards. And I'm going to just give a thumbs up to anything that supports it. Then yeah, I'm good with both of these because they both prove my point without noticing that contradiction. And I think that is how we often see people who in other facets of their intellectual, uh, you know, ability to exert, um, processing power, they're really quite good. But man, when you get them on something where they have an emotional attachment to it, they don't even go there to try to see how they can apply those logical skills. So anyway, I think this is a very important topic. That's just an example. So carry away from there, my friend. Yeah, James, we got to get into this, this study. We've been, we've been teasing it for a good 40 minutes here. So let's dive in. All right, let's dive in then. Well, let's, let's get the, uh, the main, well, the, the thing that most people have paid attention to out of the way, because from my perspective, that's really the least interesting thing about the study. I mean, you, so you guys have talked about it already on the, uh, on the podcast. And this is the, uh, Gischneidner et al, uh, uh, study, which was a collaboration between myself and, um, Dr. James Fisher and, uh, Luke Carlson and David Gischneidner, uh, from Discover Strength. And we, we've collaborated with Discover Strength a bunch of times over the years. Um, uh, we've always, um, really enjoyed working with them and, um, I'll come back to this at the end, I think is worthwhile, but I, I should say that, that being generating collaborations with external, uh, industry partners who are in a position to be able to deliver on these kinds of studies is really key. I think to be able to, to push the fields forwards and, and step away from the typical kind of, you know, like I said, say that the, the data generating, um, emphasis is partly because of the systemic, uh, constraints on being able to do these big studies. So it's just easier to just chuck out studies of, you know, N of 20, N of 30, and, and that's that. Um, when everyone secretly knows that, that is woefully underpowered for anything that we could possibly be interested in the field. Um, it's also partly why, um, and this will touch a little bit on what you were talking about there, Helms, um, was, um, I, some people might see it as a contradictory, a set of contradictory beliefs I hold. Um, but I'm hopefully going to explain, uh, why that's not the case. Like I typically put almost zero stock in like the results of any given individual study nowadays. This one is an exception, not just because it's my study, but for the reasons I'm going to talk through. But for most most studies for me nowadays that come out in the field, um, I look at as basically fodder for meta-analysis. Um, and that's actually a really noble pursuit suit. And, uh, you know, if you look at, um, for example, Daniel Larkins has a wonderful paper on sample size justification and sample size justification doesn't have to be statistical power or statistical precision based. It can be, this is all we can do in the constraints we have. And we're not going to make strong inferences from this study because of those reasons, but this is going to contribute to cumulative evidence, uh, generation and allow a future researcher might be us, might be others to be able to perform robust meta-analyses and other evidence synthesis approaches with this data. Anyway. Um, so yeah, so the study was on, uh, it was another length and partial study, you know, let's get that out of the way. But like I say, the length and partial. Another one. Good grief. Yeah. I mean, from my perspective, this is like the length and partial study. I don't know why anyone would want to do any more, but, um, anyway, the, the, the point, the key points of the study, which I think lots of people have overlooked are exactly the things that we've been talking about. It would almost be, it almost wouldn't matter what the two interventions that we looked at in the study were from the broader points that the study is able to present. So to start off with, um, let's work with this idea of a strong theory. Um, one of the, and, and this is a very simple theory actually. And sometimes simple, in fact, you know, uh, again, like, like one of Popper's kind of, um, uh, values with regards to kind of theory development was it needs to be, you know, as simple as it can be and, you know, or no more complex than it needs to be essentially. Um, the simpler the theory, the better, the simpler the theory, the easier it is to derive predictions and generate tests of them. And this theory that I've been kind of working with and, and kind of developing and thinking about, it's just simply a theory about how humans adapt to exposure to resistance training over time. Like what does the shape of adaptation over time look like? Um, and I should also say, says what, well, this is also why a lot of the data generation. And at the early stages of science, that inductive approach of kind of saying, making observations, trying to generate generalizations and explanations from them is important because I've had to do that or had to rely on, stand on the shoulders of giants and work with the evidence that others have produced to be able to get to the stage, to be able to generate these ideas and theories. So we've, um, we've done a lot of work looking at strength adaptations in large data sets. And we've also done a lot of, uh, large scale meta analytic work as well. Um, and when I say large scale, this is like a hundred plus studies. This isn't your typical kind of, you know, you might get 10 studies in a meta analysis, you know, these are large scale meta analyses. Um, but consistently what we see is that, um, the adaptation, uh, a model that fits, um, the results that we see over time with respect to hypertrophy and with respect to strength, um, albeit the magnitude is differing is a logarithmic adaptation over time or approximately logarithmic adaptation over time. So you see rapid gains in untrained populations that start to kind of plateau out. And eventually, I mean, technically speaking, a logarithmic model never actually plateaus. Um, There's an asymptote. Well, also if you include a linear term in there, like you would, uh, in a kind of quadratic model where you might have a linear and then a square term, a terminal, you can have a linear and then a log term in there as well. And then that does allow the model to fit a plateau. Um, but approximately speaking, it is essentially a logarithmic model, or at least that's what we've generalized from these large scale meta analyses, these large scale data sets that we've worked with. Um, and we've also, from those meta analyses then got empirical estimates of what the magnitudes of effects should look like over time as well. Um, and I've come back a little bit actually to, uh, cause one of the examples I've given in some previous work is for example, the fitness fatigue models of, uh, in the field to say, look, in some places there have been attempts to come up with more precise theories. One of the problems with the fitness fatigue models though, is oftentimes the model is fit to the data rather than selecting parameters and then testing whether those parameters are actually, uh, uh, you know, uh, falsified in the data or not. Um, so there's, there's some kind of weaker applications of model there. Uh, but with us, what we did is we essentially said, right, look, we've got, um, we know roughly what the, from these large scale data sets, what the magnitude of change in hypertrophy should be over time. Um, and as a standardized mean effect, mean effect, um, and for strength over time. And you're looking at approximately like a 0.34, let's stick with hypertrophy for the moment, 0.34 standard deviation units change over a 12 week intervention in untrained populations. Okay. Now I just want to highlight that because like when we were talking about, we had, we had a whole, uh, episode where Trex and I talked about, and he helped me with this article, uh, the impact of sampling variants and the example I used with what if something's just on the border line of quote unquote trivial to small of 0.2. And I think to understand that the effect of training period and an untrained person has a 0.34 effect on hypertrophy tells you that, yeah, I went with 0.2 because it is in our field, the threshold or not even our field generally accepted as the, in that family of effect size of the cutoff for, from trivial to small. Realistically 0.1 might be, uh, like, uh, a more realistic thing in a non-untrained population with differences in training because we're talking about untrained compared, you know, training to, to nothing, right? This, this is the main effect of, of training. So this is like the causal effect of, and, and bear in mind, this is estimated from, um, you know, meta-analyses where the protocols do vary across. Yeah. So, so there is some, there is some between study variants and there's evidently characteristics like protocol and things like that. Uh, but this is also partly why when I get to the results of our study, I'm even more generally convinced of the, uh, the general theory. Um, but also, yeah, to put it in perspective, um, if you were to just do a simple, um, uh, resistance training versus control group, uh, study looking at these effects, or even let's make it even simpler. Let's say you just do a single arm study and you're looking at strength changes, uh, sorry, uh, or any changes as a, as a result of resistance training intervention. Although strength changes are higher, strength changes are higher. Yeah. But you would need, uh, in order to be able to detect, um, right, like the smallest effect that you would be able to detect with A-50 participant sample is about a 0.4 standardized mean difference. So even just to detect like with, and this is controlling error rates or having a precise, uh, you know, uh, pre-specified degree of precision that allows you to exclude zero as a possible effect. Um, like you, you're needing 50 plus people just to detect the effects of resistance training on, on, uh, hypertrophy. Um, so it highlights like the effects are, the effects are small. How small is, you know, dependent on what, what's small to you, but they're certainly smaller than any of our typical studies are designed to detect. Then you get to the problem, which is exactly said, which is, uh, you know, we are mostly not interested in whether lifting weights makes you bigger or stronger because we kind of know that like the meta-analysis data showed like it's a, it's a real effect. It's a small effect, but it's a real effect. Like, um, you know, we don't really need more research to tell us that what we care about nowadays is does protocol A do better than protocol B? And so what we're asking are interaction questions, questions about the differences in differences over time. So one of the things we did, did with this study, um, was we took our theory of a linear logarithmic growth and we said, okay, well, if that's the case in trained participants, then qualitatively, that means that the magnitude of changes, if this model is true, if this series is a accurate, have to be smaller. Okay. Well, if we know what the changes are over a 12 week period, and we know that it's a linear log model, then we can just predict what we should see as the main effect of resistance training over time. And then from that, that sets a mathematical constraint on what the possible interaction effects magnitude can be. Uh, because if the average, an interaction effect is just the, I'm not sure which way my hands are going now. It's just the difference in kind of slope. So over time. And so, uh, the, the, if the, if the average effect over time is this, then to have a interaction effect that is bigger than the main effect of time, you have to have like completely like opposite. You have to have one intervention that actually makes people lose muscle and one that makes people grow, grow muscle. Whereas no, like no one tests any, we all know that continuing to lift weights doesn't make you lose muscle at the very least. It's assuming you're not, you know, a very elderly population and aging is catching up with you and overtaking. Um, so all of these things, and this is what I mean by precise theory, these things start to very much constrain the predictions that we can make about effects that we look at. So we essentially had this linear log model. We had estimates of the magnitude of effects that we can see over time. And then from that, we can deductively derive what we think the estimates for the main effects of time should be for participating in a resistance training intervention of a given duration for people who have a given level of training experience as well. So if you take that model and you say, right, um, at zero, you're untrained and we want to look at the effects of whatever 12 weeks, well, it looks like that. But if you start with whatever six months training experience, you're starting here and the effects are like that, they're tiny. So we, we essentially took from, uh, from that, that, that theory, precise predictions and not to disappoint people too much. And this is kind of getting a why everyone thinks I'm really black billed, which I kind of am, but the magnitude of effects that we would predict in hypertrophy, and this is the main effect of time. So again, this is just from training is 0.05 standardized mean effect. So it's pretty damn small. Then if you take into account that interaction constraint, like we would say that like, it's maybe reasonable to expect a difference between two interventions to be at most, maybe half of that. So 0.025 of a standardized mean difference. So we're talking about very, very small effects. Can I add one thing? Go for it. Just to contextualize this for people who are, you know, these, these numbers might not mean a lot. Um, a cool thing about some of the recent meta regressions that I've been either privy to or involved in, um, the ones that Pelland and Robinson have led on proximity to failure as well, as well as, uh, total sets, indirect sets per muscle group per week. And also the one that Trexler and I are part of led by Dr. Martin Ruffalo on protein intake and modifications of lean mass and a deficit to get to the point where you are seeing this small effect, which is actually quite large in comparison to, um, the, the effect of resistance training on untrained person, which is like 0.34, which is like in the middle of between small and moderate closer to small. Um, you have to have some pretty big disparities when you look at kind of the predicted regression line. So for example, I think in Robinson, so I was looking at this, if you look at their, uh, their, the specific figure where they're comparing failure all the way to 10 RIR, the difference between like a nine RIR and failure is where you get to like that roughly small effect difference. And I think in the Pelland meta regression, I want to say it's like a 15 set difference. So pretty big. Yeah. Yeah. So, and, and, and, and our, our protein analysis, it was the difference between one gram per kilogram of protein and three. So this is what it actually takes for us to observe what we would be relatively modest effects compared to other fields. It's so when we're talking about, Hey, I want to compare 10 sets to 15, or I want to compare 1.5 grams per kilogram to two grams per kilogram of protein, or I want to compare a two RIR to a zero RIR. This is why it's so important for us to have meta regression, have meta analysis, to have these large scale multi-site data collections, and also just to, to temper our expectations, um, for these reasons. So anyway, I'll let you go from there. Yeah. And one of the things I'll add as well is because, um, this is where like, like, like I thought this for a while as well. Well, now as we're moving into an era where we're starting to capitalize on the fact that we've got a lot of individual studies now that can, can act as kind of like, uh, you know, uh, fuel for our, for our meta regret aggressions. And we're shifting into, um, a phase where we're starting to ask more appropriate questions, I think, regarding dose response relationships. You do hit a problem with the meta analytic method of, um, building these dose response models, which is the same as you have with the individual studies is that your, um, the data already exists. And unless you pre-register testing a specific model's functional form in that data, it's not necessarily a severe test in the kind of risky poppery and falsificationist perspective. So the way I'm kind of, I kind of think about these meta analyses a lot now is they're still like for a, from a practical perspective, you should still probably use them to inform what you're doing. Um, but from a theory building and scientific perspective, that's what I see them as they're now, uh, the kind of best evidence we have for, this is what we, this is our theory of what we think the dose response looks like. And you can think of like the models I'm talking about as dose response models and dose being how long you have trained for, how much of the training dose have you received over time. Um, but then we can use those to then plan strong studies to test the predictions of them. And that's exactly what we've done here. Um, the next point I was going to make though is, is evidently, as I've said, like these predicted effects were really small. And so one of the things I pointed out when we were designing the study was look, if we're going to try and design a study, that's going to be able to detect, um, well, one, first of all, main effect of, uh, you know, 0.05 at least, cause that's what we predict. So we need our study to be powered at least to predict that. Um, even if it turns out the effect is bigger, we, that's what we're predicting. So we've got to design our study to detect it. Um, it's going to be even more to try to detect the interaction effect comparing to interventions. So, you know, and, and, and when I was running the, uh, simulation based analyses to determine the sample size for the power, uh, that we were looking for in our study. And I should say, we, we powered the study for like 95% power as well. So it's typically, it's a higher power than typical for the field. Uh, we set our alpha level 0.01 as well. So we would, I, I was deliberately trying to be like, really like on the nose, like, like, like, come on guys, like you can do it, but do it really, really stringently if you want. Um, but to put it in perspective, um, if we were going by the simulation based results for, um, detecting a difference between the two interventions, we would have needed like a thousand plus participants in the study. Um, and that was just never going to, going to happen. Like, um, at least from our perspective, that didn't feel like a useful use of resources. Even, even if I just wanted to make the point of saying, you can do big studies if you try really hard guys. Um, so instead we actually, we not only took these theory based predictions, but we also then led in the practical considerations as well, because we kind of said, look, if our theory predicts that the effects are so, are this small, are these predicted effects even big enough for anyone to care about? So credit to, uh, to Milo, Dr. Milo Wolf and to, uh, Brad Schoenfeld, Dr. Brad Schoenfeld as well. Um, I thought, you know what, I'm going to pick two of the guys who I think are the most optimistic guys about hypertrophy and the effects of different interventions and ask them what their smallest effect size of interest would be. Um, so we set a smallest effect size of interest from a practical perspective as to what would be considered meaningful, um, which was bigger than what our theory predicted the effect should, should be. Um, and so what we did is in terms of our statistical tests in the study, we actually designed the study to test for equivalence within that, because our theory predicted that the effect should be within that 0.1, you know, we were predicting a main effect of 0.05 and an interaction effect of 0.025. Um, so that's what we did. We, we designed the study, we powered the study to be able to detect that. We had just shy of 300 participants. We collected data over 15 different sites and discover strength. They've been an amazing job being able to do this. Um, we've done previous big studies with them as well, where we've done a similar approach where we've kind of, um, made predictions about what we, uh, think the, uh, uh, magnitude of effects might be for fat loss, for example, between heavy and light load training, which was another, uh, previous large scale study that we've done with them as well. Um, and also then tested for equivalence because we weren't expecting the differences to be huge. Um, but it goes to show that, you know, you can design these studies and do these studies if you collaborate, um, appropriately. And that doesn't need to be with industry partners. This could be multi-site collaborations across different labs. Um, I think, uh, Dr. D'Souza, uh, recently kind of extended his offer to, uh, to collaborate on that. Um, I should say as well, you know, uh, now, um, I'm working out an industry with Keyser Australia. We've, uh, we're in the process of really building our infrastructure out to be able to deliver, um, trials within the kind of resistance training space. We work more of kind of clinical populations, but, um, you know, these large scale kind of collaborations are really key. Um, but is it worth jumping onto the results or do you want to, uh, jump in with anything guys? Helms, I can't hear you. I think you might be muted. There's a good example of a study that you did, um, kind of modeling the long-term growth response. I want to say it was like in 15,000 participants. Was that Discover Strength as well or was that Keyser? Uh, no, that was with a Dutch company called Fit20 actually. Ah, okay. So another example of a really good, um, collaboration. And I think you found that there was like a top end of like a 40 to 60% increase in strength before you started to see what you could describe as a plateau or severe diminishing returns. Um, and I found that really interesting because it really does depend upon kind of the, the effectiveness of what you give people. Because if you told me someone's strength who is untrained increased by a maximum of 50% over years, two years, I think, or seven years, it might've been. That's right. I would look back at Hubel and colleagues study, which is one of the classic papers in our, our, our field that had just short of 600 participants, multi-site data collection that was looking at, um, I'm not going to say individual response variation. I'll say differences in response of people and the average response was that much in 12 weeks, but they had a much higher volume protocol. So the only, the only critique I would, I would give back is that I think when you're looking at low dose resistance training, um, we know that the effect can be quite even, even more small, which can to some degree kind of dampen it. Okay. I'll take a step back. Um, it really depends upon who the community we're trying to serve is and what message we're trying to give. Low dose, high intensity resistance training is probably the most likely adopted, uh, and useful intervention for the general public. Um, and that's why it's interesting, um, because it takes minimal time investment. You get in, you get, you get done and dirty. Obviously there's some psychological questions as to someone, would they prefer to do four sets to failure or 12 sets shy of failure? If we pretended they were equivalent, that might be personality dependent. Um, but certainly from a time efficiency standpoint, you'd want to do the four sets. But when it comes to sports science, where a 0.1 difference in say you're a hundred meter time is the difference between being an elite level sprinter or pretty good. And, or when you're talking about any visible change, you know, that could even be due to not consuming enough carbohydrates before you get on stage and dropping two or three placings on, you know, in a sport like that is a very different question, isn't it? Like, what do we care about? And I am sometimes curious about like, what's the maximal effect we can get, uh, out of this resistance training, not the typical one, or what should we expect? Because I'm interested in the sports science side of it. Like if we get a whole team around, you know, if we get kind of like a NASCAR pit crew around somebody and try to optimize every little opportunity, what does that look like? And that is a very different question to how do we improve population level health through resistance training? Right. So I just wanted to make that small commentary. Yeah. And I think, so we, we touched a bit on this before we got on, on air as well, is, um, there's often some kind of, uh, confusion between what we're trying to do in research that typically, which is to estimate the underlying causal effects of a particular intervention when we're looking at, um, versus kind of like, like say some of those observations you met, you met make, uh, like, um, you know, someone drops a place on stage or whatever, and they might ascribe it to a particular set of things, but ultimately that, that is kind of like the single observation that you would see of a participant. That is the consequence of a whole complex data generating process. Um, some of which might be the causal effects of the interventions that we're interested in. And within a research context, this is where we're interested in trying to, um, determine what the magnitude of those underlying causal effects are, um, on average, granted. Um, although as we kind of touched on, uh, um, uh, beforehand, um, I'm sure you'll get Zach on at some point and he can, uh, he can black pill everyone on the, uh, on the inter-individual response variation stuff. I'll, I'll, I'll leave him to do that. Um, but I guess to kind of go back to like, this is where like I'm, um, granted there, there may be very, very small differences between the different interventions and, you know, like hands up, I've been a low volume guy for a long time. You know, I train typically like, like that, you know, I've got no aspirations of standing on stage or competing or any fit thing like that. Um, haven't got the genetics for it. Um, but, uh, genetics, genetics aren't a thing. Everyone responds with the same James. So come on. Yeah. But they affect your starting point, unfortunately. So mine's shit. Maybe. Um, but, but one of the reasons, uh, again, like, like, so the, the FIT-20 data is an interesting corroborator and I'll get to, to, to why I think our study is an interesting and strong corroborator of the general theory that resistance training adaptation over time is approximately linear logarithmic in, in, um, in its functional form. Um, so if we, if for example, we look at the, um, and it was the, the, that, that FIT-20 kind of data alongside, um, other data sets, such as the meta-analysis data sets that we've worked with, um, that influence this kind of theory development. If we look at, for example, the 12 week, um, strength, um, standardized mean differences from our large meta-analysis data set. And again, this is resistance training and untrained populations against control groups. Um, the vast majority of these interventions were your typical kind of free sets per exercise, you know, 10 reps to failure, like considerably more, not high volume by any stretch of the imagination, but also considerably more than the five exercises, one set to failure once a week that the FIT-20 guys were doing. Um, we see a standardized mean effect of about 0.89 in the meta-analysis data. Um, and it varies across, across the exercises we looked at in the FIT-20 data, um, but the standardized mean effects that we calculate from that, that data over a 12 week period and not far off that, um, they're in that same sort of ballpark range. Um, yeah, taking into account, we would expect to see some variation in any way, given a random sample of exercises and whatnot. Um, and so, you know, I'm, I still kind of fall along the lines of, uh, of, in general, there's, the differences are probably very small, but if you are in a competitive, if you're competing, like you want to bet on what's going to get you the most. Um, and as much as I'm going to hate saying this, because I think it's licensed for something that people in the field have been shifting towards doing that irks me massively already, everyone kind of has jumped on the bandwagon of like bashing significance or null hypothesis significance testing and, um, misusing it and shifting towards kind of estimation based and confidence intervals by which they mean, I'm going to calculate a confidence interval, ignore that confidence interval, and then just interpret the sign of the mean value. Uh, so if it's positive for one intervention, I'm going to say that intervention's best. So, um, but technically speaking maximum likelihood estimator, uh, uh, the, uh, sign of a mean effect between two different groups is an unbiased estimator of it. So, you know, if you were, if you were playing the longer game, if you just bet on the, uh, inter, uh, the intervention with the higher mean effect in the long run, you wouldn't be right every time, but in the long run over, over a lifetime, you might come out on top. Um, so I'm going to, I'm going to hate that. I've probably just given license for everyone to just ignore the statistics and just interpret the point estimates now, but um, uh, anyway, but you know, if we go back to, uh, to the study that we had as well, um, I'm going to, I'll brush over the kind of interaction effect, uh, results that we looked at, which were the main point of the study was to test length and partials and full range of motion training. And surprise, surprise, you know, they're basically statistically equivalent within that kind of 0.1, um, smallest effect size of interest, uh, limit. Um, but one of the interesting things that we did is we calculated the main effects for time for strength and the main effects for, um, hypertrophy. And we compared those to the very precise estimates that we took from the theory derived, uh, models to begin with. Um, so we predicted an effect of roughly 0.05. There's, there's a kind of very small, precise interval around that, that, um, and for strength, it was about 0.12, I think off the top of my head. Um, but, uh, when you look at the main effects for time for both hypertrophy and strength, the, the estimates that we got in our study were damn close to what we predicted precisely from that model or that theory of linear log growth over time, you'd take a trained population of six months, you train them for 12 weeks, and we would expect them to grow by about 0.05 and to gain strength by about 0.125 or whatever. Um, and those effect, those estimates that we got was really damn close to it. Um, and I'll put it in context a little bit more as well, as well, because if you take popper and like face value, like technically speaking, uh, take for example, like the strength data that we had, I've got it open just so I can have a look at it. Um, but if you look at the chest press and leg press outcomes that we had for strength, like they, the interval estimates from the study exclude the predicted value from our theory. And so strong popper would say like, ah, you falsified your theory. That's it. Um, the reality is we know that's not quite exactly, um, how we end up, uh, using falsifications in science. It's not like strict black swan, um, approach. And this is why, like, um, popper students like Imre Lakitosh kind of developed and worked on popper's work to kind of talk about this kind of softer, uh, methodological falsificationism that he uses. Because it could be that, that, um, it's not the theory that's wrong. There's various auxiliary hypotheses and things like that. Um, but one thing that Paul Mill, who's a, who, again, I would definitely encourage anyone interested in philosophy of science to read everything that Paul Mill's written because he was a polymath, genius, clinical self psychologist, philosopher of science, just all around awesome guy who also strangely looked, we like uncannily like my granddad. Like the, the, the, the, the likeness is scary. I showed my nan a picture of Paul Mill once as a joke and she went, ah, that's a nice picture of granddad. And then I had to explain to her it wasn't granddad. Um, but one of the things that he kind of worked on was this idea was developed some of, uh, popper's ideas of theory corroboration because, you know, near misses, uh, to specific predicted effects from theories are almost as strong corroborators as, uh, as hits themselves. So if you're way off in your predictions, then like, like it's, so the idea of all of this is like calling your shot. Um, but when you're calling your shot, you've got to take into account how big the area that you could hit is. Um, so, uh, the example that meal get gives is a really nice one. So he says, says like, imagine I've got like a theory of the weather. Like I've got some theory of, of, of, of, of rainfall. Um, and I tell you, uh, it's going to rain next April. My theory predicts that and it rains next April and you go, okay, well, it's pretty good. But like you, you have like, you know, multiple days that you could, it's almost like the multi, like, like you run lots and lots of accuracy level is, is, is, is not meaningful to us. If you can tell me within a 30 day window, it's going to rain. Like, exactly, exactly. But then I say like, okay, it's going to rain at least seven days in April and it does rain seven days in April and you go, oh, okay. It's a bit more impressive. And then I tell you exactly which seven days it's going to rain. And it does rain on those days. And you think, oh, this has got something going for it now. And then I tell you on those seven days, it's going to rain, you know, uh, half a centimeter, three centimeters and give you all these precise predictions and, and boom, boom, boom. I get five out of seven of them. Right. Like you'd be pretty damn impressed by how good my theory is like taken strictly as true. We know it's false. Um, but it's pretty damn close to the truth. If I can predict things with that level of accuracy, um, also we think, and this is where he came up with this idea, which he called the Spielraum, which is a German word, which means like, um, area of play or, or, uh, play region. And, um, and so one of the things I actually did with that, with our estimates was to, um, calculate something the meal worked on, which is called the corroboration index, which is, um, which is ranges from zero to one. If, if your estimates are bang on your predictions, then it, it, you get a one. Um, whereas if they're close to it, then you, you get, you know, the closer to the one, one, the better, but it takes into account this possible range of values that you could get if you didn't have the theory to make any predictions. Um, and so one of the things we did is we went back to the meta-analysis datasets that we've got. Um, and in those meta-analysis datasets, we can calculate a prediction interval, um, which is just the, um, uh, interval that tells us if it's a 95% prediction interval, 95% of future studies should produce effect estimates for the effects of resistance training over time on hypertrophy or strength that fall within this region. Um, which is actually quite a big region when you look at those prediction intervals. Um, so we had quite a big region. We made a very precise prediction and the estimates were pretty damn close to that, that, uh, predicted effect. So this goes back to kind of what I was saying of, I don't think it's contradictory necessarily from my perspective, at least to say, I don't put a lot of weight in single studies, but I do put a lot of weight in a single study. If it's a, a very highly powered, um, strong test of a very risky prediction from a very precise theory and the estimates come out as pretty damn close near misses. Um, so all of that is to say, there's a reason why I feel relatively, I'm relatively black-pilled and everyone hates me. I think it makes a ton of sense. And it's, uh, Trex, you've specifically spoken to this, that, um, meta-analyses are the best evidence we have with a whole bunch of caveats. And there is a strong argument in the field where these are rare and they don't happen to take a appropriately designed, theoretically based high sample size study, uh, that is powered to detect something that you are predicting as even stronger evidence than a meta-analysis that may or may not in our field even have that, that many participants. So as an example, there's two drop set meta-analyses right now that we have. And in the bigger one of six studies, it's got just under, I think, 150 participants, which is less half of what you got in this one study. So if this was say not a length and partial study, but a study on drop sets compared to traditional sets, I think you could make a strong argument that you would actually care more about the outcomes in that single study rather than the meta-analysis on drop sets. Am I, am I wrong, Trex? No. I mean, I, I think that's, um, I mean, if, if it weren't done by such disreputable characters such as Steele and his colleagues, then yeah, in theory, I'd say, yeah. I mean, and that's another thing though, is like meta-analyses, especially when they're on training related or just any outcome impacted by training. One of the things that, that is always going to be an uphill battle for our field is, you know, you get these relatively small meta-analyses. Like my wife, her research was on smoking cessation. They do a meta-analysis. They have 10,000 studies. You know what I mean? We have 11 and you start going through these and you're saying like, for example, Helms, we're looking at the effect of a lot of protein versus kind of a lot of protein. And you're looking at these different studies and they have completely different populations, different age ranges. The nuts and bolts of their training programs are fundamentally different. And yeah, I mean, if you tell me that I can look at a single study that calls it shots, has a really large sample and has everyone actually doing the same thing and following within the same window of kind of eligibility criteria, you can make a very, very strong argument for that. Yeah. Now we're not having to quantify the random effects and study heterogeneity to say, yeah, we know that this effect occurred. By the way, only a very small percentage of this effect is actually related to the manipulated variable. The outcome change is related to, you know, 85% due to study heterogeneity. But hey, definitely eat more protein. It's a tough thing. Yeah. Or you get people up in our DMs telling us we should have accounted for all the covariates at the same time in the model, which we had just zero power to do. Our ability to even estimate the effect of those covariates was basically just randomness, just based on the small number of studies with each element. So yeah, it's like you get in this situation where it's like, yeah, I would love to put all these studies on equal footing across these different estimated confounders and covariates, but I can't even estimate the effect of each covariate with any degree of confidence, you know? People don't realize those, once you cut things up enough, those cells end up with like one or no studies in. Exactly. Yeah. And I honestly, I want to go back in time and figure out who is responsible for saying we statistically controlled for blank. I understand where it comes from, but man, some people lean on that so hard and they're like, well, it's like when I was a kid. It's like saying it's a tax write-off, you know, but you don't know what you're talking about. It's a tax write-off. What do you mean by that? Yeah. When I was a child, I did not understand that, you know, when even young people won't even have a context for this, but back in the day, we wrote checks. You'd be in line at the grocery store and you would get out a sheet of small pieces of paper and you put a pen to it and say, well, what's the damage here? You write the check. When I was a little kid, I didn't understand that those checks had any connection to an actual bank account. I thought you just like, I thought the government just issued people like 100 little pieces of paper and said, Hey, whenever you're in a jam, just use one of these. It doesn't matter what the cost is. And you can just write down whatever number you like. So I would, my mother would take me back home from like whatever I was doing when I was in kindergarten, whatever. And I would try to get her to go to McDonald's and get a happy meal. And she'd be like, Oh, I don't have any money, which at the time probably just meant shut up. We're going home. And I'd say, just write a check. I know you got checks. And I had fundamentally no understanding. Just write the check. And I feel like I get so many DMs that are like, just control for it. And I'm like, ah, ah, why didn't I think of that? Control for it. Fixes it. It's that easy. So you could get into a whole nother deep dive session at some point on causal inference and control and regression models for that. And we won't do that, dear listener. But I do want to ask you prospectively. So, you know, I think it would be interesting and I almost want to go down this rabbit hole of, you know, what does it mean to have a linear log model based upon a given dose or a maximum potential? And I don't know if you understand the distinction between that, but one of the reasons why I brought up that analysis of the linear log finding in the, what's the name of the group? True strength. I'm sorry. I forgot what it was. The. Oh, fit 20. Yeah. Fit 20. Yeah. Fit 20. Yeah. That data set where they kind of capped out on a improvement from baseline of 60%. You observe that same linear log model in some of the data by Latella in power lifters. But these are power lifters who are starting as what we would describe well-trained at a higher strength level than the people got to through seven years of training in that study. And they still make a linear log progress and are probably somewhere close to plateauing. And I think, you know, if you think about it, like if you have your, and I actually have data on this, you have your average, uh, let's say 93 kilo male who is starting that, uh, that with a 500 kilo total, let's say in the open division in 2024, they're getting in their power lifting career. If they've been lifting for three years already, they are probably going to, on average, get to around a 600 kilo total. And that is a gulf of distance between the strength level that we saw in that other study. In fact, if you think about the, the level of strength improvement they had in that 15,000 person study of just one set per exercise, they never even got to what we would ascribe as an intermediate level, despite training for seven years to failure on these lifts. So it makes you wonder, is there a dose constraint? Like, yes, it might follow a linear log model at a given dose, but there's probably also some ceiling effect or something that approximates a ceiling effect if it's an asymptote, depending upon how much is someone willing to invest in terms of time, effort, and, you know, kind of the area under the curve of training. So that could be a whole can of worms. Um, but I think it's, it's an important one to acknowledge because in a, a health perspective of exercise intervention for the public, we kind of have to go, okay, what are people willing to do? Because perhaps doing 30 sets to failure of highly effective resistance curve training while taking creatine, three grams per kilogram of protein, optimizing sleep, and doing everything in your power to make sure you have a great recovery environment. And then possibly looking at some pretty strong self-selecting behaviors of, I'm going to do this because I'm actually getting a decent baseline response. It's very different to what do we think the average American will do if we can teach it, deliver it, show them in a way and make access and, and create every incentive and remove every barrier as possible. And that is why I do think it is so important to have exactly what you're talking about, James, is a strong baseline theory. What are we expecting for whom and why? And that is what we're talking about. That's ontology, right? The, the, why are we doing this and why do we care? I think is in a very important piece. And you see this on social media. Like I actually had a comment today, um, on the post that we made on mass and treks. I had a slide in there. I was like, are you actually advanced? And I described the rate of progress that a novice, intermediate, advanced person would make. And I even showed some curves from studies showing that kind of linear log effect. And I mentioned in the description of novice, intermediate, advanced, that most people never become advanced. Most people are lifelong intermediates if they lift for their whole lives. And someone commented and said, why is that a bad thing? Like I, I'm totally fine with being strong and healthy and regularly training and knowing that it's a beneficial thing for my health. And I said, you're a hundred percent right. But again, this is mass research review and more so it's Eric Helms in mass research review. So my audience are people who are like, I, I, I refuse to accept the black pill. I will discard that. And I'm going to see what I can get. And I think that, that's true. James's cat, getting that pill out of the cheese, discarding the pill and eating the cheese. Exactly. And, and I think that is the, sometimes the stance I take with my audience is like, okay, but, but I'm also going into it. I would say, I'm not being unrealistic, you know, from my experience in the field as an athlete. I know that if over a two year offseason, I can increase my stage weight, one kilogram, that's a big deal, but that simply doesn't even get captured, you know, and, and the types of things we're talking about, unless you have all these things in place and you do these multi-site data collaborations. So I guess with that framing, if we want to move forward, both in public health, as well as in sports science, what do we need to do to try to capture some of these small differences to see what's actually possible and how do we advance the fields that we're not just getting a bunch of these AB comparisons and maybe having a meta-analysis 10 years down the track, which is helpful. And also sub question before you get to those, James, do you think we should try to, to identify these small effects? Those are great questions. I will say very quickly as well, because actually in that, one of the things that prompted us to work with Chris Lutella on the open powerlifting data set was one of the things that I did during the Fit20 study was we actually pulled out a bunch of other data sets as well. And we did take a random sample of, I think it was 10,000 lifters from the open powerlifting data set to explore those models. And this is where I think, I think for your audiences as well, well, I love the way you frame things because you're exactly right. Like I kind of, I'm not really like Blackfield. I've kind of lent into the character because Zach's pushed me into it. And I do get curmudgeonly and grumpy, but you know, I'm not Blackfield insofar as saying nothing matters. You know, I'm not, I'm not nihilist. You know, I've got an ethos like for any of the Big Lebowski. Big Lebowski, let's go. White Russian. Well, it might be a good one now. But the, interestingly, again, though, like one of the things I think is, like you say, typically most people who are in that open powerlifting data set, they've lifted. No one just jumped into powerlifting and competes straight away. Maybe some people do, but the vast majority, you can make the reasonable assumption that they've lifted for some time beforehand. And I did just quickly pull it up while you were talking there, just so I could check the actual figure. But similarly, we also calculated the 12-week standardized mean change for the powerlifting data set that we took as a sample in the FIT20 data set. And that was about 0.2, 0.22. So again, it's not too far off what actually we were sort of predicting from even, say, like a six month, you know, after six months of training. But I think as well. But that's in well-trained lifters. It is in well-trained lifters. I also think as well, there's a uniqueness to a powerlifting context. Going from like, I lift weights in the gym to I'm going to specifically practice these free lifts and get really, really good at them. Which I've had in the past. Like, you know, I've had periods, well, gone like a decade or more ago, going out now of going like, right, and getting my squat up and getting my deadlift up and getting my, you know, bench up. And I can make pretty impressive gains on them. Like, if I wanted to now, like, yeah, I could probably push my deadlift up more. But, you know, I'm getting old and trying to not hurt myself as much nowadays. But yeah, so I think there's a context in which actually, like, like the quote unquote, black-pilled steel theory of linear log growth, linear log overlord, as Zach keeps calling it for me, is present. But that doesn't mean, again, it doesn't mean you can't continue to make gains. They just become harder and harder and harder. And I think if you're in that audience who are interested in competing, you're interested in trying to optimize, then it's a healthy mindset to push the limits and test and play around with things. But like I said, I think you do a really good job of couching it within a set of realistic expectations of, look, this is generally what happens. It's going to get harder. Give it a go. See where you get to. Play around with things. Enjoy the process. And, you know, you'll get what you get out of it. But anyway, to get back to the questions, I guess, then, I think, I think, let's assume that it is worth doing these studies to begin with. And then I'll get to that question. I think some of the key things we need to need to do is to start with when we are planning studies. And I'm actually going to, I'm going to, I don't know if Franco will appreciate this. But for those who don't know, Franco Impelizeri, he is editor-in-chief for science and medicine in football. He is a very, very highly regarded professor in the field of sports science. I've done a lot of great work. He's also a friend of mine and very strong proponent of open research practices as well. He's really elevated his journal to, it's a Q1 journal now, one of the first, I think, if not the first to start offering registered reports, you know, mandatory approaches to open data and code and things like that, all the good open science stuff. But he actually made a suggestion that we're going to explore also as an option for some of the journals I work with of a new type of publication format, which is essentially if he gets submitted a lot of studies at Typical for our field, which are underpowered, or they've just got no sample size justification or whatever. And we know why that's the case, because the vast majority of research is done as master's projects or PhD projects, or they're done within the context of a semester, a university, you know, the typical academic institution structures, lack of resources, all of these things prohibit us from doing these big sample size studies in those contexts. But there are situations where they have to be done for pedagogical reasons. And it makes no sense to waste that information, because it does become, you know, fuel for future evidence synthesis as well. But what we need to be cautious of is, and this is what happens in the hype cycle on social media as well, is the authors try to sort of be cautious and not draw, you know, draw nuanced conclusions. But the reality is, they probably just shouldn't draw any conclusions from the data. They should probably just say, hey, we did this thing, we collected some data, we used some rigorous methods, we just couldn't get that many people. Here's the data, here's the open data, go for it. So what Franco is proposing is that when he gets those over his desk, instead of just desk rejecting him like he does now, which just kicks the can down the road, and it ends up in shit journal B down there who have got lower standards, he says, look, we can publish this. But the new publication type is going to be this is a open data set, a detailed description of what you've done. And this is specifically published to contribute to future evidence synthesis. You don't make any strong conclusions from it. In fact, you don't make any conclusions from it. So I think there's that could be a really useful shift in the way we report and publish research that works with the current constraints that we have. But I think like I said before, one of the simplest ways to try and shift towards the types of research that we need to do, if we if we say we want to detect differences between interventions in trained populations, then we have to concede that the kind of research we're doing right now doesn't answer those questions for us. Like it just doesn't. And you know, we can try and pretend it does. And we can do these small sample meta analyses and things like like that. But unless we're, you know, using other tricks and tips and things like that to get strong conclusions out like, you know, very strong priors and a Bayesian meta analyses. And, you know, even in that sense, like, what are we going to base them on? Well, probably like the large data sets that I've talked about and used to develop these black pill theories, which which will then just give people the answers they don't want. But, you know, and shifting towards thinking about studies in the context of, okay, fairly well corroborated theories, at least I think predict that we get these small effects. Why don't we if we've got research constraints, try to plan our studies to test for equivalents instead, and try and identify within a region of meaningfulness that we consider important, whether or not these are statistically equivalent to one another, or what you know, they fall into, you know, a little high probability if you're Bayesian within the kind of region of practical equivalents. And, or we can combine that we probably still need to combine that with multi lab collaborations. Because like we've shown, you know, even in trained populations, you still need like 300 people to be able to detect, maybe a bit less, because like I said, we set our error rates, they were not typical for the field. And so we set our type one error rate of 1% rather than a typical 5%. And we had a 95% power rather than a typical 80% power. But even then, just still looking at 100 plus participants, at least to be able to detect equivalents for the types of effects that we're looking at in these populations. And so multi lab collaborations are going to be essential, or collaborating with industry partners, like like so so many people in the sport and exercise science kind of world now, particularly in academic institutions, you know, we're all I know we were encouraged to collaborate with industry. And because one, it looks good for the university. But two, it also means you can actually if you get the collaborations, right, do better research. And depending upon the context in which you do it, you know, you can end up doing research that both ends up more internally valid and rigorous, but also ticks that kind of external literacy box, because you're working out in a real life content, real life context, the lab is real. And it's not like, it's not a simulation, but you know what I mean? Well, I mean, the key, everything's a physical key, it's real. I have one too. But I do wonder if anything is real. Now, that makes a ton of sense, James. And I hope I didn't cut you off by jumping off on your joke. But multi site data collection, um, strong priors, um, clear priors. And I just emphasize, I think it sort of answers your question, Trexler is, should we? It, it's not about us, it's about the consumer, right? And in my mind, or the community we're trying to serve, like, it's not relevant, if you can take someone who's in peak physical human condition and get them from a 10 flat, uh, you know, 100 meter time to a 9.9. But we, we know that's, that's relevant because the stakes dictate it in the sport, you know? Um, is it difficult to decide exactly what was the principal causatory factor that got someone from a 10 to a 9.9? Absolutely. But if we want to use sports science to inform high performance sport, and I have relatively strong beliefs that we are already seeing that and is making a difference when we look at some of just the, which teams in what cases who have leveraged sports science have gotten better without necessarily having a huge change in the cast of characters who are the athletes, I could think of British cycling, for example. I can think of some of the things that are going on in powerlifting with velocity-based training, uh, nutritionists and RIR and RPE use. And some people moving from what you would think is, okay, like, you know, you're a bronze medalist at worlds and now you're a gold medalist. Like, these are the types of anecdotes. It's, it stretches the incredulity of saying there's, there shouldn't be any gains left for you if we were to make you be a demographic characteristic, but as an individual, something's going on there and how do we do it? That's a fundamentally different set of questions to ask than what's good public health policy related to resistance training. So I, I, not to answer the question for you, James, but my perspective is we really shouldn't be focusing on things like two RIR versus zero RIR, length and partials versus full range of motion, high protein versus moderate protein, moderate volume versus high volume. When we're talking about, Hey, health, you know? So if you're a sports scientist, I do think that is actually quite different than being an exercise scientist, or at least it should be seen that way as we move forward and try to spend our time in a useful way and not commit unintentional fraud, waste and abuse. That's at least my opinion. I don't know if you agree, James. Yeah, I think as well, another thing which I've spoke about in the past is that, um, and this to some extent ties back in with the, uh, with the industry links is nowadays, so many in the, within a sporting context, so many teams and athletes are collecting so much data, uh, performance related data, you know, other tests and characteristics, you know, elements of their training protocols and things like, like that. Um, I think there's a revolution that could be had and, um, you know, there, there are a few people in the field who are talking about this are, um, experts enough to understand and apply it, but there's a revolution to be had in causal inference in kind of longitudinal observational data that I think could be tapped into as well. So, um, someone like Matthew Tanan, um, is already doing some really cool stuff in, in, uh, basketball and, and, and other areas applying kind of approaches from the causal inference world, um, to, uh, draw unbiased causal inferences from non-randomized observational data, um, longitudinally. Um, it's something that, that I'm, I'm exploring more and more now working with Kisa because we, you know, we've got 50,000 members, we've got 15 years worth of data, we've got so much clinical outcome data, and we've got all of their training information and medical histories and things like that, but it's not a randomized trial, but we want to be able to understand and draw out some causal estimates of, uh, of things in the context of that data. Um, I think even that can be something where appropriate use, and this is where I like, I'm going to say, I say it with real caution because, like, with the greatest respect for people in the field, the average sports scientist, um, barely understands what a p-value is or how a t-t statistic is calculated. Getting them to do, uh, complex, uh, causal analysis in, in, um, complex systems can be, uh, is maybe a bit of a stretch, but collaborating with experts in those areas might be key. I totally agree. And you don't have to be a statistician to make a meaningful impact. I think the, the typical training that a sport or exercise scientist gets is one where they become very good at creating a controlled laboratory environment, doing recruitment, um, doing high quality, high reliability, uh, testing, reducing measurement error, and teaching others how to carry that out and getting a group around that and doing good lab work. And that's a tremendously valuable set of skills and environment to create. And if they, and if we're not saying, oh, and by the way, you're trash because you don't understand Bayesian statistics or even how to calculate an F statistic or a T statistic or whatever, because, Hey, clearly I'm one of those people and I'm, who do I collaborate with? You guys, you know, and I, of course I'm trying to upskill those things, understand them conceptually, but if we have a hundred different labs who are all able to use those skills in a coordinated fashion, now we've actually got something. So I think that's, it's, it's, uh, I don't think you're setting too high of a bar. I think we just need to play to our strengths and then leverage the, uh, the potential resources we have across the field and in an interdisciplinary manner. I think you're a great example of someone who is going, Hey, you know, we may not have the answers strictly within the confines of sports science, but we do have them in adjacent fields. So I think that's actually a relatively hopeful message. Yeah. And, you know, to touch on that, like other fields, like, uh, like, you know, psychology, uh, uh, maybe 10 years ahead of us in terms of methods, reforms and things like that, having gone through, well, actually probably what was that kind of like second replication crisis, because folks like Paul Mill, who I mentioned earlier, were talking about this stuff in like the sixties and seventies and no one listened. Um, well, Hey, they replicated the replication crisis for them. There we go. Um, I just completely lost my, lost track of what I was going to say. Oh, I know what I was going to say now. Um, yeah. Like things like, uh, like the psych science accelerator, um, are a really good platform. And I know that there are, uh, people like Franco and, um, uh, Joe Warren, um, at T Dublin, um, who are talking about how do we develop platforms like that to facilitate these kinds of large scale collaborations as well. Um, it's a bit difficult in sport, like to get the collaboration between teams because no one wants to, everyone thinks there's trade secrets in their data. Like, like, uh, most of them don't even understand how to use that data. Um, let alone that there's trade secrets in that. Um, but yeah, I think certainly those kinds of collaborations, let me go back to your question though quickly, like, uh, do I think that, that it's what, that it's a waste of time? I can't really answer that, that like for me, like it's like, I'm growing less and less interested in those specific questions. Um, and now given my shift into, uh, stepping outside of academia and working in particular industry context now, which is leaning much, I'm leaning more back into the kind of medical space of the work that I'm doing. Um, yeah, I, I'm like, it would feel like a waste of my time to work on it now, but this is what I've always said, like, I've always been a really strong proponent from a researcher's perspective to pursue the things that they're interested and passionate about, because I think those are the key things that you need in the first place to want to do better. Like I go back to like what I said, like, uh, um, earlier on, which was part of the reason I got interested in understanding philosophy of science or upskilling myself statistically, or, you know, in terms of methodologies or specific methods and study designs and all of these kinds of things was because I was working on a substantive problem at the time and I wanted to know how to do it better. Um, and so I think you need that passion. You need to care about the questions you need, whether that's because you're just interested for whatever reason and, and no one knows that knows why, um, or you've got a particular audience or, uh, you know, people you work with, um, you know, I always used to say, the reason I got into lifting was because I watched Dragon Ball Z when I was a teenager, like, uh, and it's completely true. Um, so whatever drives you, you know, that if, if you don't think it's a waste and you're not wasting others time, then yeah, go for it, but do it. Yeah. I don't have a choice when people look at the only lifter that's never seen a single moment of Dragon Ball Z. Like I, I, I couldn't fathom what it's possibly about, but I, it seems like there's very muscular characters involved. It's not just the muscularity. It's, it's also the ethos of, I have to train to be better. It's embedded in it. And it's one of the, yeah, it's one of the, they go to different gravity worlds. And the funny thing is, is I am a pre Dragon Ball Z anime enjoyer, and then I took away from it, but it is something that's a little more embedded in anime culture. And that's why there's so many lifters who love anime because there is the idea of strength not being a fixed quality, which it often is in most, I would argue like Western stories. Like, oh, you got, Samtons is strong. God did that, you know, or like, you know, but in, in a lot of anime, it is some, well, you don't see Superman training a lot. No, you know, that's kind of is. It's a shonen anime trope of like, you know, they, they, they train, they get stronger. There's a big evil. They can't beat it. They have to train more and then they beat it. And then the next one comes and this continual kind of progression thing. Wait, so Helms, you're a little bit older. So were you like, uh, let me get quite, quite a bit older, if I may fist of the North star kind of guy, dude, I watched Akira and that was so probably the first crossover anime film that started the whole genre of love on the West. And then there was a, there was a few others, like the first vampire under D and the first princess Mononoke. But then it was like 20 years of nothing. And then I come back and I'm like, I can't really get with this. It's like, for me, it's like the eighties and early nineties, but, um, not to get off topic, but I think that's a fantastic answer. Um, and yeah, I often reflect on my own life. I think the, the best way to describe my interest in lifting is that it's a special interest that I tried not too often for it to become hyper fixation. It's just who I am. It's the only way I can relate to the world. And, um, and I, unfortunately I'm not alone, but that makes it sound of sense. I think it is not necessarily our duty as scientists to always answer the question of, is it worth it? The question is, is, is it worth it for someone? And then that needs to obviously fit with the people who study it, because if we don't actually have a genuine interest or passion in it, then there's very little incentive to do it right. So yeah, I, I, that's, I like the way you answered that. Um, Trex, I'm, I'm sensitive that we've, we've gone over all over the map here. I feel like we've got a nice bow tied on this, but I do want to open it up, James, are there things that you think we, we haven't adequately covered in this? Because I think you've done a really good job of identifying the problem, helping people understand the pros and the cons of the status quo and what actually needs to be done and move forward and provided a nice measured for a black pill gentleman, um, a nice measured view of, yeah, you know, we have some issues and a lot of what we're doing is, is not doing what we think it's doing, but it's doing something and we can do better. Would you say that's a decent summary? I think that's a pretty decent summary. Yeah. I didn't come off too badly, Ben. No, you did fine. You did fine. It's, it's good to be critical, especially if it leads towards something. And I just want to say that I am, I, I'm not there yet, but I'm open to being somewhere in the future where we can bury the hatchet and I will no longer dislike you for the black pilling, uh, that you're responsible for. Um, but on a serious note, I am so appreciative that you've joined us for this really informative conversation. And I want to let the audience know just how legit staying James Steele is. If you're not convinced yet, I believe that there are exactly two people that pub publish or have published in exercise science, where if they reviewed my stats and just told me, Eric, you're wrong. I simply wouldn't question it. You know, other people will catch me making mistakes. I'm sure of it, but there are exactly two people where I wouldn't even fathom or consider the idea that they are mistaken. I would just say, okay, you got me. It's James Steele and Andrew Vygotsky. So I just want to take a moment to praise James Steele and put him up on the pedestal where he belongs, because I think, um, there are many tiers of like statistical and methodological bona fides in the exercise science world. And I don't think people can really tell what beyond a certain level. Who's re who really knows their stuff here. Allow me to be abundantly clear. James Steele and Andrew Vygotsky are in a fundamentally different level. I haven't heard from Andrew in a while. I think he, I think he simply outgrew exercise as a concept, um, which honestly is fitting. I don't know. He's still doing his PhD. He's, he's, but it's, it's more. Actually, I think he might've defended. I, I literally messaged him this morning. Uh, did you really? Yeah. Yeah. I think he was either defending last. Well, he was, he's either about to defend or he's just defended, but he's, he's gotten more into like, I know for a minute he was doing like real biomechanics and then maybe something related to pain. Is that right? He's doing a lot of work in kind of, uh, pain psychophysics, um, and pain research at the moment. Yeah. Yeah. He's shifted away from, um, from exercise, which I think is a good, good move for him. And he's doing. I don't think we deserved him. I can't have a contest. He's still always did my emails to his credit. So he'll still, he still helps out the old homies. I really don't think we deserved him. And I genuinely believe he outgrew the field. Uh, and, and it, it, yeah, good for him. But, um, but no, I, I just really appreciate you. And I, I want to make sure people understand the legitimate stratification of statistical knowledge within our field and just give you the props you deserve. Wow. I put, I'd always put Andrew just that bit above me. Definitely. He's scary. He knows too much. I always felt good when I got to the point where I stopped like what's happening, Andrew to just check things with him. I still remember, um, one of, one of my like really proud moments was kind of chatting with Andrew and me identifying something that I thought was a good question. And I was totally braced for him to say, you fool, here's the answer. And he said, no, you have identified a good question. And I was like, oh my God, I can't believe this happened. And I, I haven't, I don't think I've talked to him since. Cause I was like, I don't want to ruin this. You know, I will, um, I'll give you a very quick sneak peek. Part of the reason I messaged Andrew this morning is because, um, Israel Halperin, uh, Andrew and I have been chatting about some RIR related ideas. Um, but they do tie very nicely into, um, what we've been discussing today, which is we've been thinking very, we're trying to think very carefully through some theories regarding kind of data generating processes for, uh, the RR data we see in different studies. And then we're going to do some simulation work and try and think of some study designs that might test some different, basically test whether or not kind of reps and reserve type models lead to, um, kind of quote unquote self-fulfilling prophecies regarding the rep numbers that people get. That is something I've always been curious about because it is a built-in flaw of the design, where if you call out a certain RIR, where are you? Um, just one very interested in the velocity based stuff, right? That's how you get Andrew back into, uh, anything exercise related. Cause if it's like actually a genuinely difficult puzzle to try and solve, then he gets interested. And, and that is the times I've actually emailed them to you. Um, so, and, and so I'll keep that in mind, but there is definitely something to be said for the stratification because you know, the level you're at when you can't distinguish between that level higher than you. So I'm at a point where I'm like, Oh, Trexler, James and Vygotsky can actually tell the difference between one another. I can't, or they're all just having a humility battle, which is possible. Um, but I just want to echo what Trek said. I really do appreciate not only the time that you've given us on the podcast, uh, but also what you do for the field. Um, and if folks do want to follow more of your work, I know you do have a, an Instagram account, but that's probably not where you'd send people first off the bat. Is there a, an X or do you want to give them your research gate? Where, where do you want people to follow you at? Research related stuff? Probably research gate is the best. Um, I actually shut down my X recently. Um, I went with the other academics onto blue sky, but I'm still trying to figure that out. Um, but yeah, still, still some of the usual kind of, um, slightly shit post the, uh, research related stuff on a blue sky from me. Um, I'm trying LinkedIn. Now I work in the corporate world, uh, in industry. Um, and I still can't go, I get the idea of that people don't seem to take the shit posting quite well on LinkedIn as they did on X, uh, Twitter. Well, there's always should hosting for Instagram. Um, in LinkedIn, LinkedIn, the only post you make are you say, I'm so pleased to gratefully accept this promotion I got to, or, you know, it's always gotta be a promotion, leaving a job or get starting a new one. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. And Instagram, if you want, uh, video, pictures of Kiki and, uh, and random videos of me playing beat saber. Perfect. And you do occasionally, occasionally share some research on there as well. If you get tagged. So awesome. Well, thank you for that. Uh, we'll have all of that in the show notes. I just want to thank everyone for joining us for this prerecorded episode of iron culture. We will be back with live ones soon and thank you for tuning in. And once again, please do leave some ratings and reviews, support us at the mass research review and come meet us in person live, uh, just coming up in April on the 12th and 13th at the annual SNA conference. And we will see you next week on iron culture. Okay.