 assisi-seings-saxel-axi-ax-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel up with pretending to not know things. So we are joined today by Will Fleming. He is a Level 5 senior international coach with USA Weightlifting and was an assistant coach of the 2024 U.S. Olympic weightlifting team at the 2024 Olympics. Where were those? Those were in Paris, France. In Paris, France. Beautiful. So Will, thank you so much for joining us. How are you doing today? Excellent. I'm talking to you from FURTA, Norway, which is the site of the 2025 World Championships in weightlifting. And Norway is beautiful. It's a little bit rainy right now, but overall, it's been a great experience. Just got to watch a U.S. lifter, Olivia Reeves, set snatch, clean and jerk and total world records on her way to winning her, I guess, third world title now. So yeah, good day. Awesome. Fantastic. And you have one athlete competing? Yeah, I had one athlete compete already. She's a 58 kilo lifter from Belgium. And then I have a super heavyweight female from the United States who will be competing on Saturday. Nice. So just a couple days. Very cool. All right. So Will, like I said, it's a pleasure to have you here. We're going to pick your brain about Olympic weightlifting because, you know, for some context, usually the show is hosted by me and Eric Helms. He and I share the fact that we both kind of did PhDs related to exercise and nutrition. We both have competed in powerlifting and bodybuilding. He also basically hit for the cycle and then some when it comes to strength sports. So he did some stuff with, you know, strongman and, you know, Olympic weightlifting. And people are going to crush me for this. But what is the one where you wear the kilt? Do you remember the name of that? Highland Games. Highland Games. Yes. I'm going to get destroyed by the Iron Cult, our esteemed listeners of Iron Culture for forgetting that. But yeah, so Helms does a little bit of everything. But Olympic weightlifting, I would say, is one area where we do have some blind spots, some lack of coverage here. So it's really exciting to get you on here. So the first thing I want to invite you to do is kind of give us an idea of your background. So obviously, you know, it's not about establishing your credentials. If they invited you to be a coach of the U.S. Olympic weightlifting team in 2024, that speaks for itself. They know what they're doing. They care about what they're doing. So clearly, you know, a thing or two about weightlifting. But but how does one get there? What was that journey like? Yeah, I mean, I can I can trace this back to my involvement in Olympic weightlifting. I started in 1997. So right around this time, 28 years ago, I remember a very particular play in a football game when I was like a sophomore in high school. And we were playing our crosstown rival. And this kid just murdered me. And I was just horribly like just blocked me. I was five yards back down the field, watch a guy high step high step over my head for a touchdown. And I just kind of like I remember coming off the field and go, man, I'm not strong enough. And it just so happened that my brother, he was a two time Big Ken champion in the shot put. He was at Indiana University at the time. And he said, Hey, that that kid who, you know, ran for the touchdown, he lifts at IU's weight room in the evening after we get done with track practice. So you should check it out. So day after the season goes is done, I go over there. And I say, help me get better at football. Like I heard you can help me do that. And these guys said, we're an Olympic weightlifting team. So you have to compete in weightlifting. But yeah, you'll get better at football. And if they had said we're a bodybuilding team, if they had said we're a powerlifting team, if they had said we're a strong man, whatever, I would have done it. And so it was pure happenstance. Now I got really lucky. My first coaches, one was the president of USA weightlifting. The other one had been an Olympian in 1992. He went on to be the head coach for King USA for a number of years at the 04 and 08 Olympics. And so I was, I walked into this place with really, really good teachers, but that was just it. It was just that I happened, I wanted to get better at football and I happened to go into that place. And then since then, you know, it spurred me on to do a lot of stuff. I got to live at the Olympic Training Center when I was young for weightlifting right after high school, became a track and field athlete. So, and I did shot put and hammer throw and took that to the Olympic trials. But then weightlifting was always in the background and piece of that. And then, you know, got into the gym game where, you know, I started coaching, you know, I was all strength and conditioning using Olympic lifts, but I asked a kid who was going to quit playing soccer who had like, and he was probably 110 pounds, but he had 185 pound clean. I was like, maybe you should try weightlifting. And he got really good at it. And then I started growing a team and, you know, kind of dove headfirst into making sure I was the best coach possible. So that's been the last like 14 or 15 years that I've been like coaching weightlifting. But prior to that, I was involved as an athlete. Awesome. Yeah, I can totally relate. So you said you were in Indiana when you were playing football, right? Yeah. So I grew up in Ohio, and I got into lifting at the age of 12. Because I was like, listen, I football is the main religion in Ohio. You know, we're neighbors, Ohio and Indiana. So you get it. And yeah, I want to be good at football because like most young kids in Ohio want to be good at football, right? And so if you're not already big and strong, there's one way to do it, you know? So yeah, to me, that was the same kind of thing that kind of spurred my trajectory of, you know, you get into lifting, you eventually figure out either I like the lifting more than the sport I'm lifting for, or I'm just better at lifting than the sport I'm lifting for, you know, and you go from there. So that's one of the nice things about sports that I think is sometimes overlooked is obviously there's a lot to like with sport. With football, of course, there's always concerns about injury. But, you know, what you take away from it has so much, it extends so far beyond the sport itself, you know, in terms of, you know, building those social bonds, just the ability to socialize with your teammates, you know, all those things. And then ultimately, you walk away with a whole new set of interests in many cases. Yeah, sure. To all who are listening, if you got young ones, consider getting involved in some sport of any kind, and they may accidentally catch the fitness bug. So currently, like we said, you're very much deep into the coaching game as it pertains to weightlifting. And we're going to get more later in the interview into kind of the mental side of weightlifting, which is often overlooked. But before we do that, this is kind of fresh on my mind, I teach a weight in advanced weight training course right now. And we just covered the Olympic lifts. And so basically, you know, it's teaching the Olympic lifts to a group of people, some of whom are already quite strong, some of whom are not yet, that's just not where they're at in their journey. And so I've had a lot on my mind lately, more than ever, about kind of the whole idea of building up these kind of baseline capacities, and kind of working your progressions. And how, you know, how strong do you have to be? How comfortable do you have to be with all these progressions before you dive all the way deep into, you know, putting the full lifts together, you know, the clean and jerk and the snatch. So for people who are listening, maybe they're quite strong, maybe they're just getting started into lifting. How do you kind of explain that kind of, I guess you would call it intermediate to long term athlete development of taking someone from stepping in a gym to now they're proficient in the clean and jerk and the snatch? What's your general approach to that? Yeah, you know, I would say that there's like prerequisites, just like anything, any advanced subject. And I would consider Olympic lifting to be one of the more advanced subjects you would potentially get into in the gym. And with any advanced subject, you want to have these prerequisites knocked out. And they would look like, you know, a competent squat, right, that is, you know, you know, a high bar ish squat, there would be pretty vertical torso, feet can stay flat on the ground, ground, get a pretty good semblance of depth. You know, that that could be we could be concurrently working on that if somebody comes in and they already have some mobility restrictions, because they've done x, y or z. And so we may be concurrently working on this, this really good vertical looking squat. I definitely think that there's the capacity to hinge with like a level of competence, and understand that you like how to brace your midsection, while having soft knees, but your hips are going back that like, that is potentially if you've ever coached a kid might be the most difficult thing, like at some age, you just can't do it for 10 years, you know, like a 12 year old boy cannot figure out how to hinge, you know, the ones that do are magical, you know, they're like, well, where'd you come from? So yeah, so there's that capacity to hinge the like competent goblet squat, or front squat, or high bar back squat, or something. You know, there, I would always I always have like an exposure to plyometrics jumping, and jumping and landing mechanics so that I understand how to produce like some vertical force into the ground, and then resituate myself to land. The Olympic lifts are pretty similar to a jump in terms of the mechanics that we see like the top, where the body's kind of situating itself, like the hips and her the knees kind of moving back under so we can get some vertical force from a hinged position. So those would be the maybe the number one prerequisites of move of like specific movements. And then there's going to be some like capabilities where it would be all along the lines of adequate shoulder, external rotation, you know, just really like kind of competent shoulder movement that doesn't also involve the lumbar spine, because like you might take your hands overhead, but you have some compensation where you're, you get too much extension in the lumbar spine. None of those do we want, we want to have be able to maintain a pretty neutral spine position while taking the hands overhead. And once once we have, you know, those general pieces, then we jump into those like, what that intermediate level is. And that's like the pieces of the lifts. And that now it is a front squat, it's not a front squat, back squat, or goblet squat, it is a front squat, and it is an overhead squat. And, and then I'm like a big, then weightlifting, it's like the lamest argument in the world, like, should you teach somebody how to do it top down or bottom up or something like that? I always like start at the top, because I want people to see where they're going. And it seems to work pretty well. But you know, there's other people who would say, Oh, you should teach from the floor up teach like it goes from a deadlift up. And I think it goes from a front squat down. And so I think, you know, those sorts of things all come into play. And then, you know, if you're teaching athletes how to Olympic lift, you may never I mean, I would probably suggest you never go from the floor because the size of the of the the bumper plate, the disc is totally arbitrary, you know, it's like, the first disc loaded barbell was built in 1913 or something. And I don't I don't, I can't find any reliable information about who it was, how tall this guy was, why he built it that way, you know, and it's just like, but now you must lift it from the floor. And if you're not, you know, whatever, but if you're teaching an athlete, elevated on a box, do it from the hang, whatever, because he didn't care if you were if he I mean, and is teaching an athlete or yourself, he didn't care if you're six, five, he didn't care if you were five, two, like, this guy just built this barbell. And they're like, Oh, cool barbell, you know? Yeah. And and so I think that's totally arbitrary and pulling from the floor, unless you want to compete in weightlifting, or powerlifting or whatever. And then you have to learn to pull from the floor and have the requisite mobility to get to those positions. But other than that, like, if you're just using them to feel more athletic, get a little stronger, pull from the position that's most advantageous to you with the greatest range of motion that you're you're able to get. Yeah. Yeah. So and that's the thing I always kind of harp on with my students is, you know, because they, they're on YouTube, you know, they get content about lifting. And you know, they always, especially now the kind of flavor of the month is more range of motion is always better. And I have to kind of continuously tell them like, okay, generally, yeah, we love to have a nice full range of motion when we can, but it's really important to scale it to first of all, what are you trying to accomplish? What do you need to do in order to make this effective? And ultimately, what's going to be comfortable for you? You know, and so a lot of them are really surprised when I tell them, like, I fundamentally don't care when you're doing a lat pulldown if the bar touches your clavicle. Yeah, right. We really don't need that. And so a lot of them kind of expect me to be a stickler about that. I'm like, that's such an arbitrary thing to care about. You know, let's, let's aim for the clavicle. If we can get it to chin level, that's probably going to be plenty, you know, right? Yeah. So you brought up an interesting, not to do too much of a detour, but something that I think is a bit controversial in the strength and conditioning world, especially like I spend more time on the team sport side, uh, in the airport science realm than I do on the Olympic weightlifting side, uh, because any number is greater than zero and I'm not involved with Olympic weightlifting. Um, but there's always a lot of debate about how much should team sport athletes who compete in something that's not weightlifting. Yeah. How much should they be integrating the actual full Olympic lifts versus how much should they be incorporating some of the more simplified, um, kind of progressions, right? So maybe doing, uh, high pulls or, you know, all the various progressions that you might throw in there, um, which often kind of cut out some of the more technical aspects or kind of truncate the lifts a little bit. You know, there's, like you said, if you become a very good weightlifter, you're going to get good at sports stuff, but then there's always that question of, well, as a strength coach who has limited time with these athletes and needs to make sure we're not hurting shoulders in the gym and things like that. How much time do we allocate to some of these kinds of progression type exercises versus the whole thing? Where do you stand on that? Um, well, and you know, like progression versus whole thing. I, you know, I don't think any team sport athlete needs to do full snatches, full clean and jerks from the floor, catching deep squat or whatever. I don't, I don't think that that's necessary. I probably want every athlete I coach to be capable of it because they're probably a really competent mover, right? I talked to Tim. So, uh, Tim Saha, who had been the strength conditioning coach for Boise state and then Washington with some of their really good programs with Chris Peterson. And he said like, you know, I, my goal is that all of my offensive linemen can do full clean and jerks, right? Catch it, pull from the floor, catch them low. He goes, that means they got healthy hips. They got healthy shoulders. They got healthy backs. Now they don't all, all end up doing that, but if, if they can, you know, it's probably a good, it's fine, you know, like if they're moving well, but you can get so much of the benefit doing, uh, hang power cleans or hang power snatch, or I am a huge fan of like the muscle snatch, which is, uh, it may be a longer pole, no rebend, a pretty low impact on the shoulders. Cause you're just kind of turning it over. Um, everything I ever I've done. Um, I wrote a book at one time called velocity based training for weightlifting muscle snatch is going to have some of your highest power outputs of anything because, uh, you're moving a pretty decent load, a really long distance, right? So those like that velocity is really high and therefore the, the power outputs are really high as well. So if you just want to, uh, an Olympic derivative to help with power, I say, Hey, go do a muscle snatch because it's this long pole, huge power outputs. Um, and, and so, yeah, I think derivatives are going to be fine. You know, now that said, I don't think jump shrugs with the trap bar are comparable, right? Um, I do think there's, there's, um, just from everything I've done with like, uh, velocities and power outputs and all that kind of stuff. There's, you're going to, you're just going to hit a little higher peak velocities, a little higher power outputs when you're have the intent of turning it over. You know, there's a, maybe it's a high pole or, um, I did a bunch of stuff with a 10 to one point to like compare power outputs. And the only pole, even if it was a jump was kind of this like hand release pole. So you'd pull it so high and just drop like at the top. Um, and that would, that would get comparable power outputs to the actual lift at the same weight. Um, and so the derivatives are great. There's inherent benefits of turning the bar over cause you're actually reaching some of those higher speeds. Um, there's, you know, with lack of a better term, because I know that force absorption doesn't occur, like receiving the bar makes you create force in that opposite direction up into the bar. And if you look at, um, a lift, like you might see, if you look at a lift, it's like force curve. There'll be a little spike at the beginning. It'll go flat, a bigger spike. When the athlete finishes, it'll drop off cause they're weightless. And then bam, it like actually is when that bar hits like that's the highest stiffness moment that they're going to have. So receiving the bar does create a lot of force as well. Um, as the athlete is receiving a bar from space, basically, um, and trying to, trying to meet it really well. So, you know, I think there's, there's benefits, but I, I'm just like, Hey, pick the one you can do. And the, you know, the biggest thing on coaches aside, like if you're a strength coach in a, in a college or a high school, like it can, you can, if you, if you're going to spend time coaching in there, you know, like you would tell me, I don't want to do the Olympic lifts because, well, I, you probably, if you know how to coach it, you should do it. If you don't know how to coach it, don't do it right. Go take a course, see if you can feel comfortable with it. But if you do know how to coach it, you know, I'm a coach. So if I'm in the weight room, I want to coach people. And one of the best ways to get a lot of hands-on coaching experience is trying to teach kids how to Olympic lift. And so I've, you know, we've gone to little high schools and taught 40 kids to clean and hang snatch and stuff like that, or hang power, clean, hang power snatch. And, and it, and it usually turns out really, really well. You'll have a bunch of competent people and you might have three people in the room. You're like, you're not doing that. And then we switch, you know, and I've coached athletes from middle school to I had, I've had MLB players, NBA players, all that kind of stuff. I had a guy come to me who was in the minor leagues, baseball player, wanted to get faster, stronger, all that kind of stuff. We never Olympic lifted. He had never Olympic lifted in his life when he was 21 years old. And I had him from the time from about October to February, right? And we had to go to spring training. I wasn't going to teach him to Olympic lift. So we do the high poles. We do the jump shrugs. We do all that stuff. Right. And he, you know, broke the MLB stolen base record that season, you know, so he got faster and stronger without them for sure. And, but you know, I, you also just know your clientele, know the people you're working with, know the athletes you're working with. Can they do it? If, you know, get as many as you can to do it, you know, the ones that don't need it or, um, can't, can't achieve it, can't learn it fast enough. It will find, find other stuff. That's fine. Totally fine. Yeah, I know. I got my start, um, working with middle school and high school athletes, uh, as a strength coach. So I was actually a strength coach before I ever did anything, you know, one-on-one personal training type stuff. Uh, that's in the, in the, you know, that's like, that's like, yeah. And the, it's, I remember these kids how to do stuff, you know? Yeah, no, I remember one of my, it wasn't my first experience, but one of the first ones, um, you know, our, our football coach was really big on building a culture. This is a large school in Ohio, kind of division one, the, you know, the biggest school division. And so he was really big on like, when we do our first workout for the year, I want freshmen through senior in that weight room to, to build this culture from day one. So I remember walking in, seeing about 125 people in the weight room. Some of them were, some of them were still finishing eighth grade. And you know, like the fact that they could walk without tripping was kind of amazing. And so, yeah, you get in there and you're like, okay, I'm going to teach not just 25 of these kids to do it, but 25 eighth graders at the same time, how to do it while we have 75 other guys doing stuff. Yeah. Oh my God. Talk about growing up fast in the weight room, man. Crazy. You figure out what works and what doesn't work. Yeah. And you figure out quick, right? Especially because in that room, you literally, you literally have a kid who's 13 years old, uh, who can hardly move. Right. And you also have a kid who has a scholarship lined up to go play football at Miami. Right. And they're in the same room doing, doing the same template. So, uh, but, but my question was, um, when you're working with new athletes, um, and you're trying to, to teach these Olympic lifts to me, the hardest part, I don't know if this is your experience. I know you've done this a million more times than I have to me, the hardest thing was getting them comfortable, whether it's the clean or the snatch catching in that low hip position in that deep squat. Is that always the sticking point with you? Yeah. I would say, no, I was really fortunate. Like my teachers, when I was young, always were like, it's always a power clean. It's always a power snatch, but you, as it gets heavier, you take it down. Or once you get it, then you write it down. Right. It was the kind of idea. So you meet it. And so what that does is the best lifters meet the bar, right? They don't receive the bar. It's not hitting them. They're meeting it. They find it in space. They turn their body over and do it there. And that's like the piece of athleticism. That's kind of like, uh, you kind of got it or you don't. And then we had to really work on it if you don't. Um, but yes. So if you, if they're, what you don't want to create as kids who just dive under, you know what I mean? And so that's like that deep squat can be really a sticking point. Cause some kids go, Oh, I need to get down there. I'm just going to, I'm not going to, I'm not going to finish with my hips. I'm not going to get tall. I'm just going to kind of teleport to the bottom and the bar swings out or something or, or they let the bar crash on them or any number of things. So yes, it's, that's always like a really hard sticking point. It's a transition between, um, those athletes who can power snatch and full snatch or power clean and full clean. And, um, and, and it can take some time, you know, like, and I always say like with weightlifting, if I, if I get you to do like a hang muscle snatch, which I can probably do in 10 minutes, as long as your shoulder hands go over your head. Um, you're getting power output benefits. You know, I could probably load that with five, 10 kilos in each side. You're producing a significant amount of power. And so it's beneficial right this second, like within a few, you know, 10 minutes, 15 minutes, one session, whatever you want to name it. And then, um, and then I, then it's just countless, it's endless refinement. It's endless, like, okay, we've got to work on this. We've got to work on this. We've got to work on this. And, um, and you know, in a lot of weight rooms, you should just probably, as long as that catch is not getting wide, like a starfish and the feeder kind of stand underneath them, then we're pretty good with, with however, um, they start receiving it. And some kids get better going under and some kids kind of just stay catching high for the rest of the time they're, you know, in that weight room. Yeah. And so, I mean, theoretically, I'd imagine, you know, somebody starts with this kind of approach where it's just, Hey, meet the bar where it's at, get as low as you need to, but we're not just going to arbitrarily go ask to grass every rep. And so eventually the people who I assume stick with it, get good at it, decide they really want to start pushing it at a certain point. The only way to keep moving the weight on the bar up is going to end up being, you better catch low, right? Unless you're going to be able to throw infinite stacks of weight way up to shoulder height. Eventually you're going to have to learn how to ultimately catch that at a lower position. Yeah. And that's kind of like the fun thing about weightlifting and in my head. And I think like, it's kind of a popular master sport, right? Like 35 and up it's, it's got a pretty decent following, uh, because there's always this like kind of lever. You can pull this lever, you can pull the technique lever, which is get better getting under, or you can pull the strength lever. It's like, Oh, but my squat went up, right? Oh, pull this, you know, this. And then, you know, you kind of, these kind of keep climbing up. And, and so, yeah, you're going to either, you're either getting at some point you reach the bottom and that's called your max. And then you got to increase your max, you know, like you got to increase your max through the traditional means that most people think like, okay, you know, squats really highly correlated and weightlifting. We have this idea that, um, your, uh, backs, your front squats, 85% of your back squat, your clean and jerks, 85% of your front squat, and your snatch is 85% of your clean and jerk. And so that back squats actually kind of a driving number. A lot of times I can increase that everything just drags up along with it. Um, some people are more front squat sensitive and you just got to increase the front squat, not the back squat, but, um, yeah, we're always like chasing that, uh, pull the technique lever until it's like good and then get stronger and then keep fixing problems. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting. I'm glad you brought up that this has a lot of popularity with masters athletes. We like to tease the co-host who's not here, Eric Helms, about his advanced age. Um, we don't know the exact number. We're trying to raise funds for the carbon dating, but this is a very old man. Uh, and he, he got into Olympic lifting, you know, very late into life, I would say. So, uh, he, he definitely, he kind of fits that mold of, you know, had pushed the, you know, bodybuilding powerlifting stuff and started to get that itch of like, Ooh, I wonder maybe if I can push some other technical elements of lifting and, and yeah. So, uh, what's really interesting about that though, the way that you kind of lay out that long-term development is, you know, at first, you know, we're talking about doing fairly straightforward, pretty traditional stuff in order to build up some of those initial capacities. Then we start incorporating this technique and then you have this long trajectory of technique refinement, which never really ends for a lifter. Right. But you, you start with the massive refinements and then you get into the granular refinements. Um, and then you, you kind of reenter that phase where now you're like, well, I'm pretty darn good at this. So it's back to the basics, right? Like I need to be able to pick up really heavy things, squat, really heavy things. So, um, it's interesting how it kind of takes that, that arc, you know, in the long-term development perspective. For real, for real. Yeah. And I think, you know, that, I think that's probably also touching on the masters thing was like masters will come in with a basic level of strength and they might spend years just technically refining and they haven't even tapped into their strength. And then suddenly they're like, wait, I gotta get stronger again. Um, and maybe, you know, they might not have as much capacity to do so. But yeah, if you look at like, um, uh, you know, a newer athlete, um, who comes in, you know, it's like, okay, you know, they, they, they're just infinite potentials. You'd pull in the levers like this and there's going all the way up. Um, my female who I'm coaching here from the United States, she started weightlifting when she was 28. Um, she was a, um, she was a track and field athlete, was a five-time all American in the shot put, uh, but then had retired and was kind of living life, you know, and she got recruited to come to weightlifting because they had heard she was strong in college, but she hadn't lifted in four and a half years and comes in at age 28 and makes the Olympics five years later at 33. And her thing was, she just, she had such like this base of strength, you know, like she had squatted 500 or, you know, 500 pounds in college. She had hang clean 300 pounds. She had benched 275. She had deadlifted 500 pounds. So it was like, um, sure. She wasn't that strong when she started, but it was just all that potential was already there. It was real easy to get that strength really high. And then it's, it's just almost, it's very consistently technical refinement with her for the last like five years. That said, um, you know, where she hit a lifetime squat PR earlier this year, she squatted 250 kilos. Um, she like, uh, she clean pulled, uh, which is basically a deadlift, but finished with kind of a shrug. She did, she did 230 kilos for a triple and stuff like that. So, um, you know, just pulling on these. Now we're back into kind of, let's see if we can twist that strength thing just a little bit more to just get a little bit more out of you. Yeah. I always love when you, when you hear about athletes that kind of have like a, a second phase to their career. Uh, and you do see this a lot. Like I, uh, it's, it's really common, you know, where you'll say, you'll hear about somebody who was like really strong and really fast. And they're like, Hey, come out for the bobsled team, you know, and they, they untapped this, like this huge, uh, second career in athletics that often surpasses their first, you know, um, same thing, like, uh, something that's a little bit lesser known, but, uh, since I'm in North Carolina now, NASCAR is really big, man, they go find former linebackers and running backs and say, bro, get in the pit crew. Right. And so people have this whole second career where they're taking a lot of that kind of base strength and physicality and power output, and they're repurposing it for this other sport that they never thought about getting into. Right. It's just like somebody called him and said, you should do this. You know, it's really, like, that's actually what happened to my athlete. Um, our high performance director, his name's Mike Atone. He, he got, he was kind of sent a video of her hang cleaning, almost 300 pounds in college. And like, it was five, four years old or three years old. And, um, when he got the video and he just like called her up and was like, Hey, I got your name from somebody. Would you be interested in trying? She said, sure. And it was like, Oh God, you know, like she could have just as easily said, no, I'm good. You know? But she said, sure. That sounds good. You know, you're the, you're like in charge of it. Yeah. Okay, cool. And then, yeah, under five, five and a half years later, she's in the Olympics. So man, that's crazy. Yes. All right. Now, we'll, uh, appreciate you playing along answering some of my, uh, dumb beginner level questions, but, uh, you know, one of the big reasons that, that we wanted to bring you on, I know that you have a book coming out. Is it out yet? No, it's coming out. It's, it's probably looking at November first launch right now. My editor got a little behind. Yeah. Hey, it happens. But, um, so your, your book, do you mind giving us the title? Yeah. So it's called strong mind. Uh, it's a weightlifter's guide to resilience and mental toughness on the platform. Yeah. So I wanted to introduce the book and the title because, uh, you mentioned before we recorded, um, that weightlifting is the ultimate test for mental skills. And you said that, and I left it alone. I didn't pry, but now I'm going to pry. What do you mean by that? Why is weightlifting the ultimate test for mental skills? You know, weightlifting is super binary, right? I mean, it is inherently binary. Yes or no, you made it or you didn't. Right. Um, and in competition in particular, it's binary. It's you, there's no opponent. It's just a dead weight that, uh, doesn't want to be lifted. Right. It just wants to sit there and then you just go for powerlifting too. Right. I'm a weightlifter. So I talk about weightlifting a lot in the book, but this goes for powerlifting as well. And, um, you know, there's this, if I just think of meat day that from the time your name gets called to the time you get on the platform, everybody's experienced that self doubt, like, Ooh, you know, can I make this potentially? Or they have, maybe they have great self-talk and they're like, hell yeah, I'm going to make this, but everybody's experienced some level of failure. I, you know, I miss this and how do you bounce back? Um, and, and you know, the, the other piece that I always think is in training, as you go along, because we're based solely in numbers, there's this comparison game that is constant, right? I'm better than I was yesterday. I'm worse than I was yesterday or last week or a month ago or one year ago, I'm better than that person or I'm worse than that person. You know, they're gaining on me or I'm, you know, getting worse, all these different things, all these potential opportunities for negative self-talk, self-doubt, um, his spirals, all this kind of stuff. Uh, so I think that it just really tests us, um, when you get into the competitive side of things and, um, and, and it's always testing us, right? There's not really, um, you know, in baseball, you strike out, you come off. Okay. Hey, everybody strikes out two thirds of the time, you know, two thirds of the time you get out. Right. Um, yeah. Uh, you just strike out. Yeah. Right. Yeah. You're good. You're a good hitter. If you get on base, uh, you know, if you hit it every third time. Um, and so in baseball, but that's like just part of it. And, oh, you swung and missed at a pitch. It's not a failure. I got another shot, you know, weightlifting is like, I got three snatches. I got three clean and jerks. Um, there's, you probably only compete once every 12 weeks or eight weeks or whatever. Like there, there's a finite number of times you compete. So it's just, it's just always confronting. I feel like I always say that it's very confronting. It tells you like, are you weaker than you were? And that can mean a whole lot of things, you know, that can mean, am I weaker mentally in this, this moment or am I weaker physically, whatever, or am I stronger? Um, so I just, yeah, I just think that weightlifting strength sports, you know, those one-off kind of things where you have very limited attempts and you don't compete very often, uh, really, really challenge your mental game. Yeah. Big time. Yeah. And it's interesting because for better or for worse, you know, someone who's done powerlifting and bodybuilding competitively, um, with bodybuilding, the upside and the downside is that it's subjective, right? So when I show up to a bodybuilding show and my question is, will I win? Well, one of the big questions is going to be, well, who shows up, right? Like, I mean, you never really know. Yeah. Who else is going to be there? Uh, and so you have no idea until the day you get there and you understand like, Hey, if, if the number three guy in the world shows up and stands on the stage with me, I'm not going to win. And that says nothing about me really, other than I'm not top three in the world. Um, and then at the same time, the judging is entirely subjective, you know? So if you wanted to delude yourself into saying, Oh, that was rigged or whatever, you know, that might, might, I got, you know, they, they docked too many points because my tan was smearing. It has nothing to do with my physique and my, my skill in this sport. You can kind of give yourself those narratives if you like, but, uh, yeah, with power lifting gravity's on and it's the same every day, you know, the, the bar is going to tell you what you got and there, there's no hiding, you know, it just is what it is. Um, and one of the interesting things that you mentioned is you said that you've seen the mental game sabotage more athletes than their physical prep. So I'm curious what you meant by that and what is kind of the most common mental issue that you see that actually holds people back in whether it's weightlifting or powerlifting, this type of strength sport? Yeah. So, um, uh, you know, I wholeheartedly believe that a number of things is that, you know, I think there's like, there's a bunch of people who can write a good program, right? You know, like, uh, there's a lot of like good programs out there. There's a lot of, um, people who can teach you how to clean and jerk or snatch. Right. So like on the physical side, there's like a lot of good stuff, right? There's, um, your, your PhD, you could probably come up with a good program, very scientifically sound, and it would work really, really well for Olympic weightlifting. You know, uh, might need some refinement, but it largely is going to get people really strong. And so I, I wholeheartedly believe that there's like so many good coaches out there. There's good programs. Uh, people understand technique pretty well. Um, and, but I, you know, to me, like the difference on the platform is, is that mental game, right? Uh, you know, the difference between the person who you can see coming out, you know, or, or here's where it shows up. The biggest is after a miss, right? What does that person look like after a miss? You know, uh, most everybody misses in weightlifting for a six, you know, six people make about 60% of their attempts. So just a little lesson for them make four out of their six attempts. Um, is kind of the average number and you can see it. You see somebody after a miss, what they look like, Oh, I'm just heading the hand, shaking their head. Like, you know, like hitting their head, like, I'm in it, you know, whatever. Right. You can see their self-talk sometimes they're saying stuff to themselves or you see somebody who's like, yeah, whatever. Like, let's go next one, you know, like next one up. So you can see that kind of stuff. And, and the people with the crappy self-talk who were just like, you know, I suck or whatever. I got it, you know, or look defeated, uh, as they take that. I know, I know pretty well, they're probably going to miss the next one, but the people are coming off like, yeah, I got this. Or like, uh, that's on me, you know, like taking ownership because they're already processing that they made a technical error. You know, um, those people tend to come off and make it. And last, you know, to me last quad, I had, um, a couple of girls trying to, trying to make the Olympic team, one from Canada, one from the United States. Um, and both of them, the, the kind of qualification procedure last time is you had to be in the top 10 in the world. And, um, there was a couple other pieces. Both of them are top 10 in the world lifters, right? And, um, on, and in training, both of them did top 10 numbers, lots of times. And one was able to break into the top 10. Now they, they struggled mightily in training, comparing themselves to what so-and-so do. How am I feeling? Like, what about, you know, I'm, I don't feel as strong as I did two weeks ago or one month ago or, you know, whatever, uh, they would struggle with that. So that's that like comparison game that, that conflict all the time. The other one might've been a little better at that stuff, but on meat day, she would, oh, the self doubt, right. You know, one miss, you know, like almost like a physical change in demeanor and all that kind of stuff. Whereas, um, the one who struggled a little more in training on meat day, just a calm cookie, right. Had been in battles before. And, uh, this is Mary. Mary was like a calm, you know, she had been in battle. She had that experience. She built up that armor, all that kind of stuff. She'd been on, um, she'd been a great track and field competitors. She'd been in big track meets. So like the competition was a little easier. So I, you know, I think that, um, you then asked what's the biggest mistake you see. And to me, it's that reset after a miss, right? Everybody's going to miss, you're going to, you might miss a warmup. Weightlifting, missing a warmup is pretty common on powerlifting less so, but weightlifting might miss a warmup. You're probably going to miss an attempt on the platform. And it's like, what do you do to keep from spiraling? Like going down that, Oh, I sucker. Or I looked ahead and now I can't achieve this goal. So what's the point, you know, all that kind of stuff. Um, and just having some sort of reset, like kind of acknowledge the, acknowledge that you missed, like kind of acknowledge it, figure out why you missed, like, then stop it. Like I always say, like, take a breath, do something, like slap your legs. Like if you need to get a little more arousal, it's like, you need to get up, slap your legs. If you need to come down, breathe, but it's like, acknowledge it, reset it with something like physical. And then we would move on to like, correct it. Like what is the thing that's going to correct that next one? And it's just very black and white. Like I missed, here's why that's in the past. Cause I did this physical thing, move on. What are we going to do? Cause misses bad outcomes, all that kind of stuff. And you know, and that goes even then not after miss, you know, the, after a bad competition, what happens, you know, what, what's that look like? Um, and so like all these, these ways to reset, like misses that competition, they're just data. That's data. That's a data point gave you some information and you need to turn it into something. It's not a reflection of who you are, not a reflection of your identity, all that kind of stuff that people would just go too deep on that stuff. It's like, this is data. How can I use it to get better? Yeah. And you know, when Helms isn't here, we've already talked a little bit about American football. When he's gone, I talk as much as I can about American football. He, he resents it. So when he's gone, he can't stop me, but it kind of reminds me, you know, like right now it's college football season. I love college football, but like you're watching a team, you're watching a team, right? And so they, you know, let's say they're on defense first. The other team drives, gets a touchdown. Okay. No big deal. You're down seven, nothing. Who cares? Right? Yeah. You go three and out. You're about to punt. They block the punt and score a touchdown. Now, all of a sudden you're like, Whoa, it's 14 to nothing. And you start running the stats in your head and you say teams that give up a blocked punt for a touchdown lose more often than not. It's like 80, 90%, right? Then you start running the numbers. Teams that go down 14 tend to lose, right? So now you're, you're already locked into these narratives where you're saying, not only do I feel bad about what happened, but this is the beginning of a collapse. You know what I mean? Yes. And it's so, it's so easy to see as a viewer, teams that are well coached versus teams that aren't because the team that gives up the block punt for a touchdown, they're down 14, nothing. They take the field and it's just execute, right? We watched our film. We're making our reads. We're calling our plays. We're executing. And that's all there is to it. If a coach can get their team to go out there and say, I'll worry about the score. I'll worry about the time that impacts play calling. It doesn't impact you making your reads and executing on the field. Right. And you can physically see the teams that keep their head on straight and the ones that don't, you know, and the ones that don't, they start, you know, the quarterback every time is going for the deep ball rather than just playing in the system. Right. The defensive backs are going for the interception rather than keeping the good positioning and making the tackle, right? Instead of giving up eight yards, you give up 65 and a touchdown. So do you see a lot of that with weightlifters where, you know, sometimes they kind of have that early setback in a meet and now they start trying to like throw hail Marys with their attempt selection or they, or maybe they go the other way and they just crawl into a shell and say, I just don't have it today. Right. And so then maybe they just completely lay up their selections. Do you see people that have a tendency to do that? And as a coach, obviously your job is to say, well, no, we're going to go with what we think we can do. Right. Yeah. You know, it, that's a, it's a great analogy. Um, I'm a huge college football fan. And as an Indiana university grad, I'm a Kurt Signetti fan. And he's like done this huge turnaround in the university. And his thing is like one play at a time, like execute the play. And that's it. Like every play is six seconds. He has this whole thing. You know, we, we have a short-term memory, you know, every play is a life and of its own, you know, so like you're down 14, nothing. All you have to do is next play out there. You have to do what you're supposed to do. And if you do that enough times in a row, like you're going to be back in the game. Like you said, there coaches worry about that kind of stuff. So I see that. I love that. And in weightlifting, I am, uh, I do, I see like, um, a lot of times people come into me, they're like, I'm going to hit this total. Today, I'm going to hit a 300 kilo total. Right. And how are you going to do that? Well, I'm going to snatch 135 and I'm going to clean and jerk 165. And they go out and they make 125, they make 130, and then they miss 135. And then they're like, I should open at 170. Right. And the clean and jerk. And it's like, no, you know, that 165 was the top end. Today, you're going to total 295. Like you, like you, now you're going, I'm going to choose 290 or 295 or zero. Right. Don't go for zero. You know, like, so yes, a lot of times when you see that transition, um, from snatch to clean and jerk, it's like, okay, now I'm going to, I'm going to get my, I'm going to get my money back. Right. It's like, no, that's not how it goes. Right. Just like, so I always talk to my athletes about give me a solid opener. Tell me what you're, we're going to figure out what your opener is. Uh, maybe it's a hundred, you know, this 300 kilo total guy. Let me know that it's rock solid at 127 kilos. And then, and then we're in, and then I'll make the calls. What's next. Right. Based on what I see. Don't lock yourself into 135 is your top number, you know, cause it's like, uh, and don't lock yourself into 165 is your time. Let me, let me like, let me make the calls there. Let's go one lift at a time. And you've got to make your first warmup, your second warmup, your third warmup. People who think about their third attempts before the meet is done. They don't do well. Like if you think about your thirds before you've even opened, it's not happening. Cause you gotta, you gotta, there's so much you have to do before that time. So it's like, yeah, it'd be like in football. Like we want, I want to score 42 points today. We want to score 42. Nobody does that. Right. Like, like you don't, you never talk about the final score beforehand. Right. You want to say, yeah. Like, yeah. Cause then you think you're going to score 42. You don't score in the first quarter. Now what you're just going to run the hurry up the rest of the game. You're running a two minute offense. Like it's ridiculous. Yeah. No. Yeah. I mean, careful of that. Right. Yeah. Yeah. In my, um, I used to coach, uh, for about five or six years there, I was one of the coaches for a special Olympics powerlifting team. So I'm, I'm very familiar. There's so many variables, uh, working with that population that like, you don't even remotely get locked into second and third attempts, right? You know, your first attempt, it's pretty conservative. You're going to see what happens that day. You know, there's a lot of stuff going on. We competed once a year. Sometimes that environment of competing would really throw a wrench into, you know, what we would expect to see. So, um, yeah, it's really hard to, um, to convince, you know, cause let's be honest, man, the sport is to put up the heaviest number you can, right? So no one's all that interested in the first attempt. Everybody's thinking, it would, that was the most I can do. Right. Yeah. So you're thinking, okay, let's, let's play out this story as this beautiful thing that unfolds where I work up to the absolute 100% most weight I can possibly lift. And that is my third attempt. But if you get locked into that being the only way to succeed that day, uh, like you're getting at that, that's, you're setting yourself up for a big risk. You know, it could be the storybook ending, or it could be a really rough day if that's the way you're kind of priming your expectations. Yeah. For certain. Yeah. I just, you know, I, I, even, even that, like, yeah, you just gotta give me, give me that opener. Let's give me confident and then get in the game, right. Get that, that first thing going. Um, and then like, and, and we always talk about routines, like being some of the driving force of that is like, um, the way to make each of those attempts feel really good as these pre-performance routines, not rituals, not like superstitions, not like I got to do this or whatever, but, uh, you know, in training, practicing the routine that would go up to that so that I'm in that mode from the very start, whether it's, um, you know, like, uh, I would write out my routine and I have my athletes write out their routines. Like, oh, my name's been called, you know, I chalk my hands. I, you know, pull up my knee sleeves. Um, you know, I, I say an affirmation, like I'm, you know, whatever, like strong, you know, strong and chest up. Usually it's like a, maybe a two word thing. It's a power word and a cue strong chest up. And then, um, you know, then I chalk my hands, I walk to the platform and, you know, pull right. Or whatever. And it's like, I write it out every step with those words and I'm, I'm visually rehearsing it. Um, or, you know, kind of imagery based rehearsing it and I'm doing it in training. Right. So it's like, um, you know, cause I always think it's ridiculous if like, I see somebody who trains pretty calm, they get to the meat and they're getting back slaps, face slaps, ripping ammonia caps. Like, it's like, Hey, you're probably amped for the meat anyways, your arousal, you, you, you are good at a seven, but you're putting your arousal at 10, you know, like, right. And like, Oh, why did I feel jittery? Why did I crash out after snatches? Well, yeah, you were, you kind of, you kind of freaked out. Like, you know, like you're, uh, it's all, none of that's bad on its own. If that's your thing, that's your thing, but make sure you get like a couple of back slaps on a heavy day in the gym. Um, so that you, you know what that feels like and you hit ammonia in the gym once in a while. Like, um, so those routine I map, I think mapping out routines is a, is a big way to then make first attempts feel like second attempts, feel like third attempts, make gym attempts feel like third attempts. So you just, you've rehearsed, you know, I, one, one thing that I love the strength, the ignition side of weightlifting, you know, like that was, I was a strength and conditioning coach. I think that's really cool. I love manipulating variables to see different things happen and all that kind of stuff. Like all that's awesome, but weightlifting coaches are also sport coaches, right? So I need to do stuff like practice, you know, we say, how about another football analogy, like practice a two minute offense, practice a hurry up practice, like rushing the field goal team out there, right? You practice good football is not just tackling and running and lifting weights. Um, good football is, uh, situational awareness. Oh my gosh. I'm like, um, in weightlifting, you know, the clocks can get real varied. You know, you go out there and it's like, um, sometimes you can lift two minutes, rest, minute rest, eight minutes, rest, 10 minutes, rest. You like just manipulating those, try those things in, in training so that they're not unexpected and you, you get resilience. I always say that all the mental things I just call armor, you know, like, um, they're armor. And you know, one of the things, you know, kind of going off of that is a lot of people, um, a lot of people think like mental training, you know, sports psychology kind of stuff is if you've got a problem, right? Like I first saw a sports psychologist cause I had, I worked at the 2008 Olympic trials and track. And I remember just like my legs tingling, everything feeling foggy. I like got super anxious. My biggest meet of my life. Just crazy anxiety. And I was like, what is this? Right. And I was like, I got to figure that out. I went to a sports psychologist and we worked through that, but that's one thing, but we don't tell people that like, um, you should only squat because your legs are severely weak. You should just squat, right? Like if you're a weightlifter, you should squat. Um, if you're playing football, like you practice all those, all the different things. And one of the, you know, we don't tell people, uh, you need to eat well because you're severely malnourished only if you want to perform, you should eat well. If you want to perform, you should train hard. If you want to perform, you should sleep. If you want to perform, you should work on your mental performance. Right. And I, so I think that's like one of the things that I want to get across to like people in the gym. This isn't like, I got a problem. I get anxious. I do this. Yes. That would help. Uh, if you had low iron, you could eat foods with more iron and like, you could help yourself, but you, but we, if you want a well-rounded performance, you need to work on the mental game, uh, piece of things. Yeah. I have a hot take. Um, I could be wrong, but I honestly, I totally agree with the way that we view sports psychologists. Um, and I, I really feel like there was just a major branding issue. Like, I feel like if we, from day one decided we're not going to call it sports psychology, we're going to call it mental performance coaching. I honestly feel like people would have a fundamentally different relationship with it because we kind of have lumped it into the like typical, uh, kind of Western medicine approach, which is you don't go just chat with an orthopedic surgeon to just say, Hey, how, how are things looking? Right. You go where you go there when you got a problem, right? You, you typically don't go, uh, and get mental health services from a psychologist. Just until you have a mental health concern that you're trying to work through. And so I think a lot of people, um, kind of from the phrasing sports psychologist, they say, yeah, when you get the yips or when you have a massive mental block on performance, only then do you, you know, break the emergency glass, pick up the phone and call a sports psychologist. But yeah, I totally agree. Like there are mental elements of sport performance that ought to be viewed as proactive training the same way we do with anything else we do for our, our performance, right? Like, yeah, you're not going to, um, skip out on your walkthroughs when you're learning plays, you're not going to skip out on your physical training, but with, with the kind of mental side, I think it's, it often falls by the wayside. Um, now I did have a question. I really appreciated you kind of talking through, um, you know, the, the, the value of a routine, right? And it sounded, it sounded to me like the, the thing that came up to me was like a basketball player, right? When you're shooting free throws, I dribble once on the left, twice on the right, spin the ball, pull up my right pant leg and shoot, right? Like every basketball player you want, you see, I'm at Duke right now. I've got the, the five championship banner behind me. Um, you watch those guys practice the way they shoot a free throw. That means nothing in June is the same way they shoot a free throw. That is for, you know, three seconds left in the final four, right? It is exactly the same. And it's the routine they've been doing every single time, probably since they were about 17 years old, you know? Um, but the one thing I wanted to ask you about on top of that, that idea of throwing those realistic scenarios into your training to build that resilience, uh, building those routines that you can adapt to those different scenarios. Is there anything you do to preemptively train, um, like the, the reset or the cues that you might give after a failed attempt? Do you actually work with the athlete on what that's going to look and feel like beforehand? Or do you play it by how it looked, how they responded and kind of just go completely from scratch on that? Yeah. You know, weightlifting training, um, is probably more miss prone than other like strength sports that like I have powerlifter friends and I never see them missing training, right? Like ever, right? I've got a buddy, I don't know if he's ever missed a squat. It's ugly when you miss in powerlifting training, like it happens, but it's ugly. I mean, weightlifting, there is that such a technical demand that you'll miss, right? I mean, I I've heard of, you hear legends of, oh, this Russian didn't miss for eight years, you know, like stuff, something like that. But usually you're going to miss, right? Um, yeah, we're here at worlds and we trained this morning and my lifter missed a 90% lift or an 88% lift today. It was just technically it was out and it was wrong. So he, so when you miss, you want to be ready for that. So none of the stuff that I would say like, that I think is important on meat day should be implemented on meat day, right? It should be implemented, you know, like you said, in June. Um, and so it's like, yeah, we definitely talk about that reset. What's that going to look like? What's your reset? You know, we might as a team, we'll say, Hey guys, we're going to talk about this. Um, what's your reset? Um, you know, somebody, one of my lifters, she's like, I got to pinch my thighs. So it like brings me back to the present. Cause I feel like if, if I don't feel my legs and I'm not there, you know, or something like that. Um, uh, somebody else like, uh, pinches their earlobe or pulls on their earlobe. Somebody takes a couple of deep breaths, whatever that reset is. So yeah. And so we map it out. And then now I don't keep every reset handy in my head. Like, Oh, uh, Nicole does this. Uh, she does this, whatever, but I'm confident that they know what, what they're going to do because we practice it. And when they miss, Hey, hit the reset, let's try the re make sure you try the reset today. And maybe early on, it's just me urging them to, and there it's fun. They fumble with it and it's not natural. And it's like, Oh, it didn't help me do much. We just keep trying. And then it starts to become part of this new routine, right? And, and then on meet day, we're not pulling anything new out, right? It's the same old, it's the same old cues we've been working on the whole time. It's like hands close. It's get, you know, chest up. It's whatever those, those little things are. Yeah. So we'll definitely practice it. I think weightlifting lends itself to it because yeah, there's more opportunity. There's probably more missing in weightlifting than, than other sports. Um, otherwise I might, you know, pressure treat them where it's like, um, put them in a bad situation. Um, and maybe make them do imagery to be like, Hey, like, okay, Hey, it's your third attempt. You really need this one. Um, the second one kind of felt heavy. What are you saying to yourself? Like, um, how are you going to get out there? What are you going to say to encourage yourself? How are you going to get yourself present? Are you going to hit, like, do you want ammonia? What, you know, whatever. Yeah. And I assume, you know, speaking of ammonia, probably one of the biggest things you're doing on meat day, I would imagine is you, you build up this rapport with an athlete, you know, how they do their stuff, managing that balance of not aroused enough versus too aroused. You know, you already kind of alluded to that previously, but I mean, that, do you find that there's tremendous variance from athlete to athlete over where that sweet spot is if we put it on like a one to 10 scale? And, and so I assume you're just constantly kind of trying to steer them back to their sweet spot all day. Is that, is that right? Yeah, absolutely. You're, you're totally on it. And it's different from athlete to athlete for certain. I have, um, so, um, like a Marine who trains with me, who, uh, is pretty high level. He's like a national level lifter, top seven or eight in the country. And man, he's just in so intense. And it's like, I don't, you know, his eight arousal is my 25, you know, it's like, Holy, I can't like, you know, I'm going to do, you know, uh, he's so, um, and, and with him, you know, I think it gets overboard and we've been working on bringing it down. Right. And he is a caffeine consumer, nicotine user. Like, so he's physiologically mentally super aroused. So I'm actually like, Hey, you probably let's reduce your nicotine usage. Let's reduce your caffeine usage. So that like, you're not like, uh, heart beating, you know, out of your chest, uh, aroused, and you can still be that mentally focused and aroused and stuff like that. So just working with him to bring it down. Um, I have, uh, lifters who vary from meet to meet. I have an internet, like a very good lifter who one meet looks just, you know, focused, like going to rip your, your head off. They're very like into it. Other meets are kind of away and like maybe more timid and figuring out what that is. And it's usually the level of the competition and, or, uh, where they think that they're expected to finish, um, or anything like that, that can make them change there. So what's the optimal one? It's probably in between. So we've been working on, on those low days, bringing her up on the high days, bringing her down just a little bit so that she's a little more. And you can do that through questionnaires. Like what, what is that? They might not be able to quantify. I'm on a seven arousal or something like that. But what do I feel like, you know, I feel pumped up. I'm listening to this music. I'm, you know, I'm listening to like, uh, death metal and I'm pounding pneumonia and you're slapping my back. That's a 10 person, right? Like, uh, I'm calm. I have eyes closed. You'd lightly tell me, Hey, it's your turn. You know, stuff like that. There are two or something like that. So you kind of, you figure out where they are and try to make sure that that's it. And then if the, the other thing with weightlifting, if you don't compete enough, if the outcome doesn't match what you want, you can also watch them in training and you figure out in training, okay, actually when they lift best in training, they're, they're laughing with their teammates, right? They're keeping it really light with their teammates. Um, you know, maybe they're joking a little bit and then they're like, turn it on. It's go time. So you got to keep it light when they're in the back or something like that. But everybody's a little bit different. If you pay enough attention to yourself or to the athletes you work with, you'll kind of, you'll key in on what works and then maybe figure out how to turn the dial up or down. Yeah. A related question. Um, I have more experience on the powerlifting side, but for, for weightlifting between obviously this is going to depend, but what is the, the general setup of the sport in terms of like how many hours pass, for example, between the first time an athlete warms up for their first attempt and the time that they finish their final attempt for the day? Like what, what kind of duration are we talking for a lot of meets? I would say it's like an hour and a half. It's pretty fast. Uh, I bet. A typical, yeah, typical weightlifting session. I was just at a really great session with somebody setting world records and it was over and done with in, in like less than two hours. There's 10 women meet in a session. Yeah. Well the session. Yeah. And so like, yeah. Yeah. So your session is probably over and done within two hours unless it's a maybe, and that's like, you know, 12 people in less 12 people in theater that will happen. Um, but yeah, you're probably, and if you're like in that session, you're, you're doing your, your snatch and your clean and press, you're getting it all done. Yep. And, um, so what that typically looks like for them is I bet you have seven or eight warmup lifts. You do a general warmup, you're moving and stretching and all that kind of stuff. Maybe foam roll or whatever the thing is that you do, um, a dynamic warmup. And then you take probably seven or eight warmup, uh, sets. It could be doubles and triples at the start and then singles. And then you get your three attempts on the platform and the snatch. And they may be, um, if you're following yourself, like you are the last, cause in weightlifting, the bar only goes up. So like, right. I could take all three of my attempts after all of everybody else's attempts that happened this evening. Um, and so you might take your first, wait two minutes, take your second, wait two minutes, take your third. Um, but that's that the snatch portion is probably done in an hour and then have a 10 minute break. And then you do repeat the same thing for the clean jerk five, six sets of warmups. Then you go out and take your three lifts and, and it's done in another hour. But, uh, that's a, that's a beautiful thing. Yeah, it's fun. It's kind of fun. It's not, uh, it's not an all, it's not like powerlifting is powerlifting is like really a war of attrition. You know, like, did you eat enough eat again? You know, like we do, I tell everybody to eat between snatch and clean and jerk because it is taxing. They'll have, try to get some carbs and something in them, uh, in some form or the other. And, um, but yeah, it's not like that, that powerlifting like grind. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, cause that's what I was thinking about with arousal is like one of the things that is often people overlook it, but let's say you do identify that you perform best at a high level of arousal. Great. But we need you to perform well at nine in the morning and at like 6 PM and in between. Right. And so with powerlifting, I mean, these things will take all day sometimes. And so that that's kind of one of the big things is like you identify what is your right level of arousal on the platform, but then you, you have to turn it off. Like you, you, I think a lot of people, a lot of people go into it thinking I'm going to be just laser focused all day and be like amped up from nine to seven. And it's just like, brother, no one can do that. They're very, very few people on this planet can do that. So yeah. Um, it sounds like a sport more so with powerlifting than weightlifting. You have to think of how do we turn that on and turn it off? And what is the appropriate duration of cooling down before we have to ramp that up again? But honestly, the more I hear about Olympic weightlifting, uh, if not for all the coordination you need, it sounds like my kind of thing. I I'm, I'm always like annoyed, like sometimes bodybuilding shows will take 13 hours and you're like, how is this possible? What are we doing here? Um, you know, since it is such a short thing, uh, do you, do you get the sense that Olympic weightlifters go a little bit lighter on the water cuts compared to power lifters? Um, just because it's like, you're pretty much right onto the platform. Uh, you don't really have as much, as much time to kind of refuel and rehydrate and things like that. Yeah. On the water cuts. Um, you know, we have two, we're two hour weigh-ins. There's actually talks that we may become a 24 hour weigh-in sport, but that's not confirmed. Um, but in a two hour weigh-in scenario, if you cut much more over, I mean, if your total cut is much more than is like approaches 5% of body weight, unless you have this insane squat reserve, you're going to feel real performance effects. Um, so a lot of times I kind of aim to be two or 3% over and, and train there for a significant amount of time so that the numbers we hit in training are pretty real. Now, I, I think some countries, some coaches rely on bigger water cuts, but, um, I, I don't find them to be very reliable. The best lifters I know, um, I'm, I'm going to go back to this lifter. I was watching Olivia Reeves, who won the gold medal at, in Paris last summer. She doesn't cut a gram. You know, she just, she lives in training. She's lifted at 77 kilos. She's heading up. She like is trained at 73 kilos and she wants to get a little bigger, but like, you know, she just is what she is. And when she won the Olympic gold as a 71 kilo lifter, she was 70.9 kilos all the time. You know, she's never cutting weight. She was just kind of what she was. And that means that what you did in training really carries over to the platform. Now with a 24 hour cut, you could probably do a lot, a lot more, right? Or 24 hour way. And you could do a lot more. And, and I know that people do. Um, so that I think that would fundamentally change weightlifting if that were to happen. So I'm kind not for that. Um, but yeah, right now it's not, it's not a big, people will do it. People cut extreme amounts and be like, I can do it. But, um, you know, you, you can't IV rehydrate in weightlifting. So, um, it's just kind of almost impossible to bring it back enough. Yeah. Yeah. Even with wrestling, you know, that, that was what my, my main sport that I focused on when I competed, uh, and with wrestling, you know, we would have our, our way in about two hours before the, the meet starts. But if it was a normal kind of, you know, 16 man bracket, if you were pretty good, you kind of knew, okay, first match two hours after weigh in, I'm way better than this guy, right? I'm the one or two seed. This is the 15 or 16 seed. I could be half dead and I'm going to win this match. Right. And so like, yeah, especially as some of the smaller local meets, right? So, so even with that, it would kind of lean into these, um, kind of not super great habits of these really aggressive cuts, because a lot of people are thinking by the time I really need to be on, it's going to be my third or fourth match of the day. It's going to be 2 PM. It's going to be 7 PM. Like, yeah. So the two hour way, I think a lot of high schools, I think are going to, I think they're kind of going to mat side weigh-ins, or at least they've been kicking that idea around. I've been kind of out of the game for super long. I haven't been keeping tabs on it. But I heard rumblings that they were going to do walk up to the mat for your match, weigh in, and you basically have to maintain your, your same weight pretty much the whole day. Um, which I think for high school kids is probably a very good idea, you know, at the more elite levels. Sure. Let that be part of the sport if you like. But, um, yeah, I always thought it was a little, I mean, I participated. So hindsight's 2020, but now that I'm an old man, I look back and I'm like, it was crazy that as kids, we were doing weight cuts and stuff, you know? Yeah. All right. Um, well, Will, I don't want to abuse your time here. I really appreciate you setting some time, uh, to, to chat with us and teach us a little bit about weightlifting. Um, obviously you've got your book coming out. Um, so do you have like a, uh, pre-order link or anything that we can put in the show notes for people? Yeah, sure. There's, um, um, there's actually, I'll, I'll put it in the show notes. I'll, there'll be a, like a meat week, uh, mind mental prep, uh, kit for you kind of get you ready through walking you through imagery, walking you through the act of, uh, putting your pre-meat routine, uh, walking you through the idea of, um, you know, what kind of maybe identity you want to have. And, you know, here's a clue, like your identity isn't 150 kilos snatch. That's just a lift. You know, it's like, I want to compete hard. I want to like, give it my all that's identity kind of stuff. And so just walking you through all those things to set you up for a really good meat. Um, I'll, I'll give you the link you can put in the show notes. Um, but, uh, that's just a free download. And then, and then when you download that, you're going to get, you'll be put on the list for launch for the book. Awesome. Fantastic. And before I let you go, any last words of wisdom for people out there who maybe are thinking about getting into weightlifting, or maybe they have their first meet coming up, something like that. Yeah. You know, um, if, if you're thinking about getting into weightlifting, it's just, it's a really fun sport. I think it's like, um, not to knock anything else, but it's like a thinking man's, um, strength sport because it, it rewards that technical aspect so heavily. So, uh, you can really, really dive into the technique and become kind of a nerd over it and, uh, and get some, some really big returns. So, uh, yeah, I, I love it. I love, I still do it. I can, I like don't compete anymore, but I would did snatches two days ago and did cleans today. And I, you know, I will always, as long as I can do, uh, some, some level and they're just fun to do. Yeah. Awesome. Um, now before we go, we got to give a shout out to our good friends at elite, elite FTS. It's a Dave Tate's operation out there in central Ohio. They are friends of the show. Uh, we ask, uh, humbly that you will support our good friends. We got a nice little partnership So folks who are listening, if you need some new lifting gear, maybe you're getting into weightlifting and you're like, Hey, maybe I should get some, uh, wrist wraps, knee sleeves, uh, all sorts of various, uh, items that you may bring into the gym, uh, or just some good old fashioned apparel. Go to, uh, elite FTS.com. Use our discount code MRR10. That stands for mass research review 10, and you'll get 10% off most of the items in the elite FTS store. As always, if you like the show and you want to support, there's many ways to do it. Make sure that you like rate, subscribe, review, tell a friend, share a link, uh, get the word out. And of course, if you really love the show and want to give us the top tier of possible support, be sure to check out the mass research review over at mass research review.com. That is what keeps the show running. And, uh, if you become a member of the mass community, you will be absolutely on the cutting edge of the newest research and how to apply it as it pertains to exercise and nutrition. So everyone in the iron cult, thank you so much for joining us. Uh, thanks again to Will Fleming for joining us, everyone. Take care, and we will see you again in one week. Will Fleming for working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working working on working on working working on working working on working working on working working on working working on working working on working working on working working working on working working working on working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working