Hello everybody. Welcome back to Iron Culture presented by the Mass Research Review. I am still Eric Trexler. Always have been. And I am joined by the Dr. Eric Helms, the other Eric as people uh affectionately refer to him. Helms, how we doing tonight? >> I'm doing pretty good, man. I'm inside of eight weeks out. Um, you know, I'm alive. I wouldn't say I'm well, but I'm alive. So, uh, yeah, I'm we're here. >> 100% of people who win bodybuilding shows are alive at the time of the show. So, in terms of the predictors of success, you are on that trajectory. I would say 100% of people who win bodybuilding shows are alive at least at the point when they get the medal on the day of the show based upon some recent unfortunate things that have been reported in the enhanced side of the sport in the last few years. >> Here I am trying to make a light-hearted quip and immediately we're going into the mortality and tragedy. Uh so a good omen for the show to follow. Um but anyway, glad we're all here. Uh little uh update for the audience. Uh this upcoming episode, one week from today, is going to be a pre-recorded episode. So I already know that it's good. Uh because I've heard it all. Uh so we had Dr. Helm sit down with Dr. Mike Zordos of the Mass Research Review and Zach Robinson of Data D. >> Dr. Zack Robinson, the Dr. Zack Robinson of Data Driven Strength. Um, I was trying to shout out his business and you're getting all hung up in the ivory tower credentials, but uh but no, good catch. >> Well, it's a recent thing and we we're on his committee. Yeah, >> it does feel less recent because we were on the committee cuz like for us it's you know it happened a while ago, but anyway, the Dr. Zach Robinson of the data driven driven strength. Um and uh we were talking to him about you were you guys were talking to him about his dissertation research which um it is a can of worms Helms. It is a can of worms. I I don't want to >> uh get too into it because we have a whole episode on it but I do think it is going to uh peak a lot of interest. Uh it is going to cause some degree of cognitive dissonance for sure. Some people will be I think downright confused but I think you guys did a good idea of you know as it tends to go this is a complicated research topic. So basically his dissertation was about the uh the effects of training volume on hypertrophy according to the title but what it was really about beneath the surface was >> how much do we know and and how do we estimate and quantify how an individual responds to different training programs. you know, so uh yeah, go ahead. >> And I think I think what you said right there is critical. How do we know? Um, one very intentional thing that I think I liked about some of the initial because obviously what you end up publishing from your dissertation and what your initial dissertation looks like and because we've seen it through a whole iteration as we were on the committee and we had, you know, the discussion with him during his defense and how he's looked at it now. And one thing that I really respect about Zach is how conscious and intentional he has been with how he has wanted to communicate this and understanding the limitations of what his specific research can do. And I think what he focused on, which I really like, is how do we in sports science differentiate between variation and response picked up in a cross-sectional analysis versus true individual response variation to a protocol as well as to resistance training in general. Yeah. and highlighting why the vast majority of the studies which we have used to claim that there is individual response and myself as well and I think I don't want to speak for you but I think I think both of us have done this like deas >> that's all we've had and it's very intuitive >> exactly >> yes and just the the general uh research out there we go oh look at this non-responder look at this highresponder we there's a reason why we should probably saying oh look at this participant that had a high or low response this time relative to the group rather than labeling them as a responder and what would we need to do to label them as a responder and why that's important. And I think he he did a great job doing that so it's not um overextending what we can know. >> Yeah. And and so just so we're not talking in complete riddles, just the last thing I'll say about this is basically the the the episode addresses a very common set of claims which is like first of all you will look at a crossover study for example and let's say I'm in the study and I did a low volume highintensity program and then I switched over and did the opposite you know um high volume low intensity and I increased my bench press 4% in the first one and 8% in the another one. So, oh, for for me, for my body, I respond better to protocol B, that type of protocol rather than protocol A. And the the research really gets into like, well, how do we know how much of that difference is actually attributable to the change in the protocols versus any other thing it could be? Um and similarly, you know, when we let's say we're just doing a single protocol and we just have people in the study, one person in the study increases their bench press by 4%, the other increases their bench press by 8%. Well, you know, in some uh lay person discussions of those findings, you would say, well, well, this person responded better to the program than that person did, or you know, maybe this person is just generally more responsive to training than the other. And again, it's getting into how would we actually know that to be a fairly immutable characteristic of this individual across all potential scenarios. Um, and so it's it's a really fascinating look at how do we separate out what makes a person at the like trait level uh a better responder than someone else in a way that we can have any confidence in? And then within the individual, how can you really know for sure, you know, what what kind of research would it take for us to say that you consistently respond better to this type of program rather than that type of program? Uh, and the spoiler alert is just taking one crack at it and trying both programs one time is not enough to do it. So, that is the teaser that I'll leave them with because the more I talk, the more I'm going to get it wrong because the the devil's in the details with this topic. So, you guys did it for about 90 minutes and uh give or take and uh I think people are gonna really enjoy it. Uh I hate to miss an episode, but I am going to be sprawled out on a hospital table being gutted like a fish. Uh split my abdomen. Uh it is going to be a a true gory disaster. But I don't know if I mentioned on this show exactly what's going on, but I have to get another surgery. I have an umbilical hernia, which is not the normal kind of hernia for a lifter. Um, I was uh poking around my belly button area the other day and said, "Did I develop an Audi to go along with my innie?" Uh, which uh turns out doesn't happen. That's that's not what happens. That's not a thing. >> Uh yeah, umbilical hernia. Uh very surprised by it. Not a painful thing, not an acute onset. It just was there. So, uh very disappointed because I was finally feeling good about my lifting related prospects. You know, I had that one surgery which was very successful about a year ago. Feeling happy, feeling good. got off that medication that caused me to gain all that weight. I've been passively losing weight cuz of course I am because I'm not on the medication anymore. So things were finally really kind of, you know, on the upswing and then boom, uh we're going to get me on the table. But anyway, uh I'll be gone for that episode and uh then I'll be back and we'll be better than ever. >> What kind of uh time course of recovery do the docs think you're going to have with this? >> So I don't know. Uh I actually have not had my pre-surgery consult yet. Uh so I actually don't even know what kind of surgery we're going to go with. Um but it is Monday. So basically um one of the really cool perks about being a faculty member at a university with a very very good hospital and uh you know medical apparatus is I basically got this I I noticed this hernia and was able to like email a surgeon from within our like internal directory and be like bro you're booked out for a million months but like I really got to get this done before the semester cuz like things are going to get crazy. Um, and props to the the Duke physicians and surgeons because every time I've reached out to them, they've always been super willing to do me a big solid, uh, whether it's for me or for my wife to get us in. Um, so it it sucks that the health care system is such that you need to like, you know, have internal directories and and have all these workarounds. But I I I do appreciate just on a personal level uh the the kindness and flexibility of saying like, "Hey, uh like my my wife um was having sleep issues, needed to see a specialist, and um this guy was booked out for like 6 months, and we got her in in a few weeks, you know." So um so props to the uh the good people doing me a big solid so that I can get that done and then uh get to recovering. But all that is to say, because the timeline's been so crazy, he was like, "Bro, come in on Friday. We'll plan out the surgery. coming on Monday, we'll do it. So, we're moving. >> Hey, if you trust him and he's going to do the best surgery for you, then >> yeah, >> I'm happy for you. Even if it ends up being something that you don't know about until you're on the table. >> Yeah. And frankly, I don't really need to know. Like, I I just have to show up that as long as he knows what he's doing, um you know, that then we'll be okay. So, I I'll wake up. >> Yeah. Yeah. As long as they don't do the thing where like you're coming out of your haze of being put under and they give you vital one-time information about your recovery timeline and process and what you're supposed to do and then send you on your way and then you regain the ability to store memories and you're like I don't know anything that was said to me, you know. So that that actually happened to me my with my last surgery. The all the information of like here's what you got to do was given to me when I was as far as I'm concerned still under like I I have no recollection of it whatsoever. But uh the person who was kind of babysitting me as I uh recovered from my drug induced stuper uh they took good notes. So so we were okay. Uh so I I'll give them a heads up. But uh but anyway, yeah. So, another surgery, not what we wanted, but should be very fixable, very easy, and uh feeling good about it. All right, Helms. Uh we have actually a really nice backlog of good questions. Uh so, I want to take a moment to express some gratitude to the audience um who uh sent us some really solid questions. Uh, I need to shout it out more so we get more questions. But, uh, if you go over to massresearch.com/ironculture, there is, uh, a portal where you can submit questions, uh, anytime when they pop into your head. They come straight to me in a nice little spreadsheet and they give us a great opportunity to, uh, answer some of these questions. And what I really like about it is there's a diversity of questions and they're relatively novel. Um, so you know, sometimes in fitness a lot of people have a lot of the same questions and you don't want to have a show where you're just repetitively answering the same ones over and over and over. Um, and so, so this is nice and sometimes Helms I've seen that um, >> it'll be very clear like someone will just like release a video clearly some large channel released a video on TRT and then we get nine questions on TRT the moment it hits YouTube. >> So, uh, yeah, nice diversity of questions here. Um and and so we can kind of dig into those. And uh uh but before we get into those, there's one thing I wanted to address that uh has been kind of permeating out on social media. A little little chatter, little rumblings, and I think it's good to uh to get ahead of those uh and participate early in the discourse rather than uh you know catching up late after the fact. So, um I've noticed a few uh a few uh posts that have had kind of an impetus for this conversation, but the main one that jumps out to me is our our dear friend and colleague James Steele, uh who is a tremendous exercise scientist. I don't know if he would claim to be an exercise scientist anymore. He has a a lovehate relationship with the field of exercise science, I think. Uh but uh but he's he's very excellent with statistics. uh has a a bit of a psychology background mixed with exercise science I believe but uh but he he's brilliant and he mentioned that he is in a post he's going to do a reanalysis of uh what is really like one of the big protein metaanalyses um so a lot of folks in the fitness space remember the Morton one that you were a co-author of back in 2018 which largely I think we can attribute the the the kind of common recommendation 1.6 to 2.2 2 grams of protein per kilogram of body mass per day. Uh can largely be attributed to that Morton paper in 2018 and it was a good paper and I think that that range holds up pretty well when you compare it across randomized control trials. But Helms as we've talked about uh pretty openly. There are some some uh elements of the analysis where you look back and you say yeah we probably could have done that uh a little bit more you know with a little bit more nuance a little bit more by the book. you know, there there are some stat statistical things that could have been improved upon, which is true of like literally everything I've ever done. Uh, so it's not a criticism, but uh, but when it comes to meta analyses, I think our field's come a really long way since 2018. Um, and so that lab did an update in 2022ish, 2023ish, something like that. Uh, >> 2022 >> 22. Yeah. Meta analysis with the lead author was Nunes. So they beefed it up and they did these stats in a way that I thought was uh a substantive upgrade from the prior version. Uh but now James Steel is working with uh similar uh you know working with the same lab and they're going to do a reanalysis with even more complicated even more nuanced statistical approach. Um, and he kind of teased what is almost certainly going to be the uh the take-home point uh because it kind of has to be based on if you have any familiarity with the data set and what has come from it previously. Uh but but what he kind of teased was, you know, people are going to be a little bit perturbed or shocked or jarred by how small the effect of dietary protein is when it comes to facilitating resistance training induced gains in fat-ree mass. And Helms, this is something that uh I think uh hits close to home for both of us, more so you than me. You've you've been more involved in the protein uh original research uh than I have. And uh but but recently we collaborated with Martin Ruffalo on a a meta reagression project where we were specifically looking at the role of dietary protein in leanish people um uh who were in energy deficits and kind of looking at how uh protein needs uh might impact the retention mostly and and then if you go far enough down the axis gain of fat-free mass. So anyway, we we published that paper and someone commented uh on James' post saying, "Hey, you know, protein is going to have a pretty minimal effect, very very modest in magnitude and very well-intentioned, someone who's clearly up to date with the research and said kind of, well, you know, what what do you make of this meta regression that Helms and Trexler and Reff published previously?" And um I might be reading into it too much, but it seemed to me that the the nature of the question was that our meta reggression would be at odds with the conclusion that protein has a positive in direction but very very modest impact on the accretion of fat- free mass in conjunction with resistance training. So, I figured it would be a good opportunity to kind of discuss that topic and clear the air a little bit or or kind of provide some clarity in terms of what I think is really at the root of the of the discussion here, which is conflating two very very different questions. Okay. So question number one, >> question a is in a purely directional perspective does more protein facilitate any amount of increased gain or retention of fat-free mass that is a question a fundamentally different question is when I am going through all the possible things I could do to gain or retain fat free mass how important is protein how big is the magnitude of the effect? How high on the priority list should it be? So, Helms, with that backdrop, I want to pass it over to you and see what what your two cents are on the topic. >> W two cents, Traxx, am I allowed to give like 20 cents because I I I actually 100% agree. >> If people want to give me currency, they can give me as much as they wish. And that goes for the listeners as well. >> I'm gonna give you 25 cents, buddy. We'll give you We'll give you a full quarter. So I think this is something that people struggle with generally and it is a human attribute of thinking in black and white terms. Is it good or bad? And it is also an artifact of the fact that we have spoken in terms of significance before we even spoke about terms of effect sizes for about 20 years in exercise science. As we've talked about, we have been unfortunately late adopters to uh I'm just going to say stats. >> Um numbers, math. >> Yes, exactly. Like we technically did have stats for 20 years. Did we do them right or interpret them accurately? I'll leave that to the listener to decide. Um and I would say >> here's the answer, listener. No. So this is not new information. It's not like this is going to be uncovered by the oh we did it wrong James Steel real analysis. It's actually completely apparent if you understand effect size statistics and Nunez actually I really like Nunez's analysis. I'm sure James is going to you know find a better way to do it because it's it's it's freaking James Steel. But they did two things I really like. They did one thing which I think perpetuated the the more is better or specific range is better and then therefore I'm just going to say it's meaningful as well without thinking about it perspective on Morton and that was their categorical analysis. Um but they did another thing which is kind of buried. You actually have to look at the I believe it's actually in the supplementary material to actually look at their regression analysis. Uh, and then another thing you have to look at is their forest plot where they look at all of the resistance training effect sizes for taking protein intake and looking at the individual study group compared to the overall effect size. And there are three really important things you can find. One is the kind of perpetuated red herring. The categorical analysis, but it is there if you pay attention, was less than 1.2, 1.2 to 1.59, and 1.6 6 and greater. And if you kind of just look at that and you see, oh, look at that. Less than 1.2 had a negative effect. This is insufficient to support gains in lean body mass. Um, 1.2 to 1.59 had an effect. It was significant, although it is trivial. I think it was like.12 or something like that. Uh, and then there's a greater effect size in the small range for 1.6 or higher. You might look at that and go, "Yep, that's already what we knew from Morton." I think the important thing to understand is that this was an a priority decision on where they wanted to chop up this analysis. And also, if you look at the relative effect size differences between those categories, it starts to indicate that there are some diminishing returns. So, the positive effect of consuming a daily protein intake of 1.2 2 to 1.59 uh was twice the effect of consuming greater than 1.6 compared to 1.2 to 1.59. So you're not seeing the same benefit that you get from going of from a low protein intake to a quote unquote moderate protein intake as you get from going from moderate to a high. That's our first indication of kind of a diminishing returns. But people don't look at it like that. And frankly, statistically, it's not defensible to say that because as you've pointed out many times, when you do chop up your data like this, you're essentially saying or claiming, I'll say implicitly instead of explicitly, that 1.59 is closer to 1.2 than it is 1.6. Right. Um, that's what happens when you do these categorical categorical analyses. And there's an issue with that. >> Yeah. And and to go even further, I mean, you're saying that 1.59 is the same as 1.2, but fundamentally different than 1.6. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's that's a good point. I think that's a more accurate characterization. Now, when you look at the I'll go to the forest plot next because I I think that's the the one that is also a little more intuitive and we're kind of still looking at black and white, but it gives you um an understanding of black and white when we do a single study versus many studies. Okay. So, Nunez's analysis that was specifically looking at the the effects in in resistance training uh samples, I want to say it had 60 something studies included in it. That's that's a fair number. I want to say 62 I think uh remembering off the top of my head over 2500 or 2400ish total participants if you just looked at the resistance training studies while they're taking in protein. Now there was a you know these are real effects that were reported based upon that a positive effect of having a higher protein intake relative to lower. But get this out of those 62 uh I think studies and all of the groups that were in them that went on that forest plot where you can see where do those standardized mean difference confidence intervals lie relative to the zero line. I think that there were only five or six that actually were clearly not crossing the zero line. And what we would traditionally say is a significant finding of a higher protein intake having an effect, a positive standardized mean difference across the whole 95% confidence interval for those study groups. Meaning I think I because I did the math on this 92% of the individual study groups that were included in that found no significant effect of protein regardless of the dose. And that means that we needed 62 studies to detect this effect which tells you that it is so small that we really can't consistently pick up on it in small sample size research. And this goes back to that whole sampling variance discussion we had. So this tells you something even if we don't talk about magnitude. It's like oh this is hard to find. So that means it's probably not very powerful. And the final way to look at this the mo most nuance way and the way to kind of understand this effect is if you go and you dig in and you find that figure from the supplementary material where they did a linear regression analysis. And one weakness of this uh regression analysis was it was they only tried a linear fit to my knowledge or at least they only reported the linear fit. They didn't say in their methods they tried other fits but if you look at it it's a very shallow slope and a lot of the studies are well first there's a fair amount of dispersion in the study groups if you look at it but very much like our metagression tracks it goes from around one gram per kilogram of protein per day all the way up to over four grams per kilogram of protein per day and there's like one study that is over that and the rest all cluster pretty like a a large cluster between one to two and then a little bit between two to three and a couple between three and four. And while the line is linear and it goes up, it spans an effect that is predicted, this is the actual prediction, not the actual places of the study, that is just barely above the zero line around 1 g per kilogram to that is barely reaching 0.5 at the other side of it. So we're looking at a very small change and that's I think units of fat- free mass if I recall correctly actual kilograms. So it's absolute change that's not a standardized mean difference. So it's it's very small. Um, and you can get kind of a hint of it of its nature that even though there was not any type of analysis of say a break point or a nonlinear trend to determine if there was diminishing returns that indeed there probably are because there's uncertainty metrics around it. There's the 95% confidence interval and the prediction interval um which essentially are measures of uncertainty. And because there are fewer and fewer studies as you get into higher higher protein intakes, it widens. And this is kind of if you wanted to be a really conservative estimator of what do we think is likely as you use higher and higher protein intakes, you could look at, you know, at what point do does, you know, the line stop going up or something like that. But I mean, it would go up until infinity. You know, if you just use a linear fit like tradition technically, but you would go, "Oh, well, if I just consume 20 grams per kilogram of protein per day, now I have a meaningful effect." So I would recommend instead looking at the 95% confidence level prediction interval which because of that uncertainty it starts to flatten out and it starts to flatten out probably just under two grams per kilogram per day when you look at it and at that point it it becomes completely flat based upon the uncertainty and I think that tells you something. I don't think that I mean strictly from a stat statistical standpoint that just tells you we don't have enough data and higher protein intakes but I think that there is probably also just an effect of of this is small and it's only going to get so good and you can have higher and higher protein intakes but there's no reason for us to believe that it would have a linear positive effect and that is not the same thing that we observed in our meta regression tracks because we did not We did try to fit a nonlinear uh trend to it and we didn't observe it but we also had only 760ish participants across the studies that we had which is less than a third of what was observed here. So we we can't say that there is a diminishing returns from higher protein intakes in a deficit but I can say that there is no mechanistic reason to believe that being in a surplus or being in a deficit would change the shape or the nature of the relationship. although it may elevate the amount of protein required to get you into a state where you're not in a net negative protein balance. So I think it's really important to point out that the entire span of our data set showed what we would describe as a small effect going from one all the way up to uh three grams per kilogram of protein roughly. That's what it took to get a a small standardized mean difference, which isn't it ain't nothing. But realistically, no one is going from one to three. They're going from maybe 1.5 to three. And now we're talking half of a small effect, which would generally qualify as trivial. In some exercise science interpretations of effect size, you could say it'd be small. And that is if you're doubling your protein. So, this is not new information is all I would say. And the analogy I have used which I will say it actually undercooks this a bit. It overexaggerates how little meaningfulness there is. But I explain to people that if you take a cup and you walk down to the beach and if you take some water out of the ocean, there is definitely less water in the ocean. You can see it in a cup, but it does not matter. And I think that's akin to most people for most applications and for most time frames going from say a 1.5 1.6 to anything higher in terms of protein intake. You would never know and I I it would be interesting to see if if James or you agree with me. I think that may not be the case if we were to say go from 1.5 to three and we were talking about a bodybuilding contest prep or a bodybuilder who's interested in maximizing muscle retention over the next 10 years of their career and you took that and you spread it out and literally you're going hey does my sartorius look bigger when I'm shredded but I think that does not represent the goals of 99.9% of people who are asking this question because I know how few of us psychos there are. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, I I think that's a great rundown of the Nunes study, our study. Um the the general similarity in terms of take-home points. Um and I think it's important to acknowledge like when you say like this isn't new. Uh >> I want to highlight the the two things that are simultaneously true which is that you are correct and I'm basically um going to bat for you so it doesn't get misinterpreted also it's very important and useful to do this work. So like we are getting a a better quantification and better modeling with newer up-to-date studies >> of a thing that will generally reflect what we already knew to be true but in a way that is more precise and more nuanced. So it is simultaneously true this is not new and it is also very useful uh to us academics in the field who want to update our ability to kind of quantify this this relationship. Um and basically the only thing I can >> I say one thing drex. Yeah, go ahead. >> I think maybe one of the most important like just I don't want to say lowest common denominator. It sounds like I'm insulting people, but if you are evidence-based but you do not have much even I would say conceptual understanding of stats and it's kind of like a man I don't want to do that. It scares me. I don't really get it. The default position is well I'm going to go with the evidence hierarchy. So if it's a metaanalysis and it's done right based upon someone I trust, that's the one I go to. I think for some reason there has been this perception that metaanalyses are just whatever which one you find and that other people talk about a lot is good. The issue with that is that unlike original research, metaanalyses expire. And it couldn't have been more obvious to me that this was a problem in our kind of evidence-based sphere uh until the kind of argument between Menow and Milo happened on YouTube. And there was this idea that the Tagawa and the Nunes meta analyses which were published in 2020 and 2022 were obscure metaanalyses that I don't know why they're being cited. we already solved this with Morton. And that was a really problematic view to me because what you're not realizing is that the only reason Morton was is is is a well-sighted paper is because Stu Phillips, Eric Helms, Allen Aragon, Menow Henselman's and and basically just Instafamous people saw it and it got reposted a lot and at its peak it was just seen by a lot of people and it's become cited and it's been in textbooks and now it is just like, oh, that's fixed. And then why would you cite this 2020 or 2022 uh meta analysis? Oh, I don't know. Because it has three times as many studies. >> Like, this is this is really important, guys. It's that uh you have to view meta analysis, systematic reviews as a fundamentally different animal than the individual studies that are comprised in them. They are getting us closer and closer to a better representation when they're done right of the actual bell curve distribution. So we need to be using the most recent ones, not just the one that is the most insuff. And I think that is something that is really important to understand. It's kind of like textbooks, right? You know in your exercise science textbook that is if you did your degree a while back, you're like, oh, you know, they were talking about type 2 B fibers, which we don't even use that nomenclature and technically only present in animals. Maybe I need to to update my my perspective on that. good fundamental knowledge, but I got to stay up to date. And the way you stay up to date is not just going with whatever meta regression happens to be the most popular. Um, but you need to actually stay on top of what is the most recent one as we're still getting a better picture of this effect magnitude. Like you said, it's probably not going to change our fundamental recommendations, but it will fine-tune our expectations, our understanding of of of the magnitude, and it'll give us more precise estimates of things. So, I will shut up now. But I just think that's such a critical point. >> No, I just want to highlight two things. Uh, first of all, it only took us about 38 minutes for you to use uh your name in the third person, which is as far as we we've ever gone in an episode. Usually, it happens in the first 10 minutes. So, I want to congratulate >> But self-deprecatingly, >> no, I want to congratulate you on your restraint. I I could see your blood pressure rising until you finally released it. So, I'm I'm glad it's out there. uh and what you're referring to uh facitiously basically uh that paper had really an all-time Kardashian index. Uh so the Kardashian index is a satirical thing. It's there's a Wikipedia page for it, but it's like basically papers where there are a lot of people who just have a really really big social media following um relative to like you know to typical academic metrics. Now, that's not to say, by the way, people on that paper are excellent academics in their own right, you know, so it's not to be disparaging, but there are there is a phenomenon where you see some of these papers that just have a lot of really well-known people, and we're all human. It doesn't matter if it's a movie in the theaters or if it's a peer-reviewed paper. You see names you recognize, you check it out. uh and so you will find kind of overstated um attention and overstated impact of some of these papers relative to the average because of the the uh the kind of fame associated with it. So that is definitely a thing that has been pointed out uh in many fields. Um but ours is unique because we have a field where like there are social media personalities doing science like that that's not you don't have a ton of people who are like I'm like a huge uh physics influencer and I publish regularly you know you don't get a lot of that. It's not to say you get zero but you don't get a lot. Um, but anyway, uh, the only thing I wanted to add to what you said was basically to kind of keep things really simple and say, listen, let's let's talk about the both both the meta regressions, uh, the one we did, the one Nunes did, right? And the one uh, that that James is going to, you know, his reanalysis, an update, I should say. It's not a reanalysis, it's an update because they're going to incorporate new studies. >> He's adding a few more years of >> Exactly. So, there will be more data and it'll be analyzed a different way. >> But basically, what we're trying to do is draw a line. So on the x- axis, how much protein do you eat? On the y- axis, how much fat free mass do you gain? Right? So you can envision that very, very simple. And we're trying to draw a line and we're trying to draw boundaries around that line to reflect how confident we are in the precision of that line. So if I think at this protein level you're going to gain 2 kilograms of fat free mass, do I know for sure it's going to be between 1.9 and 2.1? Am I that confident or is it going to be somewhere between zero and four? Those are very very different feelings of what I'm predicting. Right? So basically anytime you look at a meta regression like this uh we basically have uh a few distinct questions that we want to answer. So the first question is the slope of that line that's showing protein on the x- axis and gains on the y- axis. Is the slope of that line something other than zero? That's a yes or no question. It could be going up, it could be going down, but this is just telling us directionally. If if the if it's different than zero and it's pointing up then you could say it looks like generally speaking more protein equals more gains and that is because the slope is some positive number that's you know above zero. Then the question is uh how precise is our estimate? So again, when we're looking at any level of protein intake and we're we're predicting how much fat- free mass ought to be gained, again, are we talking between 1.9 and 2.1 or are we talking between 0 and four? Very very different estimates. So we're we look at the slope of the line, we also look at how tight or wide are those intervals because the wider they are, it means we don't have a really good handle on exactly the nature of this relationship. Uh frankly, there could be a tremendous number of other things that are ultimately uh other very influential or impactful things that are contributing to gains in fat-free mass independent of protein intake. And so generally speaking, when it comes to this relationship, we do tend to find a slope that is not zero, but it's not steep. Okay? Okay? Because if it were steep, then what it would tell you is every time I bump my protein intake up by 20 grams a day, I'm going to expect a a large meaningful increase in how much fat- free mass I expect to gain. So, what we tend to find is a slope that is not zero, but pretty darn close to zero. Closer than we'd like to imagine. Uh so we're seeing this very modest relationship with generally pretty wide confidence intervals which just reflect the fact that Helms if you were to ask me and and this is a very intuitive thing. So if in the audience listening think through it random person um and you're supposed to guess how much how much fat free mass they're going to gain over the next two years of hard lifting. What are you going to think about? The first thing you think about is not going to be, well, how much protein are they going to eat? Right? You're going to think, well, are they going to train? If so, what will their training program look like? What will it look like now? And how will it progress over time based on their history? Do they seem to be someone who grows like a weed when they touch a weight? Or are they a little bit less gifted uh in terms of the hereditary elements or the heritable elements that seem to dictate who gets massive and who doesn't? um you know, you're going to start going through some of these basic questions about their uh their heritable traits, their genetic propensity for muscle gain, what kind of training they're going to do now, how they're going to progress that over time. There are going to be so many questions you ask before you get to, oh, by the way, are they going to eat enough protein? And when you're asking if they're going to eat enough, you're basically saying, is it going to be more than the RDA and less than five grams per kilogram? Like, you're just trying to get a ballpark, right? Okay. And so that that really is how we ought to be viewing protein is um in a general sense it's going to be kind of down that list, but that doesn't mean it's totally irrelevant. And that brings me to my final point, Helms, which is what do we do when a slope is technically positive but not steep, meaning it's going up. So you can say defensively, more protein, more gains, but way more protein, >> slightly, just barely more gains. What do you do with that information? And the answer is it depends. If you find dramatically increasing your protein or going to the higher end of this range to be a pleasant experience because you love protein foods, or if you find it to be um something that you don't really mind at all, you're cool going either way and marginal gains in muscularity are valuable to you because you are really into fitness or you compete in bodybuilding. In those scenarios, it's kind of a no-brainer where you would say, "Yeah, I know that this is a a meta reagression with a low with a fairly imprecise estimate that is really not a steep slope, hardly greater than zero. And yet, it does give me evidence to suggest if I do what I generally enjoy anyway, which is eating more protein, I can expect slightly more gains and I'm in. Uh on the other hand, let's say that you are lifting to prevent losing your independence due to sarcopenia. You don't really like protein. You never have. You find it to be very gross. You don't have much of an appetite. Um most high protein foods don't really sit well with you. Uh all you're trying to do is maintain your your uh ambulatory independence and activities of daily living. Does it make sense for me to tell someone, "Hey, it's great that you're going to the gym two times a week and doing your 30 minute workouts. That is a a suitable dose of resistance training for your goals. By the way, I'd love to see you getting 3 g per kilogram cuz then we'd really be packing on it's >> it makes absolutely no sense to make that kind of recommendation. So, >> unfortunately, when it comes to meta regressions, we can't just look at well, okay, find the p value at the bottom. Is it greater than or less than 0.05? 05. We really do have to think through what is the slope. What is the cost of moving up the x-axis? In this case, eating more and more and more protein. How much do we really expect to get from that? How confident are we that we're going to get a given outcome from that change? And then ultimately, how much does that matter to the person making the decision? So, uh, I hope that that puts things in a slightly more intuitive framework for people to kind of cuz, you know, you start getting into all the math and and it's it's not fun. No one likes math class. Almost no one likes math class, but virtually no one likes math class via audio. So, hopefully that was a >> a slightly more uh a slightly intuitive way to kind of wrap your head around it. And that's why I'm really stoked. Um, I'm kind of annoyed that James posted that he's going to do this because now I have to wait because it's going to take a while, I bet. Uh, so that sucks. I'll be on the edge of my seat. But I'm glad he's doing it. Look forward to reading it. And I think it'll probably end up, you know, all all signs point to more evidence that more protein probably will lead to slightly marginally more gains uh, within the context of this research question. But whether or not that's worth it to you is really going to depend. You know, one thing that might be helpful for people to think about relative effects, um, because obviously when we just throw out effect size and standardize things, even when we talk about kilograms of fat-free mass, I don't think people really can conceptualize even that. Um James Steele again he did a really cool metaanalysis of the overall effect of lifting weights in the typical intervention length on hypertrophy and strength and the estimated effect of lifting weights and this is just an anchor. This this number won't mean anything for you, but I think if we juxtapose it with the protein, it'll help. 34 that's how much your typical probably 10 week study of lifting weights will do for your lean body mass. Okay, that is three times the effect of the highest protein intake relatively. And I think that is or I should say that's not true. That is three times the effect of going from a moderate uh protein intake that almost all omnivores uh in a westernized country are eating without trying to what we would describe as a really high protein intake that is defensible like you said but probably not meaningful. So that's that's not nothing but it is it is not where sometimes people will make decision. I think I think you can see that people make poor decisions based upon their perception that protein is doing something massive. like the concept of a protein sparing modified fast to me like yeah if you're going to do a crazy high calorie deficit and do this it does make sense to have higher than lower protein but when you see people do things like you know what because I'm on a 2,000 calorie deficit I'm going to do this really low volume like barely can get through the the workout kind of training protocol because I'm on like I don't have the energy to do it but it's okay because I'm consuming 3 g per kilogram of protein. That right there doesn't respect the relationship we just described of the effect of protein being one/ird of of training. If you and and also if there was a tier list, it would be resistance training up in the stratosphere and then down, you know, maybe at at the height of of an airliner the size of your energy deficit and then a hummingbird outside of your window is the effect of protein in my opinion. You know, like I'm I'm I'm being facitious, but you get what I'm saying. It's like you have >> chopped down two of the much more important uh variables that you have in your control to maintain uh lean mass to to overlever something that can only have a pretty triv trivial effect in the grand scheme of things. And I think people maybe would look at that protocol differently if they really had an understanding of the relative effects. >> Quick question. So, I don't know how you're going to answer this, but I'm curious. You mentioned uh at the airliner level above the hummingbird, uh below the stratosphere, >> you mentioned the size of the energy deficit. >> Could I compel you to expand that a little bit? Um, the use case that I think of is somebody who maybe is in a thousand calorie per day deficit, but let's say it's a a male novice lifter who has 41% body fat. >> I the way I personally perceive it is we need there to be ample energy around whether or not that is coming from the diet or stored energy. How do you feel about that little caveat? I will say that I think it's definitely well there's a point where you're so low where you can't even have even uh uh like higher than the RDA in terms of protein. It really depends. So there's absolutely a moderating effect of body fat levels for sure. Um, I think there is a point where the absolute deficit or the absolute calorie intake that remains can be so low as to not support uh training or a ample protein intake to where you're actually getting a negative number. So, >> I actually had a question um from, you know, someone I really like, shout out to Dave McConey, he was he was asking me about this and he was like, "Hey, like I know that larger deficits cause more muscle mass, but they cause a disproportionate amount, you know, like what if you're only losing like I'm losing twice the fat, but am I but I'm also just losing, you know, half the muscle type of deal." I didn't say that well but and I said no there's actually probably a proportional difference like if we look at the uh the meta regression by coler I think it was 2021 there's actually a a gain in in muscle mass on average when you're under a 500 calorie deficit and there's a loss when you're at a larger than 500 calorie deficit. Now even if that is just an estimation there is some point where the calorie deficit flips from a positive to a negative number. So mathematically there's no way to make a negative into a positive right proportionally. So that means we are seeing uh disproportionately better fat- free mass retention actually gain when you're in a small deficit versus a large deficit. And I do think that that point gets shifted based upon body fat for sure. Yeah. And I can think of individual studies like there's a great one by Demoling and Dantis that I think was done in the mid 2000s on overweight police officers who were taking a protein supplement and they were in a pretty big calorie deficit. Um I think 1 1500 calories or more and they ended up gaining lean mass while doing a protein supplement and a resistance training profile. And that's not the only one. I've seen even larger uh ones. So yeah, if someone is novice right off the bat, they're going to be highly responsive to a resistance training stimulus truck. So I totally agree and I think that is a signal that is probably overpowering anything else um in most reasonable even large deficit size uh you know sizes and that makes sense from an evolutionary biology perspective. Like if if we needed to be in like a perfect energy availability status to adapt to things thrown at us, we wouldn't be here today talking, right? >> Yeah. >> And then I totally agree that we see a very clear relationship and this has been shown by Hayward. Uh this has been speculated about by Forbes and I would say even uh some of the research that I've been a part of has demonstrated that you don't see the same kind of losses of lean mass in a deficit in people higher in body fat versus lower even when they are well trained even when they are doing similar resistance training pro u resistance training protocols and consuming similar protein intake. So yeah that might be anywhere from a helicopter to a space shuttle. Uh yeah, if if we were to throw in body composition in there. >> Good stuff. All right, man. So, uh we're about at the hour here, so I want to make sure we answer some of these questions in the uh in the after hours portal. Uh ideally, it'd be great to kind of do a little rapid fire kind of quick answers. So, I'm going to dish them out, have either you or me answer them. >> I'm going to take the first one. Um this one is from Dan. It says, "I'm a 42-year-old vegan who eats clean and gets his 0.8 gram per pound of protein." Um, so it's a high protein intake. I feel great, look great. Uh, had good, really good results since getting back to the gym a few years ago. Um, the question is about supplements. Currently using branch chain amino acids/ essential amino acids, citrine malate, glutamine, creatine, beta-alanine, and lcarnitine. despite my wonderful results, I'm wondering if I'm wasting some disposable income on any of these. Uh do you have any thoughts? Um what what do you use? So here's what I would say. Um first of all, I really love the way this is framed, which is uh first of all, you're you're having great results, and that's good. It's good to acknowledge that and say, "Hey, I like what I'm doing. Things are going well. Not trying to, you know, overturn the apple cart and, you know, throw a wrench in things." But it is also worth qu questioning it. Is it possible I'm wasting any effort here? or in this case wasting any money. Um, if I were you and I'm vegan and I'm eating 08 gram per pound, not kilogram of protein, right off the bat, if if all I was interested in was being muscular, lean, and, you know, generally fit, um, I would ditch, in my opinion, the LCarnnitine and never look back. I would ditch the glutamine and never look back. I would ditch the branch chain amino acids and never look back. Then there's the the next tier of things that it's like, you know, depending on the way you train, maybe you get a tiny bit out of them, but for most people who are not looking for the tiniest little half of a percent gain, they may not really be worth your while or your money. Uh, in that category, I would put uh beta-alanine and citrine malate. Um, you know, if you're you following a fairly traditional resistance training program, you may get a tiny bit out of them. If for whatever reason you're doing, you know, circuit training and repeated sprints and all that stuff, then beta-alanine might be more helpful. But for traditional resistance training programs, not quite as much. Uh, the creatine I would keep in there. And then the last thing um that is kind of on a maybe list would be the essential amino acids. And the only reason that it's on a maybe rather than a ditch it is you are vegan, which would theoretically say, "Oh, maybe it's worthwhile to look at some essential amino acids." However, wait a minute, Helms, I'm eating eight grams uh per pound of protein, which generally tells me you have your bases covered. If big if your diet is not something that would make me spit out my coffee when I look at it in terms of your protein sources. If you have a mixture of things people consider food uh and you're getting 08 grams per pound of protein and you don't literally eat one food a day then you can ditch the essential amino acids. The only time I would say h leave it in would be if it's like hey it turns out the only protein source I get is corn. I I'm just a corn protein guy. That's all I do. But aside from that, you can probably ditch the essential amino acids as well. So, basically what that leaves you with is creatine. It's a staple. It's great. Uh and then the may depending on how much you care about that little extra tiny half of a percent would be citrine malate and beta-alanine. >> And I'd say even with the beta only if you were doing something Yeah. more than resistance training. Like some type of not even like, oh, what about if I do short rest interval, high rep resistance training? >> I don't even think that I I think it really does need to be a a longer duration, more anorobic dominant uh type of training than is even done in almost all resistance training protocols. If you told me you do high rocks or crossfit uh or maybe you're comparing you're preparing for a strongman meet and they have a bunch of medleys and loading events and stuff for for time, not even distance, then then sure. But yeah. >> Yeah. All right. Um we've got a question here. Helms, I'd be interested to hear what you say about this because I've not heard this. Uh so we have a question >> u from someone in good spirits. The name that they listed was PP. >> Um but they said you know ser serious question here and a serious concern. Um so ever since I did contest prep, I've been having issues with urinary incontinents. Uh even after everything else is kind of back to normal after prep. Uh I'm a woman. How do I fix this? Um and do other people have this issue after prep? So I am not as embedded in the bodybuilding world as you. Um you know my experience with bodybuilding has been essentially competing myself. Um so is this something that's commonly observed in bodybuilding? And if so uh what do you generally uh how do you guide people to the I'm going to give you an answer here and say guide you to the right professional because this is not something that uh your typical personal trainer is fixing per se. >> Yeah. So it is not uncommon to experience polyurea during contest prep just an increase in the frequency of urination and I have actually seen that reported in uh adjacent research where people are in semi- starvation uh spots. I think a common reason that I used to think this would occur is just you can't eat so you drink more diet soda drink more stuff you're just overhydrating so you pee a lot. I think that's a moderator, but I actually do think there are some effects of low energy availability and being lean and being on low calories. Uh that results in um peeing a lot more. That's all that polyura means. >> Yeah. >> Um I've even seen this when people have started eating up into shows and restore things and they're doing everything right. So that is a thing. And I've noticed that that does covary and not the first time I've heard this with people finding that they're more likely just to get a little some drips, you know, and they they pee themselves a bit more. There are some changes to the urinary tract. I don't know why. Um, and pretty much everything that can occur during contest prep can persist if you have not fully recovered. And recovery is a two-part aspect physiologically. And I would say that again physiologically because there's more to recover from depending upon how much you've brutalized yourself psychologically. Um and that is not only energy availability but also getting to what is an appropriate body fat level for you which is hard to differentiate. But if this person is one year post prep and they're 10% over stage weight and they have done that without being in a constant swing up swing down of calorie intake, then I would go see a urologist. If you are one month postcontest prep and you have been following a very conservative reverse diet and you're still quite lean and people are like, "Oh, hey, when is your next show?" You're like, "Oh, no, no, no. My last show was a month ago." then this may resolve itself as you and as I would courage encourage you to to follow the recovery process anything in between there it's going to be a judgment call on whether this is temporary persistent um or it's a potential issue but I think it would be probably worthwhile seeing at least your GP if not a urologist if it is multiple months postshell >> yeah all right good stuff another one I want to send you here because this is one that we got a few questions on this so clearly people are talking about it. So um chron chronutrition the idea of kind of when you're consuming your calories throughout the day. >> Um first of all I I'll take a a quick swing at one of them kind of a mini question which is just like I've been told I should shift my calories earlier in the day. What does that actually mean um in terms of how you structure your meals and time them and things like that? So, um I'm not saying you necessarily should or need to, but if you were going to shift your calories earlier in the day, there's multiple ways that people do that. Sometimes people will, um just have a finite feeding window, whether it's 6 or 8 or 12 or 14 hours, whatever you want to make it, and they will just literally take that as a concrete unit of time, and shift it earlier. So, their breakfast is earlier, their dinner is earlier, but their sleep and wake time stay the same, bedtime and wake up time. Uh another way to do it is um just looking at magnitudes. So a lot of people generally um depending on the culture have kind of lighter breakfast, bigger lunch and biggest meal of the day being dinner um in terms of protein and calorie intake. Um so you might consider inverting that and just saying I want to keep my timing the way I like it, but I'm going to have a a higher calorie breakfast, moderate lunch, and a smaller dinner. So those are kind of two not the only two ways to do it, but two of the most common ways that you'll see people do it. But the question is here about sleep. So, we got multiple people asking Helms if you are stopping your carb consumption before bed in order to optimize sleep or if you are shifting your calories earlier to optimize your sleep quality. So, clearly someone out there with a big audience was saying you need to not eat near bed and if you are going to eat near bed, make sure it's not carbohydrate. So, what says Dr. their homes. >> Uh I think we've talked about this a good bit. um the the most clear data um regardless of what is being popularized at right now um and and communicated uh that I've seen last time I looked into it is that high calorie specifically high fat less so and maybe high carb and then maybe even moderating factors of high sodium or low potassium as you talked about seem to be the things that disrupt sleep the most. Um, so it is the provision of energy more so than the specific macronutrient breakdown. Although I have not seen negative effects in the data and it does seem that protein is not as large of an effect as uh as as carbs and fat would be and if you are getting a largely proteinbased serving before bed um even if it's really close to bedtime and it's like 30 40 50 grams the calories are so low that I would suspect it would not be an issue. Um so the circadian effect uh of of of having a late meal is a negative one. Um however there are some instances where that is going to be superseded by other things that negatively affect sleep like being in a status of low energy availability. >> Yeah. >> So it's this dichomous thing where if you have a big meal before bed generally not good. But if that big meal takes you out of an energy deficit, you may get better sleep. And >> I I was going to say, I didn't want to interject, but the people asking this question have never had my experience of prep, which was if I didn't shift my calories closer to bed, I would be staring at the ceiling hungry. And like you can say whatever you want about, oh, I heard that maybe there's if you if you did like a an in-depth sleep study looking at my brave brain waves, you might find a slight disruption. It's like, no, brother, I'm so hungry, I can't get a wink. And so, like, like you said, sometimes when you start listing out the the priorities and the other factors influencing it, you say, "Well, optimal is out the window. I'm just trying to get a couple minutes of shutye here, and if I'm starving to death the moment I lay down for bed, that ain't going to work." Yeah. No, I'm glad you brought that up and and you know, the funny thing is for me it's not even the actual sensation of hunger. Um, I do a pretty good job of of managing hunger during prep and I would say if I have, you know, everyone has certain things that make bodybuilding sustainable for them. Um, as I've grown into the sport and just use better methods, uh, hunger is is it's not the hardest thing for me and it is absolutely for other people. >> Yeah. Um, but I still get the physiological effects. I mean, I get food focused. I get food obsessed. Like, I lick my plates and I could eat more, but I don't sit there lying in bed looking at the ceiling going, "All I can think about is food. I am starving and I feel actual hunger pains or anything like that. Um, so I'm fortunate in that way, but I still wake up in the middle of the night. I have no issue falling asleep." I tell you what, for me, at a certain point in prep, when I'm lean enough, um, when it's like I am barely able to stay awake at night, but then I wake up. >> Yeah. >> So, uh, and the timing of of the wake up and how much I'm actually awake when it happens in the middle of the night is like so like, you know, some things in life we're like, ah, this is correlation, causation, like what else is going on? It's like clockwork for me, Trex. Once I get down to probably single- digit percentage, like legit body fat where I am now, and if my deficit is higher than a couple hundred calories, I'm going to wake up and I'm going to need to work hard to fall back asleep. >> I need to put on a very like a not too engaging podcast at the lowest volume level possible underneath my pillow so I have to focus to listen to it so I fall back asleep, but not loud enough that if they get animated, it wakes me back up. I have to meditate. I have to spell random words and and do all these different techniques to try to get my mind shifted to the right place. I have to read my Kindle on the lowest possible light setting with the blue light blocker on and just barely be able to read it. So, it makes my eyes tired and I fall asleep and it better not be an engaging part of the book. Or sometimes I just have to accept that five hours is going to be as good as it's going to get if I'm going to do that. And I find personally, and I have seen differently as a coach, but personally, I can shift my calories. Let's say I'm on 1600 calories, right? And that's going to be like end stage of prep of 500 calorie deficit. That's too much. It's it's going to result in sleep disruption. It doesn't matter when I'm eating 1,600 calories, when I'm at 7% body fat. If I save them all and eat 1,600 calories before bed, if I evenly distribute them between three meals, four meals, if I shift the carbs and fat, doesn't matter. If my end of day, you know, budget is is that underspent, I'm going to wake up. Uh, and I wish there were things I could do to shift it. For me, it seems to be more dependent upon the last 8 to 12 hours, uh, rather than the last two. Um, I have seen that differ in other people. I'm not saying it's not worth experimenting, but that's me. >> I was going to say, yeah, I've actually um I'm not very sensitive to eating before bed. Uh I I I can eat a fairly substantial meal before bed and get a pretty high quality night of sleep. As long as to me, the only thing that'll really get me is if it's very fatty and very spicy, then I'm going to sleep like crap. Um and of course I'm I'm quite sensitive to alcohol before bed as well. uh I do not sleep well uh if I have alcohol but um but yeah so I don't know it sounds like moral of the story is yes there is some evidence there as it pertains to uh you know meal timing relative to bed and uh there are things to experiment with and you might want to give it a shot and you know essentially you know it's kind of like u I have to get reertified in CPR in a couple days >> um and in CPR classes they'll tell you the first thing is uh make sure that you're not in immediate harm And then the second thing is make sure they're not going to die, you know? And then the next thing is, well, if they're not going to die, can you actually move them if they're in a potentially dangerous? Like you you kind of keep going down in order of priority of like don't get killed, don't let them get killed, don't accidentally paralyze them. And you start working down and down and now it's like, okay, now you're in a situation where you might consider doing CPR, right? Uh it's the same kind of thing. uh lower stakes I would say, but same kind of deal where it's like, okay, well, if you already know that your current meal timing situation has you in a spot where you're so hungry at bedtime you cannot sleep, you're clearly missing the mark because the most important thing about staying asleep is first you have to fall asleep, right? And so you at least got to get there and then you start saying, "Okay, well now I'm doing this and I notice I wake up 4 hours later every time. Okay, what can we do to see if we can move that to five or six?" And there are levers we can pull. Um, and there's evidence guiding that. But, you know, it may require a little bit of guess and check. But like I said, the first thing is getting to sleep. Second thing is staying asleep. Third thing is staying to sleep asleep as long as you can or minimizing the disruption of that wake up in the middle of the night. I know for me uh when I was doing uh my last prep and I, you know, I I have mentioned before I overdieted and so um >> my big thing was I had to at least eat enough to get to bed. Um, and then I would notice, yeah, um, for me, man, if I could get five hours, I'd be thrilled. But there were a lot there were a lot of days where I'd go to bed at 9:00 p.m. and I'd be in the lab at 3:00 in the morning saying like, "Well, I guess it's tomorrow, you know." Um, which, you know, if you're running a big training study, I guess the timing works out. You might as well go get things done. But, uh, that was my least favorite thing. It wasn't the hunger. It wasn't um, food cravings or anything like that. I just wanted a good night of sleep. and I I couldn't I couldn't do anything to get it. It was a bummer. >> I tell you what, we've talked about how refeeds may not be the panacea that we would have liked them to be, but two things justify their inclusion almost on their own. Um, and it depends on what what you like psychologically. I guess you could just run a 100 calorie deficit towards the end of prep and get, you know, like five or six hours of sleep on all days. I prefer personally to run closer to a three to 400 calorie deficit on four days and then have three days at maintenance because I end up getting the kind of net benefit of of two things. Like I mentioned, I do get good sleep the the day of the refeed and the day after. Good like talking six, seven hours. Um and my normal sleep in the offseason is seven hours. So that's really not that bad. And then I'm getting five to six on on the low days. And maybe on the last cumulative low day, it's it's five and it's rough. Um, but that's good enough for me to get through a week. You know, that's that's really not bad. And I've had to work very hard through the last three seasons to kind of ping on on on where that that threshold is and how to manage it because once the sleep goes out the window, everything else the wheels fall off. >> Yeah. Um, and the other thing is it also keeps my bowel movements much more consistent having refeeds. >> And I know that seems like something that why does that matter? I tell you what, at the end of prep that can get pretty gnarly as well and it causes issues. Makes reading the scale weight hard to it's hard to tell. You know, you kind of have to ignore the scale, look at your physique, but it can even start making your physique look a little funky if you start to get a fair amount of like midsection bloating and distension and water retention from that. So yeah, I think uh those two things alone are sometimes worth including refeeds and diet breaks. >> Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, and I I think that's been the the big shift in the refeed diet break world over the years, at least for me, has been not saying are they perfect or useless, but what are the applications and where do they make sense? And that that is an application that I think is is certainly very uh very defensible for sure. Um, all right, Helms. I think last question here. This is a a current event and of course it's about football, American football, so we're going to throw it in there. Uh, apparently >> that's me. I got you. >> Apparently the NFL, pro football, not my favorite, which is college. The NFL apparently implemented some kind of ban regarding smelling salts on the sidelines during games. So, um, the way the question is phrased, I don't know if they banned their use or if they said that teams can no longer provide them for players. Like, you can still use them, but bring your own. Maybe they're trying to cut down on it. Um, but, um, Helms, I got to be honest, I'm not as in the iron game as you. I don't really know a lot about smelling salts. Um, so would you uh feel comfortable giving a brief rundown of like what they are, if they actually do anything and if they're safe, like why we would bother banning them in the first place? >> Yeah. And um we actually do have research on this, believe it or not. There's a bit of research on the effect of ammonia. >> Yeah. >> Um which is what we call smelling salts. I think ammonia is because it has a salt chemically on it. >> But um yeah, essentially what we're talking about is sniffing ammonia. And if you've ever sniffed ammonia, just kind of enter a room after it's recently been cleaned with ammonia, likeoo, that's powerful. Imagine a concentrated version of that in a capsule form and then you open the bottle and you're breathing it straight into your face. Um, that is not safe to do it straight up like that. It actually can cause some burning and damage. Uh, you're supposed to like give it a second and then just take what you need to get a hit. Uh, there is an immediate physiological response uh to to doing spelling. salts which has been acutely profiled and it is like a massive hit of adrenaline. Um but it does not improve 1RM in the experimental studies. I think there's been a couple now that that have been looked at. Um that doesn't mean that it's impossible to have that effect. There is definitely an effect of arousal. But the thing is is that there is a a peak arousal state for performance which is performance specific probably individual specific based upon your baseline level of arousal. And this is why like typically you will see weightlifterss don't take caffeine or sniff ammonia prior to snatches but will sometimes do it for clean and jerk. You know why powerlifters sometimes will not do it for uh squat sumo deadlift or if they have a very technical bench, but they will do it for conventional deadlift last pulls and and sometimes for squats. >> Grab it and yank it, you know, >> rip it and rip it as they say, right? So there are potential safety concerns depending upon how it's used. But one thing that has been a persistent rule in most power federations is that you can't take the smelling salt visibly on the platform. Less so in kind of the enhanced multiply world, but in the IPF, the overly respectable uh pedantic uh community of powerlifting, you have to do it off platform because it it doesn't it's not a good look from a PR perspective. Like it looks like the the charact the stereotype of powerlifting in 2002 where it's a bunch of motorcycle clubs who are, you know, yelling and screaming and and heavy metal comes on and and you know probably doing meth back there. >> Yeah. It conotes almost like snorting some kind of narcotic just visually. >> Exactly. 100%. So I think that if I had to guess that's probably I mean I I don't know because I don't follow football at all. There could have been an injury, a death, someone passing out, or some adverse event related to pneumonia. Would not surprise me at all. Um, but my suspicion is that it caused uh PR issues rather than ER issues, if you will. >> Yeah. I mean, and the NFL is a multi multi multi multibillion dollar entity. It is very image focused. It's the It's the most Every every so often they'll update like the the 50 most viewed television programs of all time and like 48 of them are NFL football games, you know? So, it would make sense for them um aside from just having an ego and control uh requirements to also say like, well, we >> we have like the largest brand in the world to protect, so we might as well protect it, you know? >> So, yeah, I could see that. So, yeah. Um, and it is interesting with arousal and lifting because, you know, you even aside from, you know, ammonia caps, you you see this play out in all the time where, you know, some people when they're lifting, just depending on their preference for arousal and where they feel they're at their best and the type of training they do, obviously, um, some people are in the gym and they're listening to the most like pump up heavy metal kind of music you can think of. Other people are in there listening to talk radio or podcasts, you know. Um, and people kind of choose where they want to hang out on that arousal curve. And um, I know for me, for me it also fluctuates, you know, based on what I'm training for, how I'm training. Sometimes I'll want to go in and listen to some uptempo music. Other times I'll say that I will feel uncomfortable being that hyped up for the duration of this workout, so I just want to chill and listen to a podcast, you know. So >> to each their own helms. 100%. >> All right, man. Well, I think that does it for tonight. Um, we still have a couple good questions in the hopper, but we can save those for for a rainy day. Um, I do have to get headed out here. But, uh, as always, I just >> Oh, really quickly. >> Yeah, I just searched there's a a uh so this this could be maybe why this question got asked and maybe why it's coming up in sports health uh 2024 publication ammonia inhalance use, misuse, and role in sports performance. Um there is specifically the conclusion ammonia inhalance have no role in medical management of head injuries and have limited benefit with regard to sports performance. So it may be that there is a perception that ammonia should be used related to head injury maybe to help someone wake back up. >> Oh >> to >> that would be very bad for the brand. >> Yeah. Importantly, ammonia inhalance have no role in medical management of head injuries as they have the potential to exacerbate an underlying brain injury due to the involuntary withdrawal reflex associated with ammonia inhalation. Furthermore, the signs and symptoms of concussion or more threatening hit injury may be masked by ammonia inhalation and lead to continued participation in competition causing additional harm. So, that could actually be what's going on. >> That makes a lot of sense rather. Yeah. So, just if there's a bunch of people screaming at the screen right now like, "God damn it, Trex and Helms know nothing about actual sports." That is definitely true of me, but I I I had a feeling I wonder if there's something going on because you know, you see the movies. Oh, they're they're unconscious. They've had a concussion. They've been knocked out. Give them the smelling salt. Apparently, you shouldn't do that. >> Yeah. No, that makes sense. Um, and I I follow college football, but not like the rules committee, you know, like I'm not up to date on this stuff. Um, so, uh, this was news to me when it kind of hit the question portal, but, um, it's, um, yeah, if you, if you were to, of all the good things the NFL has going for it, if you were to list their top 10 problems, nine of them would be we are very concerned about concussions and the PR related to concussions. So, I could see where they would just say, honestly, because there are a few high-profile football players who use smelling salts just for performance reasons. uh in their mind they think it helps them, you know, perform better. >> Uh and maybe it does. Who knows? You know, like we said, uh potential for some variance there. >> Um but anyway, uh it it sounds like they're probably saying like whatever. We just don't want these things anywhere near us. You know, just on the off chance that someone decides they're going to use it, mask concussion symptoms, you know, everything that you just mentioned, it sounds like this is probably much more a concussion thing than anything else. That would make a lot more sense. probably. >> Yeah. All right. Good call, Helms. You You saved us from a week of ridicule by, uh, coming in at the 11th hour there. >> All right. Um, >> feeling. >> Yeah. All right. So, uh, as always, everyone, thank you so much for joining us. We really do appreciate the support. If you want to show your support even more, there are ways you can do that. You can like, rate, subscribe, subscribe, review. Join us live when you have the opportunity. Ask us questions in the portal over there at massresarchreview.com/ironculture. Share the episodes. Uh, tell a friend, recruit more people into the cult. After all, that's what cults are for. And then finally, the platinum level top tier support. Uh, if you want to be in the ring of honor, the golden circle of top tier supporters, what you do is you join the mass community. You go to massresarchreview.com and subscribe to the massresearch review where we review the most useful, most important, most interesting research every single month about everything adjacent to the topics we discuss on iron culture. All right, everybody. Uh, next week we have that great pre-recorded episode with uh our guests, Mike Zord, Dr. from Mike Zordos, Dr. Zack Robinson, and then the week after that, I will be back with a completely restructured body, Bionic Eric, coming back from surgery. So, fingers crossed, wish me luck, and I will see you all soon.