 j gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin gin, gin, gin gin, gin, gin gin, gin, gin gin, gin gin, gin gin gin, gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin on a previous episode. He was saying a lot of things that made me question his dedication to really the iron in general and the culture that surrounds it. So I'm very pleased to see that you've had a change of heart and you've come back and you are always welcome. I just didn't know if you were still into this stuff. So lovely to see you and welcome to the show. Yeah. So I am not going to acknowledge that, Trex. I guess I just did by saying Trex. I can't help myself being nice. But I will just speak directly to the cult, the cult who has known me since the start. And I will say that don't worry, Papa is home and everything is going to be fine. And let's just make sure that things are clear because that claim that I don't think is worth repeating. Um, and in fact, the specific claims, uh, on the last episode, or you had the good Dr. Colenzo Semple on with you that I had denigrated individual, uh, iron disciplines, including Olympic weightlifting, bodybuilding, and powerlifting, um, the specific quotes that will not be repeated, but broadly that I had issued the iron game, um, frankly are offensive and preposterous. And also they directly conflicted with the claims made on the prior episode where it was stated that I boycotted, uh, the episode with, uh, the good Dr. Mark Lewis, strength conditioning coach for American football. Um, because I only have interest in the iron game and that I will refer to obscure weightlifting comps and which I think was kind of said with almost a dismissive tone. So I'm not sure if this was trying to, to, you know, deflect some of the, the negative commentary that was coming your way from that, or maybe there was just a moment of, uh, I don't know, it was a poor decision, a lack of lucidness. Um, but to have just a one week apart, me boycotting an episode because it wasn't iron game focused enough, which wasn't even true. And then the next week for me to be disparaging the iron game as a whole, when in fact I was actually away because I was attending for, I would point out the fifth year, I believe the European powerlifting conference, and also doing an event with both techno gym and optimum nutrition, where we were doing co-branded presentations to educate the good people out there who are interested in lifting weights. Um, frankly, I was disappointed and, uh, I'm here to, to come back and make sure that everyone knows that nothing has changed and things are only getting bigger and better and more jacked and more tan and more strong. And the iron cult is, the iron cult is as strong as it's ever been. And, uh, I am still here as a part of that community contributing to it. So I don't know if you feel you need to make any apologies or if maybe we just want to, you know, say some things are in bad taste, you've lived and learned, you want to move on, but I'll, I'll give you the floor back, my friend. I think it'd be a good opportunity to get some clarification. So you're telling me that you did not say, uh, that bodybuilding has too much pageantry and therefore isn't a sport. You're saying that you did not say that. That is correct. I think it would be impossible to find me saying that on the record unless it was a deep fake from AI. Okay. And then you're also claiming, and again, I'm just, just asking questions. You're claiming that in regards to power lifting, you didn't say one rep, big deal, wake me up when they can do three. You didn't make that claim. I did not. Okay. So it appears a little game of telephone. Some wires got crossed. Uh, maybe a quote was misattributed. I will get back to my sources and try to see if I'm get to the root to this, uh, of this miscommunication. So work will be done. And I, I'm sure one of us will be vindicated. And to address your concern about the timeline of events, the way I saw it unfolding based on some of the sourcing I had, which has always been reliable. Um, it seemed to me that you lost interest in sport and therefore you boycotted the Mark Lewis, um, interview because he's a sports scientist. Um, you've also always had a, a cagey relationship with data. So sports and data, you put those two things together. Helms is, he's jumping ship. And then I assume that you subsequently the following week also lost your passion for the iron game. So it's not that you boycotted the first because of the second. To me, it seemed like a very rapid, uh, precipitous decline where you essentially, uh, lost interest in both sport, data, science, saying both. It's really a laundry list, sport, data, science, and then ultimately bodybuilding, powerlifting, and Olympic weightlifting. And some people may say, Oh, those quotes were off the record. You can't prove them, et cetera. But here's my thing. I feel like a person who still cared about all those things would have been there for the culture. And I feel like you left the culture high and dry. So I'm not saying anything. I'm asking questions. I'll get back to my sourcing, everything, you know, the, the light will, will, will shine. We will get to all the lack of clarity and ultimately get to the truth. Uh, but in terms of you and the culture, I think that's between you and them in terms of how you want to show them, um, how committed you are to being part of that culture. And, you know, I, I'm one of those people, I don't get bogged down in the past. I always, I'm always thinking forward. So I would say things happen, people drift, and then they come back, they right the ship. So as long as you're here for the next two weeks, I think that'd be a clear show of faith that you are down for the cult and you are locked back in. So unless something's going to happen and that's, if you think that'll be a problem, then again, I'm just, I'm not sure how we reconcile all these moving pieces. Uh, I'll say two things. First, um, I will take some ownership that as soon as those episodes came out, I probably should have made some social media posts on my own to clarify things instead of letting the stigma sit, because as you will find out when you check with your sources, um, not only did I, were those things, it's inaccurate to even say that those things were said in jest or out of context, they weren't said at all. Um, but you know, as I was traveling for, uh, you know, academic conferences for powerlifting, uh, you know, sports nutrition and a global education event for lifters, uh, for techno gym and meeting up with, uh, both academics and bodybuilders in this space, I didn't have the time to clarify that I have not, you know, eschewed or been disillusioned or stepped away from data, sports science, uh, or bodybuilding or powerlifting or strength sport in general. Um, cause I was too busy, you know, directly engaging with those things. Even yesterday I was thinking about posting it. Uh, but unfortunately I was a little too busy, uh, guest lecturing for our internship in strength conditioning at the sports performance research institute, New Zealand, um, in the labs where I'm the strength conditioning, uh, lab leader, um, you know, where I also did my master's and PhD in sport and exercise and, uh, where I am still a senior research fellow specifically in the sports physiology and nutrition as well as strength conditioning extremes, um, where we collect data on sports science, do sports science and actively teach a large, uh, sports science program that's ranked in the top 50 in the world. Um, so yeah, I didn't have the opportunity while doing that to specifically mention that I am invested in sports science data and, uh, and, uh, and, and, you know, generally. So, um, that may, but I do think it's just in very poor case, like, you know, being, uh, a fellow in that laboratory is, is fantastic. I don't think they need to take any jabs at your age. Why do they have to call you a senior fellow? I mean, to me, that's just really inappropriate. I feel like the, you don't need to bring attention to that. You know what I mean? Well, the one thing I do like about, um, certain communities and cultures, uh, maybe not, uh, some of the ones that participate in my non-AUT work, um, is that age is seen as something that is to, uh, be respected rather than something that by bringing it up is seen as a jab. So those cultural differences are, are a little different here at, you know, maybe the university versus, uh, in other places like math. Um, but you know, we'll, we'll strive to shift that culture. Um, it's difficult to lead, uh, if you aren't respected, but you do what you can. Um, the final thing I would say, uh, related to the next two weeks, um, and, uh, I can understand how this is awkward timing in that I just stated I was committed to the cult, but the next two weeks I will not be able to make iron culture because I am specifically 11 days out from my first competition, notably a bodybuilding competition, um, which I have been discussing and preparing for. So I am going to go compete in the WNBF. Uh, I think they call it the diamond cup. It's a 10, 10 year anniversary of WNBF Taiwan's show. So, so I'll be competing in the, uh, amateur classic physique and pro bodybuilding division. Really excited about that actually. And just bought the tickets, um, you know, paid my entry fees, all that good stuff. Uh, two sport athlete. Yes. Um, I'm following in the footsteps of, of many, a great other two sport athletes like Dion Sanders, Bo Jackson, and notably yourself, uh, Dr. Trexler. And, and I would hope that you would understand the commitment it would take to be a two sport athlete. Uh, and that, uh, yes, that you would perhaps forgive my absence from, from the cult, um, for the next two weeks and, uh, also accept my appreciation for you holding it down. And perhaps just if anything does come up in the next two episodes where you hear some claim that I am somehow not committed to the iron game, bodybuilding, sports science, strength conditioning, um, you think, let me think, what, what did Eric say in, in that last episode he was on? And if he is missing this episode, why? And if it's him because he's actively competing in a bodybuilding show, perhaps that might not signify a lack of commitment to bodybuilding just because he can't make these two episodes. So just, just some things to consider for the next two weeks. I could be, I, I was led to believe that you had gotten very deep into cinema. And so you had, you were done with sport, you were done with science, you were done with the iron game, and you were now just really into film and the art of making film, which is a very notable, uh, endeavor, a very respectable endeavor indeed. Uh, so I wasn't judging, uh, but it appears there's been a miscommunication. So, um, so Helms, with all this on that note, I will say there has been actually a substantive effort on my part, um, to be dedicated to cinema and, uh, perhaps ironically, and maybe the source of some frustration or feeling left out, it is actually the iron culture documentary, which is in its final edits, uh, which was a pre-iron culture. Just enough time, just enough time to cut me in. I, I don't know about that. And I, um. With AI, you, you can't just put me in some of these scenes? Uh, unfortunately we've committed to, um, not using AI, uh, in iron culture documentary. It was something we did a priori, um, to make it, you know, retain that, that cult connection, if you will. And so it's all practical effects, all the stunts, all the illusion that it's all practical. None of it was done in post. We did all of our own stunts. Okay. Yeah. The stones were lifted by us, not doubles, uh, when we were able to lift them, which was, was rare because they're pretty heavy out there in Ireland. But, um, yeah. So, uh, if, if you need to talk on air to me about, you know, the fact that we're releasing a documentary for iron culture in which you're not part of it, um, I mean, this is to try to, it's a capstone on the, on the Omar Helms era and it was fully, you know, filmed before you were part of it. If that is something that perhaps is causing maybe a passive aggressive response, um, maybe we just talk about that off air. You don't air or dirty. I don't think this is a feelings and emotion thing. I think it's strictly a legal thing. And so all I would ask is small concession on your end and Omar, I'm sure he'll, uh, I'm sure he'll go along with this. All I would ask is that when you release this quote unquote, so-called documentary is that you spell iron culture with a K, um, the same way that if you were going to have imitation crab meat, it would be crab with a K. Uh, I think this is ultimately the, the world has changed. The iron culture is now me and my surrounding universe. So I think as a sign of respect, that's all I would ask is a minor tweak in spelling. I just to let people know it's, this is an imitation culture. I acknowledge that you're asking that. Perfect. All right. Uh, so Helms, you got stuff going on. Uh, where do you want to start here? Cause this is, uh, all joking aside. Um, you know, you've been busy, you've been doing travel, talk, et cetera, um, engaging with the iron world. And then you got a couple of weeks here where you're traveling for competition. So this is basically your shot to, uh, talk to the good people and give them an update on, on what, what's going on in your life. So, um, where do you want to take it from here? Well, the first thing I want to do is leave them dangling on that precipice with a dissipation before we know the good word from our sponsor. Big time Helms. Did you see the last time that I gave this pitch? I did. Did you hear it? So the first time I was like, ah, I lost those straps and, uh, wrist wraps when I was moving completely false because elite FTS, they manufacture their equipment so well, you won't lose it. That's how good it is. They, they have found a way to make it, uh, somehow stick in your mind in such a way that even when you move apartment to apartment to apartment to house, you will retain these precious items. So, uh, folks, I had the good sense in the year, I believe somewhere around 2010 ish, 2011, maybe. I knew I needed some heavy duty lifting straps and I needed some heavy duty wrist straps to keep my wrists happy with all of the irresponsible bench pressing and squatting and other pressing that I was going to be doing. And as a fine gentleman of central Ohio at the time, I knew the highest quality products in the world were down the road at elite FTS. And we have been so, uh, privileged, uh, so humbled by the opportunity to partner with the good people at elite FTS, Dave Tate and crew. Um, and so if you are in the market for any lifting oriented apparel or gear, we're talking high quality bands, wraps, straps, you name it. If it has something to do with lifting, they probably got it in the shop. Head over to elite FTS.com. Use our, uh, promotional code. MRR10 stands for mass research review 10. That'll get you 10% off, uh, most things that they carry in their store. Anything I left out homes? No, I mean, just that if you've been, and by the way, you've done a fantastic job holding it down and, uh, we're very proud of this partnership and, uh, yeah, big shout out to Dave Tate, big shout out to elite FTS. Uh, and it's, it's, it's an easy one for me and trucks, both having been customers for a long time. Well, yeah, I mean, um, now that I think about it, um, one of the nice, I mean, obviously you can look through the history of the show. We don't like go reaching for all sorts of promotions and sponsorships and whatnot. Um, what's really cool about this one is Dave Tate, uh, the legend has it. I wasn't even involved at this point was one of our very first like original OG subscribers to the mass research review. We offered him when we saw he signed up, the story goes a free subscription. He said, no, thank you. I'd like to pay for it. Um, and, and again, even before, uh, you know, a million years ago, I was a loyal customer of elite FTS. I got their wraps, their straps. I think I even, if there are any photos of me floating around from that era, I know I had a prized elite FTS shirt that I used to wear. Uh, it was like my very comfortable kind of oversized gym shirt. Yeah. With that classic, uh, like squatting logo. So, uh, that, that's what I think is cool about this partnership is that it was a partnership before it was a partnership. You know what I mean? We supported their, their, uh, gear cause we liked it. They supported our content cause they liked it. Of course, elite FTS has a lot of great content of their own. They don't just make gear. So, uh, if you like us, uh, we support them. We think you should as well. So check out elite FTS.com. And with that, we'll get back to the cliffhanger, the precipice of what's going on and, uh, and, and the Helms world. So, uh, yeah, I am back from a two week trip. That was really cool track. So all serious now, uh, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll drop the, uh, the fake banner. It was, it was a pretty cool opportunity. Uh, from the third to the eighth, um, I was in Bali and that was for techno Jim's global education event. Techno Jim, uh, normally has this event in Susana, Italy at their HQ, which is a really cool spot that I was in back middle of the year where I got to do a co-branded seminar with them in WBF Italy. Um, bit of biomechanics. And then on the, uh, the WBF side, uh, some nutrition. So I did, I got to do that presentation on biomechanics again, with more hands-on, uh, with a lot of their Asian delegates. So there was like, I think 11 different countries. We're talking Philippines, Korea, Japan, India, uh, Malaysia, you name it, Thailand. Um, they were all there. This is a really cool event. Um, and I, I had a lot of, uh, I would say variability and who attended. I had some, some people who were competitive natural bodybuilders who specifically came out to see me, but I had people who had no idea who I was, who were just in the broader fitness space. Uh, and they were looking to, you know, increase their education. And I was only one of the five, um, educators who techno Jim brought out. It's a big shout out to everybody else. Uh, it was pretty cool. Um, there were people who are top level coaches in functional fitness. Uh, there was representatives from the most popular gym chain in Hong Kong. Um, uh, people who are experts in, uh, pregnancy and, and women's health. So it was a really cool event and it was a challenge for me as an educator. I'm sure you can appreciate this. There was one session cause we split these folks up into like, well, it fit into fifths and they rotated through where I had a pro natural bodybuilder with a master's degree in biomechanics sitting there as well as a, uh, you know, a physiotherapist who was a competitive bodybuilder himself sitting next to a wellness director manager who didn't lift weights. And I had to kind of talk to them both about biomechanics for bodybuilding and display it. So it was a really welcome challenge as just as, as an educator. And it was really fun to try to, make it applicable, um, engaging and interesting to people who probably weren't looking forward to that session out of the five and people who were exclusively there for that and would grudgingly sitting through the other ones, you know? So, um, and we got really great feedback from everybody. Um, so, you know, a little bit of a pat on the back, but it was also an awesome experience and, uh, I had never been to Bali before and, uh, Bali is like influencer central and we're in, uh, yeah, we were in an area that probably didn't get me a huge exposure to true, you know, Indonesian culture, but I was very fortunate. Shout out to Brandon Kempter who attended, uh, Brandon Kempter. He's an Australian bodybuilder who's been living in Bali for the last few years, uh, him and his partner. And he, and he lives in a, with a very local lifestyle, a little bit outside of the main area. So he took me on his moped, which by the way, if you get on the streets of Bali, it's like armies of mopeds going around and what you can fit on a moped shocked me. Like what we do in the West with like a contractor who gets like a van and he's got a ladder, you know, three other guys, uh, all this stuff, you know, a pane of glass, all that you can fit on a moped. And if you ask me how I tell you, you gotta see it to believe it. Um, but yeah, quite literally I was, I was floored by, uh, the ingenuity of the locals and what was getting done there. That is a great experience for me. And I truly relish the opportunity to reach beyond my linguistic and cultural limitations. Trex, this, this is some Star Trek shit. Okay. The majority of attendees could speak English. Some couldn't. We had a Korean delegation and some, and some delegates from China who needed a translation. We didn't have a translator. We had this specific device where the speaker and the listener both were a headset. Okay. They set it their own language. And then in real time, it interprets back and forth into your ear. And I also had, there was one other person who was there for both the Korean and the Chinese delegates who was bilingual, but wasn't, you know, like live translating. They were just double checking to make sure it worked okay. And like you get everything and they're like, yeah, totally understood. And I was telling jokes. I was speaking in, you know, English sport and exercise biomechanics terms. There, so there was, I was trying to limit my jargon, but it seemed to be fine, which blew my mind. Um, so that technology is advancing, but it was a really good experience. Um, the one thing that was interesting was that for this two weeks, except for that, I went to Europe, which I'll get into next. Um, the goal was for me to simply like not be in a huge calorie deficit and get flat and depleted while we can come back two weeks out in the hole. Um, I would say semi mission accomplished. I really was truly trying to, you know, eat and, and, and not be in a massive deficit, but we were working, man. And it was in the heat, ton of steps. Um, you know, access to food was not always super, super consistent. So I would sometimes make it up here and there. Um, I'm going off hunger, but I'm, you know, I'm engaged and I'm moving and it's so much higher energy expenditure than I'm used to. I, I, I basically got into stage shape while I was there. I hit like probably the leanest I've ever been. And that's where I'm at now, which is pretty cool. Um, about two weeks out, I'm about as lean as I was back for worlds 2023. And here's this, the lowest weighing in I've seen is still two kilos heavier than the lowest weighing in I ever saw in 2023. So I look back at my logs. 78.1 was my two lowest, deep, darkest weigh-ins out of all of 2023. And I have had one weigh-in at 80.1 and it was coming back from the trip, probably dehydrated because now I'm back up into the high eighties, low 81s. So I have probably put on legitimately four pounds of lean mass, two kilos ish since 2023, which I'm very proud of. Um, so yeah, after that, went to, uh, uh, how hot, how hot was it in, uh, in American units in Bali when you were there? It wasn't too bad. Um, because you know, the, you know, summer's flipped. So we, we weren't in summer, uh, summer in Bali is, is a different time period. So everyone's thinking, oh, you were a summer in Bali, but it's not summer there. Summer is like, uh, December, January, February range. So it was in American units. I will tell you, uh, let's see, 30 degrees Celsius. Wasn't too crazy. Um, it was in the mid eighties on most days, some days it got a little higher, but the good news is, you know, my metabolic rate is tanked. I have no insulation. So I was fine. I was, I was going to say, man, like, um, I did a prep where I was really grinding it out in like late July in North Carolina where it's humid and, you know, mid to high nineties often. And honestly, that is the best way to be when you're really grinding your prep, because first of all, you're more comfortable day in and day out. Um, cause yeah, you're, you know, your thyroid hormones in the basement, most likely you have no fat. So you're going to feel cold all the time. And then on top of that, like I I'm, you know, this is kind of one of my fun little, um, hobby horse topics, but I'm very intrigued at the relationship between ambient temperature and appetite regulation. And man, like there is really something special about being slightly uncomfortably hot in terms of suppressing. I don't know if I want to say appetite necessarily, but certainly desire to eat. You know what I mean? That's a good way of saying it. Um, and yeah, so like for me, if you told me I was going to be prepping during the colder months, I'd say I'll just, I'll, I'll pass. Like to me, the, the warmer months are so much easier. Have you, have you noticed, um, cause you've done preps that have kind of spanned into colder periods of the year in terms of ambient temperature. Is it as bad as it feels like it would be relative to the alternative? I hate prepping when it's cold, dude. I freaking hate it. And, um, it doesn't get crazy cold in Auckland. It's basically like Bay area weather, but you know, like San Francisco winter's not warm, you know? No, no. Um, and it was, you know, ironically, so I went then from Bali to London and Limerick, Ireland, um, where now it's Northern hemisphere. So we are technically in summer, but it was very similar weather to what we're getting down here in Auckland. Um, because it's, you know, London and Ireland. So like it was in the mid fifties, low fifties. So we're, we're coming like out of the forties in Auckland into the fifties, which I'm loving. But prior to that, so during our winter, my wife got me a, uh, she's amazing. This is, this, this is, this is when you know you got a good one folks. Um, she got me a heated jacket. So you plug in a little like a portable USB charger into it. It's got panels on the front panels in the back. But I was, I was running around every morning. We'd, we'd go to breakfast in a heated jacket, beanie and wearing this sweatshirt underneath that heated jacket. Uh, and then in the coldest portions of the month, I had this little sleeve that when I was feeling, uh, a little more confident with, you know, being perceived as weird and, you know, not self-conscious, I pulled that thing up over my nose cause the tip of my nose and my ears would get so just like cold to the top. I wouldn't even know if my nose is running. It was so like, I just couldn't feel it, you know? So yeah. Trying to avoid frostbite. So I, I, that is, it's funny. I've gotten to the point where I'm so good at living the bodybuilding lifestyle that I'll, I'll be honest with you. Like hunger is not much of an issue. Post-meal satiety, it's, it's not there, but I just, I, I don't really feed into that too much. Um, so the, the food restriction and like food focus, it's just not nearly as bad as it used to be. Like I am definitely preoccupied. Like I lick plates and I observe it, but it's very much like, Oh, that's, that's interesting behavior. It's not like, Oh my God, I'm starving. Uh, the things that I struggle with are, I can't sit down now that I'm this lean for too long, or I start to get, uh, like a dead leg. I just don't have enough cushioning in my butt. Anywhere I sit, I have to put a pillow underneath me. It just makes me feel fragile and weak. I'm cold. Elite, elite human performance right now. Yes. Yeah. Sit on a pillow. Yeah. There's just like these levels of annoying fragility. Like I'm normally a super laid back. I like chill, like whatever. Like I can live life, but it's like, well, if it's under 50 degrees, I need a heated jacket and, and like mittens and earmuffs. It reminds me of what you do when you have like a four pound dog and you're like, I'm going to give them the little booties and the little jacket, you know? Yes. I am a small shivering dog in terms of my needs. Like I can't sit on hard things for too long. I can't even sit on soft things for too long, to be honest, Trex, without a Yeah. No. And that's for me, that was always really hard because, um, like I'm w because of my history of like sacrum and back and all the issues. Um, for me, I'm, I'm really like, I can't sit on padded chairs. It bothers my, my back. I hate it. So I sit on really hard stuff. Like even right now I'm sitting on a metal folding chair and in my office at work, I have a metal folding chair and they're like, bro, we can get you like a nice desk chair. And I'm like, absolutely not. So, um, for me when I'm prepping and I'm starting to get that lean, it's, it's really unbearable because I'm like, there's nothing I can really sit on. You know, it's, it's tough. I'd rather stand like, dude, if you gave me a metal chair to sit in right now, I'd be like, not going to happen. I got five minutes before my right leg is totally numb. Um, yeah. So yeah, it's that, that stuff is what's annoying and, and trying to, I, I, I did a, I think it was good a job as I could. And I'm glad I went to Bali first. Cause I got like a three hour jump on going to the UK, but dude, the time zone difference between New Zealand and, and the UK it's, it's basically, you just flip the AM to the PM. So it is, it's a tough one. It normally takes me five days to acclimate, but I did it in about two or three because I had that third to the eighth in Bali, which I acclimated in about one or two days. So I kind of got that intermediary jump. And then the UK and Ireland was awesome. So are you an F1 guy? Are you into racing or any possible that stuff? Before we get into that, may I do a quick detour to it? Cause you mentioned the travel and the time zone changes. We actually had a relevant question in the chat. Do you mind hitting that while we're on the topic? Let's go. Someone asked the Greek Trojan said, uh, what are the best tips for jet lag? Um, going from California to Japan. And why I want to know the pro moves and helms ever since you moved to New Zealand, I feel like you've got the East to West, the West to East. So what, what would you tell somebody in this scenario? So basically what you need to do is a few days in advance of where you're going to go, just get one or two hours change in advance. So if you're trying to stay up later or go to bed earlier and your partner's cool with it, or if you're living solo, you know, if you're only going to bed at 10 and you can go to bed at midnight or 8 PM, it doesn't change your local schedule too much, but it will get you just quite literally like one day advance, less of jet lag. Then, uh, the day you fly out and the day you land, I would encourage you to train during what should be daylight and get light exposure and make sure that you only eat during the typical eating window you have of where you're going. Um, so shift your meals, uh, and then make sure that you are taking, and this is what I would recommend. This isn't, you know, this isn't medical advice. Uh, I would recommend taking melatonin, uh, in the kind of dosage range that you need, not the crazy ones that are out there, 500 micrograms, up to three milligrams, um, at the time of when you would need to sleep and try to sleep on the schedule you're going to. Um, it may or may not go well, and that's okay. If you don't sleep that much, that sleep pressure will help you the next time, but do your best not to nap during the daytime, try to stay up. Um, you can definitely take caffeine, I would say, you know, before noon, uh, kind of refer back to our old caffeine episodes of where you're going to help you stay awake and stay active, go on walks, get sun exposure. Um, try not to nap based upon where you're going. So, and then, uh, yeah, so the key things are eat in the right circadian, uh, rhythm, train in the right circadian rhythm, get sun exposure, and then take melatonin. There's actually the best data on melatonin is actually dealing with jet lag, um, for shifting where you're going and try to get a one to two hour jump before you travel. Uh, and that can quite literally cut one to two days of jet lag off of what you're experiencing. Yeah. If you talk to, like, I saw a talk, um, by, uh, Dr. Spector, um, who's a physician at Duke who specializes in, uh, sleep. You know, he works with a lot of people with sleep disorders. When you talk to somebody, um, one of these days I want to get them on the show, uh, cause he has a lot to share. Uh, but one of these days, sorry, um, one of the things that you'll see when you are talking to people who are like legit sleep experts, like people who diagnose and medically treat sleep disorders is when they talk about melatonin, they don't talk about it as a sleep aid. They talk about it as a circadian shifter. And like, just like you were saying it, that really is kind of the intended purpose of melatonin. It's not to be necessarily a day in and it's not to be a day in and day out sleep aid. It is to help shift or correct, uh, a circadian rhythm that is misaligned with, you know, what, what that person is, is trying to achieve in terms of their, their daily sleep and wake cycle. So absolutely, um, really good advice. And it sounds like the other thing you mentioned that, um, I don't think was clearly delineated in the summary is if you can get a head start on it, try to start nudging your sleep window, uh, in the direction of what you're trying to get to, right? Correct. So an example of this, um, when I was in Bali, uh, the disparity was four hours to London. Um, so when I was going to bed like at 10 in Bali, it was, uh, it was, I think it was more than that actually. Um, it was, I want to say like 4 PM. So the last night that I was there, I stayed up till midnight and I got to bed at what was 6 PM London time and that's better, right? So, and then on my flights, I had a seven hour flight from Jakarta to, sorry, from, uh, yeah. Yeah. Jakarta to Doha. And then I had a 15 hour flight or 16 hour flight from Doha to London or no, sorry, a seven hour flight from, from, from there. Um, I'm getting all discombobulated. I had two seven hour flights to get from Bali to London. Um, and I managed to stay awake on the first seven hour one, which put me in alignment with like 11 PM, 1130 PM. And then I slept on that next one as best I could. It was a great, no, but then I stayed up the first night in London and throughout the whole time period, I trained when I got there, I got light exposure. I only ate at the right times. I took the melatonin at the right time. And again, it normally takes me five days to acclimate from New Zealand to London. And on the second night I was on the right time zone. Did I sleep well? No, I was clocking like four to five hours of sleep, but it was at the right time. And I, you know, I laid in bed and I tried to get a little bit more and I was kind of in and out of it. And it's difficult to separate how much of this is me being shredded in on prep and just not getting quite as good of sleep versus jet lag. And they do kind of stack, unfortunately. Um, but it was the, I think the best I could have done given the circumstances and it's the best I've experienced having traveled. So I'm really glad I took it seriously. I did all those things. I ticked those boxes. Um, was it comfortable sometimes, uh, not eating in prep during phases where I was awake? Absolutely not. You know, were my energy levels jacked up that I feel like my blood sugar was all over the place. I had a few hard days, but I think it resulted in me when I needed to be on, which I did, uh, because we had this live streamed, uh, insider event at the McLaren center, which is really cool. If you're into F1 racing and we got a full tour, there are areas we couldn't take pictures. Um, you know, so we had this really cool high tech event. It felt like we're on the bridge of the Starship Enterprise. Every person in the room had like a little video panel where they could see the graphics, um, really high production quality. Um, and, uh, yeah, it, it, I'm just really encouraged that big brands like Technogym and Optum Nutrition are actually platforming education for education's sake. Um, and they're seeing that, uh, because, I mean, frankly, I'm the, I'll be real straight up here. There's money being, you know, made now in being science-based and there's a strong shift towards the kind of evidence-based sector. You know, you look at Jeremy Etia, you look at Jeff Nippard, you look at the RP channel. Um, there's a lot of questioning of science. Uh, there's a lot of pushback, um, and there's different silos on the internet, but broadly science is on the rise. And there are downsides to that, like we've discussed, you know, um, it can be misrepresented, but shout out to people like, you know, uh, the good doctor, Colenzo Semple, who is fighting the good fight and trying to show people the difference between, um, science marketing versus actual scientific claims. You know, we've, we've, we've been frustrated with some things that have been stated by people like, you know, an Andrew Huberman or been platformed at times. I mean, vocal about that. It's not about the person it's about the claim. Um, so as science is on the rise, there is going to be more CO science, charlatans, misrepresentations, people using it as marketing. So it's, it's, it's, it's a sign of the times though. And I try to reflect on the fact that this is a good thing. So the fact that big brands are not just platforming like who's the most jacked influencer or, you know, who, who is, you know, what they're going, you know what we should bring out people like, I mean, it wasn't just me. So like, I'm probably the most influencery of some of the people they invited and who became the quote unquote optimum insiders. Uh, but Stu Phillips, uh, Shona Helston, Kirstie Elliott Sale. I mean, these are top level academics who I was an honor and a privilege to present with, who have been asked by after nutrition to, Hey, will you be a brand ambassador with us and basically provide education? And we all look at it like, Hey, this is a win-win, you know, is there a minor conflict of interest? Absolutely. Are we willing to disclose that so we can further science and educate more people reaching a much broader population? Absolutely. So that's where things are. In the future, in the near future, if you were to come out and let's say undermine the importance of protein and specifically high protein diets for muscle growth, do you have any concern about your physical safety or any perhaps financial harms that, that might be brought onto you from the, using the full weight of international law? Oh, I would be sued into existence. So no, absolutely. I, you're going to see me. I think my contract really starts next week. I'll be wearing an Optum Nutrition hat and we're going to be doing episodes on each one of the products in the full Optum Nutrition product line. Probably starting with branch chain amino acids. No, we need to start with, I don't know if they still make these, but these were dangerous. They made these little like protein zebra cakes. Did you ever see those? I remember those. Yes. Oh my God. They honestly tasted like a, like a little Debbie snack. I don't know if that's, um, internationally recognizable reference I just made, but, uh, these little pre-packaged break baked goods that were just absolutely decadent and allegedly had protein. So, I mean, what not to like? You mentioned that internationally recognized one really interesting thing about Optum Nutrition. So it was a U S uh, based company until the mid two thousands and then Glambia Nutrition, which is an Irish company bought it. It actually owns a bunch of, uh, these, these nutrition. It owns BSN. It owns Think protein, you know, the bars. Um, it also owns Isopure. So, but Optum Nutrition is obviously its flagship, but Optum Nutrition UK, uh, has a very different product line than Optum Nutrition US. Um, slightly different demographic. And in Asia, it's a little different. In Australia, New Zealand, it's a little different. So I've gotten exposed to different product lines in different places. And, um, yeah, yeah, it's kind of cool. I'm, I'm just curious if there is a global or international understanding of the concept of like a hostess or little Debbie's type, what would you even call these food items? Uh, yeah, they are. I think people understand that the most iconic one of like the Twinkie it's like, yeah, yeah. Like it's an, it's an American, um, confectionery. I don't know if confectionery is the best. It's, it's a, uh, ultra processed baked good. Uh, we do quite well in the U.S. It's infinitely shelf stable, individually packaged. Yeah. I just, it wouldn't strike me if, if I, if I was like in a place where people eat food that, uh, has ingredients, uh, you know, where, where if I said, you know, it's like a, like a little Debbie snack, like little zebra cakes and people would just stare at me blankly saying, uh, what poison are you referring to? But anyway, uh, no, that's awesome though. So, um, so yeah, you were, you were saying, uh, optimal nutrition. So you, you talked with the lineup. So where do we go from here? Yeah. So that, that was a pretty cool event, but man, um, I got worked in techno gym, uh, the Bali event and, and in, in, uh, by, by opt nutrition. So, um, like there was like a hundred delegates in Bali divided them to five. So I had to give the same three hour presentation five times. So it was like a full, like three hour break, three hour, two days in a row, then a half day. Um, so I was very good at that presentation by the end of it. And then the event in the McLaren center, you know, we, we worked basically a full day. So we had a whole, you know, two session format started in the morning, stop for lunch. Lunch for us was actually doing a whole bunch of media sessions with the people who were invited. This wasn't like your typical fitness industry conference where it's just open to the public. They specifically invited, um, media groups and influencers who had large social media channels to have specific access to it and then live streamed it to a select group of other people. Um, and it was a content creation event and education event for quote unquote insiders and the insider advantage. So our lunch break, we did get a lunch, but it was also, Hey, here's your media schedule. Here's who you're doing interviews with. Um, and then once we finished at, at four, four 35, we did a little bit in the media break, quickly ate dinner. And then we did filming with the full film crew, which was pretty cool in the McLaren gym, which by the way, fully kitted out with tech by techno gym. So another connection there, but the often nutrition techno gym, McLaren gym, this is super high tech gym for all their like pit crews and drivers and also employees. Um, basically full media team in there, 20 people, five different stations, cameras, and we filmed until after 11 PM, um, content for social media related to education around, uh, creatine fasting protein, third-party testing. Um, and you know, differences between male and female physiology and when, and when it is not relevant. Um, so it was really cool getting to do that type of content with, uh, you know, Kirstie Elliot sales, Stu Phillips, and also some, some, also some really top practitioners, I should say. So, um, we had the, the Chinese teams, swimming teams specifically lead nutritionists that may have gotten more gold metals than, uh, than anybody. Uh, he, he was out there. Um, and you know, it was really cool to see him, uh, from the region, uh, as well as Jeet Salal, who is one of the biggest promoters of natural bodybuilding in the, in the Indian region. And we're talking 5 million YouTube subscribers, nearly 3 million, uh, Instagram subscribers, a great dude. He was there with his, his wife and, um, you know, evidence-based science communicator who is really good at making things, you know, simplified, which, which is quite cool. Um, so it wasn't just pure academics. It was a great group of people. Uh, it was a really awesome opportunity for me to, to simply meet them, which is awesome. Um, and I was just, it was like, I, it was a mixture of people who were familiar and unfamiliar with each other. Um, there was also, uh, Claire Farrell. Um, she is the lead performance nutritionist, um, for, um, geez, I want to say, I'm going to get it wrong. I don't want to say the wrong, the wrong soccer team. Cause we, we had no idea who the other person was like, I'm, I'm clearly not, as we've joked about, not out into sports that don't involve, uh, like lifting weights. And she is not, but yeah, this, this is true. But if it's not competing in lifting weights, it's not something I'm focused on. But she, anyway, she's the lead sports nutritionist for Liverpool. So Liverpool FC. So obviously, you know, they're, they just won, you know, the, the, the premier championship. Right. And I want to make sure I had it right. I actually did have it right, but I didn't want to say it wrong. So, you know, I'm, I'm rubbing shoulders with people who are working at the highest level of elite sport in nutrition, you know, Olympic swimmers, Olympic gold medalists, and the most competitive, you know, football club in, uh, in England. And, um, also the academics who were, you know, 10 years beyond my career. So it was, it was really cool as well as incredibly influential people. So like, it was a great cross section. Um, everyone was incredibly good at what they did. So it was a true honor. Uh, and then I got to bring it all home after I finished that event. First thing in the morning, I flew out to Limerick, Ireland, and I got to do the European powerlthing conference. Um, which was, which is like, it honestly, it's like coming home. I've been, I did that in 2017, 2018, 2019, and last year after they brought it back. And it's just, it's the IPF crew. It's people I see at worlds, Sheffield, at some other international events, you know, Mike Tushier was there. Um, you know, my own, you know, my own PhD student, Kendrick Kwan was there presenting, which was a really cool full circle moment, uh, where, you know, he, he started as my, my student and now he's my peer, if not, you know, a more of a leader in powerlifting nutrition than I am these year, these, these days. So, uh, really good experience. Um, and just a great opportunity to connect with people. And, um, I just feel so privileged and grateful to have been a part of all three events. So, um, honestly, my heart's full. I'm still a little jet lagged, haven't pooped in about a week, but, uh, but the body's. I was going to ask you about that. I'm glad you brought that up. I was going to, I usually, when we, when we get together off air, the first thing I do is kind of get a rundown of your bowel movements, you know, frequency, when was the last one, consistency, that whole deal. Well, I will say in all seriousness, people are, were looking at me like, how are you doing this two or three weeks out? This is crazy. And I'm like, look, I've got experience. I know how to do this. It's not a big deal. I'm on a diet break, but frankly, um, there are some costs to running around the world shredded. And, um, when you're switching time zones, there's a lot of systems which get, they get a little messed up. And while there might be like, you know, there's like a five day lag in total before you're like fully back to your sleep schedule and you stack the digestive stuff on top of that. Yeah. I think it would do a lot of people's heads in and even messes with mine now with the experience I have, but you just kind of have to accept like it's, you know, when you go camping for a week and you're like, nothing happened and it's fine. And then you don't think about it. You get back in prep that can't really get in your head. So it's, it's been a journey, you know, like I had two nights of good sleep the last two nights and that has made me feel tremendously better. And I know it will happen eventually, but I will also have a non-dormant GI tract pretty soon too. So, um, give me a few more days and just in time for me flying out to, uh, to Taiwan, I'll have a functioning body to, you know, display on stage. Awesome. Yeah. You've been, uh, around the world with, with all your travels and you got some more travel coming up for competition. So we're all, we're all pulling for you in the culture. Obviously, uh, we did have a question in the chat about your competition. So someone asked, are you going to compete in classic in Sacramento? I'm currently trying to convince a friend of mine to compete in classic at that show. He's currently planning to compete in men's physique. Yeah. So muscle mayhem doing it, man. I've been doing that show since literally 2009. Um, it totally depends upon what happens. So, uh, the goal of the muscle mayhem, the principal goal, as well as WNBF worlds, which is going to be in LA is to try to get as many of us 3DMJ coaches. Cause myself, Jeff, Alberto, and Brad right now, the plans are all of us to compete, to try to get as many of us on the same stage at the same time as possible. I'm not sure if that is possible. Myself, Berto, and, uh, Brad, sorry, myself, Berto, and Jeff, we are all WNBF pro bodybuilders. Brad took a long time off competing and he came back and he has not like re-established pro status. Um, he almost got his master's pro card, but the way he won the master's, there wasn't enough. So if he gets his master's pro card, we could all compete in a master's division. And if he's able to, you know, turn pro or get his master's pro card at the mayhem, maybe we can all do it at worlds. Um, but you know, for me, I have basically currently three divisions I can, I can and have a desire to compete in classic physique is an amateur, uh, pro master's bodybuilding and then pro open bodybuilding. Um, so depending upon whether or not it goes really well for me in Taiwan, you know, and I win my, my pro card and classic, which I think is actually a very low probability because it's an incredibly competitive show. Um, you know, they give the top three and the overall pro status and they have, uh, four height classes and they take the top two from each. So it'll be three out of the eight, you know, top two in each division and each division is going to have 10 to 30 people in it. So we're probably looking at a total like 80 to a hundred people. And I would need to be among the best six of them. So, uh, it's not impossible. And there are far fewer people over 180 centimeters tall in Taiwan. So I have probably the, the one I am probably competing in the, the least competitive of those classes, but that just means I'll get into the overall, if things go really well and then get smoked by the short dudes. So we'll see. So the question of whether or not I will do classic in the mayhem depends upon whether or not I turn pro in classic in Taiwan. And if the answer is yes, then I need to decide which pro division I'm going to do. Cause I don't think pro crossovers between categories, um, are allowed. Although the, you can do pro crossovers between age divisions within a category. So we shall see it is up in the air. Most likely not to count myself out. I suspect that will still be an amateur, uh, classic physique competitor come, come to mayhem and I will probably do both. Nice. Do you mind if we, uh, address some of the questions in live chat? Some no oriented stuff. I'm honestly tired of talking about myself, believe it or not. All right. So, um, we had a question. I'll keep it on theme here with bodybuilding, um, and a little powerlifting. So the question is, uh, do bodybuilders target the obliques or does it make the mid waist blocky follow-up question? Could powerlifters benefit from oblique training or long-term for long-term Valsalva strength potential? So oblique training for a bodybuilder, for a powerlifter, what say you? I don't think you need to do direct work in either case. I don't think like side bends are going to transfer to Valsalva or stability anyway. That's a pretty specific application of quote unquote core training. Um, and I don't think there's much benefit to trying to directly develop them as a bodybuilder. I don't think aesthetically it would help you. I don't think you need to try to avoid it either though. And I think you just kind of let that happen as a bodybuilder. And then if you are looking for more trunk stability as a powerlifter, I think things like anti-rotation, anti-flexion, or just more specific training of the main lifts is probably the more relevant application. Cool. And when people, if someone were to follow up and say, what do you mean by training anti-rotation or anti-flexion, what kind of exercises would kind fit the bill there? I'd suggest someone do some Googling of pal-off, uh, movements like, uh, pal-off presses as they're called. Um, essentially this is you trying to resist being flexed, extended, or rotated. Um, so this is specific to the sport because, you know, if you get a bump by a spotter, you clip the rack, or if you're trying to exert control over a squat, as you, as you put it there, you don't want to bobble on your sumo. Um, that is essentially holding a really, really heavy weight and trying to not let it jerk you around when there is a, you know, uh, a force applied to it. Uh, and a pal-off press is loading up the cable stack, but not actually necessarily moving the cable in the traditional way, but changing your lever arm so that that load that you're holding when it's close to your chest has a greater torque on you when you extend your arm, trying to rotate you that way. So you have to dynamically engage your core to prevent rotation or prevent, uh, you know, extension or prevent flexion, depending upon which way you're facing the cables. And there's various versions of that. There's things like, you know, Copenhagen planks, which are like a side plank and movement. There's a lot of ways you can, uh, train that. You can also just do heavy squats, heavy deadlifts and heavy bench, which require that dynamic stabilization. Um, but I think there probably are less fatiguing direct pathways. If you identify that as a weakness that needs to be trained as well. Yeah. On the topic of core training, got a question here. Athletes usually train rotation with explosive stuff like medicine ball throws, but does it make sense for them to include some more strength oriented stuff like Russian barbell twists in the five to 10 rep range? Should it all be high velocity explosive stuff or should they incorporate some heavier strength stuff in there? I think we just need to take a step back and think about this from the same lens that we would, uh, more traditional exercises, right? So traditional thought is that we would go through phases or emphasize things in different ways, whether it's undulating block linear, what have you, whatever you pick your periodization model. Um, but the general philosophy is that we build more contractile tissue, which has an opportunity cost. So when we think about long-term planning and training, we're going to have a phase where we focus on that a little bit more than other things. That additional contractile tissue should help us when we shift more towards a force production phase. Uh, and then as we get more and more close to competition or the in-season phase, or depending upon individual athlete and what proportions are relevant for them, we're going to probably do some S and C movements that are at a more sports specific velocity. So somewhere on that force velocity curve that is more relevant to that given sport and potentially the deficit of that given athlete, they may be a little more force or velocity dominant. And you may decide you want to lean into that, or you may want to decide you want to try to bring up a weakness depending upon the opportunity cost, how much you can get out of that and what you need to invest. And the idea is that if you can produce more force because power is force times velocity or work over time, that that will contribute to some degree. So there's this, you know, drop off as you go from being bigger to focusing on strength, to focusing on quote unquote power. Uh, and for the more force dominant athletes or sports that drop off is less for the more velocity dominant, it's much greater. And a simple way of thinking of this is to play soccer. You probably don't need a 500 pound squat, but if you are trying to be a, uh, a lineman probably can't squat too much, you know, uh, kind of perspective, even though they are both team sports that are heavily power-based. So going back to the question, if you are doing any movement that is explosively done and done for power, because that is more sports specific, then you need to trace back and think, oh, well, would it benefit me for those same muscle groups to be bigger and to what extent? And then would it benefit them to try to have a more direct kind of raw, slow force production phase as well? And the answer will vary depending upon the context, but sometimes the answer would be yes, it does. Like if you're in a scrum or if you're on a line or if you're a wrestler, you know, there's going to be times where you need to move slowly and produce as much force as possible or move quickly and produce as much power as possible. So different horses, different courses. Nice. There's a couple I'm going to take here. One person said, nice hat tracks. Thank you very much. That's one for me. Another question here. Is there any literature on P ratios for people who have lost a considerable amount of body fat and kept it off, then got into lifting seriously and trying to put on muscle? The short answer is, I don't think so. That's a pretty unique scenario. But in the interest of being helpful, or at least giving something resembling an answer without just being somewhere between speculative and wrong, my two cents on this question in general is, I'm not sure what you would do with that information. And what I mean by that is, in theory, a person who has lost a considerable amount of body fat, that tells me that they began with excess body fat. And so essentially that is, you could call it a fitness decision, but at the end of the day, that is a health improving intervention to lose a considerable amount of weight and keep it off. Then a secondary question after this person has done that, or a secondary choice is, you know what, I believe I'd like to be muscular as well. And we could, you know, kind of theorize, will they be at a greater advantage, a greater disadvantage, a completely neutral, you know, neither an advantage nor a disadvantage. But at the end of the day, they're going to have to play the cards they've got. And so a lot of times people might ask this and say, you know, is this going to be harder for me than the average person now that I've lost the weight and I'm trying to build this muscle? Is it going to be easier? Is it going to be neither? And my question always back to them is, so what? What are you going to do? If I tell you this is going to be 15% harder, you're going to say, oh, nevermind. It's like, if so, that's really not a good, we're way off in terms of how we're approaching this, right? So my not very helpful, but maybe kind of helpful answer is to, with this kind of question, kind of rethink where is this coming from and where is it going? And a lot of times I find that these questions come from people who are just kind of nervous. I think this is going to be really hard. And I will tell you, if you set ambitious body composition goals, you're going to reach the hard part. If you keep pushing it, it will get hard. And the fact that it will get hard eventually doesn't mean that it's any less worth pursuing. You know, if it's important to you, I encourage you to go for it. And whether you think it's going to be easier, you think it's going to be hard, it's probably going to end up getting hard, like I said. But if you're kind of pushing it to get more and more and more muscular, we all reach the hard part if we keep trying. So what I usually encourage people to do is just focus on what's in your control, focus on best practices, have goals that are ultimately realistic. And sometimes that balance between setting an ambitious body composition goal and a realistic one is an iterative process. You know, and so Helms, honest to God, when I was younger, and I was getting really into fitness and growing well and still staying lean, like, I'm not one of two, I'm in terrible shape Helms. I don't know if anyone's told you. You may have noticed that every time we post something where I show up on a mass thing now, people just say, why is Eric so fat now? So that's real. That's a thing that happens. But from the age of like 14 to like 20, I was like, really jacked the whole time. Like I stayed very lean. I parlayed, I went straight from wrestling shape into bodybuilding shape. It worked out well for me. But basically, you know, I forget where I was going with that. I got sidetracked and then you started shaking your head. What was I talking about? So you were talking about how challenging it is, but it is worth it to go through body composition change. And then you were talking about how anyone who I'm not actually not sure, to be honest, Rex. Yeah, I went on a tangent. I got lost. I got confused. But basically, the moral of the story is you're going to reach the hard part. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. That's where I was going. I knew there was a reason. So I was talking about how it's iterative, the tradeoff between setting ambitious and realistic body comp goals. Well, I was on this like precipitous rise in my own mind of getting more and more and more jacked. And I was like, Oh, this is incredible. I'm great at this. It's easy. And there was a time when I was literally thinking at the age of about 18, like, man, I think I need to decide right now if I'm going to go to like IFBB pro Olympia route, or if I if I'm not about that life, and I decided I wasn't about that life. Insane for me to think that I had the kind of like, I was really like, do I really want to be 280 and lean, right? Like on every all the gear you could think of. Thank God I didn't go that route, because I would have hit a wall pretty early and been like, wow, that's stupid. But here's the thing, man. When I decided, I don't want to live that life, which was never my choice to make in the first place. In hindsight, I said, you know what, I'm going to set a very humble, very realistic physique goal. If I could end up being about five foot seven. And let's say just a modest 185 at 6% body fat. That's all I need. Like just, that's it, you know, and it's like, in hindsight, you're like, oh, champion natural bodybuilder. Yeah, so you're just walking onto, you know, world championship stages and pretty much winning as long as you like you have decent proportions, right? So again, it was like, do I want to be a Mr. Olympia? Or do I want to take my foot off the gas and just coast until we're on a natural Mr. Olympia? Yeah, to be a natural. And so and so what that means is, I ran into the hard part. And I said, oh, okay, so it turns out you don't make linear gains your whole career, they slow down. And it turns out later in life. I'm not saying that there's, you know, some kind of mysterious metabolism, magic going on. But people tend to get fatter as they get older. The data show that it's a mixture of priorities, lifestyle things, you know, a million other things. So I'm not saying that it's like an inevitable part of age, but people do tend to get fatter as they get older. And so all that is to say, you're going to have to wrestle with when you get to the hard parts in that journey, you have this huge weight loss, maintaining it's going to be hard, you start building muscle, it'll be easy at first, then it'll get harder. It's not necessarily all that helpful to think about how hard it was supposed to be relative to the norm or the typical person at the end of the day, you're just going to have to be in it and say, here's how hard it is. Whether I like that or not, the goal is still what the goal is, we may need to adjust it in one direction or the other. But yeah, whenever I get those questions, my answers are usually, first of all, we don't have that data, because that's very specific. And second of all, try not to get too bogged down about how hard it's supposed to be, because you're going to find out soon enough how hard it is. And that's ultimately what matters. Helms, thank you so much for dealing with my dementia and reeling me back into... I tried. Sometimes in my conversations now in my old age, I just have to say, can you restate the last 90 seconds of what we were talking about? Where was I? What happened? You got there. And I will say it was all excellent information. And to the person asking the question, even though Trex might have given you a circuitous answer, I can tell you that when it comes to personal experience across the body fat spectrum, as well as engaging with at the highest level and also struggling with disengaging, tremendous amount of respect he's been there. And also, I'd say you're probably the most knowledgeable person in terms of the application, limitation, and actual limits of what we can know about P ratios and the typical myths. And the only thing I'm going to add is just to say even more, you should listen to Trex and actually read some of his work. There's a multiple part series on Stronger by Science, authored by Trex, specifically about P ratios, going back and forth with Meadow Henselman's that even culminated in some awesome podcast appearances where they discussed and debated. And there is still a large amount of lingering misinformation about what P ratios do and don't tell us. And even though it is some deep dives, has some statistics, and digs into some research, it's actually a fascinating read. And I've literally not had anyone dig into it who hasn't been like, oh, man, once I got in there, I couldn't stop reading the whole thing or watching these. So it was eye-opening for me. And yeah, it is, of course, difficult to kind of roll back something that's been well-established in a given industry space for a while. But it did culminate in Mike Isertel, who they had a whole handbook based upon P ratios, where they said, you know what, you know, here at RP or now RP Strength, we've decided that's not probably the way it is. And here's what's going on. And, you know, widespread reconceptions of it in the industry based upon your work there. So just, yeah, we can, I don't know if we can put links or we'll probably forget, but definitely just Google Eric Trexler, Stronger by Science, P ratio, a bunch of good stuff will come up and just gobble that stuff up. Because I think, to me, my first thought when I heard this question is they probably have some misconceptions about what can and can't be extrapolated from a P ratio on top of everything that you talked about for more of that personal, experiential and life phase element. Yeah, no. And it's, you know, the whole P ratio thing, at least my engagement with it actually started as a mass article in the mass research review. And then it kind of took on this life of its own, this whole back and forth. And, and yeah, you know, it culminated in, I think, a fruitful debate. And that is one of the things I've always really respected about Mike and everyone else at RP is being really, really open to engaging with ideas. And it's tough. Like there's a lot of people who are willing to stake a claim and then defend it to the death. You know, there's no shortage of that in fitness. There's also no shortage of people who are so terrified of being wrong that they'll never say anything interesting. You know, they'll always, they'll always play it like, it's, it's one thing to be responsible with your claims, but another thing to play it so safe that it's like, you're, you're not really bringing anything to the table here in terms of like furthering the conversation. You know what I mean? It's just kind of like, I'm, I'm going to be the last person to acknowledge everything that's like absolutely beaten to death and fully known. And I think that, um, you know, Mike and RP, I appreciate that they're willing to engage in things that are at least on the periphery of the cutting edge in terms of, yeah, I'm going to make a claim here because this makes sense to me. Cause if nothing else, it gets people talking, but then, but then they're willing to hear the people talking, you know, and then say, ah, those are good points. Nevermind. Or I'm going to tweak it a little bit. So, um, yeah, I thought that was, uh, the rare instance of an actual, like pretty good and ultimately constructive debate, um, where it wasn't just people saying, here's what the science says. The science was all done wrong. Uh, you're an idiot. No, you're an idiot. Okay. Let's keep believing what we already believed, you know? No, well said. All right, Helms. Um, there's a question here. I don't understand it, but I'm going to run it by you and see if you do, I'm not trying to be like a jerk. I don't get it, but it might just be a terminology thing I'm missing. So the question is, um, how much in terms of hypertrophy outcomes can we extrapolate from leverage data? I'm not sure what they mean by leverage data. Do you know what they might be referring to there? Uh, yeah, I'm assuming that they are specifically talking about data, uh, data, which indicate which muscle is in the best position to produce force at a given, uh, joint angle or portion of a range of motion for a given exercise. Um, so it's like the bodybuilding biomechanics world. Yeah. Yeah. So to, okay. Um, I'm going to do it, uh, to give some, some insight into where we were over the last 30 years and some of the speculation as to how do we take an exercise and stimulate muscle growth. Um, length tension relationship has come into this conversation. Uh, and where does a muscle colloquially have the best leverage? So basically where, when can it produce a lot of force? And, you know, there's a lot of discussions of different motor unit, motor, uh, motor learning theories and the way that the body works. And I think from a very, very general high level, I'm not going to go into specific theories. It is true that the body will find from a nervous system perspective, the, the path of least resistance, ironically, kind of the terminology there. So the idea here is that it's going to recruit the muscles, which are best positioned to do a thing. And this is why when you're doing squats, as you get near failure, you can try to be staying nice and upright, just like a Chinese weightlifter. You want to hit those quads, or you just want to stay upright because the internet says you should, or you're trying to get the transfer to a clean, whatever your reason is. And then as you get near failure, what happens? You shoot your hips back and it becomes a little more of a good morning. You see it on the third attempt squat and powerlifting. Uh, you see it on a max, uh, recovery from a clean and jerk and, and, and, and Olympic lifting. And you see it on people who are not doing something like a hack squat or a back supported version of something like a pendulum squat and bodybuilding. Let's say you're doing a split machine squat, feet forward, doing everything you can, try to keep it in your quads. You get near failure. You shoot your hips a little bit. This is just simply your body enacting that general principle of, uh, of motor learning. Um, I'm not here trying to grow your quads. I'm here trying to save you from getting crushed by a barbell and I'm going to shift you to a position where you're stronger. And that implies that your glutes got a bit more to give. And so maybe your lumbar as well, then your quads, your quads are tapped out. They call uncle. You find another way to get that bar up. And that is true across kind of various, uh, you know, movements. And you can extrapolate that general principle to a lot of things. So the question is, okay, well, what does that mean for hypertrophy? And does that mean that when we're in a position where a muscle group can contribute more force to a given movement, does it make it grow more? And the answer is not necessarily because the ability to produce force is not for a movement is not necessarily the same thing as achieving high tension within a muscle, which is what stimulates hypertrophy. Um, and we can try trace this all the way back to understanding what actually stimulates muscle to grow. And we used to think that it was active tension. And when I say active versus passive tension, uh, I'm talking about the actual physiology of the muscle tendon unit, which produces a force. So if you look at, um, length tension relationships and length tension curves, you generally see that in what's called the optimal length tension, uh, relationship, we produce the most active tension. This is when you can get the most overlap between active and myosin, the most cross bridges, and therefore the most force production. However, the actual external force production or torque production that we can produce is overlaid with what's called passive tension. And this is force production from the tendon when you're getting near a long muscle length and it is stretched and it's contributing, uh, or when you get the quote unquote stretch shortening cycle. If you have a short amplitude, quick turnaround from eccentric to concentric, you can leverage some of that kind of like an elastic spring or river band as a imperfect, but decent analogy. But in addition to that, we have intramuscular passive tension as well. So the Titan molecule, which anchors actinomyosin to the cytoskeleton at the smallest level within the sarcomere, it unwinds and becomes a little molecular spring during the eccentric. And then we also have, and it helps with longitudinal force transmission, kind of like a intramuscular tendon. And then we even have lateral force transmission from what are called costameres or sometimes called focal adhesions and, and older publications, which helped with that force production, that direction. And it seems, uh, that it is not just active, but also passive tension that can induce hypertrophy. And we've actually known this, believe it or not, from animal models going all the way back to the seventies, where you wait a wing of an animal for hours, weeks, months, and induces not just sarcomeregenesis and longitudinal changes in hypertrophy and the ability to still produce force long muscle lengths, um, due to, uh, that change, but also radial hypertrophy, your traditional hypertrophy and growth, uh, just general size. Um, and this is even observed when you de-innervate the nerve. So it can occur in passive stretching and it is a local phenomenon, which induces muscle growth. It's not just your ability to produce force and have active motor unit recruitment. Um, and some of the structures that I described earlier are mechanosensors in and of themselves. So the, uh, structures which contribute to intramuscular passive tension development are also stimulating MPS via, you know, mTOR and other pathways to create growth. And this is why longer muscle length training, if you were to look at it from a kind of performance-based biomechanics lens, you're like, that's a terrible position to put that muscle in to produce force. You're on one end too far of the length tension relationship. How can you get any, you know, cross bridging there? Uh, and you won't be able to get produced force. And this is actually trash. You want to be at a, a muscle specific region where the optimal length tension relationship is. And that was some of the old speculation, but we're not seeing that generally, uh, putting a muscle in a longer length seems to induce more hypertrophy. And you can also induce hypertrophy even without motor unit recruitment as shown by those old animal studies. And some of the studies on passive stretching, static stretching for long time periods has now been even extended to humans. Um, and the, the last thing I will say is that there are even more mechanosensors that we're still uncovering, uh, that get stimulated by being at a long muscle length. So my own nuclear flattening is one where you stretch that muscle out, the nuclei get compressed and that leads to signaling, which may induce growth from a mechanistic perspective. So it's not active tension, uh, only it is probably a combination of active and passive tension, which may be one of the reasons why at least stretching, if not also training at longer muscle length seems to induce more hypertrophy. So, uh, from a performance perspective, yes, you want to care about quote unquote leverage and the muscles which are able to produce the most force are going to be the ones that are, uh, emphasized by the central nervous system. Uh, but from a hypertrophy perspective, which is what the question is, uh, it is more about the local tension that is sensed and then mechanotransduced into signals for hypertrophy, uh, which sometimes means you're in actually a pretty poor position to produce force. Yeah. Perfect. Um, awesome answer. I'm glad that, uh, I'm glad we have our resident bodybuilding biomechanics guy on hand for those kinds of questions. Uh, Helms, I think this is probably a good time to wrap up. We've been going, uh, close to 90 minutes now. So, uh, um, since you're going to be gone a couple of weeks, is there, there anything you want to say to the good people, uh, before you go? Trex and I have resolved things, but if for some reason something happens while I'm not here, uh, Trex gets misinformation or he's misinformed, which I'm not blaming, him on that happening, I will say, you know, he, he trusts the sources. I don't know those sources because he's a good journalist. He doesn't share them with me, but if those sources lead him to believe that I have abandoned the iron, please be skeptical. That's all I would ask. Perfect. And, and folks, uh, obviously it's a shifting landscape. You never know when someone's going to abandon the iron or the culture underlying the iron, but, um, obviously we'll take that into advisement, um, as we move forward. And, uh, certainly people can check up on your socials and stay up to date with how your shows are going. I assume. Absolutely. I will probably in the next couple of days, I need to get on it and release my, uh, my next part in my YouTube series of my prep so I can cover what just happened, get a physique update and let people know, Hey, I'm going to be competing in 11 days. My God. So yeah, 12 days, something like that. Awesome. Well, on behalf of the iron culture, uh, I feel comfortable speaking for them and saying, we wish you luck, uh, with, with your string of shows here. So we'll be following closely. And if you, uh, text me some updates, I can relay them to the good people. Um, but, uh, yeah, good luck, uh, safe travels and folks, we will still be back here. Uh, you know, the drill Monday nights, 7 PM Eastern time. So we will be back in one week with yet another episode of iron culture.