 ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax ax truly international affair. We've got Dr. Lauren Colenzo Semple joining in from Canada, which is very, very far north. And we've got, of course, Dr. Eric Helms joining from the other side of the world over in New Zealand, which, depending on your perspective, is either really far to the east or really far to the west. You get there either way, essentially. But I tell you what, folks. Helms, you mentioned off air that you were just finishing up a preparatory weight loss phase or cut. So basically, the cut before the cut, getting ready for a contest prep. So what is on the horizon? What are we talking about in terms of show selection? And what are we talking about in terms of timing? Yeah, so this is my first proper pro season. I did make my pro debut at 2023 WBF Worlds, but that was weeks after getting my pro card. So I did not have a proper offseason. And when you have an extended game plan for getting on stage, one of the things that I like to do as a coach and also as an athlete is to do exactly what you described, cut to a body composition that is actually, in my case, a little lower than where I would want to start my prep. So then I can get into a small surplus or at least eat in maintenance for a period to try to dissipate any of those, you know, acute metabolic adaptation effects, any impact of... Never heard of it. Yeah, there's a guy named Drexler, I want to say, who's written about it. You should look him up. German guy, yeah. He's German, you know, and you can kind of tell in his writing. But anyway, the... Yeah, so the idea is dissipate some of that, get rid of any issues with like low energy availability, anything just any diet fatigue. But what you don't want to do with one of these is to diet down and then basically just stay kind of suppressed, also behaviorally feel like you're still having to be careful and then start your diet dieted, which is essentially like, hey, you just should have started dieting and just compete earlier, right? So the idea theoretically is you're competing as close to your lower intervention point as possible without any negative effects. But all the positives of just not having to drop as much body fat during the actual contest prep process. And this makes for a higher probability of getting into really good condition, an easier time doing it, a shorter digging window, and not having to do the sprint at the finish that we talked about last time is where you typically see that precipitous weight loss, which you really don't want to see when you can only effectively mobilize so much fat in any given time without losing muscle tissue. So yeah, the competition season will officially start beginning of April. And the plan is to be getting on stage no earlier than September. And I'll be scouting out pro shows. There's a lot of big announcements in the WNBF with no new pro shows coming out in Southeast Asia, as well as in the States. And I do want to get back on the world stage to try to see if all this hard work has paid off and I can walk amongst the giants. Yeah. Speaking of you walking, a new publication just hit, right? The you torturing yourself with the calf device. So congratulations on that. Thank you. It sounded really, really terrible. Oh, it was. Yeah. So a brief summary for the good people at home of what that intervention was. Right. So one of the big questions we have about static stretching. So I mean, what we've known for decades, actually, through some very unfortunate for the animal based designs that were used is that long duration, extreme stretching, where you are functionally forcing a muscle into its most stretched position for a long period of time can result in hypertrophy in animals. But it was only until the last several years where we really observed this consistently in humans because they got to something that approximated that. And that's actually been shown by two different research groups now actually compared to resistance training. So I think the most relevant studies, some of the work by Wernicke, where they compared daily orthosis wearing calf stretching. So like a boot, which forces into dorsiflexion for an hour at an eight out of 10 discomfort level. So the most you can handle 80 percent of that and adjusting it to stay there during the full hour per day that you're doing it produces an equivalent degree or very similar degree of hypertrophy as compared to doing moderate volume calf training three days per week. And then Wolin and colleagues said, hey, no, I got good news for you. You don't need to do an hour per day, just 15 minutes, four times a week. And you go, oh, what's the protocol? And you go, well, actually, it's it's actually worse. It's a self-ratcheting device that truly looks like something out of medieval Europe. Every time you relax a little bit, it ratchets down and pulls you into a greater degree of discomfort. Oh, by the way, not eight out of 10. It's a 10 out of 10. Not sure how this got over the ethical line. So 15 minutes of extreme stretching four times a week is equivalent to a similar volume of like peck fly training. So I was very curious when I first saw this as someone who was on a mission in 2022 to be like, you know what? I want to go from bad calves to average calves. And it actually did work. I would say this isn't the reason, but it is something that visibly did contribute to my calf size and calf gains. I was getting to the point where I was doing four sets every time I trained five days a week and I would bring them to the front of my training, even if I had compound lifts, more important things to do. I was like, nope, calf training is right there with my other weak point training I did in 2022 prior to my 2023 season. And what we were interested in doing is trying to answer the question of, all right, so it's great. Stretching can induce hypertrophy in humans. Apparently we are animals just like animals. But is this redundant for people who lift weights? Because there was that systematic review that came out a couple of years ago that said, hey, guess what? You know what is just a lot like stretching? Going into a deep movement position with weight on your back. In fact, some might even describe that this weighted dynamic stretching. And indeed, it does improve mobility. And there's probably some overlap of the effects of stretching, at least on range of motion with resistance training. So there's been a lot of chatter on the internet lately as to, you know, stretching is redundant for these hypertrophy gains in trained people. It's only going to produce sarcomeres and series growth. It's not going to change, you know, cross-sectional area or muscle thickness, not to any appreciable degree. I find that to be a very strange hypothesis based upon the animal data, where you see big changes in muscle volume, cross-sectional area. And since they're actually dissecting these animals afterwards, you're seeing sarcomeres and series and in parallel to a great degree, huge increases in size. So I don't know why they would think that would be different in humans. And even more so, they've done it in de-innervated muscle. So they couldn't actually be contracting during it in one study. So anyway, the animal data wouldn't lead you to speculate that that's the case. But it is fair to say, hey, maybe this doesn't work if someone is already essentially stretching, which is resistance training. And the proposed mechanism, if you read some of the research by Warnicke and like their reviews, is mechanical tension. And I think if you take a very surface level perspective on that, you go, let's say mechanism is resistance training. Mechanical tension, mechanical tension, redundant. And I'm not so sure because there's like five mechanosensors we're aware of, and they do respond to different mechanical stimuli, which makes sense. So I don't think broad brushstrokes of mechanical tension should be applied. I think there are different ways of getting to mechanical tension that may have different adaptations. So our question was, all right, what if we take a bodybuilder who's already doing a high volume of calf training, who's been training for close to 20 years, and what happens if we have them stretch and do calf training? And that was me and the case study. So I kept doing 20 sets per week of calf raises. And just for those who are curious, leg press calf raise, single leg bodyweight calf raise, as well as dumbbell calf raises, 8 to 40 rep range, 0 to 2 RIR plus a lot of failure training. So a pretty widespread and five days a week. Are those dumbbell calf raises in a seated position, like with the dumbbells? Yeah. Okay. So they're all straight leg. All straight leg. Okay. Correct. Yep. Why did you choose those particular exercises? That's what I got in my home gym and what I knew I could always reliably do. Yep. And I could also do it when I was traveling, which was important. And yes, I did wear the boot during a plane ride to the U.S. And did I get some weird looks? A hundred percent. And did I wear the boot that had to keep me up at night at Jeff Albert's house because I forgot to do it until 11 p.m. and delayed my sleep to do it? Yes, I did. Did I miss any days of wearing the boot? Absolutely not. Even though it was confusing to figure it out because you lose a day coming back to New Zealand, but you gain a day going there. I might have even done an extra day. Who knows? But so the boot, same protocol as Warnicke. It puts you into an extreme stretch. And I kept it at an eight out of ten. And I had to keep tightening it over time. Eventually, I got to the point where there was no more overlap on the Velcro. And I was using pushpins and industrial grade like paperclips and stuff for like those huge documents when you sign your home loan to keep it in place. And I hated it because my dumb ass only got one boot. And I was not doing a design where I only did one calf. So cool statistically. I did both legs. So how do we have something to compare to within me? So the upside of that is I get to tell you about single subject research designs and how to observe real change. The downside is I spent two hours, six days a week. That's the only difference from what Warnicke did. I didn't do one day a week as a recovery thing. But yeah, two hours in the boot. And I'll tell you what, 20 to 30 minutes in, I would reliably get pins and needles and tingles because it was so uncomfortable. And there was probably an occlusive effect. And I was like, oh, man, I got to get out of this thing. And instead I went, or I will just wait another 30 minutes of pain. And then the best part is then when you switch from one boot to the other and you're like, okay, this isn't just I got to wait another 30 minutes. It starts all over. So self-induced PTSD as well, which was great times. And, yeah, so we took ultrasound measurements at not only pre and post 12 weeks, but also for the initial four weeks beforehand, before I was doing any of the stretching. And we used that as a baseline measurement. So we got weekly measures of isometric calf strength, ankle mobility. We used a knee-to-wall test where you put your heel on a rubber band, real high tech. And the point when your heel lifts and the rubber band pops off, that's an invalid test, right? And a bunch of different sites. The benefit of a case study is that you can do what would normally be logistically and financially infeasible is take a ton of measurements. You know, I would just go downstairs multiple times per week with the real heroes of this story, Dr. Alyssa Joyce Spence and Ph.D. candidate Kai Homer. Kai is the lead author on this. He did a lot of the ultrasound measurements, wrote up the papers, eventually convinced the journal that an N of one study, that tells the world how to make my calves bigger is actually worth publishing. Yes, we got rejected numerous times, but we got it out there. But yeah, so we got these baseline measurements. And what we did was we determined what the standard deviation of all of our different measurements was across those four weeks. And we operationally decided that if a change was greater than two standard deviations, we would count that as a real change. So when you look at the figures in the paper, you can see where those bars are. And then one other thing that I really like is that after the 12 weeks of stretching, so this is six hours per week and 20 sets per week. One of the concerns, and I know the critiques we would have is, how do we know you're not just chronically inflamed? You know, and how do we know what the real change is? So we took another measurement after a deload week where I did zero stretching, zero hours, and I went from 20 sets to eight sets. And some of the measurements did actually fall back below what we consider real change, but several did not. And so essentially it produced notable increases in hypertrophy in someone who's been training their calves for, at the time, 18 years. And I just think that's a really interesting proof of principle. And we did some other things. We measured, well, we estimated changes in fascicle length. We looked at penation angle as well. And we didn't see increases in fascicle length, which kind of chips away at the hypothesis that it's just sarcomeres and series. And, yeah, we saw relatively large changes in muscle thickness depending upon the site between like 7% to 25%. And that may sound big from a percentage perspective. It's not a huge absolute change. And, again, it's only real if it's more than two standard deviations. So I would just encourage people to look at the open access preprint that you can find and take a look at some of that. And the supplementary material, you can see the isometric calf raise the way we did that. You can see the protocol for the needle wall test. And you can also see the boot that I was wearing and the position I was in. So, Helms, here's the real question. After doing that, two hours a night, all the pain, very tedious. Have you done it at all since the end of the case study? No, I have not. I absolutely did not put that boot back on. However, I have continued to stretch. And I have very intentionally made sure to use a full range of motion. And I typically do a one to two second pause at the bottom of my calf raises. And I really do emphasize the stretch. And my goal is to try to keep the range of motion I have, which I have. I have stupid dorsiflexion. And anyone who watches my training Instagram stories, when you watch me do calf raises, you're like, oh, okay. I didn't know that Eric is actually a 17-year-old Chinese weightlifter who can do that. But this is the benefit as you get to do it. And I'm not even wearing Olympic weightlifting shoes. I got a little bit of heel. It's just Air Maxis. Yeah. Well, yeah, the reason I ask is because, you know, you'll see a lot of studies where they're testing some kind of intervention. And the study has essentially two objectives. One is to quantify the effect of the intervention. Number two is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention. And so you can have an intervention that's very good, you know, very effective. But if there's poor tolerance or acceptability, then you have a new hurdle, which is, you know, how do we carry over this benefit that we've shown, this kind of proof of concept? But how do we then deliver that in a way that is more acceptable to people such that they will feasibly adopt it and implement it? So, yeah, it sounds like a little bit of both worlds there where the preprint kind of demonstrates that proof of concept, proof of principle. And, of course, that's supported by other randomized controlled studies in the area. But it does kind of suggest, like you were saying, this isn't redundant. There seems to be some additive nature of this stretch-induced hypertrophy. And then you say, okay, well, I don't want to do that for two hours a night for another X number of weeks and months. But how do I carry those principles over, maintain what I gained from it, and put that into practice? So it sounds like folks, if you are a member of the smaller-than-you-want calves club, which a lot of people are based on internet jokes, that seems to be the case. Sounds like stretching is something they can add to the mix. Yeah, and this is a completely infeasible, ridiculous protocol that I would recommend to no one. I would, however, propose that based upon Wolin's study, you could probably get something reasonably comparable by trying to find a way to get your calf into a really, really, really good stretch for 15 minutes versus an hour three to five times per week. And I think that is actually feasible. And I think it's also something you can implement when you don't have access to certain equipment. When I travel and I really just can't find a gym, hamstring and calf stretching is – you can do single-leg bodyweight calf raises, but hamstring stretching has been really useful. If I don't have a partner with me to do Nordics, some parts of your legs – you can absolutely do sissy squats. But figuring out how to train your glutes and hams and lower back, that's a tough one when you don't have gym access. So, yeah. Yeah. The one thing I would say is that this is, of course, a case study of me. And we don't know necessarily that everyone would respond in the way – I mean, I am human, as I've been told. But it very well could be that certain characteristics make stretching better or worse. There was a comparison in men and women in one of Wernicke's studies. And the women were lower responders to the stretch on average. And they also were more flexible at the start. So there certainly is something to – if you were less flexible when you stretch, you will be able to induce a higher degree of mechanical tension. So your mileage may vary. If you're a yogi, if you have been an Olympic weightlifter for years, you just love to stretch. You're probably not going to get a tremendous more out of it. But, you know, there's things to consider. And recommending how to stretch your calves, this is one of those things you kind of feel out over time. I think most of the typical ways like your track coach taught you to stretch, like kind of that semi-downward dog position or like you're reaching over and getting your foot if you're also stretching your hamstring, none of those are that great. Find something to wedge your foot into, like a stair or even finding a machine calf raise or a – sorry, a machine calf raise or a machine leg press or a plate-loaded leg press. Don't do that when the gym's busy. I'd be so mad if I needed to do like a leg press and someone was just stretching their calves on it. But those are great. You can kind of wedge your foot in. And because the gastroc is biarticular, flex your quad and try to straighten your leg as much as you can. Your mileage may vary how much that bothers some of the nerves and blood supply that go through your leg. But I already told you this is not comfortable. So just be prepared. You know, it's no fun. So it's not the little shortcut where you can say, whoa, look at this weird little trick. Instead of lifting the weights, I can do this stretching and get some hypertrophy. It's like – It's a long cut. It's like – well, if you're going to choose this instead of resistance training, it would be like, oh, man. Man, I'm in line to catch this new jet. They brought the Concorde back. It's going to give me that an hour. You know what? Instead, let me get a dinghy and a paddle, and I'll go ahead and take three days to get to that same location. Yeah. What do you think about the possibility that increased flexibility ends up increasing your range of motion when you're actually doing the loaded exercise? And then that could somehow be contributing to the greater hypertrophy as opposed to the stretching in and of itself. There's a lot of ways this could be complementary, Lauren. That's the thing is, you know, I was – when I was trying – like, that's the thing, the classic applied exercise science thing is, okay, we saw what we saw. And let me wildly speculate on some complete possible bullshit in the discussion, right? So some of the proposed mechanisms by why stretching may do what it does is that it is prolonged ischemia, you know, so it's hypoxia. Another one is that it is just mechanical tension, you know. The Titan's getting tugged on. It's doing its thing. And another one could be exactly what you said in the specific case of doing it with resistance training is that as you gain more mobility, you're then accessing it and providing a higher level of tension. And you would be able to get in the stretch but from actually doing, you know, loaded calf raises later. So they could be just from a very practical perspective complementary. I think that is also possible. Well, very interesting stuff. And Helms, this was supposed to be our little like five-minute intro banter kind of thing. And, I mean, you stole the show in a good way. So we'll be excited to keep tabs on your progress as you transition into your contest prep in the coming months. And hopefully folks who are listening will be interested to check out that preprint. And the published paper is available now as well, I think. Is that right? We actually didn't preprint this one because we don't believe in open science. No. It just – we didn't. And we kind of just submitted it and we thought it would go a little faster. But the published paper is open access though. It's open access. It's fully out. And it's kind of hilarious. We didn't preprint it because we were like, we got this done. It's short. It's tidy. It's good. And everyone's like, I'm not going to publish this crap. You know, like you mean the authors, the participant, and it's, you know, a 1,500-word case study on stretching the calves and nobody would ever do this? Why would I publish this? And I was like, that's a good point. Yeah. What journal did it end up going to? Actually, it got in a pretty decent journal. I think it is physiological reports. Hold on. Okay. Before I – I'll get it wrong. It is – yeah, physiological reports. All right. Very nice. All right. So we got to keep the train moving here. And, Lauren, you've been patiently watching Helms talk about calves, calf hypertrophy, for about 20 minutes. But really, when we did our little pre-show meeting, Lauren is the star of the show. The main topic that we wanted to cover tonight is a topic that Lauren addresses in the forthcoming issue of the Mass Research Review, which will be published February 1st. Realistically, probably a day before February 1st. We tend to publish the issue early so that no one can ever say we were late. But you'll have an article coming up that talks about menopause and hormone replacement therapy. So the floor is yours. I want you to set the stage and frame it in the way you feel is most appropriate. So I'm handing over the metaphorical microphone and take it away. Well, I'll say no one has ever written about menopause in Mass before. And when we had talked about it, I would venture to guess that perhaps the crew had shied away from it because it's something that you might perceive as not affecting you. And so, therefore, you didn't write about it. And perhaps you weren't interested in it. Can I take a moment to say that, Trex, no longer are you ever allowed to give Lauren the opportunity to tee it up on her own to set the stage? Because I didn't think it was going to be so great. Since you guys are sexist and selfish, you haven't written about it. But I decided to write about it because I'm a far better person. But take it away, Lauren. Thanks for that. Appreciate it. Yeah, that was my mistake. I'll have to make sure we set some tighter constraints on the introduction in the future. You know, I can bring the receipts on this one because in a chat, Dr. Eric Helms said, you know, yeah, this sounds like it will be really interesting for our menopausal subscribers. And I said, hmm, you know what? It's actually interesting for everybody because many of your clients, if you are a male trainer, are in that category. Perhaps your partner is or will be in that category. And, of course, friends, clients, your mom. I feel like this will somehow end up impacting you. So I was reading a stat the other day that approximately half of people are women. Is that true, Lauren? I would say yes. So it does affect those people as well. But, you know, that's my hook for why if you're not somebody who will go through menopause, you still might care. And I just wanted to jab the good Dr. Helms. You know the funny thing? This is the thing about text. Is I getting the impression that you took that comment as a tongue-in-cheek comment? Like, oh, this will be good for our menopausal readership? Believe it or not, and hand to God, hand to my mother, by the way. I was being completely serious when I said that. I was like, you know what? This would be good for our subscribers who have gone through menopause. And I was thinking from the perspective of, like, you know, we do things that hit our largest cross-section. But we definitely should have topics that are also relevant to the minority of our subscribers that are still important because they matter too. And I can definitely see in retrospect how that might have been misperceived as going like, oh, good, our menopausal subscribers got all eight of those. You know, that's not good. No, I wasn't. No, I wasn't interpreting it that way. I was interpreting it as that it would be interesting to them, genuinely interesting to them, but perhaps not super relevant to the broader readership. And in the process of writing the article and really diving deeper into the history, I think that there's a lesson there that's really relevant to anyone interested in evidence-based practice. And so that's really my point to hammer home that, you know, don't tune out just because you're not in that, you know, smaller subsect of our readership. Be better than me is the message. And that's a low bar that I believe everyone can meet. And with that, I'm going to shut up for a while and let you continue to take away before I continue to defend myself unnecessarily. For next week's episode, do you want to do a live reading of your apology letter or do you want to pre-record that and I'll just run it as the intro? I feel like if we do it live, what could go wrong? And they'll see the sincerity. You might want to do it, pre-record it. You might need a few takes, but just get it to me by Monday. Got it. Will do. And I dare say perhaps you overestimate the readership, listenership that's interested in this horrific calf training that may or may not work. Wow. Pretty sure everyone would be willing to subject themselves to medieval torture for bigger calves. I mean, I got a pretty good bead on the fitness industry that I pay attention to. Okay. And that's tuning out 99% of it. Yeah. All right. Well, we digress. So menopause. For a brief background, often we refer to menopause or perimenopause or the transition into menopause. So just to sort of clarify some of that terminology, menopause is actually a moment in time. So it's defined as having gone 12 months without a menstrual cycle. And but the moment is the moment in which that occurs. So the perimenopause time period is categorizing that transition between premenopause when you're having regular menstrual cycles and menopause when that stops and has ceased for 12 months. And so that's marking the end of reproductive function. And what really struck me was the variability in the experience of women who are going through this transition. And I very much recognize this from the work that I've done with menstrual cycle phase-based training and tracking cycles and measuring hormones in that there's just so much variability. There is no expectation about the magnitude or the timing of these hormone fluctuations. And I would say that's even more so during this transition because the length of that perimenopause can vary. It can be a year. It can be a couple of years. And the symptoms that people can experience can be nothing or can be debilitating. And the on and off of the severity of the symptoms or the presence and absence of those systems are a concern for a lot of individuals because you're experiencing these irregular cycles, like shorter cycles, unusually long cycles, longer menstrual bleeds, shorter menstrual bleeds. And that is driven by these sort of erratic hormone fluctuations that are really unpredictable and that can underpin some of these symptoms. And so in some cases, you might go a couple of weeks with terrible symptoms or even a couple of months with terrible symptoms. And then you'd have a couple of weeks or months of relief because the hormones have restabilized. So this, it sounds like a mess and it really can be for about 75% of people. And these symptoms can also persist long past that transitional period. And so the average age of the onset of menopause itself is around 50 years old. But there are reports of a large percentage of people still experiencing symptoms into their 60s and even into their 70s. So this is a potentially big deal and one that can last for a very long time. And when we're talking about symptoms, the most common ones are things like hot flashes, night sweats, migraines, anxiety, low libido, urogenital symptoms like vaginal dryness, and low mood. So it really kind of spans the gamut from physical symptoms to also ones that are more related to mental health. And unfortunately, a lot of women don't necessarily recognize those symptoms like anxiety and low mood as being tied to menopause. And so while night sweats or hot flashes are kind of like a hallmark symptom that people will associate with menopause, often some of these other ones they don't identify as being tied to that. And therefore, don't maybe get help or seek treatment as much as they might if there were more broad awareness about the prevalence of these symptoms and the association with that transitional period. Yeah, that's a consistent concern with mental health that I've thought about a lot is that even if you're relatively self-aware and you're open to treatment, I think since you live in your own head, when you're experiencing depression or anxiety, even like there's like two aspects of it. There is the feeling and it's rarely just disconnected from anything like crap. Why do I feel anxious or why am I depressed? A lot of the times there's a trigger for it. And then your response, either the length of time or the depth of it or how dark it can get for you is just magnified. And I'll speak for myself. When I have anxiety or when I have depression, I am over attributing it to what's going on and typically not as good at assessing. It might this is this reaction, my normal reaction or is this like I'm not sleeping right now and this is a stressful situation, but I'm always in stressful situations. What's going on? I think it's difficult without like getting some perspective from other people to really be able to gauge like, oh, I'm I'm not doing the normal me thing in response to this. So that totally makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. And if I could chime in with some fun facts, Lauren, you mentioned that with with menopause, there's a lot of variability in terms of when it happens, how long symptoms are experienced, things of that nature. And, you know, as we observe firsthand earlier in this episode, there's a lot of bigots out there like Eric Helms, who they think, well, I'll never have menopause. So what do I care about it? But I came across a case study a few months ago because I was working on some research and it was relevant. But it was a case study of a 65 year old woman. The lead author is Swanner. You can find it on PubMed. But a 65 year old woman who was admitted to the emergency room with a possible cerebrovascular event. And when the physicians were kind of, you know, taking her into the emergency room and kind of, you know, assessing the situation, they did observe vaginal bleeding. And they were like, whoa, we need to figure out what's going on here. And so they do all this work up, all these tests. And then eventually when they actually chat with the patient, they're like, we need to figure out what's going on. And she was like, I'm on my period, idiots. And they're like, well, that's impossible. You're 65 years old. But it was a 65 year old woman with no history of menopause. You know, she had been regularly menstruating all throughout her adult life up to the age of 65 and potentially beyond that. Because obviously the case study is a snapshot in time. And while I around the time I came across that case study, which is a good example of like, you know, if you're not thinking about it, there's so many unknowns about menopause. But menopause was way big in the news in my neck of the woods over in evolutionary anthropology this year. Because I think it was about a year ago now. They found chimps that actually reached menopause in the wild. And for many people, including me, who don't actually have a background in evolutionary anthropology or biology, the response was, so what? But that's kind of a huge deal. So the way I understand it, menopause tends to be reached by essentially humans and like a handful of whales. And that's pretty much it. So to observe chimps reaching menopause in the wild is a really huge deal for essentially recontextualizing how we view menopause from an evolutionary perspective and how we make sense of its potential function within, you know, an evolutionary context within a population of organisms, in this case humans. So anyway, menopause has been on the mind for me over the last year. And it's a really fascinating thing. I had no idea that humans and a couple types of whales were so unique in the fact that we have the unique ability to actually reach this thing that I always considered to be kind of a thing that happens when stuff reaches an age. Maybe I thought it was, maybe that's a mammal thing. I don't know. But yeah, I didn't realize how unique that was for our species. Trey, so the fact that it's novel, that it's been observed in the wild implies that it has been frequently observed in captive primates or primates under care if they're in a sanctuary? I only go to an evolutionary anthropology department. Okay. So I repeat the headlines, chimps reach menopause in the wild. I don't know how frequently that's observed outside of those conditions. But I think one of the things that's so this actually made its way into politics this year. So a political candidate, a major political candidate in the United States was trying to recount some evolutionary anthropological theory with regards to menopause. And there's a common theory known as the grandmother hypothesis, which is the concept is that in humans, the kind of evolutionary role of reaching menopause is that older females in the population of humans in this little cluster or cohort of humans will then kind of reallocate their time and resources toward supporting. Bringing up the younger generation of children within that cohort of humans. And that for, you know, you can go all throughout the theory. But the idea is that it is generally good for the evolutionary success of that group to have some of those resources from the older female generation dedicated toward rearing the younger generation of children so that they can reach reproductive age and reproduce and so on and so forth. So a politician was trying to, I think, allude to that. And then, you know, the game of telephone happened. And I read the headlines that said, like, so and so said that grandmother's only function in society is to be nice to their grandkids. And I was like, I see. I see where that was supposed to go. And I also see where it went. And that's kind of a mess. But anyway, yeah, the reason it was such a big deal to see that in the wild versus in a captive situation, a sanctuary where animals are just receiving care that would never really occur in the wild, you know, in terms of their diet, in terms of medical attention, things of that nature. The reason that's so unique is because if you're going to make hypotheses about the nature and, you know, theoretical purpose of menopause as it pertains to evolution, you have to view it within a setting or context that actually applies to evolutionary constraints. Right. So once you take that that species and put them into, frankly, an evolutionarily incompatible setting and context, you can no longer reverse engineer those theories and say, oh, yeah, that now that we see they're reaching menopause, now it makes sense. Right. So I think that's probably why in the wild was such a big deal. But I don't want to take us on a huge detour, especially because I've said literally everything I know about that. So, Lauren, I just wanted to comment on the fun little fact about chimps and also just reinforce that point that there's so much variability and variance from person to person. So such prevalent misunderstandings about menopause that you'll literally have a team of physicians racking their brains when they could have just asked this woman. You have your period? And she would have said, yeah, no big deal. Yeah. So a few a few things to touch on. I think going back to Helms, you know, your point with with mental health and with perhaps not being able to, you know, objectively attribute the symptoms that you're experiencing to whatever is going on in your life or to say, is this normal or not for me? I think it's also really important to acknowledge that somebody of this age might also be experiencing a lot of life transitions. Let's say if they were a parent, then maybe there are kids that are moving out of the house or, you know, perhaps you're transitioning career wise or perhaps entering into retirement. You know, there might be some kind of big milestone life moments that are distressing. And so you'd think, well, yeah, you know, I feel low mood because look at this this big life change that just happened as opposed to thinking, oh, you know what? There's some physiological changes that might be underpinning how I'm feeling. I think, Trex, to your point, one of the things looking back historically, too, is that a lot of species, including us, didn't live long enough to go through menopause. And so now and speaking about misinformation online, there are people who will say like certain cultures don't go through menopause because they're living, you know, a purer life or a better life than we are. You know, that Western society is, you know, poisoning women's bodies. And that's why they're going through menopause. If you ate differently, if you lived differently, if you didn't, you know, weren't surrounded by technology and processed foods, then no one would go through menopause. Of course, there's no evidence to support that. But just saying that is out there. Wow. I didn't know that that that was a thing. I kind of wish I did it. But anyway, I mean, we shouldn't be surprised that there's someone saying that Kraft mac and cheese and 5G is giving you the menopause. But, you know, you hear it all. This is actually something I've been similar things I've engaged with a lot when I was going through all of these really cool physiques that were from the 1800s, 1890s. And the ignorance to history became very apparent. You're like, yeah, they were doing it right back then. I'm like, what, cholera? Like, what are you talking about? Child labor laws not being out yet? Like, what, these people are dying? Like, they have to have 10 kids because five of them die. But yes, everything was perfect in the 1800s anyway. So, yeah, I'm not surprised. Yeah. And I mean, that was one of the points I really touched on in my article. And taking a deeper dive into this was just recognizing how much media and social media really affects the public perception of what is menopause? What should this transition look like? And how should we cope with these symptoms if they're present? And these days there's a lot of, hey, take this herbal remedy, take this supplement, take whatever nutraceutical that I have. It's hormone-free, and that's the route that you should go. And the kind of fear-mongering about it being hormone-full or hormone-free stems back over two decades now to a study from the Women's Health Initiative. And that is a group of studies. The Women's Health Initiative, in fairness, still exists today. They're still doing research today. But when you say that in kind of popular culture, people are automatically transported back to a moment in 2002 where, keep in mind, in the late 90s, they're taking menopause hormone therapy, or at the time people would refer to it as hormone replacement therapy. That has kind of changed the language that we use has changed. And that's because the goal isn't really to replace the hormones. You're not looking to actually go back to pre-menopause levels. But so by calling it menopause hormone therapy, it's perhaps a more accurate label for that. But in any case, in the late 1990s, this was very popular. It was approximately 15 million women per year being prescribed hormone therapy. And is this oral estradiol is pretty much what they're taking? At the time, that was the most common. It's definitely important to note that now there are many, many different formulations and applications and dosage of hormone therapy that can include an estradiol or a progestin or a combination of both. Or testosterone is another interesting avenue that is being explored. But these days, it is across the board pretty much everywhere in the world when you look at the evidence-based guidelines for the treatment of menopause symptoms. This is gold standard. Taking menopause hormone therapy in some way, shape, or form is the evidence-based recommendation. And over the past 20-something years, due to the results of the study and the way that they were portrayed and really magnified in the media at the time, it's really changed the trajectory of public perception of physician awareness and education and even willingness to prescribe. So at the time, there was a study that was stopped prematurely. So it was supposed to be an eight-year study. They terminated it early. And there was a big press conference that came out. And the study was looking at an estradiol versus placebo or an estradiol and a progestin, which is a synthetic progesterone, versus a placebo. And the outcome measures was using hormone therapy for the prevention of chronic diseases. So they were looking at primarily heart disease, but also some other pathologies. And they had a sample that was of a very big age range. So it was, I believe, 50 to 79. And they lumped them all together. So I think you had maybe 30,000 people, and there wasn't any attempt to look at the group, the results, or do any sort of statistical analysis that would say, hey, what if you're 50 versus 75? How far away are you from menopause? And hey, since we're looking at chronic diseases, more of those are going to happen anyway when you're 75 or 80 than they are when you're 50 or 55. So there were a lot of things that were problematic with the study design. But long story short, there was a huge press conference and announcement. They terminated one arm of this trial. It was the combination of the estradiol and progestin because they were observing incidents of breast cancer. And the headlines went wild. And overnight, it was like hormone therapy is terrible. And people stopped taking it just like that without even consulting their doctors. The physicians who were prescribing it at the time were just flooded with concerned calls from terrified patients and from the media. And the way that it was really a kind of fear-mongering time on subsequent talk shows of people coming out, scientists who were part of the study, who didn't really have any media training and didn't really understand how to present statistics in the way that the public would understand. And they were kind of mixing up relative risk versus absolute risk and making it sound like if you take hormone therapy, you're getting breast cancer and you will die. Now, of course, since then, there were many, many analyses of that data, many, many criticisms of the methodology, of the statistical analysis, of the way that it was portrayed by the media at the time. And in the past two decades, there have been many, many more studies on hormone therapy, not only for a variety of menopause symptoms, but also for prevention of various chronic diseases. And none have received as much media attention as that first Women's Health Initiative headline did. And the result of that is two decades of people going through this transition and making choices about their health that were guided by a media frenzy. That's unfortunate. This is a great example of the bullshit asymmetry principle, which is the not real, like established mathematical principle, but it takes so little relatively to put BS out there than it does to correct it. And, you know, we've talked about this previously, Trex, when you came full double barrels after Andrew Huberman, you know, just voraciously attacking him for what he had amplified. It was really more a personal attack than anything about any of his work. You know, it was just... Yeah, I think it was supposedly about hand cooling or something like that, but I mostly just remember the attacks on his character. Yeah. So... I thought it was a beard competition, like his is better. Yeah. I thought his is not better. Yeah, he's got better. No, no, no, no, no, no one is better than your beard. I will defend that. You have a really solid beard. Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate that. Look at that. No, I think that that's a fantastic review, Lauren. But it does just show you how important science communication is and the responsibility that you have to bear when you do it. And it's something I know that we all think a lot about and we sometimes get it wrong ourselves. Um, and, you know, the stakes are a little lower in most mass topics. But, yeah, when you are doing a study that is impacting the entire female English-speaking world at the very least, um, then that's a really high bar. And I don't know if this is just something that's more common in, you know, Oceania. But it seems like HRT, uh, or I should say menopausal-related hormones, because like you said, it's not replacement therapy. But hormone therapy for easing the symptoms associated with menopause that are negative, um, is on the rise right now. So it seems like the good news is this isn't like a complete lost cause. It's not just totally canceled and that there is people willing to actually prescribe this. And there's a change in the attitudes of doctors. And hopefully that will carry on to the public. Is that something that you guys are also seeing? Well, that's a good lesson for you, Holmes, given that you've got your apology coming up. You can always get uncancelled. You can always get uncancelled. 20 years. Yeah. I can't wait. But anyway, Lauren, he had a real question. Yeah, I think there are some, but it's very frustrating for them because they feel like they're, uh, a voice that, that isn't heard. Uh, and I, I see this from physicians and from researchers in this space that it just feel like, like the, not only the public perception, it was just kind of ingrained in people. And that still persists today that, Oh, that must be bad. Or even this climate of people who are on some kind of hormone therapy don't want to discuss it with their friends because there's going to be some, a fear of judgment from their social circle because there's still this sort of stigma associated with it. But also, and I think this is the most unfortunate part of, of this, uh, is that physician education about menopause hormone therapy took a big hit. And so it was really no longer a part of, uh, of, of the training of somebody like a general practitioner or in Canada, you'd call it a family doctor. And in a lot of climates where you don't necessarily go to specialists or you have to get on a huge waiting list to go to a specialist, or you need a really specific reason. And you need to advocate for yourself to see a specialist that puts women in a really difficult place. Because if the one medical professional that you have access to doesn't really have a background in hormone therapy, they're not going to be able to guide you appropriately. Yeah. I mean, it's in many parts of the world, like you have to see a person to get a referral, to see a person, to see a person. And if the only person or if the only specialist who is training as an endocrinologist who can tell you that, and by the time you're even thinking about it, your mom is going, oh, no, no, no, no. I remember when I was with the went through menopause, I got off that immediately because I was pretty sure I was going to die or get breast cancer. Um, you know, didn't you see the woman's health initiative? How many barriers do you have to clear to even have access to that when, as I've seen and as you wrote about so eloquently in the forthcoming mass issue, there's actually some really strong data indicating that hormone therapy can be extremely effective at reducing some of these negative symptomologies associated with menopause that are pretty, like, they're important. We're talking about mental health here. You know, it's like, it sucks to have breast tenderness. It sucks to have, you know, like, excessive bleeding or really erratic premenstrual symptoms and shorter periods or longer periods while you're going through this. But the fact that you mentioned they can last into your 70s and it can also impact things like depression and anxiety, I think that is, I think it's a really important thing that you wrote about. Um, so, yeah, I'm, I'm glad you're, you're, you're part of the solution and that you were able to clear the hurdle of, uh, both myself primarily as well as, uh, Trexler's not only sexism, but ageism. Don't, don't, don't pull me into that. You, you can put me down for ageism. Ageism? Yeah. Yeah, because I actually, you know what? I am in a protected class myself, uh, being over the age of 40. And I have receipts on all of you MFers on the number of times that I have been, uh, called out for, for being old. So if we want to go head to head, you know what? The AARP is behind me. Okay. Mass is, is really, it sticks together because of mutually assured destruction pretty much. Yes. With all the hate going in every which, every which way. Um, you know, one thing that I, I must comment on as, you know, the three of us are science communicators. This kind of relates to a discussion I had in private with, with a scientist, uh, a week or so ago. But I, I was, um, I was listening to a podcast by Derek Thompson and it was about alcohol. And, you know, for decades, scientists and physicians have largely been of the opinion and have pretty confidently relayed the opinion that moderate alcohol drinking may be associated with beneficial effects on things like heart disease, all cause mortality, et cetera. The idea being that there may actually be a benefit of having a drink per day instead of zero drinks per day, or, or maybe you want to be more conservative and say maybe three or four a week instead of zero per week. So there's, there's, it was kind of the accepted standard of public health messaging and clinical practice to suggest that there was a health benefit of moderate drinking or, you know, light drinking, but that obviously there were health, um, risks, considerable risks of heavy excess drinking. Uh, but within the last couple of years, that pendulum has swung way in the other direction and it is becoming much more common to hear individuals say, based on newer data. No, like alcohol is not great for you. And the detrimental net impact on your health, you know, morbid morbidity, mortality, et cetera, begins at any number greater than zero, you know, and that obviously the heavier you drink, the more considerable those risks get. What was really striking about that podcast was that the podcaster had a guest on who was a scientist. And the scientist was quoted, I think about 15 or 20 years ago saying, if you still doubt the health benefits of moderate alcohol consumption, you might as well be a flat earther. You might as well reject the moon landing. And those are literal examples. I'm not quoting verbatim, but those were elements of the quote. Hmm. And he had that researcher back on who said, yeah, it turns out that's actually not true. So to the researchers credit, they embrace and have updated their perspective based on newer data. But the conversation I was having with the scientist, the scientist is about to retire in less than a year. And as I'm kind of entering a new phase of my scientific career, he's hanging it up and we're just kind of talking big picture. And one of the things that I couldn't get over in our conversation is that as scientists and as clinicians, every time we get something wrong, we treat it like an aberration. And like this is the last time we're going to get it wrong. Like I can't believe this fluky thing happened just this one time. But everything else I believe right now based on the evidence definitely is true. And if you doubt it, it's kind of like doubting the lunar landing and you might as well be a flat earther. And for the love of God, scientists, public health officials, clinicians, can we please embrace the fact that we did not land on the moon? The knowledge we have right now is incomplete and getting it wrong is the norm. It's not just that it can happen. And it's not that it has happened. It's that it should happen and will happen many, many times again. I am just sick to death of this perspective within the scientific community that there was this time that ended yesterday where we used to get things wrong. And this seems to be another example where like, you know, you talked about the bullshit asymmetry principle. But even even just having the humility to say, you know what, we kind of have to shut down this trial because we reached a threshold that our IRB is concerned about. And we want to get back to the drawing board and explore these mechanisms, maybe do some basic research to see if we can replicate this in rodent models. There's a responsible way to shut down a trial for a finding that doesn't turn out to pan out and be a robust, generalizable, repeatable finding. But man, it is just so frustrating to see the messaging so quickly become absolutely certain. And then like 15 or 20 years later, people go, huh, huh? Guess not. Anyway, forget what I said for 20 years. Sorry, I called you a flat earther. But yeah, do the other thing now. So that's something I just had to get off my chest because it's been brewing up in me. But Helms, you brought up, like I said, the bullshit asymmetry principle. And Lauren, I want to not challenge you, but I want to ask you about two elements of hormone therapy, menopausal hormone therapy, that I think I don't think they fall under the umbrella of bullshit. I think there are some plausible health concerns one might have about menopausal hormone therapy, and I want to run a couple of them by you. So when I think about potential risk of taking any kind of estrogen-centric hormone therapy, there are three things that come to mind. The first one I'm not so worried about. But when oral contraceptives, oral hormonal contraceptives first hit the market, you know, first generation, there were some vascular incidents that were reported. There was an elevation of things like deep vein thrombosis and some vascular issues. I don't worry about those that much because we pretty much cleared that up when we realized, oh, hey, we need to just chill on the estrogen dose. And that pretty much took care of it. So I'm not super worried about that. But the two that I think are worth discussing, in my opinion, are, number one, with breast cancer, we do know that there are certain forms of breast cancer that do have estrogen receptors. And their growth is stimulated by estrogen binding with that receptor. So we could see, for example, a scenario where the hormone therapy is not causing the breast cancer but could make a less aggressive case more aggressive or increase the progression of that case of cancer through that estrogen link and that estrogen receptor. So they call them ER positive, I think, I think is the term for those certain types of breast cancer. So I'd love to hear your thoughts on how to assess that particular risk, especially if you're someone who may have breast cancer in the family or you have other risk factors of breast cancer. The other thing I'd be curious about is elevation of CRP, C-reactive protein. It is a marker of inflammation. So a lot of times when people talk about, oh, I think I'm inflamed, the first thing someone would check on a panel is probably going to be your CRP, very, very common biomarker. And we do tend to find that women on oral hormonal contraceptives, especially the formulations containing estrogen, they do seem to have elevated levels of CRP. And, you know, inflammation is generally considered a bad word these days. We associate it with a lot of the chronic diseases that are prevalent in America. You know, you could link it to everything from, you know, heart disease, diabetes, hypertension, all the way through to cancer. But when it comes to oral contraceptives, there's a big debate. Is that CRP elevation big enough to care about? And does that CRP elevation actually represent an increase in true inflammation? Or is that just a weird physiological fluke that happens when the liver metabolizes orally ingested estrogen? So I know that was like a four-minute question. But the two things I'd love to hear you talk about are the potential risk of accelerating cancer growth from having greater estrogen levels in circulation. And then also, should we care about potential elevations in CRP? Yeah, so I think one point that addresses both of those concerns is all of the developments in the types, the doses, and the administration of the hormone therapy. So while oral was sort of the step one of hormone therapy, these days there are patches that are applied to the skin. There are vaginal suppositories. And so those will attempt to administer the hormones more locally and have less of the systemic effects that you're talking about. And of course, always being able to bring down the doses is another extremely important factor. Interestingly, in the Women's Health Initiative study, at least, the branch of the study that was terminated was the one that was the daily, estrogen plus a progestin arm. And so in subsequent analysis and other studies, it was really that the progestin was thought to be the culprit here and not the estradiol. However, there are multiple progestins because we're talking about a synthetic progesterone. There are many generations of those. We see this in the oral contraceptives as well. We would say a first generation is like the original birth control pill. And now we're on to second, third, and fourth generation progestins. So that's a really important point that it's not sort of a one size fits all when it comes to the exogenous hormone itself, the synthetic hormone itself, or the dose or the combination or how it is administered. That said, if you have a history of breast cancer or an extensive family history of breast cancer, it's probably contraindicated for you. And so that's a reality. And that it's something that you, I would say most clinicians would agree with and sign off on because you're right. But if there is an existing cancer or even a past cancer, then it's probably just not a good idea. Yeah. Yeah. Or it sounds like you're not saying, hey, they misanalyzed women's health study. There's zero risk of hormone replacement theory. But more so you're saying there is a risk. It is non-uniform. It's specific to what we're talking about in whom and how much they're taking, the dose, the time course, and you need to assess it. And like most things in medicine, there is some potential risk of side effects. And you have to evaluate on a case-by-case basis with your clinician whether it is worth the risk. And that in most cases, it probably is in the absence of contraindications, family history, et cetera. But it is not a risk-free treatment to be going on hormone therapy. Yeah. I would say that the consensus these days, given the variety of options and, and again, some people don't have severe symptoms or some people have symptoms that don't last for very long. And so for them, you know, maybe it's not appropriate. I'm not saying we all need hormone therapy. What I am saying is that there are a large percentage of the population that are experiencing very severe symptoms for a very prolonged period of time and not taking advantage of what is considered, you know, on the net, like safe and, and certainly effective potential treatment. And that is a real shame. Because if you're going to say, Hey, you know, maybe your risk of insert whatever disease is going up a small percentage, but the alternative is I'm living with these horrible symptoms, sleep disruption, hot flashes, night sweats, anxiety, low mood. And for 10, 15 years, a lot of people will take that risk for just a better quality of life. And I think that is a really important point. Oh, well said. Yeah. And I think it's all about how you frame it. Right. And here's a science communication thing. Like the whole, you mentioned earlier, the difference between relative risk and absolute risk. If you say to someone, yeah, there's a 1% higher chance you can get cancer. They're thinking that they're at an absolute risk higher than 1%. But if you tell them, okay, so you don't want to deal with, you know, depression, mood swings, discomfort, and pain on a regular basis, would you take that being reduced substantially and feeling better if there was a, I don't know, let's say a 1 in 5 million chance versus a 1 in 7 million chance that you get cancer? You'd be like, yeah, sign me up, you know, which is typically the kind of numbers we're actually talking about. And that is really just the difference in communication, which I think that's why, to your point, it's so important to get this stuff right. And to Trex's point, knowing that we may not have it right, but we need to communicate with humility around what we currently believe. Yeah. And acknowledging the fact that when we look at the relative risk or incidence of disease, the media will frame it as this thing, this behavior, this food, this hormone therapy causes whatever that disease or ailment is, right? But the reality is we're looking at incidents or associations or relationships between those who engaged in this behavior or took this treatment and then subsequently ended up with cancer. And the reality is, yeah, they did do that thing. They also did a lot of other things as well. And so if we rewind when there was a frenzy that coffee caused cancer and it was that most people who were drinking coffee were smoking cigarettes, that was a huge failure in science communication as well. So we need to be careful to say, like, these are things that are interesting and important to explore from a mechanistic perspective, from a basic science perspective. They're very important to monitor in large scale epidemiological studies. But it's rarely as simple as one leads to two. And there's usually a more complex web around that one and what leads to the two. Well said. And if I could chime in with a message for the fellows out there, because, you know, we've been talking about menopause a lot, but we haven't talked about manopause. Okay. So I think it's useful and worthwhile to bring it up just to reiterate that we see a very analogous situation when we talk about things like testosterone replacement for men who are starting to notice their testosterone slipping in their fourth, fifth, sixth decade of life. So a lot of folks, as their testosterone starts dipping, the symptoms are not quite as pronounced as we would see with menopause. You know, I'm not aware of rampant things like night sweats and hot flashes and things of that nature. But a few of the things you do start to observe in the literature as testosterone declines are reductions, especially for folks who are not staying physically active in training. You start to see changes in body composition, gaining some fat, losing some muscle, losing some strength. And that stuff can be pretty important as the decades accumulate. Again, especially if you're not exercising and lifting weights. But we also see changes in things like just like libido, vitality, and things like depression and anxiety as well. And so we do start to see a lot of folks, a lot of males who are in their 40s, 50s, etc., who start, you know, doing hormone replacement therapy with testosterone. And just as one might look at the old oral contraceptive literature from like first generation and say, whoa, no one should be taking estrogen, right? You start to get into the nuances and say, well, it depends on the dose, the form, you know, how much you're taking, how you're taking it, how often you're taking it, how high are the levels getting relative to what you experienced earlier in life? You know, there's all these different layers to it. And so the same thing kind of goes with if someone were to ask me, you know, I'm 50, my testosterone is really low. I feel like crap. I have all these different symptoms of low testosterone and they're reducing my quality of life. If they were to say, is testosterone replacement therapy risk-free? I would say not in a blanket statement type of way. You could find a way to create health risks with testosterone. Have you heard of the IFBB? It exists, right? But like, you know, but then you start talking about, okay, well, are you going to take some kind of like super harsh oral preparation or are you going to inject it? Those are very different risk profiles. Are you going to take a small dose or a really big dose? Those will probably have very different impacts on things like your myocardium and your blood lipids. And then, you know, the same thing, you know, if you are, you know, a woman with a lot of risk factors for breast cancer, having really high circulating estrogen can be a threat or a risk in terms of how aggressive the growth of that breast cancer tumor may be. And the analogous situation is true for men with prostate cancer. If a man gets prostate cancer, last I checked, I'm not a physician, although I did get my doctorate from a medical school, as I often say. But I believe it's still common practice that they will essentially try to take your testosterone levels down to zero. They'll do androgen deprivation therapy if you have an active case of prostate cancer. Because I believe most, if not all forms of prostate cancer, their growth is accelerated in the presence of testosterone. So, again, it's not that being on testosterone replacement therapy is going to give you prostate cancer. However, if you do have prostate cancer, you do not want to be on testosterone replacement therapy, not at all. So, these risk assessments are complicated. And you do have to make some really – you have to really give some thought to the idea of what are the symptoms I'm experiencing? To what degree do they impact my long-term health trajectory and my current quality of life? And how do I weigh that against the potential risks that may be associated with this treatment? So, Lauren, fantastic job. I just had to drop a little bit in there for the fellas who don't care about the women in their life. It's so hard to believe. But there are people like Helms out there everywhere. Millions of them. Can I just say, unrelated to that last jibe, which I will just laugh at and take, the TRT craze that is currently happening, as well as the pushback against the fear-mongering around estrogen and progesterone replacement therapy, are two examples of the incorrect message being communicated. And we're kind of trying to push our fingers on the scale in two different directions on these because right now the narrative is that your testosterone is probably dropping in your 30s. It is probably the cause of all your problems. And TRT is only going to do positive things, and you're going to love it. And I would just encourage everyone to go back and listen to our episode with Dr. Ben House all about TRT because it's a really good episode, and there's some eye-opening statistics. When you look at the data on this, there was a really important thing that TRT did as a qualifier in all of the statements. For people who are not active and physically exercising, that was the qualifier. The reason being is that when you look at active populations who are not with obesity, who are not smoking and drinking, you actually don't see reliable decreases in testosterone even in the fifth decade of life. You typically don't see it until the sixth decade reliably in the studies where you're looking at those other factors. And additionally, some data indicates that after a year or two, eight to nine out of ten men who went on TRT are no longer on TRT. And unlike perhaps estrogen replacement therapy or progesterone during the period of menopause where you see these really reliable benefits, again, that's in the context of people who are actually experiencing negative symptoms and seek treatment. And right now, the assumption is with men, any negative thing I have, I stubbed my toe. It's probably because I've lost coordination from low testosterone. How old are you? 28. But I feel like it's all been downhill since 27. And no, it has nothing to do with every single fitness influence on the planet giving me a literal affiliate code for a gray zone legality TRT clinic that I can get online with no blood test. I just have to say I've been feeling tired lately. And then you will mail me without actually seeing me in person except over Skype some stuff for me to inject in my butt or some patches to put on myself. So, folks, poor science communication can go both directions and it can take us to extremes that make no sense in either case. And that's why it's so important to have an accurate view of the data. And that's why you, dear listener and dear live watchers, are tuning in with us live every single Monday. And we're glad to have you. Yeah. I also I can't help but remark on the just the glaring. I can't think of the right term for it, but it is quite a glaring discrepancy where it's like, you know, there are so many people just kind of nudging completely healthy men with normal testosterone level. Like, why don't you go ahead and just get on TRT anyway? Like, why not? Right. And at the same time, we've got all these women who are like in this perimenopausal period and they're like, I have some like really disruptive symptoms that are reducing my quality of life. And people are like, there was a study like 20 years ago. Why don't you just sit with that? Why don't you don't do anything at all? Just deal with it. That's probably a juxtaposition that requires some commentary that I'm not prepared to give. Well, the good news is it is equal and that everyone is getting bad advice. So we've got that going for us. That's the equality we're looking for. Bad advice. Well, I'll chime in and say that everything I've talked about with the cycle syncing and the premenopausal women, they're getting bad advice, too. Right. Because the message there is everything is about your hormones. Change your work schedule. Change your exercise program. Change your diet. Change your social schedule. All based on this menstrual cycle phase that you may or may not even be in. So across the board, it's bad. I think the general take home here is maybe it's not about your hormones, but if it is, then get the appropriate treatment and advice. Yeah. And honestly, I think really the takeaway is just don't be getting advice. Don't be listening to anyone. Yeah. Why are you even listening to this podcast? Find that intuition that lives deep in your belly below the rib cage, right? Tap into that when you have any uncertainty in life. And don't listen to podcasts. Don't go to the doctor. Don't do any of this crap because nobody knows what they're talking about. Right, Lauren? And whatever we say now, we're probably wrong because in two decades, we're going to be saying the opposite. Yeah. But now, like, the things we say, we know they're being recorded and archived digitally. So at least we have the foresight to not compare, like, plausible skepticism, like, credible skepticism. We know not to compare that to being a flat earther. So at least we have that going for us. Because I don't want to be called back in 20 years by some podcaster and having to defend why I said that. So let's all be careful. The only thing I really took from what you said was that the Earth may or may not be flat. Because you keep going back to the flat Earth. Like, you seem to be very triggered by those claims. Okay, then we can do the lunar landing. So is that still in the realm of possibility? I don't know. Last I heard a flat earther went down to Antarctica, the sun didn't set, and he was like, huh. Yeah. That's weird. But anyway, if you prefer, we can go more with the landing on the moon element of it. And that does bring me to the final thing I want to address. Someone in the live chat said they are absolutely gobsmacked that I'm not watching Ohio State play football right now. I am committed to the community. Okay? So I'll get caught up on the game in due time. But that does, it ties in because a little known fact is that the moon actually belongs to Ohio, the state of Ohio. The first steps on the moon were from a native Ohioan. And there's been, I would say, a lot of discourse in Ohio-related communities about how we should not have planted the American flag on the moon, but instead should have planted the Ohio flag. And you may or may not be able to find a lot of T-shirts that do have a doctored image of the moon with an Ohio flag on it. So I just wanted to bring it all full circle there. Now, folks, in the live chat, thank you so much for weathering the storm with us as we had technical difficulties two weeks in a row. That is a record, but not the kind that you want. So here's the deal, folks. We had a lovely discussion about a few key topics here. We don't really have time to dive into the live chat for questions. But the beautiful thing about the Internet is those questions will live forever. So as I go in and edit this episode, I'm going to make sure that I store those questions. And I very much hope that we can select some of the are biased perspective of the better ones that we wish to talk about and share those on the episode next week. So those questions are not disappearing. We will retain them. And hopefully we will be able to address some of those in the next episode, which will be in exactly seven days, which is going to be what, January 27th? It's always Monday night. It's always 7 p.m. And we hope you'll join us again. So, folks, anything else we want to say before we wrap up tonight? Helms? Hey, if you like what we're doing here, please make sure to give us a rating, a five-star review, a thumbs up if you're on YouTube. And if you really want to make sure that we can continue to be here on a weekly basis because it requires us to pay at least the Internet bill, then please do consider subscribing to Mass. Check us out at Mass Research Review. If you want to get the deep diversion of Dr. Colenzo Semple's take on this topic, hey, you're going to find that in the February issue that's never late because it comes out on the first every single month. And make sure to also follow us on the gram because we got a lot of good content. We're being very consistent with our Instagram. So follow us at Mass Research Review, please. Yeah. Lauren, anything you want to say to the good people? Good to see everyone. Good to be with you. And I'll be back soon. Yeah. Drop in the comments whether or not you want Lauren to be back. And if so, how frequently. We will act upon your advice. If you vote her off the show, she will never be back. But if you want her to replace one of us, then we can work that out, too. So drop that in the comments and let us know. Once again, everyone, thanks so much for joining us. We hope you have a fantastic week. And we will be back in exactly seven days with another episode of Iron Culture presented by Mass.