Hello everybody. Welcome back to Iron Culture presented by the Mass Research Review. It's Monday night. It's 7 p.m. We're doing a live episode. Uh I am here with the one and only Dr. Helms. Helms, how you doing today? I'm actually doing great, Trex, because we got some really cool feedback that caught me on offguard. I had to text you. uh actually engaging with you outside of the confines of the podcast, which I normally there's kind of a rule. Yeah. Yeah. You're against um it doesn't go well, but I thought even you would appreciate this even if it came from me. And I was uh I wouldn't say I was surprised, but I was I was pleased to see that we could at least have that level of of cordialness between us. But it's pretty cool. I'm looking forward to sharing it with all the uh the listeners. Yeah. I mean, do you want to go for it? Do you want to take it away? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So for a for a little context um I I I you know we we both have university jobs in addition to our science communication work. So um I do come into AUT specifically up at AUT Millennium where we have the uh sprints labs uh regularly and meet with my students uh you know help with research projects go to meetings do stuff like that and uh we have an internal mail system. So, our uh research coordinator, the awesome Jane, she was like, "Hey, Eric, did you see you got a package?" I was like, "Oh, no, I did not." And I'm anticipating this is something like something internal related to research or from a student or from graduate research. Plastic cryo tubes coming in, that kind of deal. Not not nearly as cool as the stuff you do, but but but something, right? Right. Um and uh no it was actually from one of the other faculties. So just for for kind of a cross language for people in in like the US uh we have the university then we have faculties then we have schools underneath those and departments underneath those. So I sit within the faculty of health environmental sciences in the school of sport and recreation. And this was sent from someone in art and design. So I was like what is this? This is not at all what I expected. And they they sent me two things. One, a piece of paper with a published abstract uh on one side, which is amazing, from PubMed, and then a personal note on the other side. And I'm going to read you the personal note. Kioa, Dr. Helms, which is a traditional Maui greeting. I was a gasast and ashamed to hear Dr. Traxxler and yourself shilling for and spreading misinformation in aid of big plastic capital letters on the recent episode 329 of iron culture. I thought I'd reach out to show you the light. On the reverse of this note, you'll find a study correcting your joint blind spot. I hope the enclosed gift finds you well and sways you to the cause. I would leave it till July 12th before using the board uh to allow the natural and food safe chopping board oil to cure. This will hopefully give you time to sway your wife as well. You won't need to wash this with soap or hot water after use. Just give it a wipe with a damp cloth and will be free of bacteria imminently. Spray and wipe if you must. If all this does still not sway you in yours, enjoy the large chunk of American black cherry. Use unknown. Thank you for all the great content. Your local big wood and metal representative capital levels. Angus Roberts, shout out to you. Amazing. This made my day. a senior technician at art and design in the school of AUT. So, one of my colleagues and another faculty is an iron culture listener. And check out this beautiful piece of American black cherry that I am now once I get back from Europe in a in about a week and a half, I will be able to actually use and cut. And he brought receipts other side. I'm going to read the abstract. And just like any good science communicator, I will absolutely not read the full text. this abstract I'm going to take to the bank and over and misinterpret uh because that's apparently what we do these days as science communicators. Okay, so this is published in the Journal of Food Protection I believe P O T. I'm not sure actually what the uh it's got to be what it is, but you know these abbreviations are tough to discern sometimes. And this is by it almost looks not legit. Ness oac because the middle name of o and a a aka it looks like ness oak and this is something on wood. I am not lying. You all can see that on the live chat. But anyway, it is a uh cliver and caspar published 1994. So this has been known. Cutting boards of plastic and wood contaminated experimentally with bacteria. The microbiology of plastic and wooden cutting boards were studied uh regarding crosscontamination of foods in home kitchens. New and used plastic for polymers plus hard rubber and wood. Nine different hardwoods uh cutting boards were cut into 5cm squares. Then they I'm not going to read the whole abstract we lose all our followers. But what they did was they contaminated them with various strains of bacteria uh including like salmonella and and some like legit stuff uh that you would not want. Um and uh they they did this with uh nutrient broth or chicken juice. And they recovered it by soaking the surface in nutrient broth or pressing uh the block onto nutrient agar. Uh, and then they let some time pass and they made sure that the bacteria was inoculated onto plastic blocks. Um, and then they looked at it over time and they found that guess what? These results do not support the often hurt assertion that plastic cutting b the plastic cutting boards are more sanitary than wood. So there was no difference between the two and clean wood blocks uh were able to uh like within 3 to 10 minutes show that they had no sign of bacteria afterwards. So, uh, great sign. Um, yeah. So, good news for everyone out there. If you want to use, um, you know, wood cutting boards, you just have to, you know, rinse them and use a damp cloth and they should have 98% at a minimum. That was the lowest finding, up to 99.9% bacteriaree surfaces. Um, so long as you uh, you know, just just take care of them. So, wow, great news. Huge thank you to Angus Roberts. Thank you for listening. Thank you for the feedback. Thank you for making me a cutting cutting board by hand. I'm incredibly honored. And don't we have the best listeners on the planet? Trex, I'll take your word for it. Nobody's sending me anything. So hey, you know, you don't know what you're going to get within internal mail at Duke. This this might change stuff. Yeah, we will see. No, it's um you know what's really interesting is so we went into that episode Helms and layered it with I with what felt like a gratuitous number of caveats and prefaces of saying like we are addressing this because people ask about it a lot and it's an area of heated debate and novel research. So like normally we like to give you the impression that what we say on this show you can take to the bank. We basically said do not take this to the bank. This is not um you you will not be able to store this in a bank. You cannot exchange it for any goods or services or currencies at a bank. This is not bankable. Uh but we've been asked to address it and we will take a shot at it. Um and so it felt like a gratuitous number of caveats, but after getting feedback, I actually think it's an appropriate number of caveats because I have some things I want to clarify as well. Um, one thing I want to note though, something that's very interesting, Helms, is throughout the whole episode, we really talked about how so much of this stuff is is novel. It's unsettled. It's, you know, like there's not going to be, frankly, a protein paper that comes out next month where we say, "Oh my god, this changes everything." you know, like we we're really in that area with the protein literature where we're we're we're kind of circling those last few little sub sub questions and hammering those out, right? Uh when it comes to microlastics, you will it's still in that early area where it's like every 3 months a paper comes out and you say, "Oh, so then throw out everything and let's start fresh." or you know that's an exaggeration but literal paradigm shifts every several papers which is not a normal thing in an established area of research. This research area is just not established yet. Um but what's really interesting is that the research here is so careful and measured and cautious and frankly um I I would say um what's the word I'm thinking of? Uh I guess those that's enough adjectives. um almost a little bit speculative to be completely honest where where it's like you know what we we use the best method we know of to measure what we think is important and here's what we think might what what we think it kind of tells us in terms of actionable information but opinions on it out in the world can tend to be very strong um especially like this isn't about microplastics per se but while you got that feedback Helms that came with a an actual abstract and a block of wood saying like, you know, there's been research saying that like this is not any less sanitary. It's it does just fine. You know, nothing to worry about there. We also got uh a a comment I think that went straight to like the Spotify feed. Uh we got a comment there where a person was actually like not just like, "Hey, I think you guys missed this." They actually seemed like disappointed in us on like a moral level. Like like almost like a knowing you could be so wrong and have this type of shortcoming as a human being makes me not only not want to listen to you in the future, but regret the time I invested in listening to you. And their whole point was that if you use wooden utensils, because they soak up bacteria like a sponge, you it's not enough to clean them. you have to literally shave them down on a regular basis and and essentially become like a part-time woodworker in order to get them to a sanitary level. So, we got literally dueling pieces of feedback that could not have been more polar opposites. Um, but yours came with a gift and mine just came with a like screw you, you're an idiot. So, that that's one point. Well, hopefully we didn't lose that person to the point where they did not see this episode because they might have just learned, oh, maybe I don't need to be a woodworker who is shaving down my wood utensils uh based upon the data. Yeah, maybe. So, now Helms, here is one where uh this was not the part of the episode where we were going by the studies where we were saying here's a study finding. I don't think this uh you know assessment method or or you know detection method is valid therefore we shouldn't worry about this part. This is when we started uh ad liibbing a little bit doing a little bit of uh a little bit of speculation a little bit of practical application where the research really isn't quite there yet. Uh and so you know we both were were responsible for this but we're talking a little bit about like covering what we just covered on microplastics. do are you going to plan to change anything? And in some of those potential changes, um you know, we had mentioned a couple things that re very recent research came out that actually may suggest we were wasting our time with some of those potential changes. Um and so this is really surprising stuff. Um, so paper came out basic. There's actually I saw the new one and then kind of followed back to a couple older ones. Um, of course there's nothing old in this area at all. But there have been at least a couple studies now where they compare, hey, we want to look at sodas for example. And so we are going to, you know, Helms, if I were going to go get a soda, I basically in America have three options. I could get soda that's stored in a glass bottle, which is pretty atypical, but it it exists. I could get soda stored in a plastic bottle, very common. Or I can get soda stored in a beautiful aluminum can. You're going Pepsi, I'm going Coke. We'll see which sponsor rushes in. Look at that. Yeah. So, um, you got glass, you got plastic, you got aluminum. Now, Helms, which one of those far and away obviously and clearly has the most microlastic exposure when they actually measure the liquid? I'm going to go out on a limb and say the plastic one. Me, too. And that was the premise of a lot of our speculative like, well, maybe I'll use more non-plastic bottles and, you know, maybe I'll do glass or aluminum. Like, we got problems. So, I was stunned and many have been stunned to learn that when they actually measure these liquids, some it's not even not it's not just that there isn't a huge gap between plastic and the others. For some beverages, they're finding that you have more microlastics from glass bottles than you have from plastic bottles. Um, and the same is true for aluminum cans sometimes. So, um, amazing. essentially. Can I ask you something real quick? Of course. Because so I I had a fun conversation with my wife about changing our our environment because, you know, like what do we want to do? How do we get rid of you know, like do we have some more silicon utensils? Cuz she's she's on top of this. Yeah. And she is actually more environmentally aware and has read a little bit more than this than I have. Um and she's also in a semi-related field like she she reads material science sometimes as a geologist. Yeah. But um when I started going off on this and talking about, you know, maybe we shouldn't be using our plastic shaker cups and stuff like that, she was like, you know, Eric, I I understand that that is plastic, but just because you touch plastic doesn't mean that it's going to become degraded. We're not heating these up. You know, we're typically not like letting our plastic spatula touch the frying pan until it it deforms before we flip something. and putting cold water and protein powder, doing this and drinking it 5 seconds later. I don't think it's going to be those gestures on the show. We're good. Oh, apologies. Apologies. Um, you don't need to to to work. She's I I would be skeptical that that's actually resulting in in contamination. I'm like, I don't know. You know, better safe than sorry. And then this this is even So, she'll be happy to hear this cuz she'll be right. Yeah. So, it turns out that aluminum cans on the inside are typically lined with all sorts of plastics. Uh, so you're like, "Oh, aluminum. What could what could go wrong?" But amazing. The the companies are like, "Well, we don't we don't actually want the beverage if it's, you know, made to withstand long-term storage. We don't actually want it just interacting with pure like aluminum or, you know, whatever they make the can out of, you know, some aluminum based metal." Um, and so yeah, they line it with a type of plastic that does seem to leech into the beverage. Uh, with when it comes to glass bottles, what's tricky is that apparently it's the um scratches on the cap uh c can cause some plastic leeching. Um, and so then, you know, if there's a scratch inside the cap and the bottle is inverted at some period of time during storage or shipping, then you're getting some of that leeching. So, all of that is to say, um, I still don't think the take-home message is panic, but I do think the take I'm increasingly convinced that the take-home message is you are more powerless than you ever imagined. You have no say, no bearing over your own body, uh, what you are exposed to, your personal health and well-being. This is all completely out of your hands. They were also talking about how like, you know, when you're going to these like bottle by bottle things, sometimes it's just like who had more dust sitting around in the manufacturing plant, you know, um, and that goes not just for beverages, but obviously for foods, you know, it's like the it is such an insidious thing that can get in in so many places and it's so many steps in the manufacturing and storage process. Um, I have revised my my position, not in all the science stuff we we talked about. As far as I can tell, that stuff all holds pretty well. It was just when we started to kind of like uh, you know, do a little bit of uh, elaboration at the end and a little speculation about maybe I'll do this, maybe I'll do that. I'm pretty much walking away from that and just saying like this is the type of thing that I'm increasingly convinced has to be taken care of. If if it is found to be a problem, this is going to have to be a systems level, you know, like, hey, we don't manufacture these linings anymore. Bottle caps no longer include this. Um, manufacturing processes are going to be updated in the following ways at the factory level. like this is going to be this is going to be something that is only really actionable at the level of regulation I think. Um so you know of course you still want to go out and avoid like egregious you know like if if you pick up your um you know your bottle and you're like hey is there little bits of plastic floating in there? Probably don't want to do that. Wooden cutting boards still make sense. It does. I Yes. You know what? Because actually literally carving into plastic into your food probably a bad idea and these can be bacteria free. So there are body autonomy is not a complete lie. True tracks espec and that's a hard cell in the fitness world. That's like that's like the the defining principle is we are going to take power over our health and you know do what we want. So, um, no, but but the the actual kind of take-home to kind of sort through this is the science portion when we talked through the studies about microplastics in the body and where they come from and things like that, that stuff was all good. Uh, we aired a bit in kind of buying the hype about the uh purported uh uncanliness or or unhygienic nature of wooden uh utensils and cutting boards, things of that nature. And we also erred a bit in our assumption which seemed very intuitive that you know maybe if if plastic bottles do a lot of leeching maybe I'll do glass. Apparently not so much. Uh maybe I'll do aluminum. Actually not so much. So um those are the only things where um we we essentially miss the mark a little bit in terms of me I miss the mark in terms of how much uh how much you can really control and and kind of micromanage deliberately your exposure especially when it comes to things like bottled uh or or you know beverage containers uh food containers things of that nature these microplastics they can be out there. Um, all right, Helms, is there anything else that you want to say about microlastics before we move on? No, I just have now I'm actually wondering as to the how well recycling even goes with aluminum cans. I I have more questions now that I know these things. I I've been reassured that they're still very much fully recyclable with that plastic liner included. Um I don't know how I've I've been con when we were when I was a kid Helms I almost said when we were kids when I was a kid you were in your 30s but when I when I was a kid recycling was the big thing like when you were in school we no one was like hey global warming what they taught kids about was protect the ozone layer and recycle recycle reduce reuse baby. Exactly. and the ozone layer too. It was all about like don't use aerosols, careful with the styrofoam and the CFC's. Young people have probably never heard any of this stuff cuz again at the regulation level they pretty much nip that in the bud is the the impression I've gotten. Um but anyway, uh I lost my train of thought. What was I talking about? You were asking if I had any other thoughts on it and I said, "Oh, is this stuff even recyclable?" And you've assured me that it is. And I um shouldn't, but I am taking your word for it. Yeah. But anyway, I I forget where I was going with that whole train of train of thought, but um yeah, you can still recycle the aluminum cans uh as far as I know, but uh yeah, unfortunately, they're not the savior that I was hoping they'd be. One thing I do want to mention on this topic, Helms, is uh so with uh this is a good example, something that comes up all the time, Helms, which is you say I I've heard this quote from you. I don't know if you want to attribute it to somebody else, but uh not everything that's true makes sense and not everything that makes sense is true and vice versa, right? You can flip that whichever way you like. Um this is a really good example of how if you just go pure intuition, uh you will make extremely logical assumptions and extremely logical conclusions that may not pan out. Uh and that is why in a world where everyone's like who cares about all this science nonsense, all this mumbo jumbo, who why do you need to dive into all the particulars and the granular stuff and you you find a research study that of course you know an obvious finding that I already assume to be true. What a waste of time, right? If I were to wave around a study that said, "Hey, did you know glass bottles have less microlastics than plastic bottles?" People would say, "Who is wasting our tax dollars funding this crap?" Right? Well, the reason we waste our tax, quote unquote, waste it funding this crap is cuz sometimes it doesn't actually pan out. Uh, and so in this case, I would have bet the I would have bet the farm on those studies that the glass bottles would have been a massive and very meaningful reduction in microplastic exposure. And Helms, it just didn't happen. It didn't turn out. It didn't. And you you said this last episode that to some degree being more reliant on empirical research rather than mechanisms or logic uh is a sign of experience because we run into this time and time again to the point where we just smirk and smile. And while it sounds very illogical to say, you know, sometimes things that um are true don't make sense and sometimes things that make sense aren't true, it's not a statement that is accurate when all things are known. But the reality is is that all things are not known and we don't know what we don't know. Yeah. The funny thing about blind spots is you can't see them. And that is their nature. And I think once you've been down this path multiple times and why I really caution people against going out on too much of a mechanistic limb or a speculative limb or building house of cards out of logic is that every step of that house of cards, every level you go up, you're having a multiplicative possibility of missing out on something you don't know you don't know. and the interaction effects and the second and third and fourth order effects to where you get to a point where I can almost guarantee you're wrong, even though I can follow your logic train back to the start. And this is just one of those examples. Of course, plastic has more plastic in it than aluminum. And if that was the only pertinent fact, the only thing to know, then that would be a true statement. But we didn't know that aluminum is lined with plastic. So, and and there's there's equivalents of that whether we're talking about eccentrics for hypertrophy, uh the interaction between caffeine and creatine or endless things that are more innocuous and more mild that apply to bodybuilding and fitness and fat loss and health or things that are potentially more widespread that do require study like something like the emerging uh area of microplastics. So, I think it's it's well said. Um, I don't think the quote should be attributed to me because it's just so farreaching even though I have repeated it many times and it is something that is self-evident if you're aware of the history of even just a decade of almost any field. Yeah, absolutely. But yeah, this is one of those examples where um, man, it it is so obvious and intuitive and yet it's not true. you know, some of those things that we were like, well, I guess if I want to limit my microplastic exposure, maybe I'll do this, right? So, that's why you dig into the studies, you check and and then you come back uh in front of tens of millions of people on the show and say, "Never mind. I guess that won't work." Um, yep. So, yeah. Um, Helms, I think that, uh, makes that wraps up our little clarification section here. We have uh a big announcement uh celebratory announcement. Um I completely lost my train of thought when after I made a joke about your age. Um and I'm still just baffled at where I might have been going with that. Maybe it'll hit me in the middle of the night, but I want to go ahead and and risk another age dig here because I am pleased to announce on behalf of the mass crew, we now officially have one issue for every year of Helms's life. As of today, I has it has it gone live. I think it's gone live already. Yeah, it has. We just released the 100th issue of the Mass Research Review. That is 100 issues of the hardest hitting science related to training, nutrition, and all adjacent topics, psychology, behavior, you name it. If it's related to getting jacked, getting healthy, or helping others do the same, uh, getting very, very strong, that is covered in mass. We've been doing it, uh, as a team since 2017, every single month, 100 issues, never a late issue. Now, I jumped on the bandwagon after it was already rolling down the road. I was not around for the first uh, about 2 years. So Helms, as a person who has been in all 100 of those 100 issues, you and Mike are the only people who can say that. How does it feel to cross this big milestone? You know, in all seriousness, it is mind-boggling. Um, and that's not just because of early or faciciously late onset Alzheimer's. If I am actually to be believed to be 100 years old, uh, which by the way, I got to sell my skincare routine if that's the case. 100 in fitness years. No, I'll give you that. That's that's 100 that's 100% true because at this point I should have pivoted and gotten cancelled at least three times. You know, changed my name. If you still exist out there in the fitness world after the age of 27, you probably didn't do very well. So, I'm a great example of someone who is supposed you're supposed to fly way too close to the sun and have this incredible arc where you blow up and then collapse all by the age of 27. So, you took a different trajectory and we appreciate you for it. Yeah. No, I I have been watching Icarus's fly by my uh biplane that has been slowly climbing and crash down in the time that I am still slowly climbing almost on a daily basis. That is for sure. Um, so how does it feel? It feels amazing because um, each issue is a tremendous amount of work. I think that's just something we have to acknowledge. And when you guys like like our PDF is over 100 pages and that's normal. So we're essentially producing a joint master's thesis on a monthly basis and we've been doing that for eight years and that's nuts. So, it's pretty cool. And um on a very very selfish note, TX, it's made me so much better at my job. And I'm so glad that we went out and we we decided to do this because it is a commitment. You're locked into doing something every month. And to keep it fresh because like you said, certain things, creatine, protein hasn't changed much. Um we do have to expand outside of our little comfort zone. You know, if you go back and look at the 2017 issue, unsurprisingly, Mike and I were writing about autoregulation, um, you know, and that's what I did my PhD on. Uh, in the next issue, I think I wrote about protein or very early on in it. That's what I did my my second masters on. But, you know, now I'm doing stuff on long muscle length training, on science, uh, you know, philosophy, uh, and everything in between. Obviously, I'm still in my broader wheelhouse, but I will happily say that my wheelhouse has expanded and um it has made me a better thinker and it has made me far more critical and hopefully a better communicator and also it gives me a real sense of confidence that there are literally thousands of people who have stayed subscribers since the start and they themselves are in many cases content creators, educators or trainers. And that gives me a a really profound sense of hope because I know that their fingers are reaching even broader than ours. So, it's been a great run and I want to thank everyone who's either a new, old, prior, current subscribers, whatever, or just, you know, partakes in our free content because I know not everyone's in a financial position to truly uh, you know, be a subscriber. And I have to say I'm so glad you came on board as well because your uh Renaissance manlike career trajectory has really benefited I think not just uh mass team but also all the subscribers. Yeah, it's funny cuz like if I think all the way back to like 18ish 19ish when I came on board, one would be forgiven for thinking like well that's a bit redundant, right? like they already have a a bodybuilding Eric. Um, and you know, I dabbled in powerlifting uh as well, but we already had powerlifting covered. Um, but it is interesting like you never know where this wacky science stuff and fitness stuff is going to take you. And uh, yeah, I mean, if you look at my articles lately, I I rarely write about supplements, even though that used to be kind of a big hobby horse. I still do from time to time when there's something interesting that comes out. But um but yeah, it's been really fun to watch my own topics really kind of not by force. You know, it's not like a conscious decision of like, you know, you see like on TV shows and movies when journalists are like on deadline in a newspaper room and they're like there's eight pots of coffee on they're like we got to get something out by midnight. You know, it's like uh there is so much to be learned about health and fitness and wellness. There's I mean you could turn over new rocks for the rest of your life and still have more to turn over. So um it's been really fun to uh to watch Mass, you know, really nail the key stuff in its niche and then kind of snowball from there. you know, it's it's not like an untethered runaway train that's kind of careening off its course, but it's snowballing and it's expanding into these uh adjacent topics that I think ultimately serve to, you know, continue even if you were kind of in that core. I want to get big, strong, and jacked. These other topics at some point in your fitness journey will be instrumental to to facilitating those aims. So yeah, it's been cool to watch um to watch Mass change over the years without abandoning its kind of core niche and purpose, which has been awesome. So like you said, I want to thank everyone who's been around uh since day one or at least since the day I joined. If you didn't, there's a lot of folks. I don't want to name anyone, but there's a lot of people who consider the the official cannon of mass to be the ones that started when I came on full-time. There's a lot of debate over there was one guest article I did before I officially joined the crew. Uh scholars will debate whether or not that's that's part of the cannon for years to probably centuries to come. Uh a lot of folks the majority opinion is that the stuff before me while still good. It's kind of like the Apocrypha uh in biblical terms. It's the other books that are still worth a read. They're they're page turners. keep them on hand, you know, but but they may not quite fit the true cannon. So, I'll leave that to the mass subscribers, but that's the feedback I typically get. But once again, huge thanks to everyone who's been a part of that. And uh huge thanks to people who may in the future be part of that if if you're interested in uh catching up very briefly on those hundred issues, but more importantly joining in because this thing keeps on chugging. We're always covering the new stuff, always contextualizing it based on what's known previously. If you subscribe to Mass and you just jump into issue 100, you're not going to feel behind whatsoever. Uh but if you're interested in getting on that train uh and you know taking things to the next level in terms of your own education, your ability to support your own training goals, training goals of people around you, make sure you check out massresearch review.com uh as we are celebrating all month that 100th issue. Anything else to add on that Helms? Not on that, but I do have maybe a slightly somber announcement and then uh a final announcement before we jump into the Q&A. Yeah, go for it. Okay, so um this 19 hours ago, uh Ronnie Coleman, the Ronnie Coleman, eight time Mr. Olympia, perhaps one of the greatest bodybuilders of uh at least my era, which as we noted spans back to the beginning of bodybuilding in apparently 1925. Um, hey guys. I hate to break it to y'all, but I won't be able to make it to the UK this week like I planned. Unfortunately, I had a medical emergency and had to stick around here in the US for treatment. But don't worry, I'm in great hands getting the best care, and I'm staying strong through it all. I'll be back and better than ever, and I can't wait to get out there and see you all real soon. Uh, thanks for the love and support, and as always, this ain't nothing but a peanut. That sounds really reasonably good. But then seven hours ago, um, the Coleman family made a post. We want to inform Ronnie's fans, supporters, and the bodybuilding community that Ronnie Coleman was admitted to the hospital on this past Sunday morning due to a serious medical condition. He is currently receiving expert medical care and continues to show incredible strength and resilience. At this time, we are not sharing additional details as the focus remains on Ronnie's recovery and well-being. We kindly ask for your understanding and support and keeping the environment respectful and free of speculation. Please rely only on official updates from Ronnie's family or authorized representatives. We're committed to keeping you informed is appropriate. Ronnie has always inspired the world with this toughness and heart and we know he feels the love and energy being sent his way with heartfelt regards to the Coleman family. So, I just wanted to let people know that that's the case. You know, an icon at least in the in the world of competitive bodybuilding um is in need of support. So, send them your well wishes uh your prayers if that's your thing. And uh yeah, just keeping people in the know cuz I only just saw this right before we got on recording and I do hope that he's okay. I had the pleasure and privilege of meeting him in 2023 and he was literally the the first bodybuilding cover like icon for when I first got into fitness. He was the reigning Mr. Olympia at that time in 0405. So yeah. Yeah. I mean there's there's nothing better than prime Ronnie Coleman. There there will always be arguments about what the prime was. I was always partial to, man, when he was in that like 98 to 2000 sweet spot. Oh my god, what a physique. Unbelievable. Um, but Ronnie's a legend, man. Like, everyone who was lifting in that era, if if you needed a little a little pump up before the gym, you watch a training video on YouTube of Ronnie Coleman back back when YouTube was in its infancy. It felt like his, you know, his training in the gym was incredible to watch. He seemed like I mean it it was one of those he has one of those personalities that by watching just little clips of you know people filming him around the gym, you feel like he's your buddy. You feel like you know him. Um, and I just remember at that at that time, uh, in my when I was just getting into lifting, he was huge. And specifically, he was all over the BSN advertisements in the supplement store. And you would look, you know, you'd look around at all the tubs of everything, and there would be just like this giant poster of Ronnie Coleman with that bicep vein, and you'd be like, "Okay, synthesics, fine. Uh, what was it? Celltech, of course. N O explode. whatever this man is selling looking like that when I'm like a 16-year-old kid, I'm in, you know. Um, so yeah, sending well wishes. Ronnie is an absolute legend. Uh, and hope he gets well soon. And the and and one anecdote and we'll move along. Um, because this embodies truly what makes culture iron culture. This man began competing in bodybuilding to get a free gym membership. Mhm. It was not the other way around. And he continued to train and even sometimes when he probably shouldn't have related to being around surgeries and things like that. Uh because he truly is a lover of the iron. He's a lifelong bodybuilder. Before he was a competitive bodybuilder and one always came after the second, even after winning eight Mr. Olympias and being tantalized by the fame and everything else. At his core, at his heart, he is a man who is training. He is bodybuilding. He embodies it. So, yeah, couldn't be a better uh representative in my opinion uh because of that key element. So, um I think that is the the only somber announcement I have. Uh, another cool announcement that people might be happy to hear about is um, so I got some travel coming up and we've been doing a lot of uh, live episodes and prior to that we did a fair number of recorded episodes. So next week folks, we won't be live but we will have a really great recorded episode with Dr. Stephen Larson. Uh for those who are not like Trex and have been feverishly keeping their finger on the pulse of uh lengthen bias training or um lengthened partials uh or uh comparing different types of exercises that train barticular muscles in different ways. He's been doing a lot of really high quality research in this area. Uh and he's published a lot of very good work and I have a great interview with him. Um I actually happened to be his uh one of his external supervisor on his masters. He did a lot of cool work also looking at the biomechanical modeling of low bar squats compared to high bar squats. Some interesting applications to strength training and powerlifting. Um and he is now currently uh like the head of education at the academy for personal training which is a growing excellent body uh that I've been involved with for going all the way back to 2015. and I spoke at one of their conferences, but they started in Norway, they expanded into Sweden, and now they're expanding into the English market. But they do a fantastic job of providing highquality personal trainer education. And just it goes to show you like, oh, who are we going to hire as our head of education? This recent biomechanics graduate um who is still in the published research, still in the lab, still doing work uh as as a researcher. So anyway, just wanted to give shout out to AFPT and it's a really good interview for anyone who wants to stay up todate uh with with that research. And of course Trex was not present. He claimed he was busy, but we all know what happened. And if you did an interview with say a college football anything, I might also be busy at that time. So I'll just put that out there. Yeah. So yes, I I believe that should be coming out uh this upcoming week. There is Helms. I should mention a small chance that that gets flipped around, but I will keep the the cult completely up to date. Uh that will either be this upcoming Monday or the one after one of those two. Okay? Cuz I have some travel as well. The whole it's not just the world stops when you travel. I also have a life. I have responsibilities and a family. Okay? Allegedly. So So we'll figure that stuff out. But uh definitely that recording is in the can. It is excellent. It's edited. It's ready to go. Okay. Um, all right, Helms, we have uh some questions to get to. Uh, as you're looking through the chat, I've been perusing the chat. Uh, there's a few that came to the after hours portal. Folks, if you want to submit a question and you're not listening live, you can go to massresarchreview.com/ironculture. Submit a question there anytime. We use them. We have the proof. Go back and listen to the episodes, folks. Uh, so Danny said, "On a recent episode of the smash hit podcast, Front Page Fitness, that's the one I host with the Dr. Lauren Colenzo Simple, I mentioned that I eat a variety of fairly highly processed meat substitutes in order to get protein as a vegetarian." Um, and so this person, their cardiologist, recommended a more plant-heavy diet, and they were asking what some of my favorites are. Uh, and Helms, I don't know if you, uh, partake in this particular pastime at all. Uh, but for me personally, uh, at grocery stores in the States, a lot of them these days, if you go in the frozen food section, there will be a little, depending on where you are, you know, if you're in Portland, I think they have a bigger section. If you're in uh, you know, rural North Carolina, it gets tight. You get like a shelf, but there is a section in the frozen foods aisle where they will have uh, what used to be helms. I mean, you probably remember these days, I'm sure. Uh, back in the day, they would have like some soy crumbles and like maybe a Beyond Burger or something like that. Nowadays, tremendous variety, honestly. Like, I'll be looking through and, you know, there's there's brand names. Uh, Gardein is one that comes to mind. Um, there's a bunch of different uh Morning Star Farms is one that comes to mind, but I'll be looking through there and they're like, "Yeah, we got teriyak chicken. We got Korean barbecue chicken. We've got So, I mean, the chicken substitutes for from my money's worth, the the beef has become in many instances fairly indistinguishable from actual beef. And the more you get away from beef, of course, then you're you can't tell anyway, right? Uh, but the beef has been good for a while in my opinion. I've been amazed lately with the chicken products. Uh, the texture has gotten way better. the flavor was okay, but but has really improved. Um, so I I like to just go into that aisle and it it's uh yeah, I just kind of see, okay, what's on sale? What looks interesting? What have I what I have the taste for? You can find things like, you know, um maple flavored sausage patties for breakfast. Like there there's actually like a tremendous variety now. So, uh, I think if if your cardiologist puts you on a plant-heavy diet and you're like, "Okay, but I'm not really I'm not ready to like fundamentally change my eating pattern, you know, um, which is a big distinction, you know, then yeah, I would encourage you check out that frozen aisle, see what they have on offer in your area. Uh, and you may be pleasantly surprised." But what I mean by changing your diet pattern is like a lot of people it's like, "Well, normally for dinner I have a a burger and and you know, a side." Well, I could just take out the red meat burger and put in a plant-based burger with, you know, more fiber, less saturated fat, lower calories, and your cardiologist will probably say, "Great, looks good." Or you could say, "I'm going to make a chickpea curry." You know, it's like, so when you go on like a especially switching to a vegan diet, you do find that in many cases, you're like, I eat fundamentally different cuisines now. I eat more Vietnamese cuisine, more Chinese cuisine, more Japanese cuisine, um more Indian cuisine, right? But but if you're just looking for a pretty simple uh change where you're doing more swaps and substitutions rather than a massive overhaul of the types of meals you consume, those products for Mihelms are are fantastic. No, I I totally agree. Um and yeah, the the substitution options now are uh manifold and quite good and you just have to to try try a few, you know, like you won't necessarily, you know, because there's so many options now, you can pick a bad one accidentally, but there are good ones. And um you know, this is two two things that that I' we've gotten push back on either the podcast or the Instagram lately. Uh, I had a real that we put on the Mass Research Review on ultrarocessed foods and mostly very positive feedback because I tried to speak to some of the nuances of saying, "Hey, yeah, we see these correlations for ultrarocessed diets, but not in every case is an ultrarocessed thing just a bad food." Um, and this is a great uh like instance where being ultrarocessed, which applies almost to all of these or at least heavily processed would apply because they're engineered food products. But um these are instances where it could be directly heart healthy and we have strong data to suggest that. Calling back to our last episode where we talked about the potential harms of high protein diets which are largely overblown. Even in the observational data, a consistent thing you'll see for all cause mortality, heart, metabolic uh health, when you look at protein, the relationship shift around, but almost universally you see plant protein either positively associated with health and all cause mortality being lower or neutral at worst. So, um, even if you were to to to maintain a diet that is probably a little too high in calories, you know, probably a little too high in fat, like if it was perfect, and you know, you're eating foods that are fried and ultrarocessed, just switching them out to being plant-based proteins probably would result in some meaningful reductions in things like LDL, total cholesterol, and blood pressure, even if it didn't make a substantial difference as far as like your body composition immediately. um or or some other things. It would probably be a step in the right direction towards health or at least removing a negative. So, I I fully endorse that. All right, Helms. Got one for you here. I'm not even going to chime in. Okay. Uh want to make sure we get plenty in here tonight. Um so, we had a question here about agonist antagonist supersets. And we can extrapolate it also to supersets with muscle groups that are just fundamentally not related to one another, right? supersetting tricep extensions with calf raises, for example. So, this individual mentioned that when you do supersets, apparently they were consuming some content you had written or created about this and you were doing the antagonist supersets back to back. So, you finish one, you go straight into the other set and then taking two to three minutes between supersets. they prefer um the they mentioned that sometimes they were getting a little fatigue just from like a general cardiovascular perspective. So they would do set A, take a minute, do set B and then take you know maybe another minute and back to set A. So they were wondering um do you find a meaningful distinction and you know do you think one would be fundamentally better than the other or are those both totally viable approaches? totally viable and probably better if you are supersetting cardiovascular demanding exercises. And while the stock standard here's what we do in research and how we write it out in a mass research review article is to do it that way one two-minute rest and that will directly extrapolate to the amount of time saving that's been shown in the studies. That's actually not what I do in my own personal training. I have I haven't timed a rest period in a decade or longer to be 100% honest. Um, I go when I'm ready and I know that by using an antagonist or peripheral agonist setup, the two types of supersets you you you stipulated, the main thing I have to do is just make sure I'm not going too quickly. And if you're not in great cardiovascular shape, that will easily accomplish itself by just autoregulating it. So, that's a totally viable way to do it. And it actually is how I do it in practice. I appreciate you leaning into the old man character. No one will tell me what to do, nor will they tell me when to do it. And at your age, I think you've earned that, Helms. Um, yep. Another question that I I think is uh right up your alley. So, this question is about scaling nutritional variables. So, uh the question is how to scale protein and calories down for very small people. So, this person has uh what they describe as a tiny client. Um, so they described like a a short woman who weighs about 45 kg and they're they're wondering, you know, I would imagine, you know, this is something a lot of people report when they first start working with clients. Maybe they're used to being 180 lb man. So they have a calorie number that for them has always felt very low and a calorie number that feels very high. They kind of have their working range and then they're working with someone who weighs 80 lbs less than them and they're like, I've never really seen numbers this low. Should I be worried? Should I be uncomfortable? Um, do you make any kind of special accommodations for people with very low body weights? In that regard, I think a lot of it is just reframing your own perspective and thinking in relative terms. Um, like one of the most common things you'll see on the internet is generally you shouldn't be under 1,800 calories as a male or 1,200 calories as a woman because that's just no go land, right? But let's be honest here. So a 45 uh kilogram person um for the Americans is 100 pounds. Yeah. So sometimes those who have been on the internet a while they will sometimes see body weight kal multipliers and you'll see like cutting recommendations to be from like 10 to 12 kals per pound maintenance around 13 to 14 and then bulking at like 15 or higher. 1,200 is on the higher end of the dieting range for this person. And you know, we talked about in the episode where you recap your really awesome article on the limits of metabolic adaptation that everyone in all cases should be in a deficit. We'll say almost all cases just because we're going to, you know, be our smart science communicatorselves, right? If they were to multiply their body weight in pounds times 10. Yeah. And for someone who's 100 pounds, that's a thousand calories. So the first thing is you do just need to be aware that those body weight multipliers are generally better than any kind of absolute values that you have. Even though we've been conditioned with the 2,00 and the 2500 calorie like standard person uh female and male that we we have been, you know, see on food labels and things like that or the kind of the fitness tropes like the 1800 and the 1200. But yeah, in practice I often operate like something like I'm going to be uncomfortable to go below 10k cals per pound and I'll operate from there up to 15 16 depending upon kind of where if if I want to use that approach. So that is the big one. Protein I would say all of the the variables we we use apply quite well and it's more about the leanness of the person. If they're really really lean or if they are very very high in body fat, it's probably better to use our mutual publication that we did led by Dr. Dr. Ruffalo's guidance on grams per kilogram and fat-free mass and have an estimation of body fat uh than it is to just go off raw body weight or you can get a really inflated protein intake for someone high in body fat or potentially too low potentially for someone low in body fat. But I think the first step again is think of calories in relative terms. Think of kind of your really low end as 10 and then your you know your probable upper end around 15 16 for most people although you do see some pretty large outliers in any energy expenditure. Uh and then from there do be aware of the differences in terms of experiences of practical meals and also the nutrient density. So there are a few things I do get concerned with when you have very small people on low calorie diets is that it is very difficult to build them plates and just practical meal plans. If you have someone on let's say this person is relatively sedentary and they're dieting and you need to put them on,200 calories that would not be unreasonable at all. But you might be going all right cool I want you to have you know one to two servings of fruit and vegetables per day. You know what I like you have to actually think about what fruit you're you're having in the meat because an apple might be 10% of their calories, you know, right? So like if it's a large one. So it's it's it's a lot. So you do have to be a little more concerned about the pragmatic aspect of ensuring micronutrient density and appropriate fiber intake while not really crowding out the rest of their diet. Yeah. I mean, I think a lot of us have been there in prep, like, you know, my my calories tend to get really low, but I'll even start looking at vegetables with a very careful eye and being like, I mean, you're a vegetable, but you're no broccoli, you know, you're no cauliflower. So, you start looking at that ratio of total carbohydrate to fiber and try to make sure that you're kind of keeping that within the range because you need to be using that to get your fiber target for the day, right? So yeah, it's thing you start doing a lot more arithmetic and geometry as you're trying to piece together that diet and it gets even more dicey for lower body weights. I'm glad you said geometry because I do think something that's very important when you're dealing with these low calorie counts is to look at energy density. And this is very simply taking the gram of the food and dividing it by the kals. And you want to be leveraging a lot of um especially if they're dieting and especially if they're reporting hunger and they're struggling with adherence. uh you get a lot of bang for your buck when you look at the relationship between adherence and successful weight loss especially in ad libitum trials when you leverage low energy density foods. Um so of course these are invariably almost exclusively um fruits and vegetables that we talked about. But even in terms of what what proteins you're going to use, you want to look at um low pro, sorry, low calorie, lowfat, low carbohydrate protein options um and things that are, you know, essentially from the moderate and lower for the most part when someone is dieting on these low low of calories because they are also low in body weight. And it's an unfortunate thing as well. If you try to mess with the energy outside of the equation, they don't burn very many calories. They don't need to burn as many calories, but you also don't want to over overlever that. So, it I think needs to be a part of the equation having a fair amount of activity, but you can't you can't go crazy with it because it just will be so much time and effort to get a relatively low absolute value of uh of energy expenditure out. And the final thing I'll say is if you're going off of just like someone shouldn't be doing like the 1,200,800 mindset with non-ae people, um, pound to half a pound of like a pound of weight loss per week being a a good rule of thumb. A 500 calorie deficit is inappropriate for someone who weighs 100 pounds straight up. Okay, that might be half of the calories you'd be assigning them uh during a like, 1100, 1200. like that's tremendously too large. They will see more visual changes from a half a pound than someone else will because they don't weigh very much. So you probably want to be looking at a 100 to 300 calorie deficit at most for someone this size. So that is something that you need to be thinking about differently as well. If you generally think, oh yeah, pound a week, 500 calorie deficit, stock standard diet, that's great for everybody at all times. No, that's that's probably far too quick. And like you're saying, you know, you think about losing a a half pound off of a frame of a 4 foot 11 person versus a person that's 5 foot 10, right? Very very different visual kind of um uh response to that. Uh speaking of which, we had a question about um BMI and height. Uh so they said, "Please discuss the individual bias we see with BMI for short people versus tall people. I.e. Short people are more likely to be low BMI. Tall people more likely to be high BMI due to the nature of the equation. Um, this is something that doesn't get discussed very much in the world of BMI, but gets discussed all the time in the world of fat-free mass index. And of course, it applies to both. So, fat- free mass index, we talk about how much fat-free mass you have per unit height squared when you divide by me squared. And um and all of us who obsess about the littlest differences in muscularity, you know, we talked for ages about how we we need to account for this height bias which which tends to inflate values in taller people and depress values and shorter people. Um and there's still a tremendous amount of debate. I don't think it's resolved at all in terms of what that correction formula should actually look like. I don't think we actually have a really good estimate of that slope. I think it's a a question that can definitely be answered in a very robust way. I just don't think it's been done yet. Um, but all I really have to say about this individual bias is it exists. Um, but BMI still tends to do pretty good. Um, you know, we know that BMI is a flawed metric. um in the you know the technical ter in the technical sense it is not a perfect indicator of one's risk for really anything at all. Um obviously if we have access to high quality body fat percentage data we'd love that and frankly we can do better than that. We we'd love to know specifically where are you storing body fat? Because you know if you are 25% body fat with very low visceral fat that tells us a very different metabolic story than someone who's the same body fat level with a tremendous amount of visceral fat, abdominal obesity, things of that nature. So all that is to say anytime we're using one of these simple metrics to kind of take a you know 30,000 ft view of somebody's cardioabolic risk or cardioabolic function we know that we're leaving granular detail on the table. Okay. So uh BMI is obviously a very blunt tool. It is true that there is some built-in height bias. It's also true, Helms, that BMI cuto offs uh are also a little bit biased uh by um ethnic background and race. Um not when we say bias, that makes it sound like there's some sort of intentionality. What I really mean by that is, you know, there are some populations where you'd say, you know, normally the overweight cutoff begins at 25, but b based on health data for these individuals, maybe it should probably actually start at 26. Maybe for these individuals it should probably actually start around 24. And you will actually find some countries in the world where they you know when when their government is putting out health information they're saying no for our population based on the the predominant race and ethnicity uh makeup of our population. Overweight starts at 24. There are countries that do that. Um, so there are these biases built in, not due to malicious nature, but just because of the way it turns out that a simple ratio with one of the terms squared isn't a a perfect encapsulation of cardioabolic risk. Um, so yeah, it is good to know. Um but at at the same time I think when you look at the the broader literature uh on how BMI seems to do at the population level estimating cardioabolic risk I would not for example say well you know my BMI is 33 but I'm 6'2 you know I'm sure it's fine you know you'd want to dig deeper and contextualize and the BMI to be very clear when I say like don't assume it's fine quote unquote that that's such a oversimplification a BMI is only enough to raise the little red flag, the very tiny one that says maybe you should consult with a physician if you haven't done blood work in a while. Do it. Uh, and maybe you do the blood work and they say, you know what, your BMI is 27 and a half, but you seem to be a muscular fella and your glycemic control looks great. Your blood lipids look great, your blood pressure is great. I'm not worried about it. This BMI works on you. That is completely a realistic thing that frankly a huge amount a large number a large proportion of our audience that probably applies to, right? Is that their BMI is slightly in the overweight range. If they were go to a doctor and say, "I I want to lose weight to save my life." Their doctor would look at them like an idiot and they'd say, "Look, we just did your blood work. Everything looks great. Your blood pressure is great. Uh if you want to lose weight because you feel like it, by all means, I'm not going to stop you." But um yeah, BMI always needs to be contextualized with those kinds of caveats in mind. Yeah. And there's actually a comment that popped in by blue. I don't know if it's fair to say BMI is flawed. How? Never supposed to be designed to assess body fat. Either way, high high BMI is predictive of many negative things irrespective of weight distribution. It was never supposed to be a measure about metabolic health. I think we're in complete agreement with that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're in semantic disagreement but conceptual agreement. flawed in the way that many people interpret it, which is yeah, you are a completely healthy human being until you reach 25.1 and then you know you're in a little orange threat zone and then once you go to 30.1 now you're in you're in the deep end. You you now have obesity and that is what describes your metabolic risk. Um obviously yeah BMI is if you want to take it literally it cannot be flawed because it is a calculation and as long as you calculate it right it is what it is. Um but I I think um it is an imperfect indicator of one's cardioabolic health but also not a useless indicator by any means. It it does a very nice job at the population level. Um, and yeah, I think we've hammered that to death many times and written mass content about it as well. Um, Helms, before we uh answer just a couple more and get out of here, I do want to give some shoutouts. People in the chat, which by the way, we didn't even really tell anyone we were going live tonight. Um, so props to everyone who made it into the live chat. I I didn't even set up the stream until like 5 minutes beforehand, so you couldn't even really hop in the waiting room. Um, so really appreciate people who made it out, people congratulating us on a 100 issues of Mass. Really appreciate that. Um, absolutely rem just a lovely review by Philip in the chat talking about uh the Mass Research review saying it's honestly the best overall health resource you can subscribe to. Uh, the subscription has paid for itself in terms of time saved not having to search for reliable health info. Um, and yeah, when we write mass, we uh we really put a lot of time and detail and attention into covering those topics so we don't have to make fools of ourselves and come out and do our micro plastic 10 ways we were wrong kind of roundup. But Helms, when we need to do it, we do it and we're not worried about it. Um, but yeah, really appreciate everyone making it in there. Um, people wishing Ronnie Coleman well, that's a beautiful thing. We love that in our community, of course. Um, Co Cole Runnings uh mentioned that they're a longtime listener, first time attending live. So, major props to them for attending it on a on a day where structurally everything was stacked against you. We made it as hard as possible to attend live today. So, major props on that. Um, also amazing movie that you have taken your handle to name after. Absolutely. Cool runningings for sure. Um, let's see. Helms, are there any ones that you really want to address uh before we head out or should I grab a couple more? There there's there's one in the iron culture chat that I think is uh Killer K uh frequent question asker and um he's got kind of a a clustering of of questions that are related to response variation. And since Dr. Mike Zordos is not here to to slap our wrists, we're allowed to say whatever we want. Yeah, we can say whatever we want. That's right. So I'll uh I'll read two of these questions out. How large is variance for growth responses if lifestyle is dialed in to people exist who get their best growth outside of typical recommendations? Meaning they get better results with four to six R less than eight fractional sets. So shortened bias and do training non-responders or very low responders exist where even optimizing all the variables they will see very little results and what is the cause? Is it myostatin, low tea, etc. So um there's going to be stuff coming out on this. In fact, sitting in both Dr. Trexler and my inbox right now, yeah, is uh Dr. Zach Robinson's um dissertation work that we're looking to publish. And uh it specifically addressed one aspect of response variation. But before we even address that, I think it's really important to note that you can find papers in the research that claim to identify high and low responders. And in most cases what they are actually characterizing is they are simply using a median split quintiles quartortiles or some type of threshold cutoff of the minimum worthwhile change or the minimum detectable change of the measurement for either strength or hypertrophy and saying these people were low responders, these people were normal responders, the people were high responders. The reality is though is what they're telling you is that in this study those people responded high, medium or low relative to that group of people. And I think we can all, those of us with a few years of training experience under our belt, who've hit a plateau and either overcome it or not, think of times where for whatever reason, we did not get a good response or we got a great response and then if you've been in the game as long as myself or Trexler, you might have tried to repeat that because you wanted to rekindle that magic and it just just didn't happen. And this is outside of just simply the the reality that you're going to have diminished returns as you train longer and longer and longer and that your best case scenario 10 years in is actually going to be far worse than your worst case scenario when you were 10 weeks in. You know, you when you could have looked at a muscle magazine and made better gains than doing everything right at this point. So there are two things that we're limited by in the research. uh the one I just addressed, we don't know if that's actually a characteristic trait of the person, which implies that is something inherent to them, that they don't respond well across the board, or if they just didn't respond well in that study. Um, so that's really important. The second thing is that it's actually incredibly challenging because of that phenomenon we've experienced where we do a similar protocol within a couple years when we haven't really drastically changed things and for some reason we did well one time and the other time we did not anecdotally. That's actually something you have to tease out in the in in a study design. So we think we we we address it when we do something like a within participant design. Okay, left limb, right limb, they are doing two different protocols. You respond better on one side. is the same environment. We can't really know until we repeat that protocol and then swap limbs and then even do it again. That is actually what's required to tease out statistically the random well that's not random the the variability that is anything unrelated to the training itself in terms of your response to what your your normal response is quote unquote normal response. So there are multiple things at play. There is what is your typical variation in the way you respond to a given protocol regardless. Um and there is also do you respond differently to different things and at this stage I am reasonably confident in saying that variables which describe the dose of training probably don't vary between individuals. However, we don't have data to support the idea that any and all individual variation does not exist. So, what Dr. Robinson's work specifically did was it looked at different levels of volume. And I think in a lab setting, when you manipulate volume and you hold everything else constant and you control for one of the biggest things that I think happens in the real world is that when you try to do more volume, you end up pacing. You don't train as close to failure. uh you take longer rest periods, you're more likely to swap out RDL's to a back extension because it's just hard to do that much work. Um that doesn't happen in an 8 to 12 week study because you've got four research assistants yelling at you and making sure sometimes even with a tendo unit or a gym aware that your velocity is appropriately slow so that you're maintaining the intensity. You can't pace yourself while you're doing more sets in those confined conditions. We have pretty well established that you will respond better to higher volume. But that's just not what happens in the real world. Many people will have the relationship where more volume does better produces more gains than less volume, but they are capped at how much volume they can they can do well with. So what you will not see even among the low volume responders crowd is that they have a fundamentally different relationship. It's just that the cap the ceiling is lower. So you run into a bunch of people who do eight sets or less. A lot of them are going to get better response from doing six to eight sets than they will two to four. And many of them will have quote unquote graduated from doing one to two to three to four sets. But there is some cap where they go above it. It seems to be an issue. So to answer your question, Killer K, in terms of volume, um this is a very specific thing. No, there's only practical limits. So there's not going to be someone I think who has an inverse relationship where oh actually the less volume I do the more I grow. They're just going to find that they can't do and don't need to do as much volume as someone else and get a robust response. And that also goes handinhand with the fact that the initial sets you do produce more on a setby basis in terms of hypertrophy. so that you're getting minimal gains anyway if you're going to go from 15 to 25 compared to going from five to 10. Even though both are 10 set increases, I would also put forth that people are not going to get better results training further from failure than than closer to failure. You're not going to see an inversion of this or not lifting weights would make you grow better than lifting weights, right? So, um, you know, like if you you can kind of take this to, you know, absurd level, but really it just comes down to fatigue management. And if high volumes and training close to failure puts you in the hole, that means you need to manage an appropriate amount of training to failure and doing higher volumes to get the most you can effectively recover from. That doesn't mean that you are someone who uniquely responds to shorten bias training, higher R, and lower volumes. It just means that when you train at longer muscle length, closer to failure with more volume, it's easier for you than someone else to overshoot what you can recover from. So, you need to just think about the recovery demands, not that you are a fundamentally unique snowflake. No offense, we're all very important, but we're also all humans with a biology. So, I hopefully that answers your question and uh and qualifies some of that. Um the one thing I will say is low responders and high responders absolutely do exist. I don't really care what the research says. We see professional athletes, we see some people who start training or even before they start training have a much higher baseline. um whether it's just a higher baseline or a faster or better or more extended response. There's debate around that, but think about the dude you saw if you played high school sports who looked like a bodybuilder when he was 16. He, you know, as soon as he got facial hair, he could buy beer at 17 and no one would even ask for an ID, never touched the weight in his life. Or the cyclists who randomly look like bodybuilders even though they're trying to lose muscle mass compared to the guy who's busting his ass and doesn't look half as good as them. That's a real thing. We see it all the time. So that is just reality. Um now why that is an open question and sometimes we see associations in the literature which definitely should be explored further. Uh and certainly things that if we manipulate do cause more growth. If you're given a effective myostatin inhibitor, there's some novel drugs that are being tested right now. It does seem at least in rodents and monkeys that that will make you grow more. If we give you an exogenous level of testosterone, that seems to make you grow more. Indeed, the absolute level of muscle mass that biological males have after puberty and women differs. And indeed, if you take a look at the quartortiles or quintiles or turtiles of men in the normal range, a physiological levels of testosterone, you will see a few pound difference between the top and the low. However, if you then go, okay, well, because you have uh high-end levels of testosterone, you'll respond better to training. We actually don't see that. So, your baseline levels of testosterone do not predict your response to training. And that's probably why men and women also have similar responses to training in terms of their relative increases in strength and their relative percentage increase in muscle mass because they have a fraction of the testosterone that men do. So, uh, a lot of the stuff affects baseline but doesn't predict response, and we're still teasing it out. So, we don't know why someone would or would not respond well to training, at least not reliably. We can't predict training responses, even though many have tried. High and low responders do exist, but teasing it out in the research is very challenging. And even if you are someone who is a either a a lowresponder or b someone who seems to fatigue uh at an earlier point relative to the dose of training that someone who fatigues at a higher point, you're not responding differently. You just need to consider that and titrate the amount of work you're doing. Build it up slowly and think about fatigue management more than someone who seems to be recovering quickly and uh and can handle higher total works. Good stuff. Yeah. I'm not even going to touch that. I'm sure we're going to have a lot to say about that in the future once that paper is out. Uh I think we're probably going to preprint it before we publish it. So that'll be in the near future and we can save those battles for then. Um because there's going to be there's going to be a lot of misinterpretation where if you you know like you said I mean that it was a long explanation where if you if you're going to talk about someone being a better responder or worse responder that's actually a question where you have to say well hold on a second let's drill down exactly what that means and that requires like six more sentences after that. Right? So we will certainly get into more detail about that later. Uh I want to answer one last question from the live chat. We had a good one here about caffeine. Uh, Cole Runnings, I want to make sure we address their question since they uh made it out for the first time here. Um, they said they're seeing more uh preworkout supplements with delayed release caffeine formulas in quotes. Is there any actual science behind that? So, I've been out of the pre-workout game for a while. Um, so I don't know exactly what these labels would be including in a delayed release caffeine uh formula. I wouldn't be shocked, Helms, and this is me just kind of speculating if maybe some of them are having, you know, the the little like proprietary like two or three ingredient blend where maybe they're including something like caffeine with something like uh theocrine, often under the brand name. And so theocrine, not to be confused with theine, which is also often kind of lumped or kind of paired with caffeine. uh theocrine. There was a handful of studies a handful of years ago where they were looking at it because the idea was that it was um you know very similar to caffeine structurally in terms of its mechanism in terms of its physiological effects on the body. Um but it is something that has a different time course in terms of its rate of appearance and and its rate of uh disappearance uh from your body. So it kind of like a a smoother lower uh kind of curve in terms of its pharmacocinetics. Uh so people were like oh maybe this will be the type of thing where it gives you like more sustained energy during that kind of peak um peak period there. Um I know some of the people that did some of those studies, great people, great researchers. So I'm not uh you know taking a swing at the the research itself. Um, but to me personally, this has always seemed like uh an answer without a problem at best. Um, or at worst maybe maybe a compounding of an existing problem. uh where if the what I'm getting at there is if you were to tell me, hey, we got a new version of caffeine, but instead of you taking it like 45 to 60 minutes before working out and then you having like a five to six, sometimes 80, sometimes there's been measured instances where the halflife of caffeine is up to 12 hours. Instead of doing that, if someone was like, "Hey, here's a new kind of caffeine. You take it, it reaches peak levels in five or 10 minutes and the halflife is 45 minutes. This stuff is out of your system. You know, I don't want to now I'm doing halflife math on the fly. Theoretically, forget I said the 45 minutes, but you're going to take this, it's going to peak in in 5 or 10 minutes. It's going to be completely out of your system in 3 or 4 hours or 2 hours. I would sign up for that in a heartbeat. That is a better version of caffeine in most cases cuz one of the things we hate about caffeine, we can live with the 1 hour per, you know, it's not that hard to plan ahead, take it at 45, 60 minutes beforehand. What we hate about caffeine is the fact that you take a huge dose to get an erogenic effect. It's halfife life is 5 or 6 hours. You still have a bunch of caffeine in your system when you're trying to lay down and go to sleep if you're taking this basically any time other than first thing in the morning or within those first few hours in the morning. So for me, the whole idea of a delayed release caffeine to me has just been um really difficult to wrap my head around conceptually because I want the opposite. I I want I want uh a version of caffeine that uh in terms of pharmarmaccoinetics is more like nicotine. I want it to appear now and I want to go away. Um so yeah, I I'm really not on board with it. Realistically, is it going to matter if they throw a little teocine or theocrine in there? No. Um I haven't I haven't actually seen any empirical research to confirm that there's any downside of teocrine or theocrine. Like it's not like in the in the studies on it that they say by the way 40% of our subject subjects dropped out of the study because they had intractable insomnia. We don't really see any of those like really material effects. But I personally would like to see a head-to-head comparison in terms of some, you know, placebo, caffeine, theocrine. I'd love to see if we if you take that, you know, late morning, early afternoon, is there an impact on sleep quality? I don't know. Maybe, maybe not. Uh, but either way, I I'm not going out of my way looking for a delayed release caffeine. Uh, because if anything, I I want the opposite. Yeah. Can I add a little bit of color to that cuz I was looking up some of this while you were talking. Yeah. What do you got? Yeah. So, there's a couple of there there is Theocrine, which we've talked about. Um, and there's also a few others. So, there's a patented uh version of encapsulated creatine so that it comes out slower and it takes like six hours to even get it fully through your system to take it to the 80% mark, right? And it's under Zoom XR. It's a registered trademark. And there's also a novel form of creatine uh sorry, caffeine that is out uh dicaffeine malate which is a combination of caffeine and malic acid and it provides a more sustained release. Now, the way they're being promoted and used is for people who don't want a crash or or a spike. So, they're the idea is you get less jitters. And the idea is that you're not experiencing kind of those more acute withdrawal feelings of, oh, my energy is gone. So, this is this is not like uh hey, I'm working out in 30 minutes and I want to be, you know, absolutely amped up. This is more like I got a 6-h hour, 8 hour car ride and I want to stay awake at the wheel, right? Or I'm a first responder going on shift. Yeah. And I I need to be I just need to kind of maintain a certain level of uh of of alertness. Or maybe I'm AI'm a t in a tactical kind of situation. I'm flying a plane for 31 hours straight. Exactly. And I don't want to be jittery. I don't want to have a spike. I want to have a sustained awakeness. Yeah. Now, the the question is is then should they be used in pre-workouts? Yeah. And I would say it's a bad fit. Like I'm I'm looking at this one formulation. I'm not going to name any names or brands, but they're saying, "Hey, it gives you a boost for your workout and a sustained energy and no crash." And the way they've done this uh is that they have just straight up caffeine and hydras 235 milligrams. And then they also have dicaffeine malate at 100 milligrams. And then they also have Zum XR, the delayed release caffeine at 30 milligrams. So that they basically have a an escalating dose based upon the time that it is released into your system. Yeah. So they have the smallest dose of the one that's going to be there. I mean, if it takes six hours just to get fully 80% of your system, then you have the half-life stacked on top of that. You're going to have caffeine in your system, that 30 milligrams for a day straight up. And then they go from 30 milligrams to 100 of the dicaffeine malate um which has a longer uh you know release profile than your typical caffeine. And then they have the normal caffeine which I would argue like you said TX is a relatively slow release profile inherently given that if you take 235 milligs of caffeine which is almost that same meta reagression dose that you needed to take before 10:00 a.m. to not negatively affect your sleep at 10 p.m. 13 hours later. Yeah. You know was when they reliably said okay this is a non-issue. I don't think that's a good idea. I don't think it has a place in pre-workouts. Um, maybe if you are quite literally in a situation where, okay, I'm a first responder. I'm a or I'm I'm an emergency personnel. I'm I'm a cop. I'm a tactical thing. I'm AI'm AI'm a a uh professional military personnel who is going to be have a training exercise where it's starting with a bang. We're doing something explosive in the first hour. We're going to get a mock ambush, mock battle, but then I'm basically quote unquote on call for the next two days. Yeah. Doing ranger training, rucking, hiking, and I'm not going to have the opportunity to know exactly what's going on. But that's a very niche application. The typical person who buys a pre-workout does not want this. Yeah. Yeah. No, I that's what kind of threw me. I was thinking like, well, if you were going to put something that wasn't totally nonsensical in a pre-workout, what would you do? Um, and I I think that to be clear, I'm not this is a great question from the uh from our dear listener Cole Runnings with a great name. Um, yeah, very good reason to like say, "Hey, why are people doing this? What is this trend?" Yeah. And here's what I can tell you. Having someone who's been interested in observing the supplement space for far longer, I got weirdly into supplements when I was like 14 when that was not a thing back then. You know, nowadays fitness has like gotten younger where like now kids are into fitness that I was like a weirdo in my high school of like why is this 14-year-old lifting all day? But um I got really into supplements and so I've seen these trends over the years and if you want to save yourself a little bit of sanity when it comes to trends in the supplement world, some of them are simply going to be nonsense. Uh they may be profitable, they may not. uh they may have some kind of gimmick that's easy to market, they may not, but you are going to see things come and go that you look back and you're like, why in the world did we ever turn over that rock or decide to write that marketing copy? Um so this is one that like you said Helms, I think maybe for to borrow a pharmaceutical term for like off label use. It's like I take this preworkout because I'm a nurse and I work some day shifts and some night shifts and sometimes Helms if if I were made governor, president, whatever, I would make it completely illegal to do that to a human being. But they literally have nurses that will in the same week work some day shifts and some night shifts. I find that to be unconscionable and biologically absurd. Like I I can't fathom how that exists in a world where we know about circadian rhythms and health. Um but anyway, if you're in that kind of situation, you're like, "Yeah, give me, you know, pump up 4,000 with this, you know, you know, try triple caffeine blend." Cuz yeah, it makes sense. You're going to be like, "Listen, I'm going to be dragging for eight hours and I can't be dragging for eight hours, right?" Um so yeah, if you like to do that more than just refilling the old coffee cup a few times, more power to you. But if I were looking at a pre-workout and they're like, "Hey, if this was just caffeine, you need to take it 13 hours before bed to not mess up your sleep." But guess what? We threw in the extended release version. I'd be like, "Well, great. Then I'm just screwed." Uh, so yeah, you probably want to stay away from that in my opinion. All right, Helms, I agree. Anything you want to say to the good people before we uh head out here? You're you're going to be going on your little uh sbatical here, so you better get it all in. Hey, now I am incredibly grateful that I get the opportunity to travel to awesome places literally because I started lifting weights back in ' 04. To think now that I'm getting invited to speak to people with live translators in Italian and Spanish and go to shows and judge and meet people who are fell in love with the same nonsense that I did and the silliness of flexing on stage in a speedo or even just lifting weights. It's a privilege and an honor and people like you have made it possible for me to lean into uh this strange thing I love because of your love for it. And you've been with us for 100 issues of mass 300 what is this 34 episodes of Iron Culture? Yeah, something like that. Yeah. And and like you said, you know, we were joking facitiously about me being a immortal vampire in terms of my fitness years, but um the thing that I know Zordos won't like and you probably are at least disappointed in is that when you guys bring that up, it actually just makes me very grateful to think of how long I've been able to do something I love and how many awesome people I've connected with. So, I just got a lot of gratitude and appreciation for everyone in the live chat, everyone that's going to listen to this after the fact, and everyone uh that's been supporting, you know, me, whether they realize it or not, since the start, and hopefully contributing to make this sometimes crazy fitness space, like you said, it's getting younger and younger, for better or for worse, hopefully just a little bit better. Well, Helms, I love it. Uh I I will acknowledge you are going I mean, this is I there's a lot going on right now. you're taking a week off. You we did a hundred uh you know 100 issues of mass. It kind of gives the vibes of like a lifetime award acceptance speech here. Um so uh I I don't want to mess it up. That was a beautiful thing. Uh leaving on good vibes. Uh enjoy your trip. Enjoy judging other people. Uh and speaking about I always do. Yeah. I always do truck. It's your favorite thing judging these shows. You just like to tell people what their flaws are. and I I see that every month working with you on mass. Um but yeah, folks, we will be back next week. Um most likely it's going to be that pre-recorded interview with Stan Larson. Um if not, then something else will be here. But uh we will have an episode that that you can count on. So we will see you back here in exactly seven days. Take care, everybody.