Hey. Heat. Heat. What's up everybody? This is Eric Trexler. I am here with a good Dr. Eric Helms. It is Monday night at 700 p.m. Eastern time. You are listening to Iron Culture presented by Mass. This is a live presentation. Um, and I tell you what, if you are always in the chat prompt here at 700 p.m. sharp, you may notice we got started about 2 or 3 minutes late because I'm using new stuff. Don't know how to use it, but someday I will. So, there are some growing pains here. I'm going to try not to do another mystery episode where I delete this immediately after recording. Uh, Helms, why don't you do me a favor? Tell the good people about the mass Black Friday sale, which there's about 20 what, 8 hours left of that sale, give or take. Yeah, you've got a uh a full day on planets that rotate the sun sun a little slower than us. So, um if you're present on Earth though, you've got slightly longer than that day. So, that's good news. Um yeah, Black Friday sale. This is something that we do every year. We do two sales every year. We do one for our anniversary in April and then we also do the one that the gods of capitalism have decreed that all businesses must do and that is the Black Friday Cyber Monday sale which has slowly just become the most of November and early December sale. Uh and yeah, 30% off all of our memberships to Mass. You've got your lifetime, you got your monthly, you got your annual, whatever is up uh for for you, whatever is best for you, we we got that. Um the uh obviously I'm not a great salesman but some of the important things that are coming up since we're at the end of the year. If you are an ACE ACSM NCAA or NASM certified personal trainer we have a lot of CU CEC's available. That is something uh that we pride ourselves on is being associated with some of these organizations which certify the good personal trainers out there which we all used to be. Um, so the memberships not only get you access to all seven years of content, over 1,000 articles, videos, audio summaries, guides, and things like that, it also gets you access to our CECU quizzes that we have. So, if you're an NCAA member, that can get you four points in the category C. If you're ACSM, I think it's 46 now. NASM 1.9 and ACE 2.0. And you can just sign up for, you know, uh, the monthly, take a look at them, read some issues. Um, you might just stay to get your CEC's or CEUs, but I guarantee you, or that's not true. I shouldn't guarantee tracks. We're evidence-based. I think there's a high probability that you will like what you see so much that you might stick around and entrust us with your personal trainer education. So, how did I do? Do did I did I sell Well, Traxx? Yeah, I think that was pretty good. Uh, could have been a little more zany. I I normally like a zany sales pitch, but um I thought a lot of what you said was true and and really what more could I ask? You know, I put you on the spot. But yes, it is the end of our annual Black Friday Cyber Monday sale. Um about 28ish hours left on that, but why why leave it to chance? Get in there now. Massresearch.com. Subscribe. If you even slightly enjoy what you get in iron culture, what you used to get in mass office hours, um, then I think you're going to love the mass research review because honestly, Helms, I all due respect, Helms, 304 episodes now of your baby. I can I'm not going to speak for you. What I'm bringing to Iron Culture is the scraps. It It really is. I I hate to say it that way. I hate to bismerch the reputation of this institution, u but but if you're liking what I bring here, oh man, you have no idea what's going on in the pages of the Mass Research Review. H do you feel hurt by me saying that? No. In fact, cuz I actually think that if you if you're here with us right now, you know what you like. You'll like one of the Erics more than the other. You're not allowed to like us equally. That's just not the way our our our narcissism works and clashes. So, you've chosen one of us, but nonetheless, one of us has kept you here. Eric and I both have strong perceptions as to what that predominant breakdown is. I'd say we both view about 90% of you being here for our Eric. Um, however, what you don't know is what you don't know. And so much good audio and video content in mass is actually from Dr. Zordos, who does he's the other half of the video department. him and I have done many videos, so you know you're going to get that. But you won't know just how good Dr. Zordos's videos and his live journal clubs are. So every month he does a live journal club where he talks about either a topic or a specific paper live for the mass members only and that is something where you get to ask him questions. Uh he is often there with the good Dr. Lauren Kenzo Simple who's in the chat also answering questions and journal clubs are really cool. We actually do them at AUT. Um myself and my colleague Alyssa Joyce Spence, Dr. Alysa Joyce Spence, who's been on iron culture previously. We're both uh you know, I'm a senior research fellow. She's a she's a lecturer there. We both have post-graduate students and all of them are interested in anything related to resistance training and strength. We have every two weeks we have a journal club at UPT and we just talk about papers that have recently come out, what they mean, how to critically analyze them. So having the opportunity to do that with Dr. who was one of my mentors and and Dr. Kenzo Sample on a monthly basis is one of the hidden gems that I think not even necessarily all of our mass members participate in but you will have that opportunity and at the very least you can watch them on replay. So if you're someone who's like listen I don't want to read this 70page PDF there's a tremendous amount of value and information and content that you can get from Mass without actually even being able to read. You just need to be able to read the titles to know where the video and audio summaries are. And oh yeah, that's right. Every single one of our articles is summarized. And I will say summaries is probably too generous of a term. It's not uncommon for my audio summaries of a 3,000, you know, word article to be 25 minutes. And you're going, I don't know what would take any less time, Eric. But nonetheless, if you prefer to listen, if you want to drive, you can do that. Uh or you can watch video and you can have interactive video. All of those are there. It's not just, hey, I want to read, you know, Trex talking about P values four or five pages, but we have that, too. Yes. And I I I don't know if you mentioned this specifically, but one thing that a game I would encourage people to play if you're a member of Mass is now we have the the AI kind of like audio uh transcripts of of our articles. So, you can listen to the article verbatim as it was written or you can listen to the audio summary. And I really wonder if I went back just depending on the mood I was in when I wrote like especially a contentious article like I wonder if it if it's almost more like a debate listing of like Eric writing this in a bad mood and then doing his audio summary in a good mood where one is just way more charitable than the other. Um I I think that there's probably a little bit of like split personalities going on in some of those uh you know there's a little duality there. So a little game Let me ask you about that. Yeah. I want to I want to ask you about that Trek. So Sure. You wrote an article in the in the mass issue that just came out that I really think is going to take some people some time to digest and that is specifically about the remiseducation of the fitness industry based upon pain science. Yeah. And I know specifically what spurred that was your personal experiences with people I I'll give them the benefit of the doubt. Well-intentioned people DMing you, private messaging you, emailing you, calling you at home, knocking on your door, uh tapping you on the shoulder on the street randomly and saying, "Hey, you really should stop listening to the clinicians that you're working with. Um, you know, this constant pain you've been in for the better part of a decade. I think if you just thought about it differently and were mindful, maybe that would go away because have you heard of the biocschosocial model of pain? Um, I would say that even despite your zen-like attitude and the inability for your feathers to be ruffled, I would suspect that that eventually graded on you enough, ruffled enough feathers that you thought, I need to write this article. And the article did have elements of snark. Um, not very high, but on a Trexler scale, I think the the article had, you know, you you had some you had some punchiness behind it. Once you got that out of your system, my question for you is, was your audio more educational rather than like you sons of batches? No, I I think um I don't know. I don't know how well I filtered. Um, I'd have to go back and listen. I think the nice thing about writing an article is you come back to it many many times over a multiple week time frame. So you you can kind of catch yourself and say, "All right, relax a little bit." You know, and at the end of the day, I think I did try to, if nothing else, kind of overcorrect because I genuinely believe that, you know, I I mentioned in the article going through this experience with chronic pain uh for seven years, I got legitimately some of the worst advice I've ever gotten in my life. Uh completely unsolicited. people just telling me like, "Hey, you know how you're like going to a credentialed clinician who is either employed at like Duke Hospital or UNC hospitals, like very well-reputed uh medical centers." They're like, "Yeah, don't listen to them cuz like, you know, I I read this cool article about how much pain people feel when they dump their hand in a bucket of hot water and uh it turns out you're actually like fine." Uh but but anyway, I got some terrible advice. Uh, but it was from people who I genuinely believe 100% wanted to help me and had my best interests at heart. And so I I I think that my article is going to ruffle some feathers. I think that there is a mild but detectable level of snark, but at the end of the day, I I I think it's very I think it's just very necessary. Like I I I there's I would say there's probably like one article a year that I can really like point to and say this was a thing I really needed to get off my chest about something that's kind of like broadly accepted in the evidence-based fitness world that I'm like we we got to get away from this or just do this better. Uh so I think last year it was the p ratio stuff where I I kind of was like all right enough is enough with this Forbes model. we need to really dig into it and figure out where and when it applies and why it probably doesn't apply for lifters. Uh, and this was my this year's kind of uh cathartic all right with the pain science. Let's talk about what these theories are. They're good theories. They have a time and place, but they're not it it's not like one day humanity is going to decide that we're going to opt out of pain. Like you I guess you could say maybe we'll opt out of suffering if you uh have studied Buddhism the way I have. But Helms, at a certain point, like it is kind of annoying when like someone like drops into your DMs and is like, "Hey, um, you're actually fine, but like, have you heard of mindfulness?" And it's like, "Dude, I literally like have read more about Buddhism than I have about fitness." And I met with a a Buddhist meditation group in person for two years. Like, I've I thought about trying mindfulness. I really did. But anyway, um, yeah, I'm so happy about it though because the the fact is is that you are such a measured person, but when you decide something needs to be done, the takedown is professional, respectful, but it is also very comprehensive. And I know that you won't do it until you feel the case is so solid. And I just see you as Conan the Barbarian on a mountain with corpses around you. One per year. Not a ton of corpses, but there's definitely two years ago, reverse dieting slayed. Oh, yeah. That was one of them. Yeah. Yeah. Bloody on the ground. The next year, like you said, P values slayed. And now you're in the middle of this this battle. And people are going to probably misunderstand exactly what you're taking down until they read the article and what your position is. And if anyone thinks it is the biocschosocial model of pain, no, no, no. He is not fighting that one folks. He is fighting the misapplication, the oversimplification and the arguably outside of your scope of practice type of advice that many are giving based upon this flawed misinterpretation of a model. Uh, and it will be well slayed um by the time I think this is fully sat with people and they and they've read it because you did a fantastic job with that article. Well, I appreciate that. Yeah, and I hope people will uh give it a read because that's it's one of my favorite articles I've written in a while. Um, but Helms, we got so much to get to here. We got to dig in. Uh, someone in the chat, uh, by the way, someone chiming in from Corona, California. Love having you. Someone from Disneyland. Uh, is Disneyland, is that the one in Florida or the one in California? Disneyland is in LA. Anaheim specifically. Okay. Wow. Really well represented. On the west coast, we've got Ontario, Canada, chiming in. So, folks, we love hearing where you're at. Uh, someone from Edmonton, which is in Canada. I I I'm highly familiar with the concept of Edmonton and where it exists. So, uh, bit of a ge geography expert myself. Um, now, someone in here was asking for some college football talk. And the good news for you, Helms, the good news is that college football, uh, I hate to say, is canled. Uh, it's over. It's done. Uh, I saw a thing happen in Columbus this weekend. Uh, I don't know what I saw. It was a horrific football game. It was inexplicable. There was Helms. There was literally a fight after the game on the field that led uh the security or police force there to discharge pepper spray on the players. So, uh, from start to finish, everything about it was an abject disaster and a mess. And therefore, I am unilaterally cancelling college football. Not because I'm bitter about the outcome, but because I I think it just went a step too far. So, you're you're clear, Helms. It's not unilateral. You now have three quarters of the Mass team supporting that decision. Cool. All right. Um, so Helms, let's uh let's take a couple from the live chat here. Let's talk some fitness stuff. The first one is uh the first one I want to get to here is about protein. You love protein. I love protein. I eat it almost every day and have written about it a couple times. You've written about it probably I mean in in the peer-reviewed literature certainly more than I have. And the question is, uh, wouldn't it make more sense to scale protein recommendations to desired body weight or healthy body weight range, uh, as indicated by like a BMI formula instead of total body weight? Uh, the person asking the question says, "This seems to give me better numbers than just going by total body weight." Um, I'll share my views first because this is something I've been pretty vocal about. Um, and this it's not uh it it's not controversial enough to to make a big stink about it, but I've been saying for quite a while, you know, a question that comes up whenever you talk about protein is how much do we need to kind of optimally support hypertrophy? And you start looking at these different studies and there's a lot of different types of studies, right? some studies looking at protein synthesis over like 6 hours, 10 hours. Some looking at protein synthesis over like 24 to 72 hours using different methods and some looking at muscle gain over 12 weeks or 16 weeks, right? So there's all these different looks at it. And when you look from study to study, there's going to be differences training status, you know, how high was the high group, how low was the low group, all these different nuances. And so you expect that there's going to be noise in the data, right? You don't expect that every time you look at a study, you're going to say, "Boom, right there. 1.55 gram per kilogram of body mass is the amount of protein you need." But I think one of the big things that does contribute to that variation from study to study, aside from all those factors I just mentioned, is really what this question is getting at, which is, are we sure that doing grams of protein per kilogram of body weight is really the best way to do it? And I would argue probably not. Now, I don't think I have the perfect way to do it. Uh cuz you you can make an argument for a few different things. So, for example, uh this question talks about maybe um using a BMI formula that's more about your ideal body weight uh relative to your height, you know, and that probably is a step up from from total body mass. And and I think intuitively we could probably I'm going to make an assumption here probably all get on board with the hypothetical where we say like Helms let's say that um you decided for whatever reason you're back in the dreamer bulking business and starting today you just put on like 40 lbs of fat, you know, and we're talking about um what some might call a perfect P ratio, what some might call the worst possible P ratio. It's all fat. Okay, so you're putting on 40 lbs of fat. Do you really believe that your protein needs are scaling upward in that process just because you now have 40 more pounds of weight? I think most people will get on board with saying no. You know, uh probably not. So when when you start looking at it uh through that type of lens, you're like, yeah, it doesn't really make a whole lot of sense to go by just body mass in general. So, I've always uh not always, but I've gotten in the habit of framing it instead of ideal body weight or BMI ranges or anything like that. I frame it relative to fat-ree mass. Okay? And so for me, for for people who are not super lean and dieting hard and just kind of like the general use case, I pretty much tend to tend to tell people if you want to be absolutely sure that you're getting enough protein for what you need, uh 2 to 2.75 grams of protein per kilogram of fat-ree mass is how I tend to to um recommend protein targets. If you're like, "Hey, I want to get the lion share of the gains, but I'm not super stressed about absolute optimization. and I'd prefer a little bit more flexibility. Maybe I'm, you know, on a on a food budget. I don't want to eat a bunch of expensive meat. Uh maybe I just don't like protein foods that much and and would like to go a little lower. I I'd say for most people 1.75 and above is probably sufficient. Um and if you wanted to take that even further and said I'm I'm okay with like getting 80% of the gains, that's a very rough almost arbitrary approximation. But if you're like, "Hey, I just want to be on a generally high protein diet, but I'm really far from the mindset of like I need to optimize everything and I'm going to be eating protein all day every day." 1.5 and above grams per kilogram of fat- free mass. That that's a decent high protein diet. Like like for me, that ends up representing what we could probably say like 1.2 g per kilogram of body mass for most fe most most people. So that those kind of scale up from like 1.2ish to 1.4ish to 1.6. sixish under the assumption that you have a fairly typical amount of fat mass. So that's my take on it. And I will say that probably the first thing that got me on that trajectory of really reassessing how to scale protein recommendations is actually your paper helms from 2014 uh the systematic review uh which are we are we publicly talking about uh we got an update that that is uh working its way through the process. I know we've posted about it publicly. So we we we did we did an episode on it where we talked about like the upcoming research. We talked about the the peland uh metagression before. Okay. So we had a 90minute recorded conversation about it. So So it's not exactly a top secret confidential situation. Okay. Good. Um but yeah I mean that that paper was one of the first things where I was like huh interesting. Um, so I am curious like what is it during that process of writing that paper because I don't think prior to that that you were really in the habit of recommending based on fat free mass. Was it purely out of necessity because of how unique that research question was? So you know how we generally say that reviewer 2 is the worst person in the world when you do go through peer review and they tell you terrible things, it's not helpful and they basically obstructionist. Yeah. Uh historically, um this was the exception to the rule. Reviewer two said, "Have you guys considered analyzing this based upon lean body mass or fat-free mass?" And we went, "Oh, that's a good call." And that's what we did and we presented those values. So that actually was something that you're right, I didn't use it beforehand. I did not even have that in mind when I wrote the paper. Um, for everyone who's not aware, a systematic review it I think we actually put it in press in late 2012 and that went full full full through publication process either 2013 or 2014. And the the scale range we report 2.3 to 3.1 g per kilogram of fat free mass seems super random. Why 2.3 to 3.1? Because in the six included studies, those were the values in the study groups, the intervention groups in which there were either an increase in lean mass, uh, no detectable change in lean mass or only a non-significant reduction in lean mass. And I reported that range of values. Um, so semi-quantitative, uh, you know, analysis and and then once I derived the values based upon fat free mass, that's what that became. It was just calculated. So, I I I tend to agree with you. I think um fat-free mass gets us closer to the variable which most likely uh is going to be the primary determinant of what's an ideal protein range for you. Um, and I don't have anything additional to say as far as why that's a good idea. But I will say in response to the question asker, um, and anyone listening broadly who has the same kind of mindset, there's two potential pitfalls of not just using body weight. And if you use ideal weight, what if your ideal weight in your mind or what you think is an ideal weight is not appropriate? Uh maybe you have assumptions about how lean you can how lean you can get or how lean you should get or what's a healthy body weight that might actually not be aligned with where you're at. If you're misestimating your body composition and that carries directly over to the fat-free mass thing if you I mean it's it's less likely to be a problem because most people are underestimating the body fat percentage not overestimating. Right? So if you're actually 20% body fat and you think okay I'm 15%. So, you eat a little bit extra protein, but it's probably still more accurate than your body weight. And uh yeah, one interesting little tidbit from our inress update on my 2014 systematic review that is led by the good recent Dr. Martin Ruffalo that Trexler and I are a part of that's currently in second round peer review. Um, exciting exciting is that we did see a better fit of the model when using grams per kilogram of fat- free mass than we did for body weight. had lower uncertainty. So, it it it seems like the the recommendation to go with something more representative of your lean mass, which is the target for your protein, uh does provide a more accurate method. Yeah. Another thing that's going to be that's probably going to generate a lot of discussion is if memory serves, correct me if I'm wrong, we did find a better fit with fat free mass um as the scaling factor. I believe we also found that the linear model was the best fit representing the relationship between uh you know protein intake and gains so to speak. uh and we didn't really see any evidence of like a very clear plateau or cutoff and I I think that that's going to generate a lot of discussion because it's kind of like those those papers like like uh the Peland uh meta regression recently that was you know volume uh sets per week how those impact hypertrophy and it kind of looked like it goes up and up and up and of course there's diminishing returns especially in that model with the nonlinear component um but it does kind of put you in that situ situation where in the fitness world there's so many people who are like well I want to be an optimizer and it's like when you start to see that line that is pointing upward you're like so what's optimal is it just more and more and more forever and uh and I think that's why I hope people will read it and um kind of really take in a lot of the caveats we put in in the discussion and also just the the emphasis on you know the importance of recognizing effect size right So, you know, if you're able to, you know, get the lion share of of the hypertrophy coming your way by eating a very sensible amount of protein, you know, you see that line going up, you're like, well, they only measure it up to like 3.1. What if I have five grams per kilogram of fat-ree mass? It's like, yeah, you probably it's probably going to make your life way less enjoyable and uh it's probably not going to deliver the results that you're thinking. So, yeah. Yes, there's actually been a a revitalization and discussion, I don't know if you've seen this, of the 2020 Tagawa metaanalysis on protein. Um, so, you know, a lot of people because it just had a lot of big names on it, cite the 2018 Morton paper, uh, where we did this quote unquote threshold analysis and kind of visually inspected at what point does it look like the there's there's a plateauing effect. Probably a better way to do that is to do a continuous meta regression and look at a nonlinear model of it like Pelin and colleagues did and see at what point it diminishes. Tagawa actually did a good job of that in 2020 and they note the point of hey you know when you look at the rate of hypertrophy going up to 1.3 grams per kilogram of protein. It's a pretty steep slope and it does keep going up. It is linear but it's not the same. It's a diminishing linear response. After 1.3, it gets pretty shallow, but it keeps going, you know. Yeah. And I think uh I think the good Dr. Wolf uh had a is in the midst of a bit of a debate with uh with with perhaps I think Menow who who disputed it. They there wasn't any direct but uh about the Tagawa paper. Yeah. Like I think Wolf on his on his YouTube channel and I'm just getting into the mud here. This is crazy evidence-based controversies, slight statistical disagreements. No, I'm I'm smiling because somebody asked me about that paper the other day and I'm like, why do you care? This is like three big protein meta regressions ago. Like, yeah. Well, the reason it came up is because so one of the more recent ones, I think it's by Nunez, I can't remember. um essentially kind of concluded the same thing as Morton because they had an analysis of above 1.59 grams per kilogram and it had a larger effect size than the next categorical range below that but it was like you pointed out in mass it was an a priority decision to use those break points it wasn't necessarily just the continuous look at it and Tagawa was done between Morton and Nunez and it did actually a continuous metagression. And the debate right now is well they didn't control for enough variables because it included some studies where they were in a calorie deficit and you know when you that that's interfering with the the signal to noise ratio and and there is debate right now as to whether there truly is a continuous linear even with diminishing returns effect and whether it wouldn't be beneficial to eat around you know three grams per kilogram of protein if you wouldn't get some kind of marginal gains that would be uh better for a bodybuilder or not. And I would say considering that that debate is kind of centering right now on whether the inclusion of studies which had the participants in an energy deficit is influencing that relationship or not. I do think it's interesting that our analysis on exclusively studies where there was an energy deficit measured by changes in body composition where we didn't see a plateauing effect or a clear sign of diminishing returns. But I would caution everyone to remember and they will see this when you write the paper. We're dealing with far fewer data points, especially at higher protein intakes when you exclude every study that's been done at maintenance or in a surplus. Yeah. And that Tagawa paper, one of the reasons I'm really surprised that people are going back to that one is so they used like a spline regression technique that can get a little bit weird. And what I mean by get a little bit weird is you basically decide how many bends are going to be in the line. and it's going to decide where those bends go. We call them knots in the business. And then the line keeps on going because that's what lines do. And so sometimes you get wacky situations where, for example, I actually uh I might put this up on my screen if I can uh get it up in a new tab here. Yeah, I'm going to we're going to do a visual presentation. So if if you're uh if you're on YouTube, you're really getting the best uh Oh, I can't get it on that screen. Oh well, whatever. Uh, no. I won't watch that. Okay, here's what I'll do. Minimizing that. Really going off road with this. So, appreciate your patience, everybody. I'm just going to break everyone's brain. All right, we're putting this over Helms's face because nobody needs no one needs that. Okay, so what I'm going to do is bring your attention at at this bottom right hand corner here where my my cursor is. So like sometimes with these spline models you get some wacky situations where for example it looks like after you get to like 1.5 grams per kilogram per body weight per day gains actually go down as protein goes up. Now, that's not replicated in the other models, but what you see is that for each of these different models, depending on which coariantss you use and whether you're looking at all studies, studies with lifting only or studies without lifting, uh, basically all the models look a little bit different. And there are even some situations if you dig into the nitty-gritty details in here where you're when you compare one model to another and you look at just the absolute change in fat free mass. Uh in some cases you would have to kind of accept the conclusion that lifting is worse for gains than not lifting which is not where I'm going to plant my flag and choose my hill to die on. So when every now and then people would kind of like throw that in my inbox um over the last few years and say like, "Yeah, but what about this study?" And I'm like, "If you're not willing to accept that lifting is worse for your gains than not lifting, then you probably don't want to just point at a figure in that particular study and say, "Well, that's science. So good thing we settled that." So, uh I'm Yeah, I'm I'm intrigued to see why we're going back to that one. But what do I know? I'm just, you know, I'm just me. Can I can I give you my take on why we went back to it? Sure. Because of the clickbaitiness. If everyone is going, you know what, 1.6 to 2.2 established and you can go, hold on. But two years later, this lost meta regression suggests that actually you can go to almost twice that amount and get meaningful benefits. It is a, you know, so yeah. Well, as long as everyone's having fun and being safe. That's what I say, Helms. But I safe for us just means Oops. Are we And safe for us just means are we right? Like are we actually presenting information correctly in the end? Okay. I I hope that uh I hope people heard you there because I I hit the wrong button. Um I I should I hit the wrong button and and the screen went away. But you said uh I said I hope everyone's just having fun and being safe. And then what did you say after that? I said uh and being safe in the evidence-based community simply means that uh we are accurate. You know that we're not misrepresenting the data to catch your attention. That we're playing the game, but we're not turning the table over, flipping up all of the chess pieces. So yeah, the good news is I actually think both Menow and uh Dr. wolf are are going to do a good job with this and ultimately the oh who's right why are they bringing this up should I increase my protein we're going to get to a more accurate number in the end so I think it's a good thing yeah um yeah evidence-based fitness we're in a good spot you know th those are both good folks uh and I'm sure yeah you know getting in these arguments these little dust ups usually they end up resulting in more clarity on the topic so that's good um by the way I should mention you know we're using a different recording setup I know the graphics don't look beautiful today. The framing's a little bit off. Okay, I hit the wrong button. It might have cut our audio for a few seconds. I probably should mention as I'm wearing a hat with a Duke logo and my my background was showing and it's the Duke logo. This show is not affiliated at all with Duke. Not part of my responsibilities at Duke. Uh has nothing to do with Duke. I'm not using any company resources. This is my house, okay? They don't own it as far as I know. So, uh, want to throw that out there since this is just like a an exercise in Duke branding at this point. Okay, let's, uh, let's move on here. Oh, uh, yeah, what the reason that I was going to, um, I hit I hit the wrong button because I was going to bring up some, uh, some notes on my end. Now I'm like terrified to hit any buttons, but I wanted to acknowledge, you know, when I talked about those protein recommendations, scale to fat free mass, which I do think is probably as good as any a way to do it, and that's confirmed by our our meta regression project to kind of bring it full circle. Um, you know, I mentioned, you know, 1.5 pretty good grams per kilogram of fat free mass. 1.75 even better, getting close to that like definitely optimal range. two to 2.75 grams per kil kilogram of fat free mass is is a really safe kind of that's like the new 1.6 to 2.2 in my mind. um you want it to be. Yeah. And the the caveat there I said was, you know, unless you're like really shredded and dieting pretty hard in in those cases, you know, a simple heristic is is I just bump those ranges up a little bit maybe by like threeish, right? So, uh if you're lean and dieting, you know, Helms, your systematic review back in the day showed some benefit going up into the, you know, a little bit of a little bit north of three range, right? So, um, so I I think that that's, um, kind of a nice better safe than sorry approach if you're in that pretty unique circumstance of being a a shredded bodybuilder who's doing some, uh, some things that are not not your typical diet, right? Mhm. I totally agree. All right, Holmes. Now, we did our kind of main segment, I would say, for today, which is all about protein scaling and protein recommendations. uh we stumbled through putting graphs on the on the screen uh bravely and now I want to make sure that we we kind of hit our volume. You know, we we got to take some cuts at what we're seeing in the live chat here. We need to make sure we give the people what they came for. Um you know, someone said Trex solutionaries in the building listening to the Texerts. We have to live up to that. You know, we we have to show our true expertise in my opinion. That's all right. Uh question briefly. Uh EMS um what does that technically stand for? Electro something muscle stimulation. In my burn in my mind it's just using the electrode stimulating the muscle making them contract. Right. Um could you use EMS uh as a way of adding some fractional volume weekly? That's what the question is. And I guess I guess what they're getting at is like, hey, I maybe I want to get some more muscle uh contractions in without going through the trouble or maybe bringing on the fatigue uh recovery burden of actually doing dynamic contractions in the gym. Do you think there's any merit to using EMS outside of like an injury uh situation or or circumstance? You know, Trex, I remember actually looking into this and there was there's been a few reviews where they've looked at like rates of hypertrophy using EMS, but I don't remember being particularly impressed and not seeing a lot of data that I felt was comparable, especially in trained individuals. Um, and yeah, I mean, there there's so many other interacting factors we have to think about here, like it's it's only going to be concentric, right? Yeah. um you know it's it's it's even not necessarily going to propagate much beyond exactly where the electrode is uh that contraction you know like what what muscle length are you at how do you want to do it it's very difficult to count how you would do this so I I have actually played with this a little bit if people remember back to some of our discussions around pain and injury I actually mentioned how I had a a neck injury that did resolve itself thank god um that substantially reduced the strength in my arm. And I was actually quite worried about my ability to actually recruit the muscle in my arm uh and in my delt. And I was doing EMS uh during that period because I'm crazy uh and doing you know the training I could do a lot of uni unilateral work and even doing blood flow restriction on top of that. I kind of just basically brought out every possible stop because I was like I'm not going to lose any muscle in my right arm. I don't care if if I can't recruit it. I'm gonna jump the circuit. I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna make this happen, right? Um and then I'm gonna make sure that there's, you know, a hypoxic environment so that even that small contraction is more effective. That's the way my brain and sanity uh I'll use the word works not to mean that it's functional, but it's just that that's who I am. That's your flavor of dysfunction. Correct. Correct. But I think it's important to acknowledge that that is dysfunction. It's probably not something where we go, hey, let me throw this in there. Like if if you're willing to do some EMS, I would say maybe just do some like band work, you know, like if you're looking for low stimulus, low fatigue ability kind of work to do if you have that additional time. My first thought is maybe try doing actual additional resistance training. Um, one of the things I really like about the meta regression and how it has this diminishing returns effect, but it doesn't actually go negative is that that means that any negative effect of volume is going to be practical rather than insidious. I think before we had really done a lot of work to explore higher volume ranges, there was this creepy scary idea of the inverted U where I go from 10 sets to maybe 20 sets. and I'm still growing, but I'm growing slower because I'm not just fully recovering from it. That doesn't seem to be, at least in the short term, a thing that'll happen. But absolutely, we already know this from anecdotes and muscle injury studies and overreaching research that there is such a thing as too much and it can get to the point where you actually do see uh no gains or regression or, you know, like the actual necrosis of fibers, right? But I guarantee you, you're going to know that's coming. So, um, if you have the time to consider shocking your muscles, or maybe you just want to do it while you're sitting there, just try to train more. If you've got that much free time on your hands, and then if it's too much, you'll know. Um, that that may sound even more haphazard than than having someone buy an EMS system and shock themselves. But I think it's almost like if you're going to do it, do it. If you're going to that kind of level of intellectual and financial length to try to get a little extra stimulus. Yeah. One thing I'll also note uh just like uh I I didn't use like the typical EMS where you're kind of using like you know I was basically uh a guinea pig so to speak in the lab for someone who's who's doing a more targeted electrical stimulation of muscle contractions for a study they were doing um over in the neuromuscular lab. And I just want to say like there's no such thing as a free lunch. Like if if you think that electrically stimulated contractions are like, "Oh, it's cool. I'm just like chilling here and it's nothing." It's like I found uh at least from the method they were using in the lab as they were piloting, I found it to be a tremendously uncomfortable experience and I would have much preferred uh to just do more repetitions. Like it was like zapping my calf and causing contractions and I hated it. I I would have so much rather just done any amount of calf volume to not have that sensation because I mean Helms it's not pleasant at all. Nope. Yeah. It's it's not like a little cheat code. It reminds me of like those um those commercials for those things that are supposed to like burn belly fat and it's like they're like electrically stimulating your your rectus uh abdominis and people are like sitting there in the commercial smiling on the couch drinking a cocktail. you know, they're all shredded and it's like, dude, there's nothing pleasant at all. If if that's actually working, it's it's not fun. You you don't want to be electrically stimulating your muscles all the time. I got a similar hilarious comment on um there was a real that I think uh I collaborated on that was part of an interview where I was talking about the extreme stretching protocols. And I was talking about how for an hour I put my foot in a boot stretched to a eight out of ten pain and every time it dropped from eight out of 10 I had to tighten it more and I'm you know got my leg out in front of me so I'm like you know pre-stretching the gas rock and everything and the comment was man people will do anything just to not do straight sets in the five to eight rep range to failure and I was like bro like it this felt like you know the point when you're about to hit failure and it's burning really bad and you want to give up but you kind of have to keep going to really hit true failure. It felt like that for the last 30 minutes constantly. I would I was like, dude, I would much rather take three sets to failure in the five to eight rep range on calf raises. That's nothing. Yeah, this is like holding that point and going and sit here for half an hour. And I was like, it's it's I think people until some things until you experience them like BFR or EMS or some of these things you you don't they just sound passive. They're not passive. Yeah. Yeah. BFR like a nasty set of or a nasty sequence of sets of BFR for like your quads. Like you want to puke. It's awful. You feel terrible. And so yeah, it is funny when people are like, "Why don't you just lift heavy?" And it's like, "Dude, it lifting heavy is so much subjectively so much more tolerable than than what I'm putting myself through." Uh, and yeah, Helms, your stretching protocol, I don't want to be too hyperbolic, but it's not that far off from some medieval uh torture devices uh and strategies like you were really uh you were really putting yourself through it there. So, uh yeah, not exactly an easy little shortcut to to growth. No. All right. Um quick question here. Uh Helms, if we can get like the short version because I know this is something you've written about many times. uh mhm do you need to add volume uh for hypertrophy as you move into your late 50s and 60s? So the question is you know how much do you need to add to your maintenance volume and your minimum minimum dose? So are are you seeing like a shift of all those volume benchmarks as you're entering your 50s 60s and beyond? You know h is there a shift of those benchmarks and to what extent? You know, age is one I haven't probably put quite as much thought into, but I have thought a lot about what often covaries with age is being closer to your genetic potential just because you've been lifting for so long. So, this answer would be a little bit different if you were like, "Hey, I'm 45 and I started lifting last month or I'm 45 and I started lifting in my 20s." Big difference. So I think um the best way to understand it is that the closer you get to your potential, the slower the rate of gains comes. Um and that doesn't necessarily mean uh that your like the amount that you need to do goes up. It's not like you're going to have to oh like well if I want to keep gaining like an intermediate I just got to do 10 more sets. The reality is is that that drop off is so stark. Um like for an example, Latutella and colleagues they looked at first year powerlifters and powerlifterss on average have been lifting for about three to four years before they even get into powerlifting. They've already made their new bikes, right? So these are intermediates. They increase their totals on average this is 15,000 lifters huge you know individual variance but on average 10% in their first year. It then takes another nine years to replicate that. So, you know, you're you're making a rate of progress cumulatively of onetenth of what you were previously. And at the end of that 10-year mark, it's a fraction of that, right? So, how much can you really offset that by increasing volume as an advanced lifter? The answer is is not nearly as much as I would like. Um, because if we were to use Pelin's meta analysis or meta regression, I should say, as kind of a comparative change in rates, and what do you really have to do? There's about twice the average rate of hypertrophy going from 10 sets to 30 sets. So unless you would like to take a already reasonable moderate volume 4 day per week, you know, 2 to four hours of training protocol and go sick, let me just do that two times more and achieve 30 sets that you're not going to see like a multiplicative amount of hypertrophy from increasing volume. and the amount of offset that you're going to get from getting onetenth of your gains. Like let's say you're at that stage. You've been lifting for over 10 years. Like these powerlifterss have been at it for 13 14 years at this point, you know, okay, let's say you can gain best case scenario, you know, a pound of muscle in a year. So if you double your volume, you're going to gain two pounds that year. That that's that's great and I'd take it. But but let's let's be honest, two pounds versus one pound is in disccernible. And you actually wouldn't have to double your volume. have to triple it. Um, and you probably can't because you're probably already doing a fair amount to get there. The thing that does change, the volume landmark that I am very confident that goes up over time is the minimum effective dose. I think it still remains reasonably low. But the reality is is that without a certain stimulus or certain dose of training, you will never actually get to an intermediate or advanced level. If you were just to say do one set to failure per week on every muscle group forever, you would probably at best get to what we would describe as like an intermediate phase. Um, you know, you could make that a really hard hardcore set. You could use long muscle lengths, effective exercises. You could channel the spirit of Mike Menser and have a workout partner there and do force reps and maybe get a little bit further. But in reality, when we look at data on single set training, they're getting in one study gains that you can get in 12 weeks with higher volume after one to two years. It's just really like the minimum effective dose is enough to get you some gains. And compare that to say like a uh other sports. I think it's really really apparent. If you take elite level cyclists, we're talking 70 V2 max or higher. They're training 10 15 hours a week. if they start training six hours per week and just have one high-intensity interval session, they can maintain their fitness. So that's like A-50% reduction in training, but that amount of training is more than double what a sedentary elderly person needs even without that interval session to get the maximal rate of progress in terms of endurance and V2 max adaptations. So the minimum does change. Um but it doesn't mean that you can't do a relatively modest amount of work to kind of stay where you're at. Now as far as age, I think we do need to acknowledge that at a certain point some of the age related factors of sarcopenia are kind of creating a negative pressure against your ability to put on muscle mass. But within certain age ranges and I would venture a guess between say let's say 40 to 60 tracks if we base it on some some of the related data from like metabolic work. Um a lot of the things that we associate with sarcopenia and age related losses of muscle are actually due to primarily not exclusively reductions in activity levels. um we don't see the same anabolic resistance to protein in Scandinavian cohorts of uh people over 70 which is really interesting because it's just a much more active so society and we do see it in in western or more traditionally western less active societies which is really cool. Have we ruled out the possibility that it's because Scandinavians drink like 90 cups of coffee a day? I is it maybe that? And milk and fish. True. You know, so I mean that they got they got a they got whey, they got omega-3, and they got caffeine. Yeah. Are they even natty over there? Yeah. Or or maybe it is just being more active. Perhaps. Perhaps the jury is still out tracks. You don't know. Yeah. So I I think the answer to your question though is that um ultimately don't think about offsetting some type of anabolic resistance with your volume. You want to think about what can you recover from, what fits your schedule, what's something you could adhere to, and what is something that challenges you in terms of the total dose, but allows you to recover on time so that you can train again. And the main benchmark that you want to look at is are you making, if it's a relatively early stage of your career, consistent improvements in reps, load, or it's getting easier at the same reps and load. And if that is the case, you're inducing overload. that your ability to progress means that you're inducing overload. And that is really what progressive overload means. And if that's happening, your dose we at least know is sufficient. And if you're recovering well and you have more time, sure, throw a little more at it and just monitor that. If it starts to shift to the point where you don't feel like you're recovering well, if you're getting more aches and pains but not any faster rate of progress, then perhaps pull it back. But it is about sustainability, consistency for the most part. All right, good stuff, man. Now, we we got a a question in here. uh from Jonathan who uh said, "Now that uh Trexler is getting back to lifting, he's wondering if I he or she is wondering if I have tried out length and partials to see what the hype is all about." Now, Helms, the reason I bring this up is not to embrace the trolls, but to once again uh highlight a critical uh misinterpretation here. My I've done lengthened partials uh back in the day. We called it going to real failure, right? So, you do your normal full range of motion repetitions and then as an intensification technique, you basically keep doing your barbell curls until you can barely budge the bar from your thigh, right? Like I' I've done all sorts of iterations that incorporate lengthen partials into my training um going back many years and they're fun and I like them and and I I I think the biggest misconception is that I'm like adamant that lengthen partials are a an an ineffective training method. And that's not the case. The thing that that drives me nuts about it is that it was like the only thing I got questions about for like six weeks in a row. And it it kind of reminded me of like when I was uh in high school and I I heard I was actually really disappointed because I heard my buddy was getting on creatine and I I didn't think he was that kind of guy, you know? I thought I could trust him. I didn't think he would be the kind of guy who would let himself down, let his community down. M and we were talking about creatine as if it was like, you know, he's he's injecting it in the bathroom before we go to train, right? And and just the the hyperbolic nature of this massive disconnect between expectations and then you get on creatine and you're like, "Yeah, I think I got an extra rep and a half." Right? So for me it was just kind of this like listen folks it's it's an interesting technique like many and uh use it if you like it and that's cool but but like let's kind of it this six weeks of just elation like we solved resistance training because people were talking about it on YouTube. I was like guys we got to just chill out a little bit with it. But all that is to say hey I've used them before. I still use them and uh you know more power to you. Helms, you look like you've been biting your tongue. What do you have to say? The thing I have to say is that what you don't realize is that every time you bring up anything related to football or even if Zordos does and I just feel that I'm mad at you by close close relation. I actually use every email list that I have access to muscle and strength pyramids. I got a backdoor one for mass. I even ask friends. I do IG lives. I hop on the 3DMJ YouTube do a live one and I ask people hey next time we have mass office hours asks about length and partials and I'm hoping because you have good pattern recognition that you'll start to see this this correlation you go maybe it's not spurious maybe every time I talk about football I get questions about length and partials and you'll even notice you brought up football earlier even to cancel it and what happened here we are so it's just like classical conditioning I see uh someone mentioned that liking the video gives you immediate gains. Um, I can't guarantee that, but I certainly wouldn't risk missing out on that. The fear of missing out is a really scary thing. So, yeah, Helms is showing you on YouTube right now. There's a little thumbs up button. You want to hit that. Be careful, Helms. You almost hit the thumbs down, but but you you nailed it. Um, but yeah, folks, make sure you like the video. Hey, you can like it on the Mass YouTube channel and you can like it on the Iron Culture YouTube channel if you want to because we're streaming on both. Uh, which does bring me to uh a very concerning comment. Um, someone said, "Trex can code in R, but he can't work audio on a laptop like all my other computer science professors." That that's an egregious statement to make. Uh, we are now I I think since we started doing the office hours version of this show, the predecessor before the merger, we had like 60 clean episodes there. live streaming audio working intros and outros with audio components. We had a smooth operation going. Then we merged things. We're trying to stream to two channels at once. We're trying to also put it on podcast feeds. It's a whole thing now. So, you're going to get me punching some buttons, okay, in my defense. But I I will concede. Uh I definitely hit some wrong buttons today and we're gonna we're going to learn from it. We're going to push forward. We're going to get better. We're going to grow. Um, Adam asked, uh, Adam lives in a cold environment up in Alberta, Canada. Poorly heated garage gym. Um, I'm very familiar with that. I've coached a lot of people in the same situation. Um, training in a really cold gym. Are there any specific adaptations I should expect from this type of training? Positive or negative? Um, the negative part is it's going to be unpleasant. That's not an adaptation. It just it's not fun to train in a very cold environment in my opinion. Um I did a funny anecdote from back in the day. Uh I heard someone say um and and they were being completely serious that they put blankets over their barbells in their cold uh their cold gym uh to keep the barbells warm so that when they show up in the morning to train it it won't be as rough on their hands. Um, and I I don't think they really thought through the mechanism of how blankets work. Uh, because those barbells when you're away from them are actually not generating body heat to to be trapped. So, I don't recommend the blanket method. Uh, it won't hurt, but it probably won't help as much as some might say. Um, in terms of actual adaptations, people who spend more time in the cold, whether it's during occupational tasks or any number of, you know, if you're spending hours a day out in the cold, you are probably going to have an adaptation that increases the activity of your brown atapost tissue. You you may have more browning of white atapost cells. uh you may just have more activity of the relatively small amount of brown atapost tissue cells that you actually have. Uh you know there's there's been a lot of really cool work with really cool imaging. Some of which I've done. Uh it was not fun to do but it was cool to do but uh very tedious. But yeah, we did a study where we brought people into the lab and you know we gave them uh FDG kind of a tracer that's used with PET scans. Um, and we we kind of cooled them down using these really cool pads over their like main conduit arteries, put them in the armpits, thighs, things like that. And it was just continuously circulating cold water. And what we did was we brought them down. This is really not fun stuff. Brought them down all the way to where they were almost about to shiver but not quite. So they were they were uncomfortably cold. uh and they had no mechanism to become more comfortable like it it you're just you're stuck there. Um and so what we were doing is trying to activate brown atapost tissue and see it on in the PET scan without um without shivering which would then cause the muscles to take up that FDG tracer which would kind of distort all the imaging. So that's why we had to put them in this uh really not pleasant uh condition of almost cold enough to shiver which would actually start to fix things. You know, you start generate some body heat. Uh and we're like, "Nope, we're just going to hold you right there." But there have been a bunch of studies that have used a similar general approach to research and they found yeah if you are outside uh consistently for you know multiple hours a day you will have some adaptations where your body uh you know you probably get a little bit better at shivering um in terms of just your ability to generate heat. You probably are going to have more uh brown atapost tissue activity more heat generation from that. Uh so small adaptations but the reality is and I I can say this now that I'm in an evolution department humans are remarkably capable of adapting to heat. Uh I I think we take it for granted but the human sweat response is such an outlier in nature. We are so remarkably good at adapting to heat. We are terrible at adapting to cold. We basically have this like you you know how to shiver. You got a little bit of brown atapost tissue activity you can tap into, but it ain't much. It's not going to do a lot. Um, basically humans, it's like go find a pelt, go find a big fur, uh, or nowadays a coat, and that's pretty much it. So, are any of these adaptations going to be meaningfully helpful to you? No. Some people are going to tell you, oh, you'll do all this uh, brown atapost tissue thermogenesis and it'll ramp up your your metabolism and it'll get you shredded. Not so fast. It looks like the thermogenesis that is induced by cold exposure tends to come with an increase in appetite that either offsets it or more than offsets it. Um, which is actually kind of unique because we don't see the same thing with thermogenesis induced by excessive heat because, you know, our our adapt our our immediate response to heat um does involve some energy cost as well. So, long- winded answer, but the bottom line is training in a cold gym is going to be kind of unpleasant. Uh, to the extent you can tolerate it, great. Um, and uh, it it's really not going to help or hurt beyond just your ability to get in there and get it done. Um, all right. Uh, we got a question here. Do you believe that asymmetries or biomechanics contribute to pain and chronic injury, or is it just bad load management, bad luck, and not enough strength? Uh, boy do I have good news for you. I just, as Helms mentioned at the beginning of the episode, just wrote a huge mass article where I really do address that pretty head-on. Um, this I almost hesitate to give a short version of it because it I'm just going to be like stepping in a bear trap here. Like there there's no good way to do this where I'm going to convey what I want to convey and not get a bunch of uh push back on it. But I'm a glutton for punishment. So, in the mass Facebook group, uh, someone was asking me kind of follow-up questions about my article. And the way that I put it was, you know, do I believe that everyone should have a 0% asymmetry in terms of strength or power production from right to left foot during a squat? Or should it be just picture perfect symmetrical when I'm looking at it? Uh, absent strength or power measurements from a force plate. No, you're never going to get 0% asymmetry. Humans aren't built that way. Um, do I believe that there's one perfect way to lift and that everyone should be losing sleep over, you know, the smallest little technical deficiency in their squat or their deadlift? Absolutely not. However, it's extremely challenging for me to get on board with the idea that if, you know, in some of my sports science stuff, we'll get people on a force plate and we'll have them jump and we'll look at some different characteristics of power output, right versus left on on a two-legged jump or with a series of unilateral jumps. Do your right first and then your left. Um, if I'm seeing a reliable 28% asymmetry from right to left, I don't feel good about saying, "I'm sure it's nothing." Right, for someone who's doing a sport with a lot of cutting and explosive movement and, you know, it it's one thing to see asymmetries from a pitcher's throwing arm to their non-throwing arm because what are they doing with the non-throwing arm? Probably nothing. But if I have a football player, a soccer player, a basketball player, and we've got 28% limbto limb asymmetries on their landing forces, I'm worried about it, you know. And same thing if I'm seeing a squat and and I know someone's putting 700 lb on their back regularly and I'm seeing this enormous asymmetry, I kind of want to address that. Uh, you know, as if it's large in magnitude. Same thing goes with with biomechanics. Like, you know, a common refrain is that people will say, well, you know, your body's tough. It's resilient. It'll adapt to things. But not all tissues have the same adaptive capacity. Uh, and so you know, how much do I really trust a non-contractile tissue to adapt to any amount of training I can throw at it with really gross like massive biomechanical deficiencies that are shifting a tremendous amount of force onto tissues that are not meant to bear those forces day after day after day or training se session after training session. um you know at a certain point if the asymmetries or the biomechanical flaws are egregious enough in magnitude I I think you you can't look away from them. You kind of do want to address those things. Um at the end of the day it's it's really difficult for me to get on board with any uh recommendations uh to the alternative. You know, I I I feel like that we're getting in the range. And Helms, jump in and and stop me if I'm if I'm overstating, but I feel like those stances are almost self-evident. Am I crazy? No. And I think if if if I may, this speaks to one of the bigger conceptual issues with some of the ways that um the more modern injury and pain science and methods have been presented. Um, it is one thing to say this is incredibly complex and multiffactorial and the diagnostic tools we have to assess the risk for injury are nowhere near sensitive enough for us to be able to pick up what the specific ideology of the issue you're dealing with is. And I'm not going to make this layered, you know, deck of card house easily to blow over that I can't even test and disisconfirm hypothesis based upon, oh well, this is a inspiratory muscle and this is a a stabilizer and you know, if if if we do this type of exercise and we lengthen this and strengthen that and go 15 steps like some old school kind of physical therapist might and therefore it'll it'll it'll kill your cure your pain because we can link it all the way back to ear or your posture or some of these tropes that we have. It's one thing to acknowledge, listen, I can't know those things, so I'm going to focus on the big rocks that I can know. And once that does not work, then I'm going to start trying to analyze things on a more minute level. That's an extremely different proposition than this stuff is really complex. It's not always uh, you know, measurable or reproducible, so it doesn't exist. And I think that is often the misinterpretation that you have been dealing with and that sometimes can be disastrous in terms of the consequences for the person working with a clinician or typ typically not a clinician but some person who listened to a podcast um is that they're going listen you know uh your asymmetry that you're talking about can't really measure reliably everyone is asymmetrical so don't even worry about it and it could be someone talking to you who has nerve damage and doesn't know it. Um, and a huge strength, you know, imbalance and has had, you know, a prior ACL tear and they haven't had a proper reintroduction to their sport and now they're just jumping right back into plyometrics. The nuance is what's missing here. Saying something is complicated doesn't mean that there that we should just abandon the attempt to find all the variables, but we need to be very aware of the limitations of our ability to do so. and then what what do we do in practice? Yeah. Um and I think that's that's kind of what the issue has been. It's like pain is complex so it doesn't mean anything or injury is complex or asymmetry is complex so it doesn't mean anything. And we can find examples of people who use different techniques. What even is technique anyway? And and you know they're strong and they get hurt and you don't. We can't unravel these variables. So they're not related at all. And that is just simply untrue. Um, and I think that is just a a really in fact I think that is the the fulcrum o of the issue is the distinction between know what we can know but acknowledge the existence of the things that we can't measure versus pretending they're not real or that it is a fool's errand to try to pursue them in all cases at all magnitudes. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. And I think it just goes to show how much the Overton window has shifted that that you'll get a question um and and this is not an insult to the question because this is where the fitness discourse has kind of gravitated lately, but does the way you move influence your potential to be injured by moving? It has to, right? Like in the broadest sense it must because that is the stimulus. And if if it's possible to be injured by moving, which it is, then the way you execute movement will be related to that. It it really is a self-evident truth. Um, but yeah, I I love the way that you kind of dove into that and and discussed how we got here, so to speak, and and some of the nuances there. But hopefully people will uh check out my mass article and and that kind of more clearly lays out my thoughts on pain and injury. Uh another uh set of questions people are asking uh you know there are some evidence-based folks who confidently say that 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram of body mass very likely maximizes gains. Do you disagree? If so, why? We had another question that uh basically said, why is everybody so confident in this number 1.6 g per kilogram of total body mass? Another piece of good news. I have a whole mass article that is basically me saying why is everyone so confident in this? Because I'm not. Um, and it's it's one of those those few articles that I wrote because after a while I was like, I I got to say something about this. I I got to get this off my chest. So, uh, if you feel inclined to subscribe, uh, to mass and become a mass member during our Black Friday sale, uh, I've got this big article, uh, it's basically like protein recommendations, you know, how much is enough or or how something along those lines. Um, it's just revisiting evidence-based protein guidelines and and I I kind of get into why looking at the individual pieces of evidence, I'm not really on board with the like overwhelming level of confidence that people bring to that discussion, particularly around that particular cutoff. And uh, and I talk a little bit more about why I recommend protein the way that I do. Um, and it it's not that simple, right? it it's just there it's it's not very likely we're going to be able to find the one cut off that below this is terrible above it is optimal and here's where you got to get um and and so there there's some nuance to to be had when when we're talking about uh how much is enough you know you have to ask well what's your goal how much does it matter how much inconvenience uh do you have an appetite for so to speak um so yeah definitely check out that article if you get an opportunity Um, ooh, a comment in here. They said, you know, Helms, you had that question about volume requirements by age. And someone said, it seems strange that Helms hasn't put as much thought into volume requirements changing with age given how old he is. Um, it's an interesting perspective. I'm not going to comment on it. Uh, I don't want to bring a lot of attention to it because I think it's a nasty, nasty thing to say. Um, but I am obligated to at least acknowledge it. Um, all right, Helms. I would just say, has this person read Aliia and colleagues uh seinal paper, age ain't nothing but a number? Is that a real paper? No, that's a song. Come on, man. I'm showing my age. Come on, man. You know that I'm not going to get a a pop culture reference. That's not what I do. I know. I'm sorry. And uh yeah, it's it's classic uh classic 90s R&B. So, okay. Well, yeah. I'm definitely not getting R&B from the 90s. That that's just never going to happen, unfortunately. Um, all right. Let's see here. I got one more. Oh, yeah. One more that I wanted to get to here. I think this is a fast a fantastic one to end on. Uh, before we get to it, though, I want to thank everyone in the live chat for hanging out with us. Uh, really appreciate you coming out on a Monday from all over the world. Uh, saw someone from Norway, I believe. People coming in from all over to spend some time with us. It means a lot to us. We really appreciate it and we love having these great questions in the chat. If we didn't get to your question this week, try to get us in a future week. Um, you know, that's that's what makes this show great is people come in with fantastic questions and we are super appreciative. Um, but the last question I want to address here is um we had uh oh, someone asked another question and my cursor moved. Uh, yes. Okay, here we go. So, one of the the good folks in the chat says, "I've changed from a very good gym environment to a really demotivating one." So, I was at a gym, you know, great environment. People were pumping me up, great equipment, the whole the whole vibe was good. Now, I'm in a small gym, poorly equipped, not the same clientele, that kind of thing. My volume's been dropping. It's been hard to focus on training in this new kind of demotivating environment. any tips on motivation? Now, Helms, I'm going to kick it to you, uh, because I I think you'll have a lot to share here. not being facitious, not trying to make a joke at your expense, but you've been in the lifting game for a long time, you know, and you've had multiple chapters to your lifting life, you know, so I'd be curious to see how to me that's what's really fascinating is talking to people who have maintained motivation through many chapters of their life, right? people for whom lifting has meant different things at different times and they have found ways to stay motivated in all these different contexts because I think at the end of the day, you know, what this question is getting at is the fact that motivation can be extremely contextual, right? So, plot me in this gym environment where everything's really cranked up to 10, great equipment, great folks, great music, the whole the whole vibe is right and and I'm motivated like crazy. dropped me into, you know, a different training environment and it's harder to to tap into. When I think about motivation, uh, I'm kind of a broken record on this, but I really love self-determination theory as kind of my baseline mental model for how we approach motivation. And the idea with self-determination theory is that we've got these psychological needs that we need to make sure we're addressing and fulfilling in order to really feel that intrinsic sense of motivation that pushes us to try to be our best our best self. So we need to feel a sense of competence, a sense of autonomy and a sense of relatedness. And when we are doing things to really cultivate a and address those three psychological needs, there's a decent amount of research indicating that puts us in a really good position to to kind of expand out and and foster our interest in mastery and self-actualization and finding new goals and attacking them and and giving it our all and kind of enjoying that growth process for its own sake. Um, so that's one model that I I I really think about. And whenever I'm not feeling motivation, one of the first things I I think about is in this exact context. Is it that I don't feel competence? Is it that I don't feel autonomy or is it that I don't feel relatedness? And it could be a combination of those things. Maybe you drop into a new gym environment and it's not necessarily that you don't feel competent as a lifter, but you're like, "Man, I loved having the belt squat machine and the hack squat machine and now I'm in a a more sparssely equipped gym." And it's not that I feel incompetent, it's that I feel like I'm training with a hand tied behind my back. So my my sense of competence as a train uh a person training it's not totally thwarted but maybe it does feel like it's been hindered a little bit by lack of resources right probably a bigger thing is relatedness you know you're plopped into this environment where it's not the same gym crew the the vibe is just a little bit different and that might be kind of playing a big role there um you know you could also think about the comb B model of behavior change engaging in a behavior it's capability, opportunity, motivation, all kind of summing together uh to create uh the the conditions to engage in a particular behavior. In this case, training. Um it's very possible that through, you know, having a a different environment that's less conducive to your temperament or preferences and having a more sparsely equipped gym. Maybe we're seeing things that are impacting your your perceived capability or opportunity to train the way you like to train in the environment you like to train in. And so maybe that's what's kind of uh hindering your training to some extent. And then of course motivation when when those things when there's no lowhanging fruit in those models, I zoom out and think about the concept of a goal hierarchy. And a goal hierarchy, it's not like a smart goal where you say, "Hey, I want to lose 10 pounds in the next 10 weeks." and that kind of thing. What you're trying to do is you start out with a superordinate goal, which is basically it's almost more like a value statement. Who is my what is my ideal sense of self look like? What what are my core values that really drive this whole thing? Like if you were to ask me like, you know, one one of the like biggest superordinate goals in my career is like I want to provide for my family. Like like it's really important to me. I see myself as someone who's, you know, dependable and and and uh kind of plays that role in my family and and that matters a lot to me. It's not the only thing, but but it does it does matter a lot. Um and and so those are the type of things like you don't just wake up one day and say, you know, I don't really care if my wife has enough food to eat. It's I'm just not feeling it today. Right? Like it's it th those types of superordinate goals are not the flimsy things where you kind of wake up and hit the snooze button cuz you're like, "Ah, I don't really care that much. It's already Thursday. I was really motivated on Monday. These are the things that make you who you are, the things that that never really waver. Um, and then you kind of fill in your goals from there. But sometimes what I think about is like what I'm approaching right now, you know, has my superordinate goal kind of shifted over time. Is it possible that the way I used to train, what I used to train for doesn't actually really align right now with my bigger priorities in life? and maybe there's just a mismatch there and I need to figure out how to make my lifting habits relevant to these superordinate goals that that are absolutely rock solid and won't waver. So sometimes it's just a matter of recontextualizing like what are we in this for? What are we training for? You know, so I know a lot of folks who they become, you know, their reputation basically is they're like a fitness enthusiast. people know them as the person who's obsessed with fitness and fitness is their life, right? And maybe they're a competitor for a decade and then they stop competing and all of a sudden they're like, "Wait a minute. I I'm not actually sure what I'm training for anymore." Like I I used to train because I was going to compete and I wanted to win. Now I don't compete so I can't win. So am I just doing this because it's a habit? Am I just used to it? And maybe that'll get you through the first couple years after your your competitive career, but at a certain point, you really do have to figure out like what what am I really in this for? Is is it purely intrinsic enjoyment of the process? Is it the physique it brings me? Is it the the strength or the performance it brings me? Is it health related? Is it because I want to be around for my grandkids and be able to chase them around and be the fit grandpa? Um, you know, there there's a lot of you really do have to kind of drill in when it comes to motivation and figure out how does my lifting actually serve some greater goal that that means a lot more to me than just rolling out of bed 2 hours early and getting to the gym. So, um, with with motivation, that that would be my recommendation is to kind of think through sequentially. Go for the lowhanging fruit first so you don't have to get into like big picture stuff that's going to like make you have an existential crisis and say, "Who am I?" But, uh, but sometimes that's necessary. Like, Helms, I don't know if you've ever done this, but like I I I used to work with a lot of Gen Pop clients. It was it was my favorite kind of client to work with as a coach. Uh, not competitive people that lift for a reason that's not winning trophies. And there were more than a few times that that I had to sit down with clients and basically say like, "Hey, are you sure that what we're doing here makes sense?" And I'm not saying we shouldn't be doing it. I'm saying, how does this fit into your idea of who you are and what you want out of life and what matters to you in life? Because until we can until we can tie what we're doing into why it matters in a meaningful way, we're going to continue to have these compliance issues. We're going to continue to have motivation issues because frankly it it would be illogical for you to wake up every day with this overwhelming sense of motivation because this doesn't seem to make any sense. There there's no narrative that links what we're doing to what genuinely matters to you. And so we need to really work on that on a psychological and emotional level. And if we decide that that means training a different way, then we can do that, you know, but but we need to figure out what we're in this for. And I I have had situations where I started working with a client who basically trained like a powerlifter but didn't compete. And then at a certain point they're like, "Why am I doing this?" And I'm like, "I I don't know. you said you wanted to, but like but then their their training morphs and it becomes more hypertrophy focused or more health focused. Like I've definitely been in that situation. But um Helms, what do you think about this one? Yeah. Um you know, it's funny. I I you were like, listen, I want to ask you this question because you've been listing a while, but I'm not calling you old. I I I already acknowledge that I'm old. I I made a joke based upon a reference from Aaliyah, who died in 2001 when I graduated high school. So like I I get it and I've been in the game a long time and I've thought tremendously about this and I have a very clear ability to articulate all those aspects. So to speak directly to the question asker because you were like hey my gym environment is not as badass anymore. I'm having trouble pushing quite as hard. It may have seemed a little abstract to think of okay what's my superordinate goal and and what is the uh you know trans theoretical model of change that I'm gonna like I get it if you were thinking like listen I didn't want to go into SDT but I think it's really important to think motivation the key word there is your motive and if you don't know why you're doing what you're doing it is next to impossible to sustain doing it and if you know and you have a wrong why to put it in very simple terms at the center of your actions then you can have a bottom worst case scenario floor that is a high level of training efficacy. Um, I actually enjoy going to not great hotel gyms, uh, where because the the challenge of figuring out how do I bring the level of training quality that I demand of myself based upon my goals and my strong motives in this less than ideal scenario. So like in Perth for example, um, they didn't have everything I quite needed in the hotel gym, but there was a dip in a pull-up station on the beach. So, I did half my workout in the hotel, ran down the stairs, went and and did got my rest of my sets on the beach and then came back and and I enjoyed that because I felt like I was solving a problem to reach my goals. But if I don't have my goals, if I don't have a strong motive, then that's just an annoying gym envir environment where I have to go outside and did I bring sunscreen and I'm on vacation. Maybe I don't even need to train anyway. It's all good. This could be a D load week, right? And I think we can all imagine scenarios where we make very different decisions despite being the same person in a different training environment. And so I think you're you're kind of first first thing you want to do is go, all right, why do I train? What am I here for? And link to that on the way to the gym when you're at there between sets. Think about it. Um and if you have a good workout partner, man, I tell you what, my workout partner telling me, "So you want to get the fifth? you gonna get top five awards ain't gonna happen if you go stop at a one R when on paper it's a zero Eric and I'm like you know I turn into a different person because they have recon it's not that it wasn't them saying it that did it and it wasn't just the fact that I'm have a little bit of a competitive kind of you know like relationship with my workout partner it was that they helped me in the moment reconnect with what's important to me and all of a sudden I'm I'm I'm I'm plugged right into the grid right so with that said I I think you can then see your gym environment around that motive is is potentially like a performance-enhancing, you know, uh, situation. But you want to make sure the floor is nice and high. Then after that, things like having a workout partner, having a really good playlist that gets you going. Um, I will sometimes when I'm a afraid of a set or I know it's going to be uncomfortable, I'm not sure I can get a PR, I will scroll through the music in my ears as I'm as I'm preparing myself until I have the right song. Um, and it's not like I spend 20 minutes doing or anything like that, but you know, 20 seconds maybe, and I go, "Okay, that that that works right now. That's giving me the vibe I need to match the the anxiety I have related to lifting to to to to come to the standard that I expect of myself because of my motive. So, a great gym environment is truly a fantastic thing because if you think about what defines a great gym environment, it's a lot of other people who are highly motivated, which means they're connected with their motives. Everyone's there for a shared purpose. Not only does it give you that relatedness, but it reminds you of your autonomy because that's what a goal is. Like I have decided who I am, who I want to be. How do I push forward to it? And it's mine. It's you expressing who you are through a goal oriented action. You're on a mission and the mission matters. And if everyone else is on a mission and that mission matters to them, it's satisfying multiple elements of self-determination theory. So when you go to a gym and it's just kind of a lot of people who are not even the same people or they're not very social or you can't see that same kind of fire in their eyes, you have to do things to make up for that. But the first step is everything that that Trex you you talked about is reconnecting with your why, knowing your motive. And then it's like, okay, now how do I support the intensity that I want to bring internally to match my goals? And some of those things can be, you know, environmental. And I think honestly my my first thought was music because I love when I'm training with big shout out to Matt Cross, Dr. Matt Cross. I train with him one to three times a week depending upon our schedules. I don't need music when I'm with him because we're we're there with a shared purpose and we're both really enjoying the hard work and there's the camaraderie. There's that relatedness and I get a similar performance-enhancing effect of having a good workout partner as to what I get when I'm listening to music on my own. And it's simply cultivating that arousal state and the intensity you need to meet the standard you're holding yourself because of the motives. So the environment should be supportive of that central piece. Beautiful. Couldn't have said it better myself. And uh the nice thing that I want to encourage people, a last note of encouragement is Helms, I'm sure you and I have both. Well, I don't know. You're you're a freak. Me, I've definitely gone up and down big time with my motivation as a lifter. Um, Helms, you're a different breed. I I don't I you're all about it, but I I don't know. I can't speak for you, but for me, definitely ups and downs. But the nice thing I can say is when you're in a down uh when it comes to your motivation level, there's probably an up around the corner. You know, put your head down, push through it, do that harder work of figuring out that why, which may change over time. And uh most importantly, just stay optimistic. You're going to find that that flow state again where it's fun, it's enjoyable, you're motivated, you'll get there. Um but it will take a little bit of work, but everything does, right? No big deal. And yeah, I mean, I I definitely have had periods of time where my motivation has waned. I haven't been as connected to a goal. I've been injured. Um my competition is so distant. uh or I'm so focused on something like my PhD that I that part of my like the nagging in the back of my mind is like going listen this is the priority you need to make some sacrifices right now but what is the most you can do in those constraints and I think holding on to my motive and where I'm trying to get to like if I was to say hey my superordinate goal that is I am someone who is going to do everything in their power to reach their potential um and that filters on down to all the decisions I make the framing I have for that is incredibly important though because that can turn into this all or nothing black and white perspective that conflicts with everything else right um is within the constraints of the other potentials I'm trying to reach I am not going to leave any stone unturned and one of the ways I think about that is I try to find a way to win every day when I am not in a great state of motivation like for example we were talking about BFR earlier I get a little bit of knee pain somes times when I've been going heavy on leg press for a while and heavy on on on leg extensions and I am pretty strong on leg press and leg extensions. So, I kind of find this point where I'm like, I'm making great gains, great gain, great gains. And then the thing holding me back is just my knee freaking hurts, right? And then I go, okay, that's fine. This is demotivating. It's frustrating. I'm finding it really hard to actually put on the eight plates per side that I need to on leg press. Okay, let's do BFR. And I find myself regretting that decision halfway through because it is harder but in a very different way. And then it is that challenge, that climb, like, oh my god, how am I going to get 30 reps on this first set of BFR when it hurts at 15? Let's find a way forward. So, it is changing the goalpost a little bit to give me an opportunity to win. And then I finish that and I'm like, hell yeah, I did it. And I think sometimes we are too rigid in our approach to training because we think in confines of what's optimal, what's on plan, what's in the Excel spreadsheet, what have I already established and I don't want to betray that. Um I don't want to deviate from what I've decided because then I'm I'm a flip-flopper. And I think instead when you do that sometimes you can put yourself in a position to lose which is even more devastating psychologically because oh okay I'm not going to I'm not going to be a flip-flopper. I have the self-efficacy and then you find out oh no I don't like I thought I was someone who could win today and then I didn't and it's even more demotivating but if you accept the constraints of the current scenario you're in whether it's pain your gym environment uh your your your depressive state like some of us just struggle with mood and you go all right last time I felt this way I started crying and I left the gym I didn't work out at all and that made me feel even worse what if I challenge myself to go you know what let me get one top set on bench and that's it. And that's a big improvement to last time. And if that is what you define as winning, something that is a motivating challenge but still within your reach today, that can be an amazing way to keep you on track and even bring you out of some of those slumps that you get to. All right, good stuff. And even in the chat, we're getting some some great recommendations. People mentioning, you know, keeping things fun. Sometimes when motivation tips, they just do fun stuff in the gym and try to reconnect to that stuff, you know. Uh people mentioned sometimes doing a specialization phase, just saying, "Hey, instead of trying to accomplish everything all at once for the next four weeks, let's get a huge bench. Let's just simplify it. Let's, you know, laser focused on a on a bite-sized goal that we can just put all of our energy and thought into and kind of, you know, snowball it, build it up from there. So, it's why we love having the chat, you know, uh always uh great recommendations from the listeners as well. Appreciate having you. Uh, we will be back in a week with another episode. Um, I think we'll be live next week, I believe. So, but but we'll we'll talk and figure that out. If we're not live, then we'll have a beautiful, wonderful, excellent pre-recorded episode. Uh, so either way, we're going to be back with something 7:00 p.m. Eastern time, 7 days from now. Really appreciate everyone for joining us. Uh, make sure that you uh like, rate, subscribe, review, all that good stuff. And if you're interested in becoming a member of the mass community, remember that Black Friday sale, Cyber Monday sale, that ends tomorrow. You got about 27 hours to take advantage of that and I would highly encourage it. So everyone have a fantastic week and we will be back soon.