Hey everybody, welcome back to Iron Culture. It is me, Eric Trexler, and I am joined by the Dr. Eric Helms with a very tiny spoon. Helms, how are you doing tonight? >> You know me, I got Greek yogurt and a tiny spoon and I'm uh annoyingly obsessed with food, so I couldn't be happier. >> Awesome. Is that a a newish development, the ramped up food obsession? >> No. I mean, I don't deal with a ton of like hunger or food pangs, but I I find that I am just far too attentive and interested in in the flavors of things and care about food more than I generally care to be because it's just not my normal personality. I uh I noticed the disparity and I'm just tired of it. So, I'm looking forward to getting a little bit fat. But, >> how long have you been I compete. >> How long have you been wrestling with that? >> Uh maybe once I got under like 190 pounds, then it's just kind of like steadily as uh as I get leaner and leaner. So maybe three months, four months. >> Yeah. Well, you're near the end uh and there are more importantly uh fun things on the horizon. So you feeling ready for the uh for worlds coming up in one week? I posted a um a video of me flexing my uncle's bathroom in a speedo. Um the beauty of it, it's hilarious. When I check my Instagram stats, the day I do that, I see this big drop. Like all the people who follow me for like science communication, they're like, "What the [\h__\h] Why is this guy in his underwear?" Pardon my French. But then like all like the hardcore bodybuilders who see it over the next couple days, then it trickles up. So, it's it's it's funny like in this this competition season the last three months, I have like the most erratic, you know, swings and follows. Like, I have more views of my profile than ever before, but my follows are actually down slightly. So, I have like minus 60 and then three days of plus 30. >> So, people people will be so jarred by your uh >> unsolicited nudity that they that they will actually unfollow. >> Yes. despite the fact that I keep my profile picture as a uh you [clears throat] know me in competition shape. >> Yeah, people do not know what they're what they're getting into there. >> Well, >> no. Uh there it is. >> So, Helms, um I have >> But anyway, sorry I brought that up. >> Yeah, I you asked me a question. How are things on the horizon? And I said I I lose followers and then we just moved along. I posted it because I achieved this morning the kind of conditioning that I have been envisioning this whole season. And I I do think it is actually the leanest I've ever been. And it was a level of like graininess and crispiness that I wanted to post it. Like I I I could probably maybe have slightly deeper grooves in like my upper glutes and you know, I'm sure I'll be focused on that my next season. But um I had a sense of satisfaction and calm and like all right, that is what I was thinking of. I wanted to look like some type of strange alien and we've done it. Um, and now we're just trying to ride this look. So, the I'm basically sitting around maintenance with a very low fat and very high carb intake and until game day, then we're just topping off the gas tank. So, it's it's a good feeling to know like we're there, we're done, you know, let's just >> maintain this look. >> And you mentioned you were going to do another little push to the end there. Would did that end up being fruitful or did you uh pull the cord on it? No, it was very fruitful. I had uh I ran two low days, one moderate day uh and then I ran three low days and then I had two high days over the weekend. And this morning was the day after the two high days and there was no spill. I was just in fact I'm a little bit uh that's more so because I I the video was dehydrated. No pump this first thing in the morning. >> Yeah. So, I worked out today. Lateral raises and I went. So, I think we're good to go. >> Nice. Well, I'm glad to hear it. Uh, I'm sure the whole Iron culture is wishing you luck this weekend. You're going to be at Worlds. Berto is going to be at Worlds. Anyone else that that we would know of? >> Brad Lumis is going to be at Worlds. Jeff is going to be coaching us at Worlds. Um, there's a tremendous number of people competing. Unfortunately, uh, this just got posted. uh Babacyang or Nyang Babacar the reigning world champion uh he lives in Italy and uh was not able to get his visa on time to compete so he is not going to be there um no offense to any other competitor and certainly it's not a complete write-off but I would say there's like a 70% chance if he shows up he's winning the worlds >> um although there's some really good people coming in so it's kind of wide open right now I think we're going to see a new WBF world champion crowned and there's some really good folks in every single division coming in in the pros, which is going to be exciting. >> Nice. Well, we will look forward to the show recap. Like I said, wishing you luck. And uh Helms, I I have a couple uh minor updates on my end before we get into the real meat of the show. Not really updates, but things relevant to the show that are worth uh acknowledging. So, first of all, uh, related to a prior episode, a couple prior episodes, we talked a little bit about what is a PhD, what goes into it, what do they look like, all these different structures, who decides when you get one, what does it mean once you've got it, all these things, right? I was targeted today, Helms, by an advertisement or in America, as we call it, an advertisement. This was on Instagram. heard of those. >> And the advertisement said, and this I was just I wanted to immediately share it with the whole fitness world and just watch chaos ensue. The text on it was a a photo of a person graduating um you know, wearing the gown and the cap and whatnot. And the text on the the advertisement says all about no dissertation, one-year doctoral programs. And I was like, man, if we had one of those in strength and conditioning or exercise science, could you imagine just the everyone would be tearing everyone apart limb from limb uh attacking [laughter] their credentials. Oh my god. So yeah, apparently folks out there you can get a one-year uh doctorate with no dissertation component whatsoever. Um, >> nice. >> What makes it a doctorate? I can't possibly say, but uh, >> it's accredited by whatever that advertisement is. Probably not accredited. >> Yep. I don't think you're probably going to be able to apply any federally backed loans for th this kind of program. Uh, it's probably going to be an out-of pocket. They might actually make you pay with a cashier's check if if I had to guess. >> I bet you Fanny and Freddy will take your money. >> Oh, sure. >> They always will. Oh, yeah. Yeah. But um you know I I saw that and I was like oh man this is too good with all the all the chaos in exercise science. Um the other thing >> if you can get a a one-year master's exercise science or strength and conditioning accelerated degree if like you go through the summer it's maybe like 14 months and and and no dissertation. >> No I mean >> or no or no no thesis that's a thing? >> No. So, I'm I was aware of those, right? Like I knew that those existed. And frankly, you know, if you're doing a classesonly, heavy course load plus over the summer plus it's accelerated and there's no internship component, there's no practical component, there's no research component. Sure, why why shouldn't you be able to do a really focused accelerated masters in a calendar year or or 14 months, right? I'm I I don't find that to be out of the ordinary. Um especially if you're coming in with all sorts of prerequisites that are relevant to the field and things like that, but a a doctoral degree is supposed to it's supposed to mean something and have a little >> terminal degree >> supposed to have a little bit of weight to it. Um so yeah, I I I thought that was a little silly. But speaking of silly helms, another uh >> funny, cynical, sarcastic update on my end. Um, Helms, as you know, uh, if you've read any of our unpublished mass work that'll be coming out December 1st, I found yet another terrible, uh, meta analysis that required substantial naming and shaming. Um, it was quite bad. Uh, actually a mass reader, um, sent [snorts] it to me, so I I appreciate them. They're like, "You should cover this." And I was like, "Boy, will I." Um, but >> shout out to Mass Readers, by the way. Huge shout out to Mass Readers. Yeah, you you you kind of uh became a cyborg there on my end with your internet feed, but I think you said shout out to Mass Readers, right? >> I did. >> Okay, cool. Yeah, you're you're back to normal. Um, no, huge shout out to Mass Readers. They It is awesome. It's very fulfilling and gratifying, I think, when members of the mass community are clearly showing that they're picking up stuff. I don't want to take all the credit for this person's intellect and and their good eye or anything like that, but it is it is gratifying when people seem to be learning stuff from mass applying it out there in the world looking for research and more so than that identifying research that warrants additional scrutiny scrutiny and kind of sending it sending it our way. That to me is I I'd like to convince myself that by being a mass reader they are more equipped to do that than they used to be. Could I be wrong? Sure. But I'd like to believe that. I have to believe it. >> I think >> it it's what I need. >> Not only do not only do you need it and therefore you should you should do it, but I think it's also a very justifiable reasonable belief considering you've not only written a how to interpret research, but how to interpret stats guide and specifically an article specifically on how to figure out if a meta analysis was done well. >> Yes. >> And what are the key things to look for? So you've you've produced the content for Mass and someone in Mass said, "Hey, I found a meta analysis with these issues." >> It's not an unreasonable assumption. I'll back you. >> But Helms, as you know, it wasn't just the issues we've talked about previously. This one had some special some special issues up its sleeve, uh, which was really chaotic and just really bad. So, Helms, my little update here is um I actually submitted a like a correspondence letter to the editor type thing >> where I I sent it to >> You didn't just keep it in mass? >> No. So, I I sent it to the journal. I said, "This is this is really bad. You got to do something about this." And this is something I've done before. I've published a few of these little letters to the editor, and they usually I don't publish them unless they're fact. Unless it's just like, "If math still exists, my arguments are true." And so they they virtually always come with some kind of correction or retraction or clarification. So I I sent this in and it's it's in a journal that is published by Springer Nature which is a big publishing conglomerate which was nature which publishes believe it or not homes the journal nature which most people would say is one of the top two journals in the world. I mean number one or number two science and nature right >> science or nature. >> Yeah. So uh this is the elite top tier prestige in terms of publishers. This paper wasn't published in nature itself. But uh the reason I bring up the publisher is because I I sent in this letter to the editor. I was like, "Hey, here's an extensive I extracted the data and I analyzed it three different ways because it seems like this author claims to have analyzed it this way, but they didn't. and they must have done it two separate ways to get the results that they did without reporting any of these deviations from their protocol. Um, so anyway, it's it's a very thorough analysis, very extensive, and they came back to me and said, "Well, if you want to if you want us to consider essentially this uh this correspondence or this letter, you need to pay us $3,000 or you need to promise you'll be on the hook for this $3,000 if we publish it for for an open access charge." And I was like, "No reputable journal charges article processing charges for these types of direct responses to completely botched papers." And they're like, "I've been pushing back. Uh I must have messaged them and emailed with them at this point 10 times." And they're saying, "No, if if you want to be the person, basically they have the concept of math." If you can imagine like in a film math they have in a headlock with a knife up to its throat and they're saying fork over the $3,000 or math gets it. Math is done. >> Okay. This isn't funny, Trex. I'm actually mad. >> I'm mad, too. [laughter] >> Believe me, >> I I know you're mad, but but but you're uh you're far too laid-back about this. They're they're literally saying we can't do letters to the editor, corrections, core agendums. We can't do the scientific process unless you pay me. >> Yes. >> Um and then we will not engage in it. And then by the way, what we'll be engaging in will be the experience you had last time of it barely will have an impact. I actually think this is something where we should contact like retraction watch and be like, "Hey, this this journal is saying we got to pay 3,000." I've you notice I'm I'm on board with you now. It's we Yeah. I I've joined [laughter] the fight because I'm angry. >> Helms at all. >> All the work that I've done on this. >> Yeah. I don't know if you're aware of this. [laughter] By the way, I'll use my funding. We'll pay the 3K, but I get to be first author. Yeah. No, I'm just kidding. Um, so I honestly think you should go to we should we should we should make stink about this because this is unreasonable and I think anyone in any field interdisciplinary who is believes in any shred of hope for the peer-reviewed process would look at this and be like this is an egregious issue. If a reputable publisher is saying you got to pay to play for like correcting the record like this is this is this is the way science is supposed to work. We've accepted that we have a leech called publishing companies on us >> that is more parasite than symbiote but at least >> it it's currently doing something. But no, this is just straight up no I think I'm just gonna I'm just going to suck your blood. >> Yeah, I may have in one of my messages called it extortion. >> [laughter] >> But uh but anyway um no it it so Helms just to like so everyone what I said about math basically being rejected until I cough up money in this paper they have a confidence interval for an effect that ranges from I believe it's.56 to like positive50. So we're we're talking about an effect that is perfectly centered on zero just absolutely straddling it perfectly and they reported it as a a value which is significantly different from zero. Um >> so if you calculate the actual p value which they reported as less than 0.05 it's over 0.9 I think it's actually over 0.95. It is as far away from being significant as you could really hope to get with real data. and uh and so until I pay $3,000, my opinion on that mathematics is not being considered uh or taken seriously. >> Now, I've heard of a statistical test where you take the positive value of the upper side of the confidence interval and you subtract the absolute value of the lower side of the confidence interval and you report that as a p value. And in that case, this would actually straddle exactly 0.05. That's called the the Helmsian [\h__\h] correction fact. [laughter] [snorts] >> So I actually um I don't know what exactly happened here. I'm not going to I'm not going to share names. I'm not going to share uh institutions or anything like that but I I I have talked to someone who was working with a posttock in their lab who was trained in a very different context and they were working and talking shop and whatever and the individual was just putting asterisks on their figure for this paper that was about to be published you know 005 and he was like what uh what test did you run the that asterisk that you just placed on that figure what test is that based on you know statistical test they said oh no when when you want to bring attention to something you put one of these stars by it and you say p is less than 005 so they had this is a posttock they had no idea that the indicators of significance indicated a statistical test was done that the p minus 005 relates to the p value from that test they're like no it's just like when you want to like from an editorial perspective highlight noteworthy things you plop that there. So, part of me wonders habit tracks. >> Yeah. Part of me wonders, >> they got that one-year doctorate. >> Yes. Yeah. They got the >> Now they're doing their posttock. That that's that's all that is. >> Yeah. One year doctorate, one semester posttock, and now you're uh now you're running the show. >> But anyway, I have no idea how that p value happened. But but the reason I brought this all up, Helms, is um uh even even more stark and sobering commentary about academic publishing is in the process of me fighting this and fighting this and fighting this, they keep asking me to submit a letter to say like from like an actual administrator at my university to verify that I did not receive grant funding specifically to write this letter to the editor, which is the dumbest thing I've ever heard in my entire life. um that makes absolutely no sense. Uh but anyway, so I said fine, I will do it as I fight you on this uh every day. And so I I got an admin I emailed the administrator. I said, "Here's what's going on. Here's what I'm trying to do. Here's what I need the letter to say." Um and an administrator stopped by my office today, Helms, as I was diligently working at my computer. And the reason they stopped by was they were concerned that based on the information I was providing them that I was potentially the victim of a fraudulent scam. >> I And I'm not >> which is fair. >> And I'm not joking or embellishing at all. They basically came by and said, >> "That's amazing. >> We We're not um we're not being skeptical of you, Eric. we we we just think you're a dope who is walking into a fraudulent scam and we would like to make sure you're protecting yourself. And I said, first of all, you're correct. This is a fraudulent scam. It's also how science works now. Um and the administrator after I showed them like here's the publisher, here's what they said, they were they kind of chuckled. They were kind of dumbfounded and they were kind of just like, "Wow, this is heavy." Like, I didn't know it had gotten this bad. Um, so yeah, we are officially at the point with scientific publishing where literal administrators are flagging my requests as fraud. And it's just this is just how journals work now, >> which is >> we're in the Nigerian prince phase [laughter] of of of of dealing dealing with science, bro. This is >> it's awful. I mean, I am I'm flabbergasted and angry. This is this is this is uh I mean, I guess we are talking about this publicly. This is going to get listened to by, you know, eight or nine thousand people. So, >> yeah. Yeah. I I will. So, you you were saying like, hey, we should actually shine a light on this. I plan to, but I also because it's [snorts] so ridiculous, I assume this is going to work itself out. um just because it kind of has to like again like for the apple cider vinegar letter to the editor um that took two years of effort it took I think 12 emails to get the waiver for the article processing charges but at a certain point you just sit them down and say like so now that I've informed you that you published false statements are you insisting on keep continuing to have those false statements published um and if you start talking with like increasingly latigious tone they start to say, "Oh, I think we might actually be a fraudulent enterprise if we don't actually consider this feedback." So, I'm sure this will Yeah, >> this might actually be a second order effect of something I just remembered that happened to me and one of my students about a year and a half ago. Um, that is also not quite this bad, but similarly ridiculous. It's more of a result of incentivizing the publisher parish environment. So, I've had two students now who have had letters to the editor about one of their publications where the letter of the editor is basically like, "We really like this paper. We It's like two paragraphs because, you know, they're super short. It's like a 750 word limit." And they basically just say nothing. >> Yeah. >> There's no critique. There's no request to change anything. And you come to find out, you track back the country they're from in the university. >> And it is a heavily publisher parish reward-based system. and they actually get funding based upon the number of publications they have and you find out the reason they did it in this specific journal is because it doesn't have peer review and it doesn't do those things because that's a reasonable thing to do. If someone has a letter to the editor, we should let it through. So it is possible that what you're what you're experiencing is because of the second order effect of a cottage industry from universities emphasizing publications without any emphasis on quality. And then universities who are trying to make ends meet in their struggling posttos going listen I'm too busy writing a grant to pay myself to write a grant to have time to actually do research. So all I'm going to do is find a random paper in exjournal and write a 750word thing through chat GPT that says great job I like science. It'll get published without getting looked at because the editors are also other academics. They don't have time to do it and it's all automated anyway. And the publishers don't really do anything. And then some other legitimate publisher like Nature goes, "Well, we got to stop that." Oh, no problem. We just need to double check that they haven't received grant funding for it on a reward and also make them pay the publishing fee. And here we are in this >> terrible I I >> sorry you froze up a little. Is >> this our fault? >> You froze up a little there. I could >> I said I I said maybe we did something bad in a prior life. Is Is that Is that what's happening? Are we in purgatory? >> It could be. Yeah. But I I do uh I think this will all get sorted out because it's just too uncom it's too ridiculous to not uh but if it doesn't then yeah we'll we'll sound all the alarms and run it through all the channels and get everybody whipped up into a frenzy. But I just wanted to briefly comment on the hilarity of now it's it's gotten to be such overtly fraudulent and so clearly scammy that now I'm actually setting off fraud detectors by just trying to publish a letter to the editor to try to correct a completely botched analysis which is uh it's certainly a wild time man. But anyway, Holmes, um, if by the way, folks, if you want to read the whole, uh, the whole ordeal and see exactly how bad this paper is and how to protect yourself from falling for these kind of papers in the future, that'll be coming out in the Mass Research Review December 1st. Uh, while we're on that, let's do the whole thing. So, folks, if you like the show and you want to support it, there's a lot of ways to do it and we would appreciate all of them. Like, rate, subscribe, review, tell a friend, share it with people. Uh if you really uh want to get your fingerprints on the show, you can show up in the live chat to ask us a question. You can submit a question in the after hours portal at massresearchview.com/ironculture. Um and then of course if you want to be a top tier number one uh elite winner circle supporter, of course you can go to uh massresarchreview.com and learn a little bit more uh and even become a member of the mass community. Every single month, the first of the month, we publish uh an update on the newest research in exercise, nutrition, strength, sport, and all related topics so you can stay on top of your game, get the best results for you and your clients. Um, and then finally, we need to support our friends >> elite. >> Absolutely. We need to support our friends at Elite FTS who support us. Uh, if you are in the market for absolutely high quality gym gear or gym apparel, make sure you head over to elite elitefts.com. Use our disc discount code which is MRR10. That stands for Mass Research Review 10. It'll get you 10% off your order. And EliteFTTS, they make and I say this um very honestly with full transparency. I have shared on this show before. I got a pair of lifting straps from Elite FTS. These are the ones I used in college when you would put on irresponsible weight and do 650 pound rack poles and deadlift more than you probably ought to be deadlifting and you throw them in your gym bag and beat them up and all that stuff. And they still are completely functional and in great shape. I actually at the time bought two pairs. I I I was just looking through my my storage the other day. Uh, I bought two pairs because I said, "Well, these look really nice and I'm I'll wear through the first pair, then move on to the second pair." The second pair is still untouched. So, um, I and I have the I have the pair to prove it, Helms. So, uh, Elite FTS, very high quality gear. They've got your straps, they've got your wrist wraps, they've got your bands. You name it, they got it. We good to move on, Helms? >> Yeah, man. Well done. You nailed it. And, uh, couldn't agree more. lead FTS is the best. >> Awesome. I I fully endorse that perspective. Um, so let's uh let I I wanted to run a question by you here. This isn't like necessarily a direct listener question, but it is uh something that I think you'll have feelings about, probably a strong perspective. I was perusing the internet and I saw a comment, a post that that made the following statement. Systemic fatigue is mental fatigue. Full stop. And I thought it would be interesting to have maybe just a brief little chat about this whole concept of systemic fatigue as a lifter. Um I remember when I was coming up, this was a topic that was all over the place. Um, you know, when I when I really started to get into lifting, 2009 to 2012ish, I was really ramping up my lifting, a lot of people were talking about this concept of systemic fatigue. You do heavy stuff, especially things like squats or deadlifts, and you vaguely accumulate this thing, which is called systemic fatigue. It's not it's not related to the muscle, >> central fatigue >> or central fatigue. Yeah. The idea is it's this kind of top-down brain to periphery central nervous system kind of down reggulation where it's like nope you used up all of your strength and effort tokens and now when you tell muscle to turn on it's not going to do it very well. Uh or it won't produce the same level of force you were hoping it would. And I think, you know, systemic fatigue, you'll hear people talk about this when they say, "Well, you really shouldn't train more than six weeks in a row heavy because you'll accumulate systemic fatigue or central fatigue and then you need to de lo for one week to wipe that slate clean." What is the evidence that one week is the correct amount and what is the dose of de loing to do that? We have literally no idea. Um, but anyway, I wanted to get your take on this idea of systemic fatigue or central fatigue. how much time you spend thinking about it in programming and how much you think is um you know a a legitimate physiological phenomenon versus just kind of mental fatigue or even just staleness. This is um I have to be careful to not go down the rabbit hole, but I think the framing of fatigue um it it's it's one of those things where you can start with a heristic and the more and more and more you drill down, you actually realize we don't we don't know quite as much as we we think we know. um in much the same way that uh we talk about mechanical overload being the stimulus or mechanical tension uh being the stimulus for hypertrophy and you go okay well then how does that work and then you get to the next step and the next step and the next step and then you realize there's multiple different forms of mechanical tension there's actually downstream and upstream regulators the mechano sensors are not all the same and there's a lot we have left to learn and there are mtor and even non-mtor dependent pathways that these things might eventually simulate and then they get modified by things that uh like you know potentially metabolic stress but maybe not etc hormones you know and it's the surface level Dunning Krueger uh kind of interpretation it's not wrong but it's not complete so we'll start with the basics fatigue is something that we talk about colloially and and we all kind of know what we mean like I feel fatigued I feel tired and it is collective it encompasses a lot of things. Um, and people are happy to throw, you know, like mechanisms at it because they know what the experience is and it doesn't really matter. So, you might hear some Olympics commentator from 10 years ago the lactic acid, you know, um, and that's probably not what's causing to be fatigued two days later, right? Um, and it probably isn't even the thing that's actually causing the fatigue. This probably has more to do with uh other ions and things like that acutely. So I think it's useful to state that in sports science we describe fatigue as an outcome. Um that when you are in a state of fatigue your performance is decreased and it's agnostic in in some in most definitions to the cause. So when someone says systemic fatigue is mental fatigue, we have to really break that sentence down. Systemic means that you're experiencing fatigue to multiple systems. So this presumably would result in a decreased force output at various levels and this would actually impact strength, endurance, aerobic effects, coordination, the whole nine yards. And mental fatigue could do that. Um but ultimately systemic fatigue just means it's affecting multiple systems. Um, and then we have to go, all right, are we talking about systemic fatigue or what do you mean? And one term that is often used by powerlifters or strength athletes exists in science but aren't the same thing is central fatigue. So you'll often hear people talk about central versus peripheral fatigue, which in strength conditioning circles are more or less proxies for like muscle damage and glycogen depletion and nervous system fatigue, central nervous system fatigue from lifting heavy. And in the research, however, peripheral fatigue does roughly map onto that as well as some other things. And there's time course dependent issues there. But central fatigue is actually something you can measure in specific with specific techniques in a neuromuscular uh lab setting. I've never done this. I have seen it done. Um and I am aware of the the techniques and TX if you want to jump in if I misrepresent anything please do. But the idea is that you get a voluntary contraction strength out of someone and then you can actually stimulate the nerve and then depending upon where you stimulate it, you can see, oh, we were able to get more out of them from what they were voluntarily doing. So there's some central issue because the peripheral nerve is able to produce this extra force and then we can actually quantify the amount of central fatigue and typically the central fatigue is something that at least the way we measure it in the settings we do with the type of uh interventions that cause fatigue is a pretty temporary phenomenon. Um and it goes away quick uh and it is you know can reduce your force output right now and it has been linked to various things. Um however there are some links to peripheral fatigue causing central fatigue and peripheral fatigue causing other things which interfere with performance. So, as an example, um muscle damage in and of itself will prevent specific myofibers from contracting. You can look at a microscope like that fiber ain't going to contract because look at that. It's not even attached to the cytokeleton right there. That's going to need to be cleaned up by some calpane and removed and then replaced, right? Um there's that. Um but there is also this seeming effect where if there is sufficient muscle damage that can lead to central fatigue and and then even if the muscle fiber itself isn't experiencing Zline streaming you can get what's called excitation contraction coupling failure or EC coupling failure. You might may see people talk about this and this can be from uh exercise induced you know muscle damage uh or it can be from uh an overload of calcium ions. So uh you can get enzymes called calplanes that degrade proteins in the EC coupling system which is a very small it's not like you're not seeing the full Zline streaming but basically what you're getting is from repeated contractions and the metabolic bypro byproducts of contraction um and there is even some muscle damage from pure concentric as this takes a lot of volume of this to produce enough of these you can get temporary EC coupling failure from having produced a lot of force and done a lot of work uh and that will require some repair and recovery. So there's a huge intermingling here and the ability to handle calcium and produce contraction is interfered with by a lot of things. You and I both know that like when glycogen is depleted mechanistically you can see some contraction issues that leads to some of this. And we often think like oh glycogen depletion it's just an energy system issue. We can't produce ATP fast enough. But when you're seeing glycogen depletion leading to resistance training performance issues, it probably has more to do uh with calcium handling than it just is a a lack of ability to generate ATP. And also the experience and what happens to people when they are very low in glycogen or they're having muscle damage. It is central and it's peripheral. You experience mental fatigue in these states. Bonking. uh this kind of connects to it's not a perfect model or theory but it is close enough to others like the central governor idea that basically we have I don't think it's just like this this machine in our head that is doing this but our system is one which protects our ability to do specifically high intensity and high force production outputs because that's the thing that's really going to save our ass from a evolutionary perspective. You may not be able to run, you know, the same mile pace, but if you need to almost at any time, unless you are truly fatigued and beat up and at the end of your rope, climb a tree real quick because that's what we needed to be here today at certain times of our evolution. Um, so anyway, all that is to say that the central governor idea is that we're sensing all of these different sources of potential fatigue and you know from acute uh changes in pH in the muscle and buildup of metabolites to glycogen depletion to calcium handling to EC coupling failure for to actual structural muscle damage that you can see from Zline streaming that that results in your body throttling back, right? I'm not going to allow you to push this hard, which you experience as mental fatigue or just general fatigue. And then we try to describe all these things and certain things affect others. So when a powerlifter is going, I'm not strong today, but I don't feel sore and I just feel in a rut. It is some collection of these factors that we don't quite understand, but they may or may not if you took them to a lab and tested their their central fatigue actually on an MVIC test be able to produce more force than that decrement. So, some people have gotten really hung up on that. They're like, that's not central fatigue. And we go, well, I don't know what it is, but I'm not strong today. And I think ultimately you can take a step back all the way to the sport science definition of fatigue and say for whatever reason because of the work I've put in through any combination of all these factors my performance is down and then the question is what do you do about it and to the extent that which it might be helpful to understand the source of that you can dig down into it. Now, if you're cripplingly sore and you know you did sets of, you know, 12 to failure on a long muscle length exercise, you know, that's a little different than I did a bunch of heavy heavy singles, maybe three or four. Probably didn't experience mus muscle muscle damage, but I'm not strong and I don't know why, but I think it's probably a stretch to say it's mental fatigue or it's psychological because it gives the impression you can think or will your way out of it. And I'm not sure you can. uh and that is a perennial issue we have especially with western original conceptions of medicine where the mind is separate from the body in which it is truly not and I think we do need to get away from that. So the idea that um we're just sandbagging it or if you had better grit etc etc I think it's not useful and we do have a tendency to whenever we don't know the cause of something we shift it to the thing that we think it could be. So uh in for example one of the the the things I I don't agree with in the debate around whether or not hypertrophy contributes to strength is among some of the people who believe that hypertrophy was not a major contributor to strength they would go well how do people get stronger over time they go oh they're just making more neuromuscular adaptations and it basically that hasn't been measured hasn't been proven but it just basically simp oversimplifies strength as neuromuscular hypertrophy which is a heruristic that like all models is wrong at some point and we're having this kind of in-depth nuance conversation about strength that probably is wrong or at least we know it is insufficiently proven to claim it is right. So I think to say this is akin to that. Um we don't know the source of fatigue but we can't just say that it's mental. >> Yeah. And and I think it's also worth noting you know when you look at the mental fatigue literature uh which Zordos has done a really great job covering in mass uh in you know recent years. The other thing with mental fatigue is that there is kind of a big misnomer which is that the the path to alleviating mental fatigue is to kind of tough it out, you know, and uh mental fatigue again much like you were saying with like kind of what we in the scientific literature view or conceptualize as central fatigue. Mental fatigue does tend to be this kind of short-lived kind of acute onset response that can also be dissipated but not by um you know necessarily toughing it out by but by actually going the opposite route and and doing a little bit of relaxation. Right? So there there have been studies of you know when people do something that's mentally fatiguing whether it's kind of like scrolling social media and a lot of sensory inputs as they're kind of scrolling and scrolling and scrolling or doing some kind of um challenging puzzles or math problems. We we will see some of these acute performance decrements which seem to be driven by this very uh cognitively sourced uh state of fatigue. But by just kind of doing, you know, something like a mindfulness exercise or taking a little mini nap or even just kind of resting and disconnecting from all the stimuli, uh it seems like we have the ability to actually uh kind of clear out and alleviate that stuff in the short term. like it's not a D lo, it's a hey, why don't you go like chill and like just kind of rest your eyes for 15 minutes. That that kind of thing. So, >> you know, when I whenever I hear about these questions about um central fatigue, systemic fatigue, it naturally wraps into discussions about de loing, discussions about overtraining. Um you know, because that used to always be a thing in lifting, right? was that well when you're noticing central or systemic fatigues that that's when you know you've overtrained and the antidote is a del lo >> and like you said there's there's a lot of um I I don't want to like come out and forcefully assert uh things that are not known about central fatigue but but that whole line of thinking was really sold if you go back like 10 years ago as a pretty established perspective Right. Um, and and what what you when you dive into the literature, I think a lot of people, especially at that time, who got into the more evidence-based approach and started to actually dig into literature rather than following content creators who are supposed to be in the literature. A lot of people were really stunned to find out, whoa, there's like no evidence uh that that actually kind of corroborates this very clean picture of, you know, too much deadlifting causes uh this accumulation of central or systemic fatigue, which manifests as overtraining, which is cured by a D lo, which conveniently happens to be the dose is always seven days, right? Like that that stuff was all kind of like >> Yeah. taking this vague set of like notions and experiences and uh related concepts and kind of putting them into a cohesive narrative that uh that seem to make sense and more importantly seem to practically work in practice right and so again it's it's that balance of saying well from it like if if you were Helms not being pragmatic you were just Eric Helms the esteemed reviewer for a journal by Springer Nature and the $3,000 check cleared So, you're going to bother to actually review this paper? And they lay out that that line of argument. You go, "No, >> absolutely not. You you cannot in a peer-reviewed paper state as a matter of fact that that is the sequence of events because there's no research that you've cited to there's no research you could site to actually really make that argument in a convincing way. However, >> yeah, >> on the other hand, if you're not being the stingy reviewer who requires that high burden of evidence and instead you're Helms the coach who's trying to be useful and pragmatic and helpful, you would say, "Well, I don't know. I have had programs where I really, really pushed high volume, high frequency, high load, high everything, right? More of everything." Uh, and I sure felt like crap after a certain number of days. And it wasn't just um I'm bored of my program. It wasn't just I'm sore. I felt like crap, you know. And so we don't really understand that phenomenon very well yet. We certainly don't have the, you know, the whole uh library of PubMed citations to very accurately and concisely put together the whole story. But this is one of the reasons, Helms, when we look at how messy this is, and I think you did a good job summarizing the messiness. This is one of the reasons that when I approached D loads when I was coaching, I did not k I didn't fool myself or or you know trick myself into believing it was really all that simple. And when you break out of when you liberate yourself from that kind of really rigid and relatively unsubstantiated narrative, you broaden your horizons in terms of how can I help this client or help myself if if you're the fatigued person in a very comprehensive way. And so I would have uh clients with D loads who I would say well based on what we know with you know how relative energy deficiency can manifest. Maybe during this D lo I also want to be very intentional about making sure that you're eating enough. And maybe during this D lo I want to be very intentional about making sure that you are getting adequate sleep and maybe even napping. And maybe even before we decide it's time for D lo, I actually implement for you an instruction to mentally unwind before you train in an actual dedicated 15-minute period where we're saying no phone. If you want to if you want to convince yourself that we're doing something more productive, stretch or, you know, do a dynamic warm-up that you don't normally do. You know, let's let's really, you know, take some time to try to mentally decompress to see if that if that might be contributing here. Another thing is during the D lo I used to not really get too caught up in the I need you to drop volume by exactly 40% or I need you to drop your intensity by exactly 55%. What I would usually do is say we generally want to make things a little easier. We also want to kind of just switch things up a little bit. And most importantly, to the extent that mental staleness, which is different than mental fatigue in my book, but to the extent that mental staleness might be contributing, I actually want you to go in and have some fun workouts. And so what that would look like on my end, and this is very unconventional, and I wouldn't fault someone for saying, "Eric, you're a hack and you're an idiot and you're full of crap." But I never as a coach felt um I always felt an obligation uh back when I had a client roster and was actively coaching, I felt an obligation to have a damn good justification and reason for things I recommend, but I did not feel um obligated to have a PubMed citation for everything I did. You know what I mean? Those are two very different things. And so when it came to designing D loads that were also mindful of the potential ramifications of just staleness, I would tell them, I want you to go in and have a fun week in the gym. And so if it's if it's for my people who they kind of came up on a more like bros split kind of training, chasing the pump, but now they do more, you know, stuff that's a little bit more aligned with the evidence relative to their goals. I might say, "Hey, I want you to go I don't want you to like go overboard with the volume. Maybe cut it back a little bit, but just go in and have a good oldfashioned chest day. Go in there and have an arm day, you know, like let's go chase a pump. Let's do a bodybuilding split for a day. We're going to drop a bunch of different, you know, uh, frequency and volume metrics and intensity metrics in the process, >> but go have a fun bro week where you're just doing your thing." I had a client who was um it was really interesting because she she started out as a crossfitter and said I want to get into powerlifting and she she had a lot of aptitude for powerlifting. She was very good and she was making really big strides and I was her first coach in that transition of make me a powerlifter out of a crossfitter and there was no question she still had a lot of love for CrossFit. Um and so her D loads would be CrossFit weeks. I'd say go in there and have fun. Do the stuff. Do the movements. Arrange the workouts the way you miss them being for fun. Um, and what we found was there was kind of a good balance where if every seventh or eighth week we just threw in a CrossFit week, it was enough to scratch that itch and she would find more joy in her powerlifting training because she didn't feel like she was totally separated from that other type of training. Um, so all that is to say, I think when you acknowledge the complexity of what we colloquially refer to as central fatigue or systemic fatigue, I think we should shy away from, like you said, making definitive, overly simplified statements about this is what it is. Um, but we should, you know, we should embrace that complexity. And if you do embrace that complexity, what that means is you actually have a lot more levers to mess with on a D load than just cut volume or cut intensity. So, do you think I've harpooned my credibility in dulging this? And have you ever done similar things with clients? >> I I no and yes. And I think um to to kind of bridge the the Eric Helms peer reviewer who's paid his $3,000 and Eric Helms the coach. I think something I realized a while back um actually it was in writing my my second or my third edition of the books was that the experience of fatigue even though we don't feel like we can fully explain it. It's it's because most attempts to do so have been overly reductionist and because sports science started um with a lot of endurance athletes pushing to extreme limits to where things did become a little more predictable is like one type of performance you go until you can't move. Overtraining does sometimes happen and we we've measured it and then it was just kind of like applied to strength conditioning and then strength conditioning was kind of applied to like people lifting weights three times a week. [laughter] So, um, the something I I I I have gotten away from a lot is the idea of having scheduled D losses and that they need to follow this certain pattern. Um, because when I really think about it, the average person who reads my content is training four hours per week. >> Yeah. And I'm like I I just And you know like when I'm sitting in a a setting with world class powerliffters or when you're talking about me doing to compete at the world the world level in bodybuilding some of this stuff makes sense like oh well you're not training hard enough if you don't need a dload. Well it's like training hard enough to what? Training hard enough to adapt is there's enough sufficient recovery for a resistance training specific adaptation to not be maximized but to at least occur. and even advanced lifters without ever needing a dload load. But it doesn't mean that other things in your life won't interfere with that. That's the whole biocschosocial model. That's like you said, sometimes I don't eat enough. Sometimes I get stuck in traffic. Sometimes I have all this other stuff going on. Sometimes I want to play basketball. So to to kind of bring it back to what am I saying? Like there are four really really good publications I think people should read. And if anyone a super nerd and they want to read this for one there's a great one by Zajac from 2015 called central and peripheral fatigue during resistance exercise a critical review and it goes through basically everything we know about fatigue it's about 10 years old but it's still pretty good that comes from resistance exercise specifically another really good one that gets right at the heart of this that is very critical that's more recent is by Katoka uh I think Buckner is the senior author um I know he promoted this good Everyone really liked it, Sam Buckner's work. Is there evidence for the suggestion that fatigue accumulates following resistance exercise? And they kind of got to this point. They're like, listen, fatigue is real. It comes from a lot of places. It can last over different time courses, but this vague notion of fatigue might not be a thing even if you are experiencing it. And I think that's a key thing because there are sources of fatigue that I summarized that occur within minutes, hours, a day, and up to a couple days depending upon how much of a repeated bout effect you have. And they can overlap, follow a time course, be predicted, and a D lo will help, right? So you can you can have that coaching experience that you and I have talked about, but that that gets layered with the whole periodization literature being overly prescriptive and specific and people thinking that they have to follow these ten commandment like rules. That will work if you do them, but it'll also work to roll down your window and climb into your car through the window, but you could have opened the door. Like you've made this harder than it needs to be. And I think that's where you and I connect on on the D loads. So, a lot of things, a lot of times with the clientele I work with, they really hate doing something like I went from, you know, 5x5 at a at a 9 RP to 3x5 at a 5 RP. They're like, why am I even in the gym, you know? So, in a similar vein that you're like, let's go to a body part split in and we'll indirectly reduce volume and frequency, but we'll still train hard and have fun. Sometimes I'll have people go from a five or six day split to coming in to train three days ch and hitting at least each muscle group once uh choosing exercises that they like and they want to do but nothing that is once because I don't want to accidentally cause like novel training damage. But if they haven't done it in a little bit and it's like a more short and biased exercise like go for it. Like if you haven't done concentration curls in a while but we've been doing preachers and behind the back curls like it's not going to make you sore. Have fun. Um, and then still train to failure, still do what they if they want to. So, like I I try to figure out like what gets you engaged to train. It's the same kind of thing with the body part split. We'll limit you on 3 to four days, which is like a 40 to 50% cut in volume and and go in there and blast it to the degree that you want to, you know, and if you want to only train two days, that's fine, too. So, yeah, I think those two articles are really really good. Uh, another really good one is by um by peak muscle damage and inflammation during recovery from exercise as well as Marcus exercise induced muscle damage mechanism assessment and nutritional factors to accelerate recovery and that's in 2021. If you read those four and because they're reviews that's why I wanted to suggest these four, you'll have an understanding of how what we experience can fit into that narrative. But it that that there's there's many other ways for it to manifest. And sometimes you be like, "Oh, well only my squat felt like crap, but I was fine on a leg extension or I couldn't run for two weeks, but I was still strong." You know, if you're like a concurrent athlete or crossfitter or something like that, >> um that it isn't just this all-encompassing experience. So, no, I I really like the idea of having these personalized holistic approaches to de loing because of the fatigue being able to come from multiple. even if it came from one source, it ends up having systemic effects and because that's the nature of of of of us being a system and trying to be too reductionist in this literature. Um so yeah, I that's my general perspective, but I think it is also just important to acknowledge that there there there is a science to this and you could like it's not it's not like handwavy. It's it's just that in practice we can't use all these multiple methods and look across them and figure out what's exactly going on and figure out what the perfect timeline is and what to do. But it is also true that pretty reliably if you give someone a taper which basically follows those tenants of de loing they're probably going to be 3% stronger on average after uh that week you know. >> Yeah. So this stuff this stuff works too, which which is kind of why it's some coaches will push back, but I think it's important to understand that tapers and de los in athletic settings are done in true states of fatigue of full-time athletes who are sometimes training 20 hours per week and have pushed themselves actually to their limits and they and doing that's very different from your personal training client who wasn't strong on Thursday. Yeah, absolutely. So, Helms, I I tell you what, um staying on theme, I think we got a couple questions that are related to fatigue related concepts, and I think that'll probably just about do it for this episode if that works for you. Um but yeah, I I I just want to >> getting a little fatigued by it, but all right. Now I want to endorse your uh you know one of the big points there that that you mentioned a few times which is that it is um I think sometimes people who don't spend who don't have a lot of exposure to like elite sport they really start to lose the context of all these strategies all these worries all these concerns all these mitigating um interventions that kind of leak out of elite sport, high level sport. It's like you got to understand that these folks are literally um yeah, they're in many cases they're training >> job >> six six hours a day most days. And so yeah, when you're putting in four and a half hours a week, it's it's the the the magnitude the scale of it is so different. And also you have to remember that the folks who are putting in those, you know, sometimes up to six hours a day, they're also because they've been doing that for a long time, putting their body through things that you don't necessarily have access to. You know what, you know what I mean? Like, uh, >> it's it's very different if someone goes in and says, "Oh, boy, four heavy sets of squat today with 175." Well, if someone's moving 800 pounds on the bar, th those are just fundamentally different stimuli when it comes to the total amount of accessible fatigue, right? So, it it is important to uh to be mindful of, you know, not trying to get too into kind of copycatting these highlevel strategies that are ultimately built for fundamentally different settings. And that is one of the reasons um just to kind of put a a bow on this and and wrap it up. That is one of the reasons that I I would tend to gravitate toward more more holistic approaches to de loing is because I would notice in some of my clients, you don't have a massive over, you know, massive training load issue. You have a >> kids aren't sleeping well, kind of stressed out at work. Uh you you got those recovery, right? Or or you're not eating enough, right? So, we I would try to get in there and say, "Let's let's rediscover some joy cuz it's been a rough few weeks because of just stuff outside of the gym. Let's go have fun workouts. Let's try to do what we can to get some extra sleep. We can drop the the training load a little bit. Not because the training load was too high, but because all the other stuff made it such that we need to make some accommodations so we can just overall turn the volume down, turn the temperature down a little bit so I don't, you know, mix my metaphor with my actual variable there. But um but yeah, so I I would try to figure out ways how how can we kind of assess what seems to be driving this to the extent it's possible. Can we use time during our de lo to actually address the root of the problem? And if not, how do we change other things to accommodate this problem or or you know this causitive factor? I don't want to call it a problem. We don't want to get too uh in the habit of calling life a thing that gets in the way of our training. You know, it's like yeah, my problem is that I have a job in children. >> Training your >> that's I mean that for me that's a problem. Yeah. >> Yeah. Exactly. But yeah, you don't want to tell the person who's >> you don't want to tell the person who's a >> non-competitive lifter like you know if you just didn't have a job in a family you'd be in you'd be in a much better spot. Uh I don't think that's really quite the case. But um anyway, so Helms, we got two fatigue related questions. One of these I'm going to be honest, I don't know anything about this. If you don't either, that's fine. We can move on. But I did get a question. Uh so the question was uh I don't know if people do this in the US or New Zealand. But when I used to play rugby, people would use things like arnica creams or tiger balm. Have you heard of any of those helms? >> Tiger bomb. >> Yeah. So >> tiger bomb is basically like a menthol cream. Yeah. Like >> icy hot. >> Yeah. So Okay. Icy hot it sounds like is is a similar genre, but they would use it uh to keep their muscles and joints quote unquote warm. Um, you know, people use it in the locker room either as like a, you know, to get ready for competition or after competition. Um, is there any evidence that you're aware of that this is an effective strategy or is this just a placebo effect? >> I've never actively looked for evidence and none has ever come across my desk proverb or or or uh what's the other thing? literally um in the time that I have been in sport science. I suspect if I did a Google there might be something out there. Um but yeah, I've I mean the cream that I do think probably makes sense is like Volteran cream. We talked about that before. That's a a topical ibuprofen which can locally impact the joint and I there's data on that. But yeah, >> yeah, I um I think it is it does change sensation >> and that can lead to, you know, either a placebo effect or actually possibly even a change in um I could see like kind of the central governoresque thing happening. I mean like that's like carb mouth rinsing. >> Your body thinks it has access to more carbohydrates so it doesn't hold the brakes on you as much. I could see there being joint temperature related things that might impact, you know, arthrokinetic inhibition, but I have no data to confirm that to be the case, but it wouldn't necessarily surprise me. Um, because certainly I noticed like for example, um, I need less warm-up sets on heavy leg presses or squats if I wear knee sleeves, >> right? I don't think that's necessarily changing my physiology to any substantial degree. I think it changes my perception which has a downstream impact on my experience which probably changes my physiology. >> Yeah. Now Helms I will I will say this uh you are an advanced lifter with tremendously advanced age and >> this was true even 15 years ago though. >> Yes. But you've been lifting hard in many different capacities. you've run into, I would imagine, just about every bump and bruise and tweak accessible to a lifter. Have you ever actually reached for one of these topical treatments? Like, have you ever sought one out? >> I've tried it. Yeah. So, when I was Olympic lifting, Voltateran creams and tiger bomb equivalents were all over the place. And as you recall, I spent three years trying to not get bilateral FAI surgery. >> Yeah. >> Um, and the experience of that was that I constantly had what felt like IT band pain. >> Yeah. >> And I would get some lateral uh IT band pain down by the knee and I would get like really tight in my like vasis lateralis and squats used to just feel awful and then they'd affect deadlifts and so I like I was willing to try anything. Yeah. you know. Um, so they didn't help me. Um, but I did like the change in sensation. >> Like I think I think sometimes when you are in constant pain, you'll you'll accept a different flavor of the same intensity of pain just to be different. >> Um, which you've been in chronic pain before. You know what I'm talking about. Like like your lower back hurts and then it shifts to the other side the next day and you're like, "Oh, I mean that's not better." But okay, >> it's and I mean when you when you have a chronic pain issue, especially if it's going on for a long time, change at least gives the illusion even if it's a >> again not just like in in any change that isn't an intensification of the same >> gives you the perception or the perspective maybe something will >> get different about this. Maybe there is a resolution on the horizon. Maybe. But no, I mean I I did get to the point um and this was actually interesting cuz I you know cuz I had that um chronic issue which has been a lot better lately. But I was just talking to my parents about this um we were hanging out and I was like man I used to um most nights of the week I would wake up with this extreme nerve pain. Uh, and it would be unilateral, but it it would be weird because I would wake up with my hip in a flexed position and I could feel this kind of a very burning kind of nerve pain in my my down my thigh. >> And I knew right now it's a four out of 10, but I have to resolve this. I I cannot live the rest of my life with my hip in flexion. And I knew when I extend my hip and get past a certain threshold for about three seconds, not immediate, this weird like 3 second runoff, it's going to be a 10 out of 10 or about as close to a 10 as I felt. And and so then I would have to do this to myself. Like you choose when when is this going to happen, right? Um and so I would straighten my leg. It would spike to what I perceived as a 10 out of 10. And in some cases, I would actually um I was very self-conscious about it because one time uh I was in a bedroom with a person and I I shouted. I couldn't control it. Um it was it was like so it was so bad. The reason I bring that up is the other day I had that little tiny remnant of that feeling when I was sitting in this exact desk chair and but I was sitting I wasn't in that lying position so I knew I didn't have to go through the whole extension process and all that. So it was just about a two out of 10 but it was the same flavor and same area. But even that, like you were saying, Holmes, when you've been through chronic pain like that, you're like, "Oh, it wasn't when I was sleeping. It was a two out of 10 instead of this weird thing that spikes to a 10 out of 10. I'll take it." It is really weird the bargaining that you'll do with yourself when when you're you're dealing with a chronic pain uh condition or, you know, some kind of circumstances that are causing it. So, I I totally get what you're talking about of, you know, if I could just have a slightly different pain sensation in some cases, you're like, I'll I'm good with that. You know, that I'll I'll I'll make that work. >> And that was what I got with with Tiger Bomb. I was like, oh, this is the same IT band pain, but I also have this menthol fresh, you know, hot area feeling, you know? Yeah. And I'm like, >> all right. And that was enough to, you know, get me to do another set of five with like 90% of my max or some nonsense. Yeah. And you hardly smell like mint. >> Exactly. You know, so >> yeah, I uh that's that's the extent of it though. I I know I'm a little curious. I will probably spend some time tonight actually doing a uh a Google for menthol based cream and strength conditioning or something like that. >> Yeah. So let let's wrap it up with one other thing related to fatigue here. Um so we had a question from Zag. It said, "What is the bare minimum cardio protocol to get into bodybuilding shape? I get gassed out from supersetting buys and tries, and I want to get to a point where I have enough work capacity to superset chest and back, no problem. I average 10,000 steps a day, but that's clearly not enough, and I need to do dedicated cardio. What's the least I can do and still get great work capacity?" I would actually just first look to see what is your current rest times. Like actually see how long you're resting between sets on other things. Um and how much time you spend talking in the gym. And I would probably start working your rest periods down to about 2 minutes on non-compound exercises before going straight to supersets. Um, and if you can comfortably get through your uh eventually machine-based upper body work, your and your isolation work for any body part with two-minute rests and then you're not seeing a big decrement in performance and you're qualitatively feeling like you're good to go. I think that would do a lot. The other thing I would suggest is just try to pick up the pace on your 10,000 steps. Like just walk faster. Um, unless you're, you know, walking with someone who's shorter or older, all those things. But, um, I, one thing I really appreciate is my biggest walk that I go on every day is with my wife. And my step speed actually slows. And I can't always tell when I do it based upon how beat up I am from prep, but she likes to walk. and she walks quickly because she used to be a zookeeper for many years in uh Auckland zoo that and and from when there's two of the enclosures she worked at that were big what they describe as a zookeeper walk. So trying to keep up with my wife who is half a foot shorter than me, but um should be, you know, I should be walking her speed or not make sure that that I'm kind of keeping the the quote unquote intensity up to something that is actually light, not moving, you know. So I would say increase the intensity on your steps and then try to get your rest periods down. If that doesn't do it, then I think actually having two to three formal cardio sessions where you do say 20 minutes on a low impact modality where you are going to the point where the talk test would be something you would fail. I think you'd be good. >> Yeah. And for clarity, that just means it be it would be because you're exerting and breathing hard, it would be difficult for you to hold a normal conversation that it's like an intensity indicator. >> Correct. >> Yeah. Yeah, I was going to say um you know with this kind of situation I I agree take a look at your rest times. You know, try walking more briskly, see if that moves the needle. Um but yeah, I was going to say you if you're if you are finding that those kinds of sets are fatiguing you in a meaningful way. I don't think you're going to regret adding one or two cardio sessions to just see how it goes, right? And so what I would say, you know, spend 20 minutes doing whatever feels least tedious, you know. So if that means like I used to really enjoy for whatever reason a simple hit car uh hit uh protocol which was just put the treadmill on a high speed, run for a minute pretty fast, and then chill for a minute. Uh do that 10 times, you have a 19minute workout. That that is actually pretty pretty substantial. But, you know, other people will say, "Oh, just get on a bike for 20 minutes or, you know, get a a you know, a a jog or similar intensity on the elliptical for 20 minutes." But, yeah, throw two of those into your weekly schedule wherever it's least cumbersome. Um, preferably not immediately before a workout, but even still, with that type of cardio session, you'll you'll live. But, yeah, it's probably not preferable to put it right before a workout or a weight training workout. But yeah, I think even just two of those can I think go a very a very long way for someone who doesn't spend a lot of time in the week actually getting their heart rate up and getting some of those cardiovascular cardiorespiratory adaptations. So um I I think that that would be kind of a prudent step and you know I I think it's unlikely that you would need much more than that uh you know to kind of meet what we're talking about in terms of uh you know adaptations and kind of building up that fitness level. And again, I just it's hard to imagine a scenario where you would regret uh putting those in there. Aside from the fact that maybe it's kind of just taking your medicine, right? I maybe I don't love it, but um you know, you got to eat your broccoli even though it's not the tastiest thing on your plate sometimes. But Helms, I was I was kind of chuckling as you were talking about walking with your wife and walking speed. It reminded me um when I was applying to grad schools, I was being led on a tour of an exercise physiology building where where all the lab spaces were and classrooms and offices and things like that. And um it was really weird because um I you know I was going into it I was I was kind of dieting down a little bit but I wasn't like full-blown into prep yet. And I was like, man, I am struggling on this walking tour. And I was like, this is very strange. I I was quite fit, like, you know, high V2 max, pretty lean, training very regularly. Um, and I was just weirded out by it. I was like, what is happening? I was like wondering if something was wrong with me cuz yeah, I just couldn't keep up. And I learned many, many, many months later that the individual who was leading the tour actually used to be like an elite race walker. Um so so they actually did walking races and um they were built for it. They basically were a very good marathoner who was kind of like the story as I have coded it to memory which may or may not be true was that they were very good at marathons but someone said with your build you must be a race walker like you have to do this. And so um the reason it was so jarring and surprising was because it was effortless. like this guy was built to be an elite, shockingly fast walker without exerting any effort or looking like he was straining whatsoever. Um, so it like really gaslit me into believing that I was like maybe having some kind of cardiovascular issue because I was like, I'm not an unfit person, but this person is leaving me in the dust and I'm like gasping for air here. So, all that is to say, uh, that's irrelevant, but uh, be careful of who you walk with. Don't walk with fast people. It'll make you feel bad. But uh but yeah, I think um definitely I I think it's good that people kind of have this goal of saying like yes, I'm mostly focused on getting big bodybuilding, but I think the idea of having that kind of base level of fitness of saying I I should be able to do these super sets and not feel like I'm like totally gassed. I I think that's a good thing for just overall fitness. And I I think it's good when we shy away from getting too too too hyper specialized in any particular aspect of our fitness and we kind of remember that there's that baseline level of fitness that just kind of correlates with everything good uh in terms of kind of long-term health and wellness uh outcomes. So good on you uh reader listener for uh calling in with this question. Uh, and we hope that that some of this advice may serve to be useful for you. So, keep us updated. Let us know. >> Can I soap box just for a second to close us out? >> Absolutely. >> The the discussion of fatigue is actually pretty important right now um because of the what is currently perceived as the science-based way of approaching hypertrophy training at the moment, which is anything but science-based. There's very there's no scientists involved in these conversations and there's not even necessarily experienced coaches or people who've been lifting weights for more than three or four years. Um, and it is heavily focused on fatigue being the main bottleneck to growth, heavily influenced by HIT and certain models and mechanisms of hypertrophy which uh go right back to we talked about overly simplistic heruristics. And the kind of narratives around it are that fatigue is something you want to really really want to try to avoid to the point where uh the overload stimulus is going down to the point where I think it would actually minimal after the the novice stage like a common messaging of if you need any more than four to eight hard sets don't go past the two ri um and you know then train that muscle group again but not any more than every two to three days. Use stable equipment and make sure you know she's seated, you know, chest supported. Don't want to fatigue the lumbar. It shouldn't be, you know, full body. And it's at the point now where I think your average powerlifting program would probably generate twice the hypertrophy of a quote unquote science-based um like bodybuilding program that is out there because the volume's too low. The proximity to failure for that volume is kind of low. Um, and there are just very few opportunities for new lifters to experience what their limits are, to know how to push anywhere near them because they're worried about fatigue. Uh, and it's all under the guise of being science-based, which which is pretty wild. Um, and I honestly think that bodybuilding is almost as much as CrossFit, but maybe more so if you think about it holistically and you let it bleed into your like social life and nutrition habits, is this sport of incurring massive amounts of fatigue, recovering from it, and persevering through it. Um, and to have these people who are thinking that they're they're taking on the best evidence-based bodybuilding approach, but really what they're doing is they're taking like basically Mike Mener's protocol, but going on, but I'm not going to train to failure. [laughter] You know, it's like you you you've removed the hard and and and that's probably not going to get you there. And then we layer it on top of 2025 where the average person in the West especially is getting four to 5,000 steps. um and you know just generally not very active. And I'm like you're you're avoiding the actual exercise benefits to the quote unquote exercise you're doing. You've minimized the hypertrophy. The good news is the only that you have accurately identified that you're trying to minimize fatigue and you've gotten the least amount of fatigue of it as possible. Recovery will not be an issue. You are good to go from a fatigue management perspective. Forgetting that fatigue comes from overload. So yes, you have managed your fatigue by generating none through barely doing something that I would call training. Soap box away. >> No, I mean I'm I'm not going to pile on too much uh because I it it will become a fruitless endeavor. Um but I have noticed Helms um you know now that I teach a weight training course. I actually teach a couple different ones of a couple different experience levels. And when I first kind of got back into the classroom, especially in a weight training oriented course, I assumed that the people who came in with a lot of prior knowledge and would tell me on the first day like, "Oh man, I'm watching all this like fitness YouTube stuff, like I'm on Instagram, I'm on TikTok all the time just soaking it up." it. I thought that that would kind of um be a predictor of like these folks are gonna just get in here and go nuts, you know, like these these guys are going to be training like animals. And what I have found is a lot of the folks right now who are most tapped into the online social media discourse of training, they come to me on day one and they say, "Man, I basically took this course because I've been trying everything and I'm just not getting the kind of gains I want to get." And then I walk I watch them train for 15 weeks and and I have to kind of have that talk with them and I say, "You don't train hard, dude. Like you you I know that this goes against everything you're soaking up on the internet, but I'm telling you you're not doing enough." And every person that is seems to be telling you you're doing too much or you're doing enough the wrong way, but you just need and what I always tell them, Helms, is my experience is I, you know, I used to always like train at a gym whenever I would travel. So I go to the beach with my family, you know, down on the coast and I I'd find a little gym by the beach. Brother, you walk into a YMCA gym at any coastal town, you're gonna find a 55 year old man who spends about three hours a day wearing a shirt tops only when he has to. He's going to be extremely tan, skin of leather, and he's going to be jacked. And if you start to ask that man questions about training and nutrition, he's going to rightly say protein matters, but he's going to have wildly insane theories about protein, about why he eats fish but not beef, beef but not chicken, you know, like all sorts of wacky stuff. Um, you need this much per meal. No, you don't, but that's fine. Uh, wacky ideas about nutrition, wacky ideas about training. But this dude, you got to you got to keep him out of the gym, right? He goes in there seven days a week. He goes in there and does hard things for 75 minutes and walks out sweating. He walked in not sweating. And you do that over and over and over and over. You end up being that jacked 55-year-old guy. But I'm getting so many folks that are in their athletic prime. And it's not that they're it's not I I refuse to believe that they are unwilling to work hard. I believe that they've been convinced they shouldn't. And >> 100%. And I think that that is criminal. And and I can't tell you the number of folks who come into my class thinking I'm going to give them this secret key to unlock it. It's like, "Oh, you've been doing sets of eight. You never do more than seven. What are you thinking?" Like, but it usually ends up being like, "Brother, I need you to do >> literally twice what you're doing and much harder and like do it for 12 months and come back. You're going to be much bigger. You're going to be much stronger. you are going to have no there's going to be no downside to this and you're honestly you're going to probably find that your training even though it's harder is less boring cuz man I see people in in the university and listen we're at we're at a a very selective university the kids that come in here are very smart which means they often overthink everything they outthink the room no matter what room they're in right they're they're very analytical people and so I think they do get drawn to these like very complex explanations of how this stuff is supposed to work. And man, I see a lot of people that are training with the kind of latest hot idea of whatever is popular and allegedly science-based. Uh although it's rarely actually based on science, but I don't see a lot of I'm not I'm not saying none, but I don't see a lot of people who just get in there and train like an animal. You know what I mean? And everyone I know who's gotten big basically had that like five to sevenyear period at least at the beginning where they just trained like an animal and then they said I wonder if I could do this smarter. After >> five or seven years of figuring out what is the limit? How close can I get? What's the benefit of getting close? What's the downside of going too far? You start to figure out what is a very very very hard training session that is actually productive look like? what does a hard but productive training program look like? And then you start agonizing over these details. And I think so many young people these days are completely inverting it. And we are Helms having that conversation about the the errors that the young people are making and now that we're we're both ancient. >> That's no no that's what I want to head off at the past because this is not something that's been accumulating. This is a weird phenomenon that I have only noticed in the at most the last three years. >> Yeah. I don't remember having this conversation when I was 40, right? And I get it. I'm a bodybuilder. You're a wrestler and an ex bodybuilder. I'm 42. You are spiritually 76. And it could be very easy. All the Erics are the old men yelling at the clouds. But no, literally two and a half years ago, this wasn't a thing. And it has become a thing. And it's kind of happened all of a sudden. And I've got a lot of people in their early 20s who that's just the current content. And I'm like, "No, no, no, no, no, no. Like this is this is this is this is bonkers." Like you guys are the current trend and I know it will go away because honestly, you're just going to stop making gains after six months. >> Yeah. >> Like you're >> It is true. Like seriously, like four sets at at at what you think is a two RI for someone who's never trained at a zero R is two sets at a five R, which is going to after six months just be a warm-up set, right? So the like it it'll solve itself, but at great cost and effort and time and and curiosity and frustration on your behalf. And I I just don't want to see that happen. That's why I'm kind of like hold the phone. This is not just me being old and being out of touch with with the current generation or blaming this generation. I think if you were 35 and an engineer uh and you decided to start training, you would run into the same problem. Yeah. >> So, yeah, just to kind of that critique off. >> And again, it's I do not believe it's a lack of work ethic or a refusal to put in that sweat equity, so to speak. I just think a lot of people are being convinced that they they ought not do it, that they should not be putting in that that kind of intensity and volume. And you know, man, I just Yeah, it's a shame because I think a lot of times that was kind of a good way to really let your passion for lifting manifest, saying, "I'm going to get in there and do a lot of stuff and have fun and walk out of the gym tired." And I think a lot of times the people that love training, that's what they that's what made them fall in love with it. You know what I mean? And to see folks that are depriving themselves that experience at their own expense, not making as good of gains. And frankly, man, I look at the way that that some people uh particularly like relatively young people like we're talking about and relatively like smart and well educated people, man, it just looks boring. Like I if if that was the way I trained my first couple years, I don't think I would have kept doing it. >> It just looks like a big snoozefest, honestly. >> So yeah, hopefully um >> this, like you said, will kind of sort itself out and people will get back to uh >> Man, this is going it's such a weird tangent. I I think you'll you'll be okay with this. I'm going to talk college football for a second. >> Let's go. >> Okay. Um >> I there Okay. I I'm open to to seeing, but I will I'm going to tell you at the end if I was okay with it or not. >> Okay. So, there's a a documentary on Netflix about uh I think it's called Swamp Kings. It's about Urban Meyers tenure uh as the head coach University of Florida football and they had a lot of training footage in this very short kind of like documentary series. And um there was a lot of time spent not talking about how we had top-of-the-line sports science and we were measuring GPS and we were measuring this and that and the other thing. They said, "Brother, we walked in there and we broke these kids." Uh, and you you could argue about whether it was the most compassionate or empathetic way to train people, but man, that they would they would go in, you know, they'd have their normal training session, then they'd have the midnight extra session where they literally go in at midnight and make it like a party in the gym. And they are pushing. I mean, failure was seven reps ago. You know what I mean? just like just uh forced reps and forced reps and after the forced reps are over the heavy eccent eccentrics, you know, like I mean just going so far beyond failure. people beating the crap out of themselves in the gym and then you you you look at them on on Saturdays and they were enormous and intimidating and physical and they happen to be the best team in the country and man like yeah it's I I think people forget that that's what training kind of started as uh for a lot of people and where a lot of people made the majority of their gains. And it's not to say you train that way forever, but I I think you would actually enjoy Helms if you kind of saw those bits of that documentary where they're in the gym um and just pushing him. It was kind of like what was that Dorian Yates? Like blood and guts meets high volume training meets college football. >> Um and yeah, it's uh I I think the more that people try to outsmart the the process at it's really to their own to their own detriment, unfortunately. And like you said, I I think my my concern is this, Helms. My concern is that in terms of like an overall content trend, I agree. I think it's going to flame out because it kind of has to. My concern is for people who are just getting into lifting during this weird time that we're experiencing. And that's how they start training. Are they still going to be in it when the tide turns? Because I think a lot of them are just frustrated from not making gains, really quite bored. And I can't blame them. And that that's my biggest concern is just what kind of attrition are we going to see of people who are going to miss out on the good stuff because because they got roped into this and it's just not it's just not very fruitful and it's not very fun. >> So one I was good good with the tangent. It sounds like it's a lot about uh the SNC training for football and getting huge and jacked and training past failure. So you get a pass. Two I 100% agree. You don't have to be the person who loves the semi-masochistic elements of training. Um, but philosophically, I agree with the idea of trying to be as efficient as possible in getting the most amount of stimulus you can with the least amount of fatigue. But when that's inverted and you actually don't understand the mechanisms of hypertrophy and you think that managing fatigue is is all you need to do and then the stimulus will just be there rather than the fatigue being a consequence of the stimulus and a more targeted stimulus producing st but getting more out of it that then you can optimize the area under the curve um then you're missing out because see if I can do more volume. I manage fatigue so if I I can see if I can do more long muscle length training. I manage fatigue so I can see if I can get away with more sets closer to a zero or a true failure. Right? I manage time to see if I can get more volume in and under the time constraints I have. I am trying to see how much can I get away with doing that is effective and not bottlenecked by fatigue. So I'm looking at both sides of the equation because they're intrinsically linked. And I feel like this central focus on fatigue, it subverts that. And like you said, it it takes at the very least, even if you're someone who is purely focused on the bottom line and you just want results, you're not going to get those. But if you're someone who actually enjoys the hard work and the challenge and the experience of progressive overload, you're going to have a little bit of that at the very very start and then you won't actually be training hard enough to get some of that endorphin feedback and the actual psychological benefit of seeing I I worked hard at something. It challenged me and I was better for it. Right? And that is ultimately what leads to long-term adherence and falling in love with us. It's not just masochism or hard work for hard work's sake or us doing virtue signaling around being the hardest worker in the room. We're not being Lane Norton circa 2007. I love you buddy. It's it it is for a purpose. I I I I quite literally think that it is not about how hard you work. It is about doing the work necessary to get the outcome you want, which will inevitably be hard. >> Yeah. I mean, it's at the end of the day, it's um you got if you get really wrapped up in that this idea of I'm doing this for the results, not the process. I want to streamline the process as much as I can. Like again, you you said it a million times. I totally agree. It makes sense to want to get the most bang for your buck, but when your focus becomes on when you start to really focus on it's almost like people are there like watering their plants, like I mean I got to do it if I want them to grow, right? But I don't want to be here watering the plants. It's boring as hell. I I gladly automated if I could, you know? It's when when you start to say that >> and I forgot to buy a seed. >> Yeah. you know, like I'm I'm watering I'm watering dirt and providing sunlight, but the seed is not there, you know? >> Yeah. But but it becomes a chore. It becomes the whole like, you know, 4hour work week. Why why do you want the 4-hour work week? Because I don't want to be working, you know? So why why when you dig deeper and it's like, well, why do you want this hyper optimized ultraefficient training program? If it's because you're very busy and want you want the most bang for your buck given your time constraints, I totally get it. But if the answer is cuz who wants to be training? It's like, well, I mean, >> yeah, >> we do like that's >> Yeah, then just wait five years. They're going to develop a myostatin inhibitor and you don't even have to go to the gym. >> Yeah. So, so again, >> far off. >> It's one of those things where the psychology of it, like you're alluding to, is big. And it's like, why are we doing all this? And if the answer is because like at the end of the day, who wants to be breaking a sweat and being there training? Like that that's just a huge divide. That's a huge disconnect between what has always been to name drop the iron culture. People train because they like to train >> and they like what it brings them and I they like that reinforcement of I work hard. Challenges arise. I push through them. I'm better for it. That increases my uh my confidence, my sense of self-worth. I'm invested in this behav in this behavior or invested in this endeavor. It's this whole mechanism and I don't I'm not convinced you can really play it out successfully in the long term without that kind of feedback process. Um at least at least for the average person, you know, because we've all seen people who have great genetics, they train for a sport because they have to. They get huge. They don't train when they're 48. They train for literally the entirety of their um uh athletic career and they say, "I guess I'll do this because I have to. Let's try to get this over with." But they don't develop that love for it. And that's fine. You don't have to. But um but yeah, when when when you have people who are lifting hobbyists who I used to talk to a lot of retired NFL players because of some research we were doing and I would say, "When's the last time you you trained?" And they'd say, "The day I retired." They're like, "What? Why would I train like if I don't have to >> play football? That's what I train for." >> Exactly. >> Yeah. >> And so, yeah, when it becomes this very uh deliberate, purely outcome focused transactional thing and you're you're kind of like, "What's the least I can do and can we please get this over with?" And I'm committed to kind of not really allowing myself to enjoy this process. I I just if people like doing it that way, that's fine. But I I just it doesn't resonate with me. I I struggle to see it. >> Uh if people like doing it that way, it is not fine. They're bad people. And I will I and you're and get out. This is iron culture. >> It is. Honestly, it is tough to be embraced by the iron culture. Um you raise a good point. We may have to do some kind of um pruning, so to speak. We We may have to show some people the door. >> I just told them, "Get out." >> And And I I hope they listen. >> Yeah. All right, Helms. I think that does it uh for tonight. Now, we're just ranting at each other in violent agreement. Um so, [snorts] let's wrap it up here. Uh once again, best of luck as you compete in Worlds next week. Uh we are going to have a pre-recorded episode next week, but it'll drop right around the same time. So, make sure you keep your eyes open uh for that on YouTube on Monday and then it'll be up on podcast platforms a few days after as is typical. Uh I want to thank everyone so much for joining us tonight for this episode of Iron Culture. Have a fantastic week and we will see you or I will see you someone actually I forget which episode I'm going to run either me or Helms will see you in seven days. >> [music]