 aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin aromasin, aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin ar days ago was in London in 2017. And when I saw you this past weekend, I honestly, I almost turned around and walked out before I even came up to you. I was like, God, I'm not, I'm not ready for this again. It's, it's, it's been all of this time and I don't think I can bear it. And, um, but I got myself together. I, you know, composed myself and I came up and I did what you do when you see anybody you don't want to see. And you're like, Hey man, it's so, it's so great. How have you been? And, you know, I did the thing and, and, and that's that, but now we're back to normal and it feels much better. You know, honestly, I couldn't even tell. Um, and I'm not sure if it was that I couldn't even tell, you didn't want to see me or that I didn't even care. Um, honestly, they're very close in the mind of a narcissist, but the, I think the exposure therapy we have on seeing each other online is probably a good thing that if we're going to see each other once every eight years, we should be able to overcome that PTSD from the last time we saw one another. We did. We, we persevered. We got through. Um, fortunately there were also two other mass members there. And if you're good at doing the math like us, that would make all four mass members. And we were able to spend time with them. So I think Drex and Lauren were able to provide a little bit of a buffer between the two of us. Um, also I've lost a significant amount of mass, even though I write for mass since the last time I saw you. So I, um, wouldn't have stood a chance if Lauren and Drex weren't, uh, providing that buffer in case any physical combat arose, but we did actually end up having a fantastic time at the sports nutrition association conference. All four of us gave a talk. We got to do a lot of cool things for mass. And, um, I gotta say, I'll admit it was, it was pretty great to see you, man. Yeah, no. So we'll, we'll move from the obligatory, um, we're slightly uncomfortable connecting as males from our generation and dry humor style, breaking the fourth wall, third wall, fifth wall, breaking walls. I feel like the Kool-Aid man right here. And I will say, oh yeah, we had a good time. Um, we're in red too. That, that bit really worked. I felt like I did that on the fly pretty well, but, um, no, it was, it was fantastic. We got a lot of content done and we were actually saying off air before we started recording that this might have been the best conference that we have ever attended in terms of the quality of the speakers. Um, I'm going to be a little bit of a jerk to the ivory tower, but at academic conferences, it's very hit and miss. You might have some of the best academics in the world, but they're not necessarily great at communicating topics or because it is such a broad conference under a relatively large umbrella. There are some talks that no matter how good they are, you just can't really connect with, but because we had a relatively targeted focus of sports nutrition and the, and the people in the audience were all practitioners. So everyone, I think nailed the right balance of an evidence-based, but still practitioner focused outcome. And not only were everyone either top tier practitioners or top tier academics or doing a little bit of both, but they were all amazing presenters. There was not a single dud in the lineup. And, um, yeah, I think the, the vibe was one that I really appreciated as well. And it was great to see you. It was great to, I didn't, I've never met Lauren in person before, so that was also pretty cool. So anyway, yeah. So anyway, it was, it was a great time and what a better way to welcome us back into our normal kind of online world. Cause typically you get that post conference blues, if it went well, then to talk about every day maxing out. Now, Dr. Z, I want to say it might've been a decade ago when you first published, it wasn't your first time doing it, but you first published a little known case series, uh, that was specifically on daily one RM back squats. Um, and that was, something that was pretty wild. Even at that time, I would say maybe it's a little less wild these days now that we've been exploring the, uh, I would say the, the dark depths of high volume, high frequency, and you know, high load training and close proximities to failure. And there's a pretty consistent pushback that you get when some of these pretty nut nutty protocols come out in the research, the people in the practical world, like, well, you can't do that. So back then though, it was almost just kind of like cognitive dissonance times 10, like people just couldn't handle the idea of this. And it, um, it, I think in many ways, it almost seems to fly in the face of the rest of the research we were doing at the time on auto-regulation elements of periodization. And it's like, yeah, so yeah, you can auto-regulate, you can periodize, but how about just every day you lift the heaviest weight physically possible. And then no matter what happens, you're going to do that tomorrow and then the next day and then the next day and then the next day and then the next day. And guess what? You're going to be really strong. And that's what everyone should do in all cases all the time. That last part, probably not accurate, but just the protocol success, even in a small sample size of three in that case series, I found very intriguing. And it led to a lot of, I would say challenging conversations that led to people thinking probably better about training. So today that is the backdrop. I'm going to pass it over to you because this has been something that you have done probably more than anyone, anyone else who isn't on the Bulgarian weightlifting team, or maybe on, you know, part of the old school John Brose team. Um, I know you've done this many times. You conducted the research and we are also joined by two fabulous guests who've been carrying the torch forward, but I will let you Dr. Zerdos kind of, uh, introduce them. And also this concept as we jump into this episode of iron culture presented by mass. Well, I appreciate that. And I appreciate the opportunity here because, uh, for the first time, I'm going to be the one, uh, 324 episodes in to let our guests know that this is a time where they keep patiently waiting and we keep talking amongst ourselves, um, and we'll get to them eventually. So I appreciate that, Eric. I'm, I'm continuing on with the, um, the brand of iron culture and how we really do things here. So, um, uh, another 20. Yeah. Well, sorry. One other thing I need to say to extend the time period before they actually get to join us. Um, for those who are new to iron culture presented by mass, um, we are presented by mass. And if you would like to support the show, make sure you give us a like, uh, make sure if you really, really want to support us, you leave a five star or a thumbs up. And if you really, really, really, really, really, really want to support us, man, we would appreciate it. If you consider checking out massresearchreview.com, a lot of great content there. And if you add one more really to however many reallys I said about wanting to support us, you may want to become a subscriber because we actually did review this recent study. And we haven't had a video on the topic of daily one arm training by Dr. Zerdos. And importantly, what we do is we make sure that our guests feel so neglected that we create this almost Stockholm like syndrome that by the time we're done talking and they get to talk, they feel like it's a privilege rather than us have wasted their time. So back to you, Dr. Zerdos, I'll let you take it from here. So fantastic lead in, Eric. And so as I take it from here, I want to actually take us back and I'm going to take us back to a different time. It's going to be 2012, which is, you know, maybe the Facebook era of, you know, kind of lifting weights on the internet. And I'm still really in that time. Um, that's, that's my time of, uh, uh, social media and correspondence. But in this time, you know, that's when I was competing a lot in powerlifting and I was a PhD student at the time and I was getting into conducting my dissertation. And, you know, I competed in the USAPL Florida state championships. And although I did win my weight class, now this was a different time when someone like me was actually able to put up the numbers he was putting up and be competitive in powerlifting, albeit he was weak. I, these numbers would put me in probably 15th place in some local competition. Um, but nonetheless, I went only one for three on squat that day. Matt Gary would have been super disappointed in me. I did not uphold the standard. And I got back from that powerlifting meet. And I had for years been watching these videos, as you mentioned, Eric, of a bros nose gym in Las Vegas of these individuals max squatting every day. And I was fascinated with it, but I really couldn't rectify it with what I was learning about training and what I was studying in these periodization content concepts and rest and recovery and so forth. Uh, but I was so fixated on this and I became so frustrated with what was going on. And as a, uh, alumni of the small off base mesocycle and intense mesocycle many times, I decided what could be even more difficult than that. So after I only went one for three on the squat that night, I went to my garage gym and I max squatted again. I texted the only other guy on the team, the powerlifting team at Florida state that I knew would indulge me. He met me the next day and we continue to max squat every day. I squatted 441 pounds or 200 kilos at that meet 49 days later, after max squatting every single day and performing five sets of volume, I squatted 495 pounds or five plates on the bar. And so I was elated with this progress over the years. I continued to utilize this protocol for the next three, four years, trained for raw nationals later that summer, did that train for the Arnold. Uh, when I competed at the Arnold and I max squatted every day leading up to that, um, got a 500 pound plus squat at that competition. Um, and then conducted the case series that you talked about, Eric, which was a three person case series in which individuals max squatted, uh, 36 out of the, the 37 day or 35 out of the 37 days, excuse me. And we published that in 2016. But after that, you know, I had some back injuries and now I'm an old man who competes in another discipline that we won't talk about. That's not lifting weights. It's a little, it's not for this show, but it was kind of crickets. It was quiet on the daily one RM training setting. There had been some other papers, one that was a biceps paper that came in the literature. Then some other papers that came out looking at, oh, we see some, some flexing already. And we, some other papers looking at some modified daily one RM training, but all kidding aside, I was fascinated with this. And in, in, in a very serious note, I found that the protocol worked extraordinarily well. There were some drawbacks. I always had trouble coming off of a cycle, meaning after I'm finished with, you know, a 30 day stint or, or even the, the longest stint I did was over a hundred days. And I started doing it twice a day. And after I finished that, I had trouble. How do I manage the volume after this? How long do I go back to this? And there's so much that I want to get into with this today is would we actually recommend this? How miserable do you feel when you're doing it? Is it something you should do all the time? And we'll get into that. So this statement, just saying it works, isn't saying I would always recommend it. It's just saying that it tended to work. So there was crickets until Eric, a magical day, not too long ago, where I was looking through our journal sweep. And I saw a paper that was looking like it was named something related to daily one or I'm training this time in the bench press. I said, it can't be. I clicked on, I looked, Oh my God, it is, it is, it is. I have to review this. I think I said in our group chat to mass, I have, I feel like I have to do this one. I read the paper. I immediately fired off an email to one of the individuals here with us today. And I said, for no other reason, other than just to say, this is amazing. I am so excited to read the paper. So with that said, we have two of the individuals involved in that study here. We have Kaylee Chisholm, a student at Samford University, and we have the one and only don't think we don't think we don't hear things, Dr. Biceps on the show with us today. Right? He's well known. And let's go. It was just such a pleasure. That's when you've reached the pinnacle. You may see his name on the screen. You may think this is Dr. Washmuth. That is not the case. He has reached the pinnacle. The top is, is there a pyramid for this, Eric? I don't know. I'll leave that to you. I will answer that question real quick. And I'll say, have you ever met Dr. Grant Tinsley in person? I have not, but it would be an honor to do so. And I'll tell you, I don't know whether or not Dr. Washmuth or Dr. Grant Tinsley has the best arms, best biceps in academia, but I know it'd be close after seeing that shot. If you're listening to us on typical podcast feeds and you're not watching on YouTube, you missed out. We're going to probably make him do that a few more times and see if we can ruin his academic career. But let's just say it's impressive. Let's just say it's impressive. And if there is a pyramid, we may need to reserve a spot for two at the tippity top, but it's possible if we got the right kind of pose down, we could find out. But I'll leave it there. The important questions for the future. So we have two of those individuals involved in this wonderful study that we're going to talk about, Kaylee Chisholm and Nick Washmuth or Dr. Washmuth, Dr. Biceps. Thank you very much to both of you for joining us today. And so- Thank you for having us. It is wonderful to have you guys here. So you guys are both at Stanford University in the physical therapy department. Dr. Washmuth is a professor and Kaylee, you are a student currently, is that correct? Yes, I'm a first year student. All right. What an introduction to your first year to be involved in a daily 1RM study. And so I was very excited when I read the study and I did reach out to Dr. Washmuth and he was very kind to respond right away. And we chatted about the study a little bit and then I reviewed it in mass. And so this study is a study for those that kind of need even a little bit more background that looked over 38 days and had individuals max every single day for the first 34 days, then did a little bit of a taper on day 35, day 36 and 37 off, and then a max on day 38. And so you tracked over time the change in bench press 1RM to see would this bench press 1RM increase? When would it peak? What would it be at post-testing? Did it increase linearly? Did it tend to vary? Kind of gauge how people felt each day. But for everybody watching or listening, that is 34 consecutive days of maxing and then a post-test on day 38. So if you have not heard of this idea or you're not familiar with it, I think this will be very interesting to see if it does work, if we do recommend it and so forth. And before I turn it to each of you to tell us what happened in the study, we were talking a little bit offline. I would like to hear about how this study came about and kind of the etiology of this study, you know, when you guys as learning about this protocol and Dr. Washmuth getting some students on board for this. So I'd love to hear about the etiology and then go into kind of what you found and what you learned from the study. Yes, Eric. And also, if I may, I imagine that Dr. Washmuth, you didn't do your PhD specifically in 1RM training. And Kaylee, that's also not the topic of your future studies. I'd love to hear just a bit of a background of yourself. Like, how did you find yourself doing this? And who are you? What are you about? And kind of, if you can introduce yourselves a bit to the listener as well, I think that would be really helpful to put everything in context. Yes, absolutely. Mike and Eric, appreciate you having us on here. This is an incredible honor. Again, I'm Nick Washmuth. I am trained as a physical therapist, although I no longer practice. I practiced for about eight years and transitioned into academia. And I'm currently on faculty at Sanford University in the Department of Physical Therapy. And actually, I'm currently enrolled as a PhD student at the University of Alabama in Huntsville, where I study the beneficial effects of swearing. So I'm enrolled as a PhD student. And my research agenda is basically focused on learning more about and challenging some of these categorical understandings that I have been led to believe that are not always true. For example, lifting. I'm trained as a PT. Lifting with your back is supposedly bad. Lifting with legs is good. Dissect the literature. Sometimes lifting with your back is very beneficial. Let's look at the CrossFit community. Let's look at high rep deadlifts for time. If you look at a CrossFit or anyone deadlifting quickly for time, for speed, they tend to transition into a more of a lifting with your back stoop posture. It's more efficient. It's less amount of metabolically taxing. So there's certain qualities where lifting with your back may be beneficial. I enjoy studying the it depends type of questions. So these categorical understandings, you know, lifting with your back is bad. Swearing is bad. Not always. And what does it depend? So we debate, Kaylee's class had a debate of what lifting technique is the best. And it's however you defined the best. So a group debated, uh, stoop lifting would be the best or squat lifting or semi-squat. Um, and one of the arguments that one of the groups made was if you look at the CrossFit community and a CrossFit competition, someone doing some high rep deadlifts for time, they tend to move in a more of a stoop pattern. It's quicker and it's less metabolically taxable, which has some, some benefits in that, in that situation. And we can talk about more about swearing here in a second, but what, what led me to want to, uh, do this one or M protocol is that it challenges my, my traditional kind of knowledge of what strength and conditioning should entail, how I was educated of classic strength and conditioning concepts. And, and, um, I'll, before I get further, let me let Kaylee introduce herself and talk about, talk about her, her, her role in this, this protocol, in this study. Uh, yeah, I'm Kaylee. I'm a first year PT student at Sanford University and I have been lifting for like two years and mainly for strength. But bench was specifically like the one thing I actually enjoyed doing. I don't really care to squat or deadlift. Um, but so Dr. Washman sent a team's message to our whole cohort and was like, I've been doing this for a few years. Do you guys want to do it with me? And then we were like, Oh, that sounds cool. And since I'd started school, I guess like four or five months before my bench had like significantly dropped, like a lot of weight, like 15 pounds, but that's a lot for like what I was lifting. And so I was like, that sounds fun. And if it works, then maybe I'll get to hit like a lifetime goal. So that's kind of how we all got started was Dr. Washman bringing it to us and introducing us to the fun that it is. Amazing. Two very important questions. One, Kaylee, what was the lifetime goal? And what do you bench in these days? My lifetime goal is 185. I did not hit it. Um, I hit 170, which was close, but, um, now I haven't maxed actually since the study, but I'm working with 135. So I like it. You got a skillet on there. That, that, that, that's what's up though. So that, that's very impressive. That's awesome. Second, extremely important question. Um, doctor, soon to be double doctor, Nick Washmuth, AKA double doctor biceps, which doctorate is going to go first? Once you complete your PhD in the order that the EPT or the PhD, and there is a right and the wrong answer that may or may not end the podcast. I'd say it'd be the PhD in swearing, obviously. Let's F and go. I'll, uh, I'll leave that off because I don't have a PhD in swearing. I'd probably do it wrong. But anyway, I just wanted to cover those two important points, uh, Zerto. So I'll let you take it from here though. All right. Extraordinarily important points. And I do want to get back to, um, your work on swearing and swearing and performance after we talk about the daily one arm study, because I am quite interested in that. And you did have a few papers that were pretty recent on this that I was able to check out, um, before we jumped on here. So, so with that, it's one, it's amazing that it just, I'm thinking back to when I was a student. And if I had a professor reach out to a class and say, Hey, you guys want to start bench-maxing every day? Like I was asking these kinds of questions. I went to a small school, did an exercise science major, and it was really an athletic training kind of department. And so I'd be taking notes in ex-phys class. This is, you know, you had to, you had to write down then, you know, it wasn't, it was back 2003, 2004, you know, exactly. And, um, I'd be asking questions and all that was on the internet at the time was like Westside Barbell. And so I'd be looking at Westside Barbell, reading all Louis old articles, and I'd be asking stuff like, well, if I were to front squat 10 sets of two with bands and, and the, the person teaching the class, um, he was a great guy, but I remember him, he said to me verbatim, he said, why don't we just keep those questions for after class? And like, there was no interest in any of, any of this stuff. So just the fact that we have a professor doing that. And then Kaylee, your response and your, and other students response saying, yes, like that sounds cool. What, what a dynamic we have, uh, to, to start off this study. So, um, as you get in, so we have a little bit of the origin of the study here. I know I outlined a little bit of the protocol, but I'd love to hear, uh, what you found and what you learned from the study as a, you know, going through it, if you're performing it. And as a researcher, um, take us through that, just not just the findings, but what you learned from it. What did you observe the fluctuations and what would you recommend and how did your mind change on it after going through this protocol? Yeah. Let me back up a little bit and share how it's evolved for me over the past five years or so. So I learned, I first learned about this protocol, uh, Mike's protocol in the 2016 paper, I believe I learned about it in 2019. So I was talking with a colleague of mine, Tyler Williams, excellent individual, and we were talking about, uh, management of tendinopathies. He was dealing with some high hamstring tendinopathy. And we talked about a loading regimen where you basically load the tendon pretty aggressively every day. And he's like, you know, Nick, there was a recent case series that came out about max back squatting every day. I was like, really share this with me. I read it and it changed my life. I did the exact protocol for 38 days. Cause I misread the paper and I thought I might get it for 38 days, but I understand it was 37 days. I did it for 38 days and I was so fatigued at the end that I took two full days off before the 38 day, but I peaked on day 38 after those two days off. So I followed that same two days off before a final peak day, if you will, every other time I've done this. So that's how I, it's how I encouraged the seven participants in our current bench press study. So that's how it kind of, kind of evolved. But I first did the program in 2020 and I saw a 16% increase in my bench press. Next year I did it for the shoulder press, 19% improvement back to bench press, 12% improvement and barbell curl, bicep curl magical year. That was 26% increase in bicep strength. And then I decided I need to share this and involve others. So that's when I send an email out to Kelly's class and it's like, who wants to do this with me? And I got, I was hoping for two or three or four individuals, seven students said, heck yeah, let's do it. Wow. I have two comments, Mike. Uh, one Eddie, uh, Dr. Potato, if we can call him with the theme of the, uh, the current, uh, podcast. This is someone who none of you will know, and that's fine. Uh, he would be so vindicated by the fact that Nick took two days off completely, maybe had an actual, uh, experience of a taper, not just an on, on, on paper protocol written down, uh, taper and actually also hit his highest number on the day of testing. I'm just going to throw that out there. Yeah. My, my, my son affectionately calls this, uh, gentlemen, uncle potato. And, um, he, uh, um, very strong individual and, and did the, did the protocol. And, uh, um, when in our study, our quote taper, um, was working up on day 36 to a single, uh, I think 80 or 85%, um, of one RM. And I was like, Hey, this is the taper. He, he famously looks, he was like, what do you mean taper? It's like, there's, you didn't put it to it. There's no taper. And, and I know you have a second point, Eric, but I'll get back. We had in peer review this month. Um, I wrote the article reviewing your guy study. And as I was going through your protocol, then I was going through some anecdotes I had over the years and sharing those figures and, and mass research review. Um, and I wrote that it was difficult to tell if the taper I used worked, um, because I was, I squatted just about similar to my weekly average on the day that I had a meet. I did this leading into a meet. And, uh, Eric in peer review said, Mike, I don't think your taper worked. Um, and I said, it's hard to tell it. I said, passive aggressively, it's hard to tell Eric that it worked because we don't have a comparison group. And he said, okay. Um, but it's very interesting to hear, um, in your study that you did take two full days off, um, and each time that you, you peaked that well. And I'm looking at the results of the study here and I'm seeing many of the individuals peaked toward the end of the study. And some of the individuals did peak right at the end. So from, that's a more minor point of the study, but did you guys feel that that two days completely off was an effective taper in this study? It felt weird not benching for two days. So I definitely felt more rested on day 38. Um, but I think part, our day 38 was a competition of sorts because it was our 1RM competition in our cohort. Um, so I don't know if like nerves were higher, but I don't think any of us actually improved, um, day 38. So I don't know if it was effective, but I did definitely feel more rested. Okay. Dr. Washman, within your own anecdotes, did you feel that that two day taper was effective? I did. And that's why we kind of encouraged the students to, to use that protocol just based on my experience. But obviously in the paper, they didn't see that same peak at the end, that two days rest was not as beneficial for the seven participants as it was for, for me. Yeah. It's, it's, it's such a difficult thing to, um, to know when, when there, we have these studies, right. And you guys have a case series of seven and we have a case series of three. When you don't have a comparison group, you, you really just can't make a definitive conclusion. Um, you know how this would be. And if there's, you know, and how folks are fatiguing throughout and perhaps it would be a longer taper, that would be better, or perhaps even a shorter taper. I always really struggled with this because I felt I would keep the principles of the taper in mind, which were to somewhat maintain intensity, decrease volume and maintain frequency. And so to Kaylee's point, I always felt weird if I had a day off. So doing this many times for many cycles, if I, I almost never missed a day, but I can think of two times throughout the years I did this, where I was traveling and it just happened that this, this had to miss a day or would have, it traveled to a family event and leaving immediately to squat would have caused some serious family issue, um, that I debated in my head if I should just let that issue happen anyways. Um, but I, I never felt great, um, when I did miss a day. So it, it's really hard to know and hard to tell, um, how we should taper and something like this. And so from that, what are the, what are the overarching thoughts from the study? Was there anything that after the study you came out of it thinking differently than either of you did before the start from your previous experience working with it? I think for me, um, I always kind of felt like prior to working out, if I didn't feel like working out or like, um, felt like it was going to be a weekday or something that kind of dictated it, but we did the mood scores before we lifted each day and those were not consistent at all with how we lifted. And so I think that kind of changed if I could just get to the gym and do it, then it would probably be better than what I was thinking it would be. Um, also just the feeling of fatigue also really didn't dictate how well I performed that day, which is very different than what I previously thought. Yeah, very true. I, I would, I would, I would totally agree. I mood scores were all over the place and had no correlation with performance. How fatigue I felt had no correlation, but what did I think, although I, we didn't measure this, it's just anecdotally what after my warmup sets, I could tell you what was going to happen that session. Um, but it was, I could have felt fatigued going into it, but after those warmup sets, I could tell you, Hey, this is going to be a good day or Hey, I don't have it today. That was pretty, pretty consistent throughout the program. I think that is very much something that I experienced as well. And so you guys did the profile of mood state scale and we, we didn't do that, but we did a perceived recovery status scale and we didn't really notice much relationship either. But to Dr. Washington's point, one thing that we did in ours is we looked at velocity, um, on all of the attempts. And so I knew once I hit 85%, I would be able to predict pretty closely what I was going to squat that day. Um, and, and it, depending on how fast that moved, I think on the first day I moved that at, you know, 0.5 meters per second. Um, and if I, I moved that one day at like 0.55, 0.56 meters per second. And that day, like I knew right away. And, but to your point, and a lot of the anecdotes I get, I went through and in doing this many times, 30 day cycles, 50 day cycles, a hundred day cycles, you're feeling so rough at certain points that when you're warming up, it feels really like a struggle just to get under the bar a lot of the time. But once you make it through that warmup up to 80, 85%, the tide can turn, right? So there were so many days where I would go into the gym, no, just no desire whatsoever to be there, right? You, you do anything and everything to elongate the warmup, to walk around, to, to talk to somebody else, to do this or that. Then you finally squat the bar. You finally squat 135, 185, 225, whatever it is. And it can be moving really slow. But for me, my, in, in, in, in pounds, my 85% being, you know, or 80% being somewhere in the, in the low 400s, when I was squatting over 500 for this, I would get a feel right around there, how it would go. Even if 375 felt like a 8 RP, I would know once I got to 405 to 420 to 430, how that felt. So you really have to get through those early warmups. And I think in the broader picture, we oftentimes talk about, you know, and Eric, you and I have made a career talking about auto, auto regulation. And there is so a lot of merit, of course, to saying, hey, what metric am I going to use to guide my training today? Saying, hey, okay, I'm, I'm not feeling good. Am I going to use this scale? Or am I going to say, if my velocity is depressed, if my vertical jump isn't very good, what metric am I going to use to predict my training? But what's important, and I always harp on with this is it's important that that metric actually predicts performance. And so often we go into the gym and we feel sore, but I would challenge people to think how many times they felt sore and they actually start warming up. And then all of a sudden they feel okay. Right. You go for a walk around the block, you get the blood flowing a little bit, the soreness goes away and you can perform. Or maybe you didn't feel great before a game or a competition of some sort that you've had. And then you got into the middle of it and you felt fine. And so certainly you can feel so rough where, you know, you're not going to perform well that day. But when you do a protocol like this, a lot of it is predicated on still showing up and doing the work, even on the days that you just don't feel like you can move and you can't do well. And that kind of brings me into what iteration of this do we think is the way to go? And what I mean by that is, so we have daily 1RM training, but, and in your study, I think I noted from my review that at least every participant missed at least one day, some more than others, but everybody didn't perform every day of the protocol. And so with that, I have some questions that I've been dying to talk to people about that have had this experience over the years, which is, do we really think that the 1RM training has to be done every single day? Would doing it just a couple times per week work? The, and then let's start there. Then there's a volume question, but let's stop there and say, when we say daily 1RM training, does it have to be every day? There is data from the famous Dr. Pack that has looked at doing this just a couple times a week. Do you all think that doing a couple times a week would be sufficient? Or do you think that actually putting in the work every single day is necessary to get this rate of progress? Kaylee, we'll start with you. You, you, you going through the protocol and being part of this on your quest for the 185 bench, which you're going to get, and we're, we're going to have a, a triumphant, maybe, maybe announcement on the show when you get there. So what, what would you say going through this? If you miss days, did you feel that those hurt you when you miss those days? Or do you feel if you were to go back and do it again, a couple of times a week would get the job done? Yeah, I actually had the worst adherence rate of all of us. I was still in it miss seven days. So, um, but honestly, my shoulder did start hurting really bad. So that is another thing is like, it is tough to do it every day. Um, but I think I might would have had better results if I had gone every day, but also I could have actually hurt myself. So who's to say on that? But, um, I did have a lower like percent of increase when compared to the average of everyone else. So it's hard to say if that's because I miss days or just because I'd been benching heavier than a lot of the other participants that did it like more consistently. Um, I do think for like, if you could do it for 30 to 35 days that you would get better results just based off of the, um, case series you did and then ours too. Yeah. A modified version I think can also be effective. Is it more effective? I, I question that. Um, just anecdotally how we felt the, the idea of going in there every day to, to frequent heavy lifting, going back and doing it again. If your goal is to get as strong as you can in 38 days, 37 days, would a modified program be effective? Absolutely more effective. I, I don't know that I question that I would, I would lean towards the daily heavy lifting one RM every, every single day. Yeah. I would tend to agree with that. Um, but you know, anytime it goes back to what we said a few minutes ago, anytime you're doing a case series or you're doing observational work, you, you just can't know. And I just don't have empirical data. So I always stop short of, you know, my bias is to say every day, right? That's the protocol. That's what we all do. And it's just, and it's just awesome, um, to, to go in and do that every day and to know what that feels like. And I think mentally making it through it, um, especially depending on the exercise you're using with it is, is quite a big deal. I do know one brave soul, uh, a certain Ben Esgro who has done this on the deadlift. Um, we used to train every day. Uh, we, at the time it wasn't Skype or zoom. We use an app called tango. So we would tango together while I would max squat and he would max deadlift. Uh, and he did that for over 30 days with some good success. Um, I might add doing that, but it's, it's hard to know for sure. Um, what protocol is better, but to Dr. Washburn's point, I would go so far to say that I do think, um, maxing a few times a week can be effective, um, provide a meaningful increase, whether that's a greater or a smaller increase than it would be every day. I'm not sure, but perhaps for those that are newer to this, that is a good place to start is to say, Hey, I am doing this periodized program. I'm starting to get up into a frequency of two, maybe even three times per week on a main lift. And now I want to really peak my strength or get more used to this type of training in a shorter amount of time. And I think there's some efficacy then to say, all right, I could start with a heavy ish single, you know, once or twice a week, uh, or even go up to three times per week. And that kind of brings us into the next question of dosage, right? So the first question of dosage on this is how often does it have to be every day? The second question of dosage is to what intensity, what I mean by that, because intensity is broadly defined is if we think in, in the construct of RP and RAR is, does it have to be an actual max? Could it be a nine RP or a nine and a half RP? Uh, for me anecdotally, when I was doing this and I included some of this in the mass article, I linked to my old spreadsheets, um, that I took out of the 2012 archives. And when I say that I was doing this to a max every day, what I mean by that is every day and justice for all as high as it could possibly go on the stereo, a new bottle of nose torque, the smelling salts every single day and just absolute 10 RP on the bar. And I only failed a couple of times. Um, but I would go to the absolute max every single day on this. So with that said, and I know Eric, you have some experience doing a modified version of this as well. Um, I would love to hear from everyone going around the horn. Uh, um, Kaylee, when, were your maxes to that absolute 10 RPE, um, how many times did you fail? And do you believe, or do you think you would need to actually go to that max every day? Or do you think a modified dosage a little bit away from failure would be sufficient? Yeah, I went to absolute failure every day. I didn't go without a spot. I was nice as I was getting into the protocol. I knew what I would hit about each day. So I didn't have to ask for a spot until I was getting closer to like my previous max. Um, but there were days that I tried, I didn't ever try more than three times to hit a new weight. And then there were days where I think I would tried for a long time to get, it was 175. And before that, what maybe one set to 65, 170, I failed it two or three times. And then I would unrack it, do basically a negative knee. I probably wouldn't get it and still try, but then have someone pull it up. So I think the days that I did that, I went up the next day. So I think going to absolute failure is beneficial. Yeah, I, uh, I'll be the skeptic on the podcast. Um, because I actually think the data that we do have that isn't observational directly contradicts the idea that there's just an increasing dose response of having a higher and higher and higher and higher and higher proportion of your loading at a larger percentage of one RM. Um, if we look at the data, I'll use one actual specific original research paper that is, I think probably maybe more specific to this because if we extrapolate from say the, uh, the meta regressions that have come out of your lab, Dr. Z, then we're, there's some extrapolations that have just not included singles at all. We're looking at an average load of like nine reps, right? Um, but when we look at some studies that were done on junior weightlifters, so we're talking late teens, early twenties by Gonzalez Padillo back in the day. Um, and they were, you know, pretty well trained as well. Um, and if anything, I see young, vibrant lifters as being potentially more responsive to this, not less. They had two different papers that came out a, basically a low, moderate and high volume load protocol compared to what they were historically doing in this group of weightlifters or during this other phase of training, a low, moderate and high proportion of the lifts being done at over 90% of one RM, on the snatch clean and jerk and back squat. And the interesting thing is that there weren't really clear advantages of having a higher and higher escalating proportion. When you looked at the dose response of the volume being performed at a percentage of one RM that was over 90%. And I think another bit of data we have on this, um, and it's not super, super clear, but it's from Dr. Pack's work where when you look at the total number of sets, not just the singles, the amount of an increase that you got from just doing, you know, a three, two, one, or sorry, I say a two, three, one protocol. So that's two squat singles at a near max, three bench singles at a near max, one deadlift single at a near max. And then going to also doing back offsets on those days, it improved all the lifts pretty well, but the deadlift disproportionately. So because it went from just one single set to three sets per week. And then it kind of started the plateau as far as the, like, there wasn't a relative clear dose response of number of sets that were heavy being performed. So my perspective on this general relationship is that specificity is very powerful, but that also means that you kind of can saturate that signal at a relatively modest dose. I'd also point out that daily is arbitrary. It's been done. That's what they do in the Bulgarian system. That's what John Rose did. And once it's published, you know, some of the more academically minded individuals go, well, that's the protocol. That's, that's the one you do. It's been proven, but it almost kind of has this slight bias of, well, only things that have been measured, managed and published exist. Other things don't. Um, and I can tell you that in my coaching experience as a powerlifting coach and my personal experience, which I haven't done the full protocol, so I'm not going to lean on as much. There does seem to be a point where you can max more frequently, or you could make all of those singles at a 10 instead of a nine or have some of the eights evens, where it's unclear to me that you're getting a benefit from it. Um, but it is clear that it's harder and it's more fatiguing. And another thing I noticed in the longterm is that the harder those phases are where someone pushes really, really hard, the more they peak, but the more there's a valley afterwards. And something that I would always find interesting when I talked to Dr. Z about his experiences of how did this go? Like, well, so, so where's your max at now? It's like, well, I'm not at that same peak. And I'm like, okay. But I think that's to some degree true of any strength athletes experience is that if you look at the course of the year, they're going to have peaks at different times, but they seem more extreme to me when people take these really hardcore daily one or M type protocols. And I would personally prefer as from a coaching perspective, a performance perspective to keep a more modest dose in at all times and have a better perspective on where it is and not to see these drastic swings. Um, so Kaylee, you know, you mentioned you're hitting about a plate right now for some reps, but you were up to, you know, 170. So there's like a 30 pound swing there in potential maxing. So now it's not like you were like, Hey, and my goal right now is to be the best powerlifter I possibly can be. You're like, Hey, I love bench. So let's go. And there's nothing wrong with saying, Hey, I know if I have a concentrated block of time dedicated to a lift, I can, I can peak it and we can use that as a tool. But from my perspective, I do think when you're using something highly specific that you can kind of saturate that signal pretty early. And then logistically from a powerlifting or weightlifting or strongman or any type of other perspective, when you're not just focused on a lift, when you're trying to improve a, a collection of lifts in the case of a strongman or three or two for your barbell athletes, um, you do really have to think about what's the kind of that peak of efficiency in terms of what do you get out of it without, you know, really pushing that athlete into the whole psychologically or physically, because it sort of doesn't really matter in practice. So anyway, that's my perspective. Um, and the example of what I saw when I started to see less benefits and where did I start to have more downsides was that I had to personally build up from doing roughly that same two, three, one protocol up to the highest frequency, which I had for about one block of training prior to tapering where I had my best meet. I was squatting five times a week, deadlifting four times a week and benching six times a week to a single somewhere between the seven to a 10 RPE. And I was kind of undulating those. So if I had a light single the next day and I would notice it almost like when you do a lot of volume, you know, you're going to perform pretty poorly the next day. I noticed that when I was hitting nine and 10 RPE singles or nine and a half RPE singles, the next day probably wasn't going to be quite as good. But if I had, you know, then did a seven RPE between that and I came back, I would pretty reliably be ready to hit something close to peak or a new peak. So I have done, I would say eight to 10 RPE singles on each of the lifts, at least four times with the lowest frequency being deadlift, but to a max of, of six times on bench and five on squat. And I did them all simultaneously with volume afterwards. It was a brutal protocol, but, um, that was very effective. And one thing I did notice though, is I compared to what I hear from some other people, the decrement and strength with when I would then go to a kind of more of a maintenance dose, there was much less of a contrast between the two. Um, so all I heard is somebody that just doesn't want to work that hard, taking it easy, you know, has that's, that's really, I don't know about you guys, Eric, um, on, on that, when you were doing that, how, what was the length of time that you did that for? Yeah. So this was all part of a 16 week buildup into a meet. So I started with much more volume focus and that, uh, two, three, one protocol, um, with a lot of bodybuilding work afterwards. Um, but more specific to, I would say a hypertrophy oriented program for, for, for power lifting. And I did this in like four, four, four week blocks. So it was like four, four, four, each time I increased the frequency and increased the, the RPE on the singles. So it went from two, three, one, two, three, four, two, two, uh, four, five, three, two, five, six, four. And that, and then, and then taper into the meet. And then the proportion of time spent doing accessories versus back off work was, was changing as well. So I started with really just doing the singles and maybe some back off work on bench and then a lot of non-specific training. And then that proportion decreased. And then I started doing the back off volume on some days. So by the time I was in that last phase, I was doing like two by three after each one of those singles at 80% of the single for the day. So I wonder, and, and I don't, I don't necessarily agree or disagree because I honestly just don't know. Sure. But I wonder to, to go the complete, this is going the complete other way from what you, what you suggested, which very well may be true is that you notice you did better when you would take like a seven RP day. The next day you maybe go up to 10 and back down and so forth, which on the surface makes sense because you're a little bit more recovered by staying a few rub shy failure. However, since you were doing the 10 RPs infrequently, perhaps you just weren't adapting to them as somebody that would do it every day and the increased dosage. Well, you would for, for anyone who is fortunate enough to watch this episode on YouTube, the doc great Dr. Truxler isn't here to chastise me for using my hands to demonstrate figures, which I'm going to do anyways, for those that are listening and can't see this. But what I'm getting at is when you start a protocol like this typically, and I was actually a little bit surprised, Kaylee and Dr. Biceps, that we didn't see this in, in your project as much as we did in mine. But typically every time I started a protocol like this, I've always seen a, a drop off right away, right? A, a, a, a valley immediately. And it takes me about a week to get back. So I think that the time I started, one time I started with about a 220 kilo squat and I dropped down maybe to about 205 or 210 the next few days a week. And then about a week, I got back to baseline and then peaked up about 230, 235 after that, you know, 500, 507, 512, whatever those numbers are. And, uh, um, kind of went up from there and then it would be peaks and valleys, peaks and valleys. But I felt that performing the max every day is what, um, made me adjust to it enough and adapt to it enough where I was able to keep doing it. Whereas if I wouldn't have done it so frequently, perhaps a single max would have beat me up considerably. And I would have had a valley every time after I hit a peak or a PR or something like that. I'm not saying that's definitely the case. Again, this is all observational data. So Dr. Helms may absolutely be correct, um, on that, but it's just interesting to note in, in, in the dosage. Um, Nick, I'd like to get your take on that. And then the third component of, of this is volume after, I know Dr. Helms has chime in here. Yeah. The, the one fair ish comparison I have is actually bench press because all the way back in 2018, before I did this kind of integrated approach, I was doing basically a, uh, power lifting protocol that was a little more traditional for squat and deadlift. So not hitting that kind of frequency. And I specialized on bench. And what I did was five to six days a week. I did volume bench for a block. And then I had a block for four weeks where I maxed out every day, every training day. So it was five to six days a week. And the only difference was my schedule. There are some weeks I couldn't train six times. So, um, the number I hit on paper was higher. I peaked at a one 65 touch and go when I was doing daily maxes, but I was also six kilograms heavier. And when I did the protocol that I described, I did a paused bench to competition standard at one 55. So I think arguably maybe the latter is slightly better bench press when you're, you know, 10, 11 pounds lighter. Um, but it was also another two or three years of training under my belt. So it's, it's, you know, it's, it's a hard comparison. Yeah. It's all so hard to compare and, and, and, and to know, Nick, where do you land on this in terms of, um, you know, kind of the, the dosage that's needed and, and, and, and going to a 10 RP, if you will, every day. And then I'd like after that to get into the volume component, which is talk about the volume you guys did in the study. And then how much back off volume do we think is actually necessary, um, for these gains? Yeah. First of all, I, I, I, I sense a genesis of a collaborative study here of answering these questions out of let's combine labs and make it happen. And a genuine, genuine desire that I have here to, to let's, let's help me answer these questions. Let's, let's create some new knowledge around best practice with this, this original 2016 protocol by, by Mike. Let's do it. But as far as, as going to complete one RM, I would say that was the most challenging part of the, of the protocol. I don't, I didn't have an issue going in daily. If you're conditioned in your routine of working out daily, that was not the, the, the challenge. It was that, that the mental, you have to be in a different mindset to go in there and give it your all. You could, you could do a heavy single that was just shy of a one RM and, and be fine. It wouldn't be as mentally taxing that that's what fatigued me was just that going in there and actually doing a true one RM. It was long. I was waiting five plus minutes between sets. The warmups lasted forever. It was, it was just mentally exhausting. So I do think maybe not going to that true one RM each time may have some advantages. What that threshold is. I don't know. Um, there's likely a threshold you have to reach to get those benefits. I couldn't tell you what it is, but I, I, to decrease that mental burden and load and, and, and just overall fatigue physically, mentally, I think going just shy of a one RM may, may have some benefits. Yeah. And then in, in terms of the volume, um, you know, in, in our case series, and this is really what I just did in practice and exactly why I did this. I can't pinpoint probably from some of the bros knows videos that I was watching or things that I was just learning. Cause that's all that there was at the time. And reading about the old Bulgarian weightlifting team, I, I did five sets of three at 85% of whatever I would max that day. And then the next day I would do five sets of two at 90% of whatever I would max that day. And I rotated that volume. We did that in our case series in your study, you guys did both those protocols, but you gave the participants a choice and they could choose between which one of those they wanted to do. Um, in my opinion, it probably doesn't matter much, which one they, they would choose to do. Um, but, uh, Kaylee, how do you feel the volume helped you? Do you feel that performing the volume was beneficial? Do you perform that? Do you feel that if you only did the one RM and no volume, you still would have gained similar progress, or if you were to do a modified version, let's say two or three sets of the volume, uh, would that have been sufficient? Yeah, I think talking to some of the other girls that did the study, we felt that we were getting stronger doing the volume sets because I think that was a gauge for us of like, okay, I didn't get my volume sets today, but then the next day going in hitting the same max and then hitting the volume sets, whether that be just encouraging. So then you can do better the next day because you feel stronger in a sense. Um, so we definitely like anecdotally thought that it made us stronger. I also definitely preferred the five sets of two at 90%. It was way easier for me to hit those than to hit five sets of three at 85%. Something about the fourth and fifth set, getting the third rep on those two sets was always really hard. Um, I definitely think there could be benefit from backing off that a little bit because five sets can be a lot in my opinion. Three reps is a lot of cardio. I agree. Um, Nick, how do you feel about it? Yeah, it was, so we, we intended to follow the, the, the alternating five sets of three, five sets of two, but we got into the study and we had a couple of participants that misunderstood the, the protocol a bit, the core instruction on my part. So we had to kind of modify the, the regimen, but they did either, or some people alternate it and some people stuck with, with one, but I think the volume sets are important. I do. I think it was, it was just a lot of, it was a heavy load and I got most of my volume sets. I think I might only fail two or three of those sets for the entire protocol. So just getting those solid reps in, it built confidence. It was a lot easier to me than the one RM. So it was almost like a, like a cool down, if you will. Yeah. It was a good way to finish the day. I never had problem with volume sets. I always found the volume sets, um, not that difficult. Um, the, the only issue. So what I would also, also, also do a lot, I couldn't do this in the research, but in just when I'm doing it myself, I would often, if you set a PR, I remember I set a, uh, uh, uh, PR one day. I think I, it was the first time I hit five 20 and I wanted to double four 95, five plates, um, when working in pounds. And so I did, um, I took like 15 minutes and I just got more smelling salts and I doubled four 95. Um, and, and so like the 85 or 90% of that would have been less, it wouldn't have been like that much. Um, and I would think I then backed off and did a few more sets after that. So I was able to do fun things like that anecdotally, but I agree the volume sets weren't that difficult. Um, and I felt confident in doing them usually. Um, and to your point, Nick, the sessions would take a long time. Um, especially if you're kind of with other people in training as well, which I did a lot of these sessions by myself. Um, although the first time I did it, I did do it with other people and I would start training at night, which was atypical for me, but I was on the floor of state powerlifting team at the time. I would start about six o'clock and those sessions wouldn't finish till after nine. Um, and that brings me to kind of another point of, well, I, I want to talk about in a moment how to train the other lifts during this time, because I think it's really important. We're talking about the one thing I'll always say about this is when I max squatted and my squat went up 40, 50, 60 pounds in these cycles, that was really good for my squat one RM, but not necessarily for quite literally anything else I was attempting to accomplish in life at the time. Um, but as, as long as my squat one RM went up, my happiness went up, there was a pretty linear relationship in those days. So it was okay. Um, but to, to the, to the volume point, before we get to the other lifts, you know, Eric, we've been talking about the data from the aforementioned Dr. Pack and in the three, two, one study where he had, you know, a couple of times, two to three times a week, um, squat and bench press, uh, one RMs or near one RMs. Um, and he had some back off volume. If I'm just looking at the numbers here, the individuals that did volume on average gained six and a half percent on their squat. The individuals that just did the near maxes impact study, um, gained only about 3% on their squat, um, for the bench press 6% on their bench press with maxing plus volume and a little, a shade under 2% only on their bench press. And for deadlift, there was a 6% difference, 7% increase with deadlift max and volume, and only a 1% increase with only the deadlift max. The one caveat I'll give to that is, let's say on a deadlift, we talked about this. They're only maxing once per week. If you're only maxing once per week, um, so one time per week max, and that's it versus another group one time per week max, then a couple sets of volume. Adding one set to the max is a, uh, 100% increase in the amount of volume you're doing. So I do think that in that case, it's not a direct comparison to what we're talking about here, because adding one set when you're only doing one set is a much more meaningful change than if you're, um, maxing every day and adding a little bit of volume or adding five sets of volume compared to adding three sets of volume. Nonetheless, PAX data, Eric suggests that the volume is important. There is data from Dankel et al that suggests a bicep max every day on one arm versus a bicep max plus three sets of 10 didn't add to strength in the other arm. Um, but that's not quite an apples to apples comparison. So, um, I would, I gotta say it's not even a fruit to fruit comparison because of the, the, like that, that one I have a really tough time with because the unilateral design is really helpful for hypertrophy, but it is directly confounded when we're talking about strength adaptation. So the cross education effect. Yes, exactly. Yeah. So, but the volume does seem to be beneficial there. Um, Eric, do you have a take on the volume? You, I, I suspect that you would believe the volume to some extent is important. I think it, I, I think, I don't think the volume is that different from the maxis. They feel very different, but what we're talking about is pretty heavy loads for pretty low reps in all cases, doubles, triples, singles. Um, yeah, there obviously is a big difference between a single and a triple, but in terms of the kind of the loading ranges we're talking about 85% of one RM and up for the most part. Um, to me, or I guess in PAX was an 80%. I can't quite remember if it was, I think so. Two by three at 80% of the max. Yeah. I believe it was two by like three at 80%. Yeah, that sounds right. So I think the way I like to look at PAX research is we have a comparison between one to three heavy sets and three to nine heavy sets. And pretty clearly the three to nine heavy sets produced substantially more gains in one RM compared to that. If we look at it on a weekly basis, frequency absolutely probably does matter. Um, but I think when you're dealing with that low of a threshold of, of total work, um, there, there, there's something going on there. And I think the, the interaction between squat and deadlift is also important. I think there's far more transfer between those two. Uh, and I think the bench is less fatiguing. So I think there are, there are, there are a few things going on here where I generally think the cost of doing daily one RM training on bench is substantially different from a squat. And the, and the difference between doing like daily one RM training on bench while doing other stuff is also a lot different than trying to do it on squat or deadlift. So I, I, it doesn't surprise me, um, when we see these types of findings in my opinion, and I'm, I'm not sure that the, the volume work is something fundamentally different than the, than the top sets. I think they're far more similar in the grand scheme of resistance training to one another than say the sets of 10 in Dankle were to the, uh, the one around. Yeah. Yeah. I, I, I would tend to agree with you that, and I've done the protocol for both the, um, squat and the bench press, uh, that the squat was extraordinarily more difficult. Um, especially I, I would get the, the biggest welts and open wounds on my back, um, and just continually putting the bar, uh, over. Like it would have no time to scab over because I had to go back to the gym and your shirt is just bleeding, um, you know, constantly and, and, and that sort of thing. And you just have to keep doing it and keep lifting. And, you know, people are constantly asking you if you're okay, but then by day 36, they're just like, it's just, just let Mike do his thing. It's whatever. I'm just leaving him alone. Uh, we don't think it's good for his health, but he's fine. Um, he seems to, seems to believe in it. Um, and so I do think there was, there's a greater cost there, but the one other aspect we've touched on here that I want to get to is, you know, what, how should you train the other exercises? Because let's say, obviously this is a very highly specific thing, right? So certainly if somebody that's doing this, whether they're a power lifter or they're a weight lifter, or they just have taken up an interest in, I really want to peak strength on this exercise in this short amount of time, right? That's the goal of this. And so they want to do that, but they're not going to neglect everything else, which I made the mistake of, right? And I didn't intend to, but those sessions went on for three, three and a half hours. And I, I, after that, I would sometimes have to go back to the biochemistry lab and I would have to, um, like in, in sometimes an incubation was finishing and, and then I would have to go back and do that or do some work. And so I just wouldn't have time to bench press. And my bench press drops like 60 pounds in this time. Cause I just did, did zero sets of bench pressing. So obviously that's not a good idea, but then I adopted a strategy where I got a bit smarter and said, okay, I'm going to utilize a two to three day a week, lower volume, but higher intensity around 85 to 90% where I could do minimal volume. Um, because I did have some elbow pain from the squatting and my bench press maintained pretty solidly there. So, um, Kaylee, did you train the other lifts during this time or any other exercises? Did you find that difficult? How did, what did you do for them and how did you find a strength on that? And then same question to you, uh, Dr. Washman. I kept hitting back and legs, but I don't, I do front squat, but also not very heavy. Um, and so I didn't notice any big decreases in strength, but we did that once a week. So there was one day a week that we could hit everything else. So I think I noticed pull-ups got a little bit harder and, but also I felt like I gained a lot of muscle in my upper body. Well, just anterior doubt really impacts, but, um, so I don't know. And just like gain some weight during the study. So I don't know if actually pull-ups got harder because I was only doing it once a week or I gained weight. Um, but I didn't notice any big differences really. Yeah. Part of my experience doing the protocol, I guess now five times has been the, the more I did outside of the protocol, the more of an overall fatigue I felt obviously. So our goal for this project was to peak on Kaylee was talking about it. We have a one RM lab as part of our exercise physiology course. And it's, it's a lab where PT students get to attempt a one rep max on a lift of their choice and then do some back offsets to failure. And just for students to experience what it's like to actually do a true one RM and actually reach failure on a, on a less than one RM load. And this lab, uh, Scott Bickle runs this course and it's evolved over the past two get decades. And it turns out it's a bench press competition now, basically. So the primary goal is to peak on this day with a bench press. We didn't care what other lifts went down. We just cared about bench press on this day. So we had a very different kind of overall strategy than a strength athlete. So just respect that idea. So what I encourage the students or the participants in this study was feel free to lift on a different day, uh, but just go, uh, keep it to one or two days outside of, you know, one, two days a week out of other lifts and keep it minimal with the focus being the bench press to peak on that one RM day. I, I, I don't see any way coming off of this podcast, how the enrollment at Samford doesn't just go through the roof. Like if I'm, if I'm 17 years old and I'm stumbling upon this now, there weren't podcasts in my day at 17 years old, but if I'm 17 years old, watching this now, thinking of where I want to go to school and I'm lifting weights and I'm hearing that there's this one RM lab and I have the opportunity to max every day. I have the opportunity to learn from Dr. Biceps himself and to have a lab focused solely on getting me the best possible bench press one RM that I can. Like, and I mean this seriously, I don't think I would have considered any other university, um, anywhere in the world at this time. So I hope that this, this is probably the best advertisement, um, that Samford could have and not the physical therapy department could have. So I hope that there's somebody out there watching this that chooses their school based upon this. And if you were to choose Samford over where I am because of this, I would not fault you one bit. And, um, I would, I would go with that. So I think that is a great point that you guys are doing this for this specific purpose. And so just, just on this topic in general, it really is important that, you know, to talk about, would we recommend this, who we would recommend this for under what circumstances and what situations. And, and I would really start at the most basic, which is obviously this is for the highly specific goal of one RM strength in that lift, in that exercise. So if you're a power lifter or a weight lifter, and you're looking at experimenting with this, I would say, and it's possible it would be a good idea for you, but probably not till you have a certain training status. One where I think you'd really have technical mastery of the lifts. Um, I wouldn't want somebody to go into this. Um, you know, if they're going to really open themselves up to injury, just because they don't have the, the, the skill on the lift yet, besides if you don't have the skill on the lift yet, you're probably at an earlier stage and it's just not necessary for you to do this, to gain strength yet. So I would recommend taking advantage of the strength gates that you can from, from more typical training, use kind of the values that we've talked about and how many sets per week and the recent metaregressions and so forth. And even lighter than that, lower than that to kind of build up. But if you're at a point where this is something you want to try and you, you can sustain this, I would look at a few other things first as well as what do you have going on in your life? And can you sustain this with any non-training external factors that might come into play? The reason I personally stopped doing this is because I had, I started having other responsibilities and other things that I could have done. And for transparency, when I started, I would have done it twice a day. That's what I wanted to do, but I couldn't quite get there in, in, in what I had to do in life. And I did end up doing it twice a day for, for toward the end of a hundred day stint at one point. But what else do you have going on? Are you able to sleep enough? Are you able to eat enough? If you're going to be chronically underslept and you're not going to be able to eat enough, and you're going to be just, just getting slammed at work or slammed at school and constantly fatigue, it's probably not the time for you to try this protocol, right? I'd want you to go into this when you can really put your all into it. So I would suggest all of those other things in place, starting with a, a, a 30 day stint or so, perhaps even starting with a two or three day a week, a la Dr. Pack study protocol, where you're getting the feel, working your way up to it. And then once you jump into this, you start doing it every day and maybe you do it for about a month or one of the protocols as in, um, uh, Nick and Kaylee study or in our study, very similar to that. And you're performing a few sets of volume back off each day saying, I'm going to go over to about a nine and a half RP on the max. And if you want to start in the bench press, it's probably an easier route to go rather than starting on the squat. Um, if you do embark on it on something like the squat, again, know what you're getting into. And Dr. Washman has talked about this as well, which is just, just mentally you're going to be going through it some days. And it's not just that you're so fatigued and you can't get to the gym. It's that you get to the gym and you feel terrible, but you have to keep that mindset where you still might hit a PR that day. Because let me tell you, you might, and you, but you're going to be in that gym for hours and you're gonna have to make it through the warmup and persevere and go through it. So I would just make sure everybody that, that is considering this knows what they're getting into when they do it. That being said, it is awesome. And if you have the ability to do it, I'm going to stop short of recommending you do it. Um, but if you're so inclined, it's pretty sweet if you can do it and you can make it through, um, and you can do it for the longterm, start with 30 days. And again, I've done it 30, 50, 70, a hundred, a hundred plus days at a time. Um, and it's been very, very cool and I've never once done it where it hasn't been successful. Um, so I would recommend going into it that way, but other thoughts, recommendations on people going into this in practice. I do. Sorry, go ahead, Dr. Washburn. I will, I wouldn't agree with what Mike, Mike said. I will add the idea that with our study, what I didn't expect to occur, uh, in hindsight, it makes sense. We all shared a spreadsheet where we, we all entered our data. So everyone, everyone could see what everyone was doing. So there's some camaraderie, encouragement, community involved there. Let's shop a short story with what kind of a, kind of that community. So I woke up one day and wasn't feeling it mentally or physically. So I just skipped the day. And then the column where I put reason, I just said, wasn't feeling it. So Tyler Williams and Scott Fickle come up to me and it's like, what happened? You weren't feeling it. So next time I go down to the lab, uh, Tyler writes on his chalkboard, bench pressed or die trying. And just the, the, the, the comedy around that was, was good. So I think having some, somebody doing it with you is beneficial. That support, that encouragement, somebody who actually knows what you're doing and doing it with you, I think would be advantageous to completing it and, and getting through it safely. Kaylee, any thoughts? I think you just have to commit beforehand. And I agree with everything Dr. Zorda said too. Yeah, I, the only things that I want to input here is, um, from just generally training at very, very high intensities, that's, you know, close to one RM for the purpose of increasing one RM that, uh, I do think biomechanics plays a pretty big role here. There are certain people who just really seem to get disproportionately beat up by certain lifts. Um, and if anyone has met Dr. Z, you can understand how he'd be all right doing a hundred days of, of squats just based upon limb lengths and proportions. Um, and if you met me and I was telling you, Hey, I'm working up to a max, uh, you know, five times a week on squats, four times a week on, on deadlifts. Oh, they're not full maxes. It's somewhere between eight to 10. 10 RPE. And I told you, Oh, and by the way, like my back is in a constant state of being smoked. Um, they would be like, that makes sense. You know, I'm six foot. So, um, and I pull Sumo just to try to get slightly better leverages, uh, in terms of how much load I have to put through my lumbar. Um, there are definitely some people who are going to be disproportionately, um, negatively affected by doing something like this. And just, it's not specifically about the one or M protocol. It's about the lifts themselves. Something that I've definitely seen is that less can be more. Um, I've trained, uh, several people who have pretty atypical limb relationships, I would say, or torso to limb relationships. And the thing that actually seemed to unlock their squat in one case, this is someone who I'll, I'll give you the relative squat and deadlift numbers. It'll help you understand maybe how they're built, but, uh, best squat ever was around 90 kilos. Best deadlift ever was around 140 kilos. And this is a short torso, long femur, female lifter and hit that 90 kilo squat. Um, going down to only training the squat once every two to three weeks, but doing a tremendous amount of accessory work, uh, and doing other things that enabled her to stay more upright, um, while still benching and, and deadlifting quite heavy, quite frequently. And there was just a very clear disassociation between what would work for bench and deadlift and what would work for the squat. Um, also seeing the same thing that some people just simply, especially if they're an ultra wide grip arched bencher, just simply getting into that position under load starts to create issues. Um, I noticed for me that when I bench max legal width, if I do a certain load and frequency of benching and squatting at the same time, I get to a certain point where I must do bench press first, or I have such severe pain through my arms from being in that pretty aggressive low bar position on squats that I've losing intro workout, 10 kilos on my bench. So I have to bench first once I start to get that pain or it's just, there's no other way around it. So I find that the musculoskeletal limitations are probably going to crop up first for most people. Um, now the one thing you can take from that is that means you're probably not built to be a power lifter. So maybe do a different sport anyway. Um, but if, but yeah, for all the meat nuggets out there, um, this is great stuff, you know, but I have found that the best vehicles, uh, you were a meat nugget, um, and you had a really good squat. Correct. Yes. Now you are a, uh, you're just, what did you think when you saw my physical appearance just a couple of days ago for the first time in eight years, were you alarmed? Were you going to ask me if I was okay? No, I'd say you were well adapted to endurance training. I think I just look like I'm two weeks out all the time, to be honest. I mean, to be two weeks out implies from a bodybuilding competition, which implies more muscle mass that you had, but I would say maybe in terms of the raw conditioning, for sure. Things are being said, you know, on, um, on, on that, I, I agree. I think it's a great, um, a great point that, that we needed to get in here. And so, and you alluded to this saying, it's not just about the one arm training, even more than that, I would say for some individuals, squat volume, meaning actually performing volume sets of squats specifically is completely useless in that their leverages are so poor for the squat. Yes, they must practice that skill to some extent. So they are ready for game day and they can do that and they can, they're familiar with that movement, but continually having them do lots of squats, if they have just poor ankle mobility in really long femurs and their, their torso is just not, um, proportion for this movement. I, I, that doesn't mean I don't think volume is necessary for them, but I think specific volume is probably a net negative for them, uh, in those cases. And so I would strongly recommend against that. And this outside of the one or I'm discussion, just in their typical squat training and so forth, but, um, being a quote meat nugget, uh, did have its advantages, um, back in the day at that, at that point. So anything else in this area? To be clear, my best squat is 227 at 93. Your best squat is like 230 at 74. So that's correct. You know, like, uh, there it's good to be better built for powerlifting. So absolutely. And I think like, um, when you look at the lifters who sustain and tolerate very high volumes and high intensities of high specific training at a high frequency, you tend to see much more homogeneity in terms of their built. I'll just say that totally anecdotal, but it's something I've definitely noticed in over 20 years, kind of being in the game. So. That's right. You know, Eric, I have a question that I would like to ask, um, Dr. Biceps here that I've been kind of chomping at the bit to get to, which is outside of this daily one RM, um, training study that you guys did, you have some research that's been coming out recently on the concept of swearing before performance and its impact on performance. And, you know, I reviewed a systematic review in mass a little while back, Eric, that looked at various warmup strategies and what they called quote psych up strategies. Um, and so when I saw some of these papers, uh, Nick, that you had come out, I thought it was very interesting. And I would love to hear a little bit about, um, the kinds of words. And if you could be very explicit, um, that the listeners of the podcast need to say, uh, to improve their strength and size. Um, if you have any kids around, just say earmuffs and then you can say whatever you want. Um, if you could take us through some of research, Nick, I did find it quite intriguing. I'd love to hear about it. Absolutely. This is my passion. So let me share the kind of how this, this idea evolved. So Richard Stevens is a psychology researcher in the UK, and this was probably 2006 or so. His, his wife was giving birth, painful, long birth, and she was swearing. And she and him were embarrassed. And the medical staff in the hospital, like, don't worry, it's happens all the time. We hear more swearing than you would imagine when during childbirth. And his research mind was like, there's something about swearing and pain. So he studied the effects of swearing on acute pain. So basically he would have participants stick their hand in ice water, which was painful, but not harmful. And while they repeated a swear word or a neutral word, and he found that participants could hold their hand in water, ice water longer while swearing. He also monitored some physiological responses too. So he found increased heart rate and skin conductance when the participants were swearing with their hand in the ice water. So his, again, psychology of mine was like, okay, if there's a, let's say a fight or flight response, swearing may actually improve physical performance as well. So he tested that in the lab as well. So swearing improved grip strength and the performance in the wind gate cycling test. But the swearing group did not show increased physiological arousal compared to the neutral or the neutral word condition. So he created this theory that swearing increases your state disinhibition. Essentially swearing makes you less likely to hold back. So improved self-confidence, improved psychological flow makes you more engaged in a task you're about to, to engage in. And he has repeated those studies again and again with other physical tasks. Some research coming out of Florida, Leah, um, um, um, G9, uh, looking at grip, looking at planks, pushups, pushups, wall sits, um, a 90, 90 L sit position, swearing improves your performance in all these physical tasks. We still don't know the mechanism by which swearing improves performance because the mediation analysis has not proven that disinhibition is in fact the mechanism by which swearing improves performance. But with, there is a real reliable effect, at least in a lab setting. In a naturalistic environment, we don't know yet. But every study asks the participant to self-select their swear word. We all have different relationships with swearing. My favorite swear word may not be yours. So we asked the participants, what swear word would you use if you hit your head or stubbed your toe? And the protocol is repeat that swear word every second out loud, normal speech volume, every second for about 10 seconds before a lift. And you should see improved physical performance. The theory is it increases your state disinhibition. You're less likely to hold back. What would your swear word be, Eric? For me, I, I would probably be motherfucker. That's definitely, I would go full scent. That's... Take it easy. Take it easy. I, this is an academic discussion, Mike. Um, we need to discuss the methods specifically. I listened to the protocol from Dr. Washbeth. He said I got to choose one. I didn't yell. I kept it in a normal volume. I think I need to say it again in another minute, though. Is that... 10 times. 10 times. This might be more useful for people who train at home. I just, I've just put that out there. Being in a commercial gym, I mean, everyone wears headphones these days. So I think you can, you can pretty much get away with almost anything in, in modern gyms. But, um, if you're going to say certain commercial gyms of an older demographic, or especially if it's like a YMCA, I, uh, I think this, this protocol might be, uh, a challenge in public. That's, that's, that's my first thought actually. Yeah. Let me, so I may have misspoke there. Say it every second for 10 seconds prior to the lift. And we're now, we have a, we have a study coming out now where if you use inner monologue, so swearing in your head. Hmm. Hmm. So be, be on the lookout for that publication, but inner monologue appears to be effective as well. Wow. So when you are at Planet Fitness or in a competition that is frowned upon to, to use the word motherfucker, then you can repeat that word in your head and it may still offer some, some benefit. Wow. There's a, there's a great scene in a classic movie called Demolition Man, where, uh, the main character, he is a police officer from the past who is unfrozen and brought into the future. And the future is a, is a unique society, I'll say, where you are issued automatic fines, uh, if you swear. Uh, and they come from these little wall mounted printed, uh, dispensers for fines if, if it catches you saying a swear word. It's also unique in that there are these magic two shells that you use when you go to the toilet that you're supposed to use to clean yourself after doing a number two. Uh, and the lead character, of course, played by Sylvester Stallone. John Spartan, by the way, his name is John Spartan. Classic name, of course. John Spartan can't figure out how to use the two shells and has a very little respect for this nanny state. So he simply goes up to one of these swear things and at a similar pace, once per second, just says like about 10 swear words. And then he takes his pieces of paper and he goes to the toilet. That's like what he does on a daily basis. And I can't help but wonder the similarity in protocols was, was Demolition Man part of an inspiring, uh, you know, or informative, uh, documentary that, that was, it was helpful. Dr. Watchman, was that involved in this protocol? It was not unfortunately, but, uh, that's that I like linking, uh, uh, media and, and to, to, to science here. Uh, you, so the, the, the theory is that swearing increases the state disinhibition. So in theory, you should see the effect in other realms as well. So we're beginning to study swearing's effect on, let's say public speaking, um, where, you know, a disinhibited, disinhibited state may be advantageous to, to, to conquering some public speaking anxiety, or let's say approaching someone, uh, for a potential romantic relationship. The shyness that could be effective manual dexterity. So we're kind of studying it in different realms to, to help support this theory. Dr. That is really interesting. And I could, again, see the importance of having inner dialogue working just as effective in these situations, because if I'm awkwardly walking up to a woman looking awkward and she's like, oh my God, what is this guy doing? Am I safe? And I was to just walk up to her and start swearing before then asking her out. I suspect that probably wouldn't help my chances. Um, I could also see I'm graduating. I'm the valedictorian. I'm very intelligent, but perhaps I'm not quite socially competent and we have a hot mic situation that might not be a good lead in to, you know, for 10 seconds, say swear words before then, you know, giving an address to everyone's family as well as the graduates. So I think that inner monologue work will be important. The final question I have though, is do you think that the ability to have a, uh, like it verbalized and maybe even a higher volume is worth exploring because personally it feels cathartic when I feel pain. This is a response, not a preload. So this is probably totally different, but if I stub my toe, I don't want to quietly say the swear word. I want to yell it out. And I feel like it makes me feel better after the fact. I feel like it reduces the pain and it's cathartic. I don't know. What's your hypothesis there, Dr. Washman? That's a great question. I, we just finished an IRB for that exact study. So looking at swearing while shouting, swearing while using a normal voice, neutral word, shouting neutral word, normal voice, and seeing, seeing the impact. Uh, there appears to be a dose response with swearing. So when you say a less intense swear word, let's say ass or damn, you get a small effect in performance as compared to a more aggressive swear word like shit or fuck. So there may be some sort of synergistic or additive effects with swearing and shouting, but we don't know that yet. So we're exploring those questions. You know, we were, we're laughing a bit, but obviously this is a really cool area of research. And I mean that because I tend to like things that are very practical. And, and I, I, I've talked about this in MassBit and I know Trex has mentioned, um, his enjoyment of, of kind of practical strategies as well. There's so many things out there, whether it's a supplement, whether it's this or that, that just is marginally effective or it's, it's cost prohibitive or whatever it might be. And especially with the monologue research has me in the internal monologue research has me interested as well. If something like this, certainly, okay. If you're in a public gym and you can't be yelling out swear words, okay. But otherwise, if it, there is a measurable effect on performance, it's something that you can do, um, to improve performance. And if you think of any strategy in the warmup or any psych-up strategy, we think of self-talk or visual visualization, um, uh, these types of things, those are strategies that we talk about using this while maybe through a slightly different mechanism, Dr. Washmuth can speak to that. It's certainly better than I can. I don't know. Um, but maybe through a slightly different mechanism could accomplish something similar in a very practical manner in the 10 seconds before you approach the barbell or if it's endurance exercise or whatever it is that you're doing. So if this tends to hold true, and then we have the other studies that you're looking at that compare the dose response relationship, um, or the volume or maybe the frequency or the timing or whatever it might be, um, that is a practical strategy to be able to improve performance. And in a world where I have, um, conducted research myself and published various papers on, on warmup strategies, um, and written about it in mass as well. And in a world where I find the warmup data to be extraordinarily underwhelming, um, I would, you know, we all like talk about things like dynamic stretching. Well, that is not a consistent finding in the literature. Um, I would do it, but it's not a consistent finding. So anything that I think you can add in there to be practical, um, is intriguing. And if it's your natural response anyways, um, when something happens, uh, to be like, Oh God damn it. Right. That's, that's my go-to right. A little like smooth like that. Um, well, I'm just, I'm just not as angry of a guy as you, Eric. I mean, that's absolutely not true. Um, yeah, just think about the potential, the potential utility here. If you think back, I think it was the 2024 Olympics, the gold medal round for the a hundred meter meter dash, a hundred meter sprint. And I think the, the difference between first and eighth place was like, uh, what half a percent or something. Yeah. They, then they famously, you famously didn't know the winner for, for 30 seconds. I remember, remember Noah Lyles and whoever else standing here, watcher. And I, you didn't think he won. It didn't look like he won in the live. Um, but then of course how they crossed the line and the lean over. Um, but yeah, it was extraordinarily tight between all of those, all of those individuals. And as a professional elite Olympic athlete, any tool that could use to help enhance performance, I'm guessing would be beneficial. And they would just like to have these tools to, to utilize. What if they turn on the starting blocks to their opponent and they say it to their face? How would, how would, would that, would that have a greater effect for them or potentially a harmful effect? Cause it would just entice that, that person and motivate them even more. All great questions. And this is opening up more questions than the answers. We're looking at the impact of verbal encouragement as well. So if you insert a, an expletive into verbal encouragement, is there an additive effect there? From, from a, um, from verbal encouragement. So from another individual, uh, you mean, right. So we do have a, a substantive amount of literature on external feedback, whether it's verbal encouragement, whether it's velocity feedback, verbal or visual, whatever it might be. Um, and we do tend to see, uh, that, uh, pretty reliably, um, improve performance as well. So an expletive from an, uh, another individual with verbal encouragement, um, it's another, it's another layer to it and perhaps another boost. So I'm, I'm seeing there potentially a, a control, uh, a verbal encouragement and then a verbal encouragement plus expletive, um, kind of design. Um, I've got to give a shout out to the, the now departed, but a long time host, co-host of Iron Culture, uh, Omar Isuf. Um, he actually used this in a non-scientific setting to encourage, uh, healthy eating on his YouTube channel for the longest time. He would end all of his videos with eat your vegetables, eat your vegetables, eat your fucking vegetables. And I do wonder if some of the barriers to, uh, vegetable consumption in, you know, modern population is due to this potential inhibition effect. And if maybe it can even make vegetables more palatable, I think we could probably do some observational work to see if say, uh, people subscribe to Omar Isuf's channel during its most active period. Uh, and when he started implementing that outro, if there was an uptake potentially in vegetables, and I could see maybe even, uh, there being a collaboration between the American Dietetics Association, as well as Dr. Washmouth and maybe even Iron Culture. So the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics in 2025. Um, and also didn't, what, didn't the great Omar perhaps host emeritus? I don't, I don't know. Um, uh, also have, didn't Omar have a background in Bulgarian style training as well? He did. He has done daily one or M work. So, you know, he's here in spirit. Always. What, what he did unknowingly likely was the, there's a data suggesting that information that is accompanied by a swear word is remembered more easily than information that is not accompanied by a swear word. Wow. So Mike Israel is doing a great job out there is what you've just told me. And, and that, that makes sense when you think about things that are, you know, when arousal is high, things are more immediately committed to, to long-term memory, right? You see a car crash, you see an accident. We know this from learning and memory research, right? You're going to take that in right away. Um, even, even being in, in a classroom and the example that was always given to me when I was, you know, taking neurophysiology courses, you know, you see a professor's tie and it has like kind of a crazy pattern on it. Um, you're going to kind of remember that. So, so it, it would make a lot of sense, um, that a swear word would have the same effect. Um, you know, you, you would see that and, and commit that to, to long-term memory right away. Eric, man, how, how are you feeling about what we covered today? I'm pretty, uh, well, I think, I think the listeners know exactly what to do and that is max out on every single lift. And, um, I would say, even though it's just an IRB form, I'd say anecdotally, if you want to hedge your bets towards getting the most out of this, potentially for the 10 seconds, actually, you know what? I want to go with our misinterpretation of what Dr. Washman said, just to make sure we saturate that dose response for 10 minutes, uh, between sets and leading up to each one of your maxes that you do on every single exercise, every single day, actually two times a day, which you did Dr. Z and, you know, observational research again, saturate the dose, scream at the loudest volume you possibly can every, every minute on the minute, potentially every second on the second as well for the last 10 seconds. It's kind of that escalating dose. Um, the most vulgar swear word you could think of, I know the research has used self-selected, but given that there seems to be a dose response of the, I would say the social unacceptability of the swear word, that's probably going to get the best performance. Um, and then if anything socially consequential happens from that, um, Dr. Washman, can we just put your email in the, uh, in the show notes, but you're probably a personal one. A hundred percent. Cell phone as well. Perfect. Perfect. So that, that, that's what you want to address your questions to potential any, uh, you know, lawsuits or, uh, any of the above, but, but I feel like everyone has clear takeaways, practical takeaways from this. And that is just swear constantly at the highest volume you can before maxing out on every single lift you have twice a day. Dr. Zerdos, do you feel like I'm, I accurately covered the research of our guests? I do feel like you accurately covered it. I just want to throw another plug in there because it is an underrated movie. Um, if you do get a chance to watch Demolition Man, um, Sylvester Stallone, Wesley Snipes, a lot of Taco Bell in that movie. Taco Bell survived the franchise wars and, um, you're, you're going to enjoy it. Flashback to, I believe, 1993. Um, but I, I think we covered some good ground here today. And I do want to thank very much, um, Kaylee and, uh, Dr. Biceps for coming on the show today, because this is a topic that I have enjoyed for many, many, many years. And I truly have, I loved training this way. Um, I was very proud of the work that we did on it. And I mean it sincerely, when I saw this paper come out in the literature, um, I just was so excited. I couldn't wait. I, um, sent it to the mass crew. I sent it to my students and I emailed you, Dr. Washmouth right away. I also want to, want to say, uh, a fantastic job of making the data available, open access for everybody to see. Um, it was just, it's such a pleasure these days to see more and more folks doing this and the transparency and the data reporting here was excellent. I was able to go in and see everything in the data file. I loved the, the, the link and the software you guys used to report it as well. I might have some follow-ups on that because I don't typically use that. I'll use OSF and I'll put everything on there, but I thought this was really well done. So I want to thank you guys for that. Thank you for, for coming on and talking about this and indulging, um, something that I thought was important. And now I've learned at least two other people think is important and, um, uh, just really appreciate the conversation around the topic. And, and so, um, that's all I have, Eric. I don't know if our guests have anything else before, um, uh, we sign off here, if they'd like to plug anything else about their work or anything else they're doing. Um, I'm sure we'd love to hear about. No, I very much appreciate the opportunity to be on this, this podcast. And I genuinely want to further this research about one RM training. So let's, let's somehow make this happen. I am, I am in, um, we will very, very much touch base, um, off, uh, uh, off the podcast here. Um, we'll probably leave Eric out of it because he seems to be a skeptic and he made suggestions like you should maybe not max every day or get a little rest or take it a little easy. And to be honest, that's just not the kind of atmosphere that I want surrounding the work that we do. I'd also don't want anybody questioning our biases. I want to go into this, you know, with what we already know is true. And so for somebody to come in here and suggest an alternative is just a little offensive, Eric. So hopefully Kaylee, um, is on the same page as us. So Kaylee, do you have anything else to add to that? Or is there anything else that, uh, any other work you have going on that we should be on the lookout for? Not yet. We do a capstone project at Sanford. So me and the girls that also did the study have already talked about furthering, um, or further looking at the one RM study in some way. So. What a, what a capstone project. What a time to be alive, Eric. I am excited to see, um, what these folks do in the future. And if they are willing to collaborate with, uh, myself, uh, I would absolutely be honored to do so. We're in the era of multi-site data collection, bigger data. And, uh, that's the way we're going to be able to answer the most important questions, uh, like does yelling at the top of your lungs, swear words before you max out on all lifts, improve performance. So no, I want to, in all seriousness, um, just thank you guys for the work that you're doing and the contributions to the field. Uh, it is very interesting research. And of course, when we saw it come out, Mike truly did say in our Slack channel, I feel like I must review this. And I said, well, if you don't, I'm going to. So, so let's go. Um, so I just want to thank you both for being on. I also want to, uh, thank the listener for hopefully learning something about how to train on a daily basis or twice daily basis. And, uh, as always, if you can support the show, give us a five-star rating, give us a thumbs up, share it around. And if you want to really support us, definitely check out massresearchreview.com. And with that, I will say thank you for listening and we'll see you next week on Iron Culture.