Hello everybody. Welcome back to Iron Culture. Uh it is Monday. It is approximately 7. Few few few minutes late. A little bit of technical stuff behind the scenes, but we're pushing through. We're making it happen. Thanks so much for joining us on this Monday night. I am Eric Trexler as always, joined by the Dr. Eric Helms. Uh Helms was um texting me all weekend. He's a huge college football guy. Um, I just want to reiterate, Helms, I agree. A little nervous with Duke getting out to a slow start on offense, but their defense looked fantastic. Offense really came online. Got the passing game going in the second half. Very comfortable win over Elon. Love to see that. Uh, Ohio State with a tremendous defensive effort. Absolutely shutting down Arch Manning. Uh, a tremendous uh, battle between two teams. And Helms, you said it first, but I agree. I think we're going to see them playing late into the winter. uh you know, keep keep January open if you want to see them going at it again. Um but Helms, other than that, how you doing? >> I'm doing well. And uh I didn't feel like I could get a word in edge-wise with those texts cuz you just kept hitting me up about not only the uh North American powerlifting uh championships that just recently happened where both Taylor Atwood and Russell Orhee moved up a weight class and attempted to break the 83 and the 93 kilo weight class records, but also World Games which just happened in China uh you know a couple weeks ago uh which was the first time that raw powerlifting not just single to apply for the IPF was there and uh some of the world records that were broken and the incredible performances. So, um yeah, I mean like you, I also anticipated that Taylor Atwood was going to be the one to break the 83 kilo record having been a little bit longer in the class and not miss it and then have Russell Orhe actually after this is true. Accidentally flying to the wrong country last minute getting another flighting into the right country. >> The wrong country. What was this? >> Yeah. So, I I I don't want to I don't want to dwell on it too much because it it it's it's a truly honest mistake. Like, it was a um it was the similar named location and they both are in the the broader North American sphere. You know, they're they're both islands that that that you could host a North American powering federation. And it was a genuine mistake. You know, you don't look at kind of the things too quickly. You're focusing on other stuff. >> Yeah, for sure. So, I don't want to take away from the fact that he actually totaled first time ever. He broke the world record by.5 kilos. So, I think it was 918. Um, and not only that, but he weighed in because he was traveling a little stressed out at 91.8 if I recall correctly. So, it's the first drug-free IPF 93 kilo, 10 times body weight total. So, that's a big deal. So, big shout out to Russ Orhee, the whole sports advancing. He moved up in the 83s uh and that world record setting total may snag him an invite to the next Sheffield for an epic 93 kilo weight class showdown. So uh yeah that that that's probably one of the biggest pieces of news but also just the fact that raw powerlifting is in the world games. You know this is the equivalent of our Olympics here in powerlifting and then that happened a really unique format. They combine, you know, each two weight classes. So, they kind of have like a light, middle, and heavyweight setup. And then they do it on formula. So, it's IPF points. But, there were some real good battles there. A little bit of redemption for Tiffany Chapone. Um, you know, she just recently lost the world title, coming in second. Uh, and also Megan Lee Smith here from New Zealand actually managed to come out ahead of Eevee Cor, you know, lightweight weight class, but among one another. Uh there was I think a 5 kilo spread and Megan Lee Smith came out on top. Uh I think she total 482.5 at 52 kilos just a monstrous total. And uh that that was your top three medalists. So anyway there there's obviously a lot more to talk about but you know I know you have already fully discussed this with me via text just like I fully discussed Duke basketball with you. >> Yeah. Um >> well football one thing but yeah >> football what that you know you know I got it right at least what sports >> um >> track's another thing though powerlifting we're uh we're deepening our roots in the iron culture >> yes we are uh participating deeply in the culture um and we are doing that via partnership with a uh what what would you call them I mean they are a staple they are >> a pillar in the culture of iron. Um, fun fact, Helms. Uh, so I I actually, you know, iron culture is the name of the show, but I actually feel really lucky that when I was most immersed in strength sport in my life, I really was in a cultural hub of the Iron Game. So I I went to college in Columbus, Ohio where you have uh not just the Arnold Classic every year. Not especi all over the world kind of deal. So the Arnold Classic was there. Um Westside Barbell was there, you know, uh a number of different companies that were really staples in terms of filling your gym bag with gear. Um we're not going to mention all the companies. We're only going to mention one uh our our dear dear uh partners that that we're we're forming this uh uh this little bond with here. So, when I first got into powerlifting living in Columbus, Ohio, where did I go when I first wanted to get straps and wrist wraps? Of course, I went no place other than Elite FTS. >> There you go. Out in in London, Ohio, right? So, yeah. No, you're you're you're you're close to home with it. And uh for those who recall, we had episode 190 all the way back. Actually, it was the end of September. So about 3 years agoish, uh we had Dave Tate uh come on Iron Culture podcast, >> the one, the only. >> He is one of the one and the only. You know, he's been in the game putting out fantastic comment uh content. Um this is someone who I I've just been impressed with because he's evolved. He's stayed curious. He's stayed humble. yet the impact he's had certainly would not require that. Um, one of the few people who went and actually has trained at uh the uh Westside Barbell and has shared so much information and has created a really high quality brand. So, after we had Dave Tate on back in 2022, um he was like, "Hey, man, let me know the next time you're in the States and you're somewhere near Ohio and we'll get you on uh Table Talk." And I was floored. And it that opportunity finally happened uh just about a a few days prior to when we all did the SNA conference um cuz it just kind of worked out. I was going to go do some filming and recording with Mike Isertel um down in uh the greater Detroit area and then I was going to go to Texas and I was like, you know, those are only a 5-hour drive difference. So, let's line these up. Bam, bam, bam. So, that was a pretty cool little pilgrimage I did earlier this year. But that was a really cool interview and big shout out to Dave Tate. Big shout out to Elite FTS for having us on. And um one thing that people uh may not know is that we all had a pinch me moment way back when we started Mass because one of the very first people to sign up and who turned us down to offer him a free membership after we saw it was Dave Tate. So it's been uh it's like a a true privilege and honor to be on the podcast, have him, and to do this partnership. So, for all you listeners, this is pretty on brand for Iron Culture. We do have a 10% discount that you can get uh on the vast majority of uh items at Elite Elite FTS. Probably some of the the things that are most popular are their bands, but they've also got uh the yolk bar. Um they've got the, you know, shoulder saver pads. They've got straps. They've got wrist plates. Um wrist wraps, excuse me. So, you know, if you can place it in a bag or load plates on it, Elite FTS has it. Uh, the bands are obviously a no-brainer. Uh, they can fit so many rolls from warming up to those of us who went through COVID training themselves. And they're made really well. They have a layered construction method. So, unlike a lot of bands out there, they will not uh get messed up. So, that code is MRR10. That's capital M, capital R, capital R10. And you can use that as a discount code. You guys can use that right now. I'll remind you at the end of the show as well. Um, but yeah, just a real privilege and pleasure. There's very few, as you guys know from Iron Culture Lore. Um, we have had very few partnerships that aren't like with ourselves. Obviously, Iron Culture presented by Mass is hilarious because it's like mass presented by mass. >> Um, but we've also done uh partnerships with the SNA >> Sports Nutrition Association, which Eric and I are both on the board of. So it's >> basically there's one shell corporation uh that that exists offshore in a place with uh you know very loose banking regulations. No tax code to speak of uh no extradition laws. Uh so so that is essentially the hub through which all of our partnerships previously have worked. >> That's right. Yeah. It's >> is it legal? I don't know. That's what we have our very real legal team in Delaware. Yeah. You know what? >> My Delaware based lawyers say we're fine. >> So, um, >> in the nondescript offshore country that that it's all based out of that, it's completely legal. >> Yeah. And, uh, if we don't actually know what that country is, plausible deniability, right? Correct. >> Exactly. Yeah. No, it's I tell you what, uh, Elite FTS, like I said, they're they're legit. And you know, a lot of times like a good endorsement you can give a company is I personally use their products, but how about this endorsement is I had the good enough sense to begin using their products in 2011. >> That and and by the way, the the wrist wraps and the straps held up for an eternity. So, >> if nothing else, um it's almost we should talk to Dave. That's bad business. You can't let them last that long. You got to make sure people come back to get more and more. But uh but no, those things lasted an eternity. Um and they actually they never broke down. I just moved too many times and couldn't find them. >> Yeah. You just lost them, right? I mean, >> you will lose them before they wear down. Yes. >> Yeah. So like I mean what would you say the realistic expectation of wrist straps would be? Two years, you know, like I mean you would be mad as a customer, right? Yeah. >> So Dave just just make them last >> four years. you double the expectation this time like cockroaches wearing wrist wraps after the nuclear holocaust not necessary not a good business model but I understand he's just that type of guy and Elite FTS is that type of brand >> 100% all right Helms we ready to dive into the content for tonight >> absolutely let's get to some Q&A >> beautiful yeah um as always we appreciate the folks who submitted their questions well first of all we love them all the time in the live chat after hours, wherever you like to submit them, we like them. Of course, if you want to submit a question, one way is to join us live on YouTube, Wednesdays at 700 p.m. Eastern time. Another way is to go to massresarchreview.com/ironculture and submit your questions there anytime that they come to mind. Uh, now we got uh Helms, I've talked about this many times on the show, we often get kind of waves of questions where you say, uhoh, someone made some content somewhere. So, we got a a little wave of questions about collagen, and I know this is something that the both of us have looked into previously. Um, I know I've I've written uh a thing or two about it in mass. I'm sure you've answered this question many a time across many different contexts. Um, but apparently the barbell medicine guys h have uh been going on about college supplement collagen supplementation. Going on about has a negative connotation. I'm just reading the question. Uh but they they've been talking about uh >> uh collagen supplementation saying it's not helpful for tendon issues and health. And again, this is verbatim. I don't want to say that that's exactly what they said in their quote. Um can you please discuss whether or not it is recommended specifically for tendon issues and for health. Uh but yeah, we got we got a few questions about collagen and and what it its applications could be. Sometimes people talk about it in terms of, you know, tendons and joints. Uh sometimes they talk about it in terms of building muscle even sometimes talking about hair, skin and nails. Um and lately I've seen uh multiple folks uh having debates about this. So not just the barbell medicine folks, but I've seen no fewer than three pretty big uh you know evidence-based fitness types uh with actually some areas of disagreement. Um so so it's an interesting and lively >> uh area of focus and debate right now. Uh, Helms, do you have any strong feelings about this? Do you want me to take a crack at it first? >> No, I wouldn't say I have strong feelings about it, but I will say a couple of points. Um, first is there is enough accumulating research on this that there was actually a metaanalysis published in sports medicine at the end of 2024 uh by Bishoff and colleagues. Uh, I don't know if you're aware of that one, TX. that was made actually after I think the last time I wrote about collagen. I think that came out afterward. >> You you can go over it if you want. Obviously, you're far more qualified to discuss metaanalysis, but I don't know if you've dug into it. Um, but I I'd be happy to talk about that and then if you want to talk about some of the more mechanistic side of it and maybe why glycine makes more sense and potentially even indicating that we don't see consistent findings between the studies that are uh necessarily industry funded versus not. Uh there there's a few things to unpack here. >> Yeah. Why don't you uh give us a quick kind of surface level overview of the uh the meta if you feel comfortable or if not I can kind of dive in because before that I had you know kind of done a little deep dive into the literature but yeah what do you have from the the meta? Yeah. So, the meta uh was was conducted with data through the end of 2023. Um, and it was looking at normal to overweight uh people who are adults over 17. Um, regularly exercising and taking collagen peptide supplementation for at least 8 weeks except for one 3-week trial uh which only included maximal strength. So um in total there was 768 participants across these studies and they did actually find a significant effect in uh in favor of long-term uh collagen uh supplementation for fat-free mass tendon morphology uh muscle architecture and maximal strength. U the tendon morphology was what we would describe as a quote unquote moderate effect. fat-free mass, muscle architecture were small, uh, maximum strength would probably actually be more on the trivial side of things. Um, and then for those of us who care about, uh, you know, power there with some reactive strength index changes. Some of these p values are pretty borderline. Um, like that reactive strength one is just barely clearing that. 05. And overall, if you look at the grade, uh, basically model of certainty, which is, you know, how much certainty do we have in these results? how much heterogeneity is there and what is the quality of the studies. It ranges from very low certainty for tendon morphology and mechanical properties, low certainty for everything else and then moderate certainty for body composition which actually kind of surprised me. Um some things to consider is that um the comparison like collagen I is straight up a a lowquality protein. That's something we need to acknowledge. Yeah. >> Right. and particularly low quality like we're not talking about like oh wheat protein, corn protein, collagen >> huge gap between collagen protein and any food you eat. >> Yes. With that said, I do think it is important to understand what it is compared to. Uh because if you take a high enough dose of collagen, um while that specific protein source itself won't be used for the useful things we care about like body composition, it may quote unquote free up other amino acids because it does take time to digest. You know, it depends on what you take it, etc. So, um, this could just be simply an effect of having a higher protein intake. Um, another thing I would say is there are some data that indicate um that the sponsored and funded studies more often find effects of collagen than the ones that are not. Now, that here's a really important thing and I want to give a shout out to Sigma Nutrition Radio. Alan Flanigan and Danny talked about this really well recently that this is does not necessarily indicate a direct influence of the funders or anything nefarious. Many times what you are seeing when you look at funded versus unfunded studies is different selections of what is actually being assessed. What are the choices that are made for what are the outcomes? Sometimes it is simple as once we have funding we can look at more reliable outcome measures things that are are uh we can have more precision for you can spend more money on the money allows a better measurement or a more direct measurement other times there could be choices to measure things which are more likely to change uh but not necessarily the direct measure of outcome I don't think that's the case in this one so just just be aware that when you do hear hey the funded studies find uh significant effects more often than the unfunded ones. That is not necessarily always an indictment of the authors or an influence of bias. Sometimes it is that hey money enables us to do research which is more precise, have more participants and be more likely to find an effect and someone's only going to fund a study if they think there is likelihood to find an effect. So just keep that in mind. Um that's all I've got tracks. I am also dubious even though this meta analysis exists. it doesn't mean that we're looking at a huge body of research and I think the grade evidence indicates that a little bit. Um it's not appearing in my third editions as hey this is something you should definitely take. I actually like to see multiple metas you know most of the time these days um that and and you know a more up-to-date one. This has really only been out for a bit. So um just keep that in mind. There's not a tremendous number of studies included in this meta analysis. I think there was like under 20. I think it was 19. >> So that's not nothing. Don't get me wrong, >> but um I it's very plausible based upon the great evidence that some of these findings could change over time with more data. >> Yeah. No, that that's a great uh overview that the thing with that meta is, you know, like I said, I haven't dove back into this topic for quite some time. Um, and with a meta, you can pretend to assess it on the fly while you're also podcasting and running the technology and keeping the live stream going, but uh, you'd be fooling only yourself. Um, you know, to really dig into a meta, you really have to start getting at some of the the questions you asked. So, for example, uh, collagen compared to what? Then you start thinking in what population or populations? Um, and you start thinking, okay, what were the specific inclusion exclusion criteria, you start getting down this kind of long list of technicalities. How did they deal with um, especially on the strength side, let's say you have a study that measured bench press, squat, and deadlift. Well, are you going to enter that into the model three times without any kind of statistical correction? Hopefully not. Hopefully, you've done some there are multiple appropriate methods to deal with that, but you better do something, right? And and many meta analyses don't. So, I'm actually thinking that might be a good uh paper for me to dive into for the upcoming issue of the Mass Research Review. Honestly, um I'm still looking for that that perfect uh paper for the upcoming month and this actually might be it because there's clearly interest in it and I think it'd be value valuable to dive into that meta. But for now, um, you know, based on the last time I dove into this and kind of did a little assessment of the literature so far, I I did kind of acknowledge, um, in my article that, uh, you know, there was um, it's not completely uh, unjustifiable to suggest that, you know, there have been some studies out there, you know, fairly largeish uh, randomized controlled trials indicating ating that uh collagen supplementation in certain contexts, you know, may have uh an increase or may be associated with an increase in fat- free mass, you know, likely due to connective tissue more so than muscle. Uh there have been some instances where uh participants in those types of studies have reported uh improvements related to, you know, how they're feeling in terms of their joints. uh specifically more research in like the area of like osteoarthritis for example. Um, so basically I I I acknowledged in my last article, you know, if you felt compelled to say, hey, I want to be optimistic about collagen. There is justification for that. Um, and one of the things that really intrigues me is I've seen some chatter. I haven't dug into the studies deeply enough, but some chatter to suggest that, you know, normally we think about um we eat a protein, it gets broken down to its individual amino acids, those are absorbed into the bloodstream, then we reassemble them into what we need. I've seen some chatter uh alluding to evidence evidence which I've not read yet indicating that um there are some larger peptides that we do absorb into the bloodstream intact from collagen which would certainly be a very intriguing uh thing and would potentially lend some kind of mechanis mechanistic support for the idea that actually there is something unique and special about collagen versus just eat enough protein and let your body build what it's going to build. Right? So, I do want to acknowledge that, you know, there are um you know, the way I put it, I'll I'll just read it verbatim. Uh very short uh short blurb here. There's some evidence to suggest that collagen supplementation can facilitate collagen synthesis and may be beneficial for individuals with joint pain or other issues related to connective tissues. This body of literature is small and it's not universally embraced by sports nutrition experts, but there is at least some evidence linking collagen supplementation to increased rates of collagen synthesis, increased fat mass, and attenuation of joint pain. So, early preliminary stuff. It's controversial. Uh, experts, like I said, in sports nutrition and in the realm of like joint health, like actual practitioners who work with people rehabbing joint injuries day in and day out, have very diverse opinions about it. Uh, and what I said in my article was like I'm not a connective tissue expert. So, I I said don't don't take it with a or do take this with a grain of salt. But if I was dealing with a connective tissue injury, collagen would not be my first move. Um, >> yeah, >> you know, the biggest things that you can do if you're worried about a particular, you know, normally people are not thinking like I want to bolster all my connective tissue in every way. Usually when people come with this question, it's like, I've got this nagging thing, tendon, ligament, you know, joint, whatever. What should I do about it? And without question, the biggest things you can do for that are going to be uh eat enough protein. Don't get scurvy because vitamin C is needed for synthesizing collagen. It's literally like if if you ever seen like an old movie there, there was a really great um uh miniseries uh called The Terror, which was on like AMC, I think. Yeah. So, uh they were it was like an old uh ship on on a voyage through the the frigid Arctic waters. And this was um you know, back when if you were a sailor, scurvy was like a very legitimate concern you would have. Um, and I tell you what, if you want to think of, if you want to make a short list of the most grizzly ways to die, scurvy would definitely be high on that list for me because, uh, your body needs vitamin C in order to create collagen, which is going to be necessary for like every connective tissue. And so, like, when you have a a chronic severe deficiency of vitamin C, your body literally just starts falling apart. Um, gums, e, everything. So, it truly is grizzly. So, what if I had a a connective tissue injury, like I said, eat enough protein, get enough vitamin C. You're going to have the building blocks necessary there. But the biggest thing by far is going to be in the acute injury phase, leave it alone. Let it get through that kind of acute healing process. After that, have a smart approach to loading it the right way. because because just like anything else, if we're trying to rehab tissues, usually uh you can get down tissue to tissue into the details, but in a lot of cases when people are coming in with a joint ouchie and they want to rehab it, it's about giving it an appropriate amount of load, giving it that stimulus to actually lay down new tissue and new collagen. making sure you have those kind of basic essential um building blocks there from a nutritional perspective and then managing that progression of that load until you're going from rehabbing the joint into return to play. Um so those are the big the big rocks by far in terms of other little things you might put in in the mix like that's where you might say well I don't know like I'm interested in collagen there's some evidence for some against. um it doesn't seem to be a particularly dangerous supplement. It does. It's not like through the roof in terms of price. So, I would never fault someone for saying, you know, maybe as I'm doing this rehab, uh maybe I'll check with my clinician to make sure they don't have any red flags, but maybe I'll throw that into the mix with some wishful thinking. You know, I think that's potentially a a justifiable application. But one of the things I also have mentioned previously is you can make a decent case uh mechanistically that the main kind of bottleneck for our ability to produce glycogen at you know higher levels is probably glycine content in the diet. >> Collagen. >> What's that? >> You you said glycogen but collagen. >> Yes. Collagen for sure. Thank you for that. >> Late in the evening brain melting you know the drill. Uh but yeah, I'm right there with you for producing uh as he slams the caffeine. Um yeah, you're trying to produce this collagen. You could make a justifiable argument that glycine is kind of that limiting factor creating that bottleneck. So in the past, I've said I'm not so sure that glycine supplementation might not get you most of the way. The the real question there just comes down to to the extent that some of those intact peptides are making it to the bloodstream and floating around. How much does that really matter compared to just give me, you know, the glycine, give me all those building blocks, I'll assemble it, vitamin C as a co-actor, and we'll be good to go. Um, so so that's an area for further study. But one of the reasons I've mentioned glycine being potentially an alternative is, you know, maybe you could have 3 to five grams of glycine instead of 10 to 15 grams of collagen. give yourself give your body what it needs to create that collagen. And the reason that you might consider that is um there is some suggestion like I said uh collagen is not widely viewed as like a super risky supplement to take but it can increase your risk of kidney stones and it's specifically from the hydroxy proline that's in there. Um, and certainly you would not have that similar concern if you were just taking glycine, which also tends to pro I would imagine probably mixes better, maybe more cost effective. I haven't checked the prices these days, but all that is to say if if you don't want to go the collagen route, maybe a little extra glycine in the diet could help. Um, but but without question, you know, it's all about making sure you recover enough in that acute recovery phase and then loading the tissue appropriately. Um, I will say Helms when you know whenever you talk gly uh collagen people will then you know ask I've gotten so many questions over the years about hair skin nails that element of it >> and Helms I just don't know a dogone thing about hair or skin or nails. Nails grow hair grows for a while but then when you mature it stops. Uh if you're you know if you're a virtuous man like myself you should have less hair than you used to in my opinion. Um, but uh, yeah, I'm not the person to go to for hair, skin, and nails. Uh, I I have zero to offer. >> That's fair. And, uh, I think that was a fantastic summary. And, um, one thing I I can offer is the perspective of a an athlete um, myself because sometimes people want to hear like what is my quote unquote evidence-based take and then what would I do personally and that sometimes is different. So, I got a lot of questions after our Yohimine uh caffeine and ephedrin caffeine aspirin kind of convo about like, oh wow, that seemed like loose and fast recommendations. And I was like, hold on. I don't believe we made a single recommendation in that podcast. We were informing you about this really interesting data. And I think it's really important to understand that that can go the other way, too. So, um I think like you said, there are some gaps in the data. There's some assumptions you need to make. there's a justifiable way that you could supplement with collagen. I'll tell you why I am not at the point where I would take it. Even though I've got a meta analysis in front of me that's saying, "Hey, enhanced fat-free mass, are you crazy? Thought you're trying to compete at the world level of bodybuilding, Eric. Here's why. You can find similar metaanalyses on some outcomes we care about with branch chain amino acids." >> Yeah. And the reason why that I don't take it is that if you look at every single comparison that's ever been made or that's a positive effect for branch chain amino acids, it's compared to placebo. Uh that is typically like a maltodextrin. Um and in the case of collagen, like I said, it is boosting your overall protein intake, which I think is low, even though the quality is, you know, not not great. It's in fact, it's bad in the context of an overall mixed diet. I do think that could make the utility of the other proteins in your diet effective. So there's that. And the reason why that's relevant, 15 out of the 19 studies in this meta analysis used 15 to 30 gram of collagen. So we are talking about a comparable dose that you see in protein supplementation research which if you look at that like there's the classic 2012 meta analysis from Surerac similar dosages basically a scoop of whey in most cases or a scoop of soy or a scoop of casein does result in better fat-free mass outcomes. So I'm not convinced that that's not explaining the majority of the effect we're seeing. Um so I'd want to see that. I would actually want to see collagen being compared to um in in in in let's say nitrogen equated conditions. That's where I would want to see it. Show me that I can't just get this same benefit from consuming a high protein diet or that I get it on top of a high protein diet and I will take it. And that hasn't been shown in BCAAs, hasn't been shown in HMBB, all these other amino acid analog supplements. Um it's just not there. And the last thing I will say is that um maybe the whole speculation of glycine is the way to go. But if it is true, and here's why I want to see some mechanistic work that there are intact peptides that you do absorb instead of breaking down collagen fully, then you could make at least a mechanistic theoretical uh argument that maybe you would want to do collagen in place of glycine. Um or we need at least head-to-head comparisons of the two. >> Yeah. So that's the only thing I would add and I think those are the reason why I have that high threshold and high bar is not just because I don't want to waste money. It's also because I would want to find a third party tested collagen supplement, you know. So you just have to think about all these things. There is not a neutral effect of taking a supplement. There is always a risk and in certain supplement industries markets whether you know the manufacturer if it's you you are quite literally rolling the dice with a not even just is it like oh I don't care if I get some small amount of anabolics in my thing or I'll even take a little bit. No, we're talking about potential contamination harmful effects or or just not even being there. You know you're you're actually not getting glycogen uh sorry uh collagen at all. Now you got me saying glycogen. Yeah. So anyway, those are the last tidbits I would add to this just to make people uh think about what practical decision would you want to make and then from our pers at least from my perspective, I won't speak for you, what I would need to see before I pull the trigger to become an adopter. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, at the end of the day, you know, you mentioned there's the difference between like assessing the evidence versus also just saying, well, what would you do or what do you do? Um, I would say that in terms of injury, I've been there plenty and I've never once reached for glycogen. Dog gone it. >> Never. Never once reach for collagen. Um, and uh, like you said, I'm just not quite there where I feel like it would really move the needle in a very impactful way for me. Uh, happy to be wrong about that, but that just the research needs to be done. Um, again, and yeah, >> I I'd love to see, like you said, a good head-to-head. If I if I could do like a three- arm trial, >> you know, I'd say let's do, >> you know, is nitrogenous. We've got collagen versus uh a pretty standard dietary protein versus a pretty standard dietary protein with a little bit of extra glycine. And that should really help us figure out, especially if we're equating the glycine content of the collagen arm and the protein plus glycine arm. If there is some kind of magic in the sauce where those, you know, little peptide fractions are actually getting into the bloodstream and doing something useful. I' I've seen some uh some speculation that they they play an important role in signal in uh signaling additional collagen uh you know, deposition and growth and whatnot. um you know depositing more more collagen and building more collagen. Um >> if that's the case that that would be a really great way to kind of show hey there actually is a practical effect of this beyond just hey do you know looks like some of those peptides survive into the bloodstream. You know that that's kind of a a piece of trivia which is interesting but but you got to go a little further for kind of convincing me that this is going to be worth my while. All right Helms um got some questions in the uh the chat here. Um, this is an interesting one um that I've not thought of much. Uh, so Helms, I'm going to throw this to you because you are a resident Olympic lifter. Uh, so there's been very interesting research into the effectiveness of different volumes and frequencies for hypertrophy and strength. Uh, are there any data regarding training volumes and frequencies specifically for power development? So, Olympic lifting, jumping, and throwing. when it comes to volume and frequency, do we have any kind of heruristic or benchmarks that we shoot for to kind of maximize that development? >> Yeah, there is less work in this area, but it but there is some for sure. Um, there's actually a classic study that looked at moderate, low, and high volumes in junior uh elite Olympic weightlifters that was done in the mid 2000s. Um, and uh, they actually found I I'll I'll find the study in a bit, but um, because I can't remember the the name of the author off the top of my head, even though I've been citing it for quite literally my whole career, but they found um, I think similar effects across groups with the greatest mean differences, standardized mean differences, effect sizes, if you will, in the um in the moderate groups, which is pretty interesting. Uh, and they looked at two different comparisons. They looked at the percentage of lifts over 90% of 1RM in the snatch, clean and jerk and uh and back squat. And then they looked at the total number of lifts. And I think the reason why this is something we do actually need to study, specifically the Olympic lifts, is because they're quite different than the power lifts and other bodybuilding movements in that you almost are never performing the eccentric. You're dumping the bar. So the amount of fatigue that would be incurred is a lot less. It's like concentric only for the most part. Um, and I think they're heavily velocity dependent compared to the other lifts and mobility dependent. So, your ability to get deep into a snatch and pull is directly related to how high do you have to pull the bar. Um, and I think there's they're they're really interesting because the gap between men and women Olympic weightlifting is a little narrower than it is in powerlifting. And I suspect that is specifically because women can typically get deeper. So they don't have to pull it as high. So some of those strength disparities get made up by the fact that women typically are more mobile than men on average. Um but anyway, all of those things aside, um if the question is about like general power training versus Olympic weightlifting, there may be differences which I think is is worth noting. And I don't know if if you if So yeah, what is the question specifically, Traxx? I guess that's my question back at >> Yeah. Yeah, the question was just you know um you know first of all is there evidence regarding you know kind of optimal um you know uh frequency um and volume for um for power development. Um and I I think you know an interesting element would just be like when you were preparing to compete in Olympic lifting, what was your approach uh in terms of you know your frequency and your volume especially for the for the power oriented training you were doing? >> Yeah. So good good question. Yeah. So I think I think first uh some good research those studies were by Gonzalez Bado. Um if you look up Gonzalez Bado weightlifting volume you can find both. It's 2005 2006 good studies um not huge but it's rare that you get high level strength athletes uh that you can look at um especially robust young junior lifters who you should be able to handle a lot and seeing kind of that a little bell curve or at least diminishing returns maybe but it didn't even look particularly convincing that the uh there was an increase in in strength when you went higher volumes and notably if we look at the uh the pelen meta regression on strength data which I think would mirror uh power. I would be my assumption. Um you do see a an earlier and more sharp diminishing returns than hypertrophy because we're looking at skill development. Now when I was embedded in weightlifting culture and I was for a while. I did Olympic weightlifting from 2012 to 2014 and then from 2020 to 2021. And I've I've actually been involved for a long time. like Olympic weightlifting New Zealand has contracted me from the training camps to talk on nutrition and I'm just interested in the sport. You know, if there's a barbell involved, I'm I'm I'm keen, right? So long as they don't do silly things with it and go run. So, sorry CrossFit. >> Um not quite as as keen on that one. But anyway, um it is really common to have much higher training frequencies in Olympic weightlifting compared to powerlifting and bodybuilding. And some of that is because you can uh with again that lack of eccentric component uh the fact that you're typically doing singles, doubles, and triples. Um there's very little training to quote unquote failure. If you miss a lift, it's not because you can't grind it out. It's because you can't pull it high enough to get under it. So it just kind of goes doop and you miss, right? >> Um so not uncommon for what we would describe as probably a highle intermediate. Um because this is an Olympic sport, you can actually look at, you know, where is someone going? If they're competing at the national level in their country or if they're potentially competing internationally, it is almost normal for them to be training sometimes more than daily. Uh, and this is because it is such a skillful lift, um, that deliberate practice and getting in more reps, uh, is not just I'm trying to actively build more power or get stronger, but I'm trying to perfect things with my technique. So, it's very difficult with Olympic weightlifting to call it pure power training because you can do like medball chest passes, slams, jump training, plyometrics, which don't have nearly the technical component to them. And you would probably benefit from a lower volume would be my assumption. And there's actually some data on that. Then what you could potentially benefit from and what is done historically and traditionally and even across you know different more intensity or volume based focuses. What you will typically see is highintensity high frequency or high volume high frequency in the Olympic weightlifting world compared to what we would consider in bodybuilding and powerlifting. So, you typically see people capping out around 10 sessions a week, having a couple morning, evening, um, and very intelligent placement of we're just working on jerks from blocks. Uh, so, so we get some recovery there. We're just doing some some light stuff. This is going to be a volume accessory bodybuilding session and we're not going to do that on, you know, when we're going to do snatches. We need to be loose type of deal. So, I never got up to that high of a training volume, but I was training uh six days a week with uh when I was doing Olympic lifting and one one day I wasn't coming in twice. I' I'd get in some some technique work in the morning and then like some bodybuilding work in the evening. So, and it just worked out better that way. And we didn't have a team training on on uh on Sundays. So, um, but yeah, when I looked at some of the folks I had the pleasure of training with, some of the best lifters in New Zealand, um, like, uh, I got to train alongside Tracy Lambert who represented New Zealand at the Olympics, Mark Spooner, who represented New Zealand at the Olympics, and several Commonwealth champions, and they were training more than daily at that level. But I wouldn't say it was because they were trying to become more powerful. It was because they were trying to become more skilled. So I think the um the power data would probably mirror the strength data. The reason being is that whenever you're talking about power, it's essentially some point along the force velocity spectrum, >> right? Or the load velocity spectrum in a more practical sense. >> Um whether you're doing bodyweight training or whether you're throwing implements and I know a lot of uh throwers as well. So, it is uh not that dissimilar to what you'd be doing for your like main movement in a given strength sport. >> Yeah. And and it's interesting with power as well cuz like we're we're used to you and I, you know, coming from the bodybuilding world, it's like get your volume in by route X, Y, or Z, right? There's so much latitude with bodybuilding programming and it's like, well, I want to do it this many sessions, that many sessions. I'll figure it out. But with power training, >> um, you know, you there's a certain level of fatigue at which it's just off the menu. It's like like you're not going to be able to get good power training, you know, beyond like a certain level of fatigue within the session or, you know, from session to session. So like you you really do to achieve those really high power outputs have to have some degree of like freshness and management of how frequently am I doing this and with what volume. And then when you layer in, you know, the technical aspects as well, it it becomes uh, you know, there's there's the technique stuff versus the the pure power stuff. And the pure power stuff, you can't just say, well, I'm going to do X sets worth of Y repetitions, and if they're ugly, they're ugly. If they're slow, they're slow. It's like, no, you can't do them slow, you know? So, so it is kind of a different set of of calculus for making sure that you're you're not just focused on accumulating the training, the training quality for for that particular outcome is of just like utmost importance, you know, which is for people who are transitioning from a bodybuilding style training that is a little bit of a change in the the overall uh kind of conceptualization of I it's not just about getting this in, it's about doing it properly, you know. >> Yeah. Yeah. So just to get some people some more specific recommendations based upon the literature. Probably the best data we have on this is a great meta analysis that was done by uh Paul Swinton. This is another one of those people in that top tier, you know, uh that you you describe yourself as a benchwarmer for. I'm not sure where he'd be at, but he's definitely in the NBA of stats of of sports science. >> Yeah. >> Um I think he actually has one of his degrees in math. I could be wrong about that, but Paul Swin, an awesome dude. can bench over 500 pounds and does stats with the best of them. >> Damn. >> Um, but when you Yeah, this is a huge dose modeling study. They looked at basically studies published all the way from 1962 to 2018 looking at anything related to how does strength and conditioning impact outcomes in uh in in relevant performance. So, it had 295 studies with 535 study groups, 6,710 participants. Um and yeah, they looked at uh basically models that predicted performance based upon volume, intensity, uh you name it, frequency, rest periods, and they specifically were looking at outcomes uh like such as such as strength, but also uh things like vertical jump performance. And that was most likely maximized with like explosive lifting around like 30% of 1 RM. Um, and then if we're talking about power in a more force dominant spectrum, typically with low to moderate loads in the 40 to 70% of 1RM range. So, you're getting a little more force. Um and then if we're specifically talking about um Olympic weightlifting applications, then it is much more load dependent and starts to mirror um what we would describe as probably strength training because effectively you are training for strength with Olympic weightlifting. It's just the movements themselves must have a given velocity to be completed if that makes sense. And I think people get a little too constrainy when they talk about power. Um when they, you know, in this kind of context, they think of it as a distinct thing. But everything has a force times a velocity over a work over time, whether it's a 1RM or whether it's just walking. So I just think that's important to kind of understand. But um yeah, in terms of the the volumes um you're generally seeing like the number of foot contacts, if we're talking about plyometrics, high volume is considered 120 or higher. Um and you're mid-range is 8 to 12 80 to 120 less than 80 is low volume. And you get diminishing returns from higher volumes, but there is still that positive effect overall. Um, ballistic lifting is, you know, basically one to seven plus sets when you look across the literature. And again, kind of same thing. You start to see diminishing returns with higher volumes. So that's that's kind of the general take-home. It's lower volumes than we would talk about if we were discussing hypertrophy training. Similar to strength, maybe a little different. And then it should be very specific to what you're trying to achieve. um you know velocity specificity is I think the main way you should think about it as well as probably um vector and joint angles. Those are two other things I would think about a lot. >> Yeah. >> Nice. Um all right, we got a couple questions. Speaking of power, couple questions about creatine. >> Um one I I'm not familiar with this. So someone said that they um were um getting on creatine and there they had questions about uh urination frequency. And so I I assumed that I was going to read it and they're going to say, "Hey, I've been on creatine and I pee a lot." And it's like, "Well, you probably were drinking a lot because everyone says if you get on creatine, you need to drink like seven gallons of water a day." I don't know how if if that's still popular advice people are throwing out there, but you really don't, folks. Uh it's not a big deal. >> But um they were saying they can't help but notice dropping. Um so they're actually peeing less on creatine but drinking to the same level of thirst. Um, is this something that you've ever heard of in practice? >> No. Uh, frankly, but I definitely have heard of people gaining about 1 to 2% of their body weight over time once they're fully creatine loaded. Yeah. >> And I could see someone >> in the acute phase of doing it experiencing that. >> If they are actively retaining more water, they might urinate a little bit less. I wouldn't expect it to persist though. So, if this is happening for up to a month while taking a low dose like three grams in a relatively large person, wouldn't surprise me. >> Or at least it's plausible. Um, >> if it's still happening, it's a little weird. >> Yeah. The the thing that really um caught my attention was just like when you think of the magnitude of like net weight retention per day to to me it it'd be very uh >> very unexpected if it cut your urine frequency by 40%. You know what I mean? Like that seems that seems high to me. Um, so I agree like conceptually like at least in a directional nature I could see like oh yeah well if you're drinking the same amount and you're going to be retain you know storing a little bit a little bit more water that would make sense. What's staying in the body isn't leaving as urine in that immediate kind of saturation phase. But it is something I' I'd say like if that persists and it it really is like you feel like a 40% reduction in urine output um that is not what I would expect as being a typical creatine response. So, so yeah, I'm not I'm not sure what to make of that. Uh, something >> the only thing I can think of, Trex, is is maybe if they started taking creatine as well as an electrolyte supplement around the same time, which isn't that uncommon. >> Yeah. Yeah, that's possible. >> Then you're also changing your your sodium balance, which might result in more water retention. And that that can make a big difference. Like if you have a really salty day, you might drop e easily half half of your urinations. I I if you're salt sensitive. >> Yeah, for sure. Yeah. So, so it could be some electrolyte stuff, could be a little bit more uh retention of fluid, could be a lot of different things. But yeah, I I agree with you. I would keep an eye on it and see try to like probably explore if there's anything else that I might have subtly changed. A lot of times you you find when someone goes on a new supplement and you then you start asking more questions. It's like, well, what led to you going on that supplement? And it's like, well, I decided I was finally going to tweak, you know, get everything dialed up. And and so the supplement was part of this broader change of like I'm going to change you know some of the beverages I consume every day, some of the foods I'm eating, my training sk like a lot of times the supplement is kind of just tagging along with this broader change of behaviors. So that that's something that's that's worth exploring as well. But in terms of is that a common and often cited uh change that's experienced, I would say no. But, you know, maybe do a little assessment of other things that may have changed and just keep an eye on it. Uh, a question here was about creatine dosage. Um, and so the question was, you know, Helms, you know, you and I, we were in the iron culture. We know creatine you do five grams a day, right? For for most of creatine's history, you grab the old teaspoon, plop, and that's it. But we also read the literature, and we know a lot of the in the literature, it's often dosed by body mass, right? So, one of the common dosages you'll see is about 0.07 grams of creatine per kilogram of body mass, which basically ends up being a 5 gram dose for your quote unquote average kind of reference 70 kg individual. The question was, should we really be doing that um on the extremes of body size? So, if someone is, you know, very very underweight, should we necessarily scale down their creatine dose to like a gram and a half a day? or if someone is, you know, you know, much higher on the weight spectrum, do they really need to be, you know, taking, you know, four scoops of creatine a day? And I would say, frankly, no. I mean, if if we're talking about a maintenance dose, um, I would probably say that the boundaries to me in terms of like what what is actually useful, necessary, and non-wasteful, I'd say the boundaries probably exist between, and this is like kind of a vibe. I'm not going to tell you that I've like crunched the numbers on this, but I don't know, probably 3 to seven grams represents the spectrum of dosages for like a daily dose if the whole point is to support muscle performance. Um, how do you feel about that general range, Helms? I I don't disagree and I think there's a lot of discussion of dose around uh creatine right now primarily because of the cognitive yeah potential benefits and like the data is not nearly strong enough or prolific enough for us to make clear recommendations there but when it does seem to be more effective whether we're talking about uh TBI recovery or mitigation of prospective effects or sleep impairment uh and basically rescuing some of the cognitive effects. You see better effects when you're talking about 20 gram doses in a given day. >> Um, so I think somewhat like I I don't think you need that much eventually to be getting all the positive effects on muscle. And I think just the question asker is aware a lot of the discussion of these higher doses or different doses is kind of a side effect of people talking about taking higher doses due to the cognitive effects. >> Yeah. You know one of the things that uh intrigues me about the cognitive element is like yeah usually when you see those kind of positive effects it's people taking like 20 grams a day. My question that I w >> would like to explore in the future is, >> you know, so so for example, um I I wrote a mass article a while back with a very uh controversial title, but it was basically asking like is it possible that just every beta-alanine studies underdosed? Um because there was a a really cool really innovative meta regression project where they kind of did the math plotted it out and they're like you know like a lot of times what you find with supplements helms you've seen this supplement comes along someone says what's the dose supposed to be and they say >> I don't know and they pick one and then like the first 24 studies on a supplement all use that dose like we kind of gravitate toward heruristics rather than actual like you know it's not like a medication where we actually do the like pharmacocinetics studies and like figure out exactly what the dosing should be per unit of body mass or whatever. Um, another one that kills me is like betane. A lot of people are like, "Betane's done. We shouldn't be studying it anymore. It's stupid." We've studied like literally one dose and we just did it like 10 times. Um, so betane's another one where I don't think we've really uncovered the full boundaries of what its potential could be as a supplement. That's not I'm not that sounds hyperbolic. betane is not going to change your life as a as a dietary supplement. But I I do wonder if to some extent we've uh underestimated its potential in terms of magnitude of effect because we just haven't even bothered looking at some of these higher boundaries. Um but uh but you know with beta-alanine again you can make the argument that some of the studies where we assess its effects should have either and that's the big key either given a higher dose or done a longer dosing period you know because there is this kind of accumulation as you work up to a steady state. One of the things I wonder is, you know, a lot of times we'll say, "Yeah, if you want creatine and you want to saturate quickly, use this much." But if you take like three grams over time, you're going to essentially basically saturate the muscle. Part of me wonders if you're doing those 10 grams a day that's beun become popular. Is it possible that you would maybe get some of those cognitive effects over longer time scales of just kind of giving your body time to to let that all kind of saturate into the brain tissue? And when I say I have a question, I don't want to mislead listeners into thinking that I'm implying that's the case. It's a genuine question. I do not know. >> Yeah. >> And I I just don't know enough about the um the dynamics of brain creatine. How much is it churning through on a daily basis? How much is getting in? And therefore, if we do 10 grams a day, what steady state kind of level of saturation will we eventually gravitate toward? is that high enough? Um, and it's just really hard because it's tough to get a there just aren't that many studies that give you a good assessment of we took this dose of creatine for this long and here's how much it impacted brain levels and here's the corresponding impact on outcomes of interest. So, I I find the brain cognitive stuff uh I'm of two minds about it. On one hand, I find it very intriguing and cool. On the other hand, I think it's one of those scenarios where the hype has put the cart well before the horse, you know, where it's going to take the research a lot of time to catch up to the extreme level of hype that's associated with it. So, unfortunately, we're going to have to buckle up and and wait for that. But when it comes to muscle and dosing, that's a little bit more clear. And like I said, I think there's plenty of research showing if you're if you're a smaller p, really if you're any size person for the most part, if you're average too small in size, 3 g generally saturates the muscles after 3 or 4 weeks. Um, if you want to go higher, you know, you're more than welcome to. That would even that would make even more sense if you had a large amount of muscle tissue and lean body mass. Um, and the other thing to keep in mind with creatine is the only thing you're hurting if you say, "I wouldn't mind getting there in a hurry, maintaining levels on the higher side." If you do two scoops and you go 10 grams a day, you're not hurting nobody. Uh, it's just a little bit more expensive than it ought to be. So, um, it's really important as people get into Helms this uh, all these debates about dosing with creatine, it's important to remember that we are not trying to thread a needle here. You know, create creatine got really expensive during COVID. I think it's come back down to earth a little bit in terms of the raw material pricing. Uh the supply chains were all wacky for a while there, but um it seems to me like the price has come back back down to earth based on what I hear from people. Um and we don't need to thread the needle that carefully. So if if you want to go a little heavy with the scoop, it's it's really not a big deal. You're not you're probably not going to change your life because you went with seven grams over five and had the extra heaping scoop, but at the same time, you're you're not losing anything in doing so. >> Anything else? >> It's still no like like even when it got expensive compared to other supplements, it wasn't that bad. But we're I mean I think you can get creatine for 20 to $30 for like 500 grams. So it's still >> it's pretty cheap. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. That that's Yeah, it's nice to have one of the good ones out there working at an affordable price. What more could you want homes? >> Yes, sir. >> Okay. Into the live chat, by the way, uh Dexter Freeman said, "I love you guys." Which of course we love you, too. We appreciate it. >> Um we got Colin said, "Uh tune in live for once because of the uh the holiday here in the United States. It is Labor Day and I celebrate by laboring for the iron culture." Um, >> hey, by the way, we have a Labor Day sale going on right now for mass if you're interested. >> Yeah. Monthly applications in strength sport. We retain the old name here at Iron Culture. Making applications of science simple. That's for the pleas. The people who don't know what's truly at the heart of the iron game and mass knows what the real name is anymore. There's a huge debate. So, you've weighed in. >> We're chameleons. We just shift it towards whatever is going to increase that bottom line. We're pure capitalists here at Mass. If you want me to say it's mothers against prophylactic painkillers, if we're specifically in that environment, women who have children who do not like painkillers, that's mass. And actually, I that's MAP. I'm clearly dieting. >> You really lost me there. >> Whoa. Mothers against uh sensationalist um you know, swords. Like if if you if you don't like if you like your basic sword >> straight up sword sword engraving. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's here to kill people steel, right? It should be steel. >> You can have an iron sword. Just got to go back to the Iron Age, you know? >> But listen, we don't have this three musketeer fancy, you know, risk engraving. Come on. You know, like who do you think you are? >> And uh mom, I'll always have a pure hunk of iron or steel that I'm going to whack somebody with. That is what mass is about. for that specific audience. But anyway, seriously, check it out. We are currently running a sale for mass if people want to uh support the show. Get in and get in at a affordable price that won't break the pocketbook while you stay up to date with the latest research and maybe learn more about collagen in our upcoming episode from the Trexinator. >> Big time. Big time. Yeah. So, folks, uh massresearch.com really the home of the internet. That's the place you want to start your day and end your day. Um, unless you're a member of the mass community, then you go to uh what's the actual member site? >> Mass member. >> Don't ask me that. >> Yeah, that that's where you actually access the the good stuff, the the full articles in there. >> All right, Helms. Uh, we got um couple questions in the live chat I'd like to give some attention to. Hopefully, we answer these a little shorter, do a little kind of rapid fire for the live chat. >> Um, so here's a question. uh it is do you believe that muscular endurance is an emergent quality that is only comprised of basic strength and cardio. So basically if you want muscular endurance should you just be strong and and have a good motor from a cardiovascular perspective or do you think this is something we need to really directly and specifically train? >> There's actually a really cool meta analysis that was done on this. um as I talk I'm going to try to pull it up but they found two different effects. Uh they they compared high load and low load training and they found that when you are looking at a fixed load so let's let's say you test 60 kg at the start and the finish using higher rep training to failure will produce greater number of reps at that fixed load. However, when you compare high load training to low load training for an absolute load, now we're saying, okay, we're going to use 50% of 1RM pre and post, that effect goes away. So, I think muscular endurance is an emergent property of two factors. One is how strong are you? Because even if Halfthor only does singles and I do all of this muscular endurance training, um you're going to think, "Oh man, half door is going to get out of shape. He's not going to be able to do it." Listen, 50% of his 1RM is more than my 1RM. So I would literally lose A-50% of 1RM absolute load competition, right? >> Yeah. If you guys are going to say, "Hey, we're going to load up, you know, 690 on the bar. Do as many as you like." He's gonna win for muscular endurance. >> Yeah. So, you can deadlift 500 kilos halfthor. Let's throw 250 on there. I'm like, uh, I I can do 250 if you allow me to do sumo and if I train for the next six weeks for it. Can you can you come back? And by the way, not when I'm 80 kilos right now dieting. >> Yeah. >> I wouldn't be able to do it, right? >> So, um, you know, my max conventional right now is 20 kilos less than that probably. So, but if we both put 60 kilos on the bar, maybe I'll be better, but I'm not sure because that is such a light load for him, you know, that he will be able to do many, many reps. Um, but if you compare yourself to yourself, uh, rather than participants against participants, there are two factors, and I like the way they describe this as an emergent property. It's two things. One is how much ATP do you have to generate to move the load, right? So, is it a light load for you or not? If it's light, you won't need as much energy to do it because each contraction is more efficient, right? And then, how good are you at continuing to produce that muscular force without creating byproducts which impede continuous ability to revamp that system? So, if you have to produce a whole lot of ATP all at once, you're not going to be able to keep doing it. That's just called, you know, the phosphocreatine system, right? But if you're it's so light that you're basically starting at an effort load that is aerobic or in the in the glycolytic you know range. Now it's how good are you at that energy system which is buffering capacity you know shuttling all those things. So, if you want to get maximally good at doing a lot of reps with 50% of 1RM, there's an argument that you probably want to do top singles and then like sets to failure in a slightly fatigued state with low loads because both are going to dictate how much you can lift and how many times. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's important to recognize, you know, if you take like a introlevel X-fizz course, which I'm teaching uh this semester for the It's been a while since I taught a pure Xfizz, so that's a lot of fun. But it's important to remember like there's actual machinery changing within the muscle when we train. You know, whether you're training for power, strength, endurance, you name it. You know, we have actual things changing in the muscle in a meaningful way, in a measurable way. So, we are changing um you know, all all this different enzyatic machinery associated with generating ATP. we're we're we're changing enzymes and in some cases even the the density of of proteins that are associated with clearing out metabolites, right? So so it is true like you said of you know if we hold everything else uh steady and just say hey we want you to be really good at doing a ton of reps with 50% of of your max load you know there are actual metabolic adaptations to that endurance type training that will help you you know bolster that that particular capacity. So, and and that's what makes exercise science fun is that that we can actually look at all the diversity of adaptations to different types of training and and try to thread the needle and induce what we're trying to induce. >> Yep. And uh by the way, that uh that specific meta analysis that I was referring to is uh the influence of total repetitions per set on local muscular endurance. a systematic review with metaanalysis and meta reagression that was published in science and sports by Hackit and colleagues in 2022. So you want to check that one out. >> Nice. All right, Holmes, another one from the live chat. If muscle hypertrophy has potential to contribute to strength gains, could the same be said for athletic performance like speed and power? So is hypertrophy also carrying over to things like speed and power? to some degree, but I think um there is a drop off each time you get further away from um so for example, how strong do you need to be for the athletic performance? That's the question. Yeah. >> Right. Um all athletic performance to go back to our power related question exists somewhere along the load velocity spectrum. So, if your athletic performance is Olympic weightlifting, then absolutely the bigger you get, the better you will be. Um, if we're talking about basketball, 600 lb squat, 500 lb squat, you can probably generate sufficient amount of impulse to have, you know, higher jump heights, sprint times, and then at a certain point, your your time is spent better elsewhere. >> Yeah. And the question is then, okay, that was actually me talking about strength. Do you need to be jacked as hell to squat 500 versus 600? Yes, in both cases, but what degree of jackness do you need to be? And where actually is that threshold? So, I'd say, you know, if we're talking about a basketball player, you know, 300, 400 lb squat is probably all you're going to need. And then how muscular do you need to be? Not that muscular uh for the for these folks. And um >> yeah, >> and if I may, >> that's kind of where it ends up. >> If I may uh make a case getting out of physiology because gh who cares. Let's let's get into good old free market capitalism. if if there was a you know if the path to being an NBA superstar ran through having a 500 pound squat um we would have figured that out by now because there's enough money dangling on the table there to say >> oh yeah >> you know what and of course it the to get up to the starting line you know by the way you better be 6'8 or taller but you know we would see these guys going headtohead just trying to slap more plates on the bar with these huge squats we've kind of figured out the level of strength and muscularity necessary for excelling in the NBA. And um especially when it comes to like upper body muscularity, there is the classic uh Kevin Durant um who is an all-time great uh absolute superstar in basketball, made a lot of headlines at the NBA combine cuz instead of repping out 225 like they do in football, in the NBA they do 185 and he had zero on that particular competition. Um, so I know Helms that kills you inside to know that that is what elite athleticism looks like. But, um, the results speak for themselves. He's an absolute he you watch him play basketball, it it seems like he is just working with fundamentally unfair advantages. He is a killer at the sport. Um, and and you know, I can say now that I've been around uh like some of the most elite college level basketball players who end up going on to be ultra elite prolevel players, um, does strength and muscularity play some role? Yes. When when guys come in in college programs uh, and they are just an absolute twig, the scouts from the NBA say, "Hey, this is not going to work." like we and it's mostly for durability more so than it is for performance. So you you need to put a little bit of meat on your bones to survive. I think what do they play like a 80s something game season? You know, games every couple nights. Uh sometimes a you know back to backs. So their their big thing is we need to put enough muscle on you that you're not going to fall and break, you know, basically. Um but but yeah, I mean like you said, Helms, it really comes down to saying to what extent will muscularity help me perform in this sport? Um, if it's a sport where there's a deep talent pool and some very obvious um, incentives for being very good at it, one of the most important things you can do is look around and they're going to let you know, right? So, Helms, does it behoove me to be muscular as a a defensive lineman or a running back in football? Yes, clearly it does, right? So, yeah, when when it comes to again >> a sport with a very very deep talent pool, the success will leave very obvious clues. Um, and like you said, >> what you're describing as well is not only the the kind of the the prospective what's going to help me get there, but also the constraints. >> Yeah. >> What are the things that are going to constrain performance and an elite level sport, it is opportunity, cost, time availability, and injury, right? Um, and that's that's a great example. This is why endurance athletes lift weights. It's not just for, you know, the kind of the endurance component we talked about earlier, but it makes them less likely to get hurt running. Like that's why Mike Zerto currently does most of his lifting. Um, and exactly the case, like you said, with basketball, you're playing a lot, you're playing frequently, it's high impact, and if you can improve landing mechanics, distribute that over more total tissue, um, have a little bit of extra control around that ACL when you cut different directions, all to the G. And, um, but you don't need to be able to bench even body weight apparently, Kevin Durant. So, >> yeah. Yeah. And um you know and then of course you know just because the question specifically mentioned things like uh I think it mentioned speed as one of those things you know depending on how extreme you want to get with the demands of the sport. There's going to be some sports where they just downright say dude I don't want you carrying a lot of extra muscle. So if if the question is to what extent does hypertrophy carry over to speed and performance >> if you're running marathons, do you really want to have a heavier upper body than you need? >> I I think the vast majority of folks would probably say no. >> Yeah, and that is actually a really really good point. um as you move through the power and endurance spectrum and say from track and field to ultra endurance um there is a greater cumulative cost to the just the weight of your body. Yeah. >> And even though I don't actually think that the energy system demands of an ultra endurance athlete makes sense to be on a ketogenic diet, >> the fact that you can simply carry less food because of the energy density on highfat diets. there is a strong community of ketogenic or very highfat moderate carb approaches in the endurance athlete community just because yeah maybe I c I don't have that fifth gear if I'm a uh you know an ultra endurance athlete and it doesn't matter because we've even seen like elite race walkers do poor on ketogenic diet some of the classic study by Luis Burke and it's like oh man we've really ran out of opportunities here we can't even get better walking right but that's slower than portions of an ultra, but when you're doing multiple days of endurance training and you have an additional kilogram or two on you, that adds up. But when you're only doing a 100 meter sprint and the tissue you're adding to your body is also generating more impulse into the ground and increasing your block start and then you just need to keep carrying it through. That's that's why sprinters jacked, you know? So there you go. >> Absolutely. Uh the Greek Trojan in the live chat says, "My family no longer celebrates holidays together because of the iron culture slash ma the mass debate got too heated." So, uh I'm both sorry and pleased to hear that. Um because it shows you care and that's what it's all about. Speaking of running long distances, someone asked about my update on the road to Athens post surgeries. Um my my old uh uh quest to run a marathon. Um, I actually have been talking lately about getting back into running once I'm able to from this. The thing is that I'm still a couple weeks away from being cleared to run um with my most recent surgery, but I actually um am intrigued at the idea of I think uh Mike Zordos and I need to go headtohead in a marathon. I I think that would be a a tremendous experience. >> Look at that. huge cap. >> Two guys who correct your best squat is 500 lb, right? >> Yes. >> His best squat is also right around 500 lb. You're both ex powerlifters turned endurance athlete hopefuls. He's got a head start on you. He hasn't had to deal with the same >> uh you know you know surgeries, but if you were calling out Mike Z, that is amazing. >> Well, he he would crush me because he actually trains hard and smart and all that stuff. Um, but but I do want to run a marathon and uh so so maybe we'll we'll make something fun of that. He's he's it seems like he's been crushing his training. He does it at two in the morning because if you wait till 4:00 a.m. in Florida, it'll already be 170° and humid. Um so if we ever ran the same marathon, we'd have to he'd have to come up to my neck of the woods. I'm not going down to Florida unless it's a no >> a Christmas day marathon on a particularly cool Christmas day. Dude, I did a set of like eight at an RP7 of front squats and I got heat stroke while I was training at his place. So, um >> it's Yeah, it's really different, man. It is a fundamentally different kind of heat. Um I do want to acknowledge in the chat that um Colin mentioned that they've read conflicting opinions about whether or not those collagen peptides can stay intact through digestion. I agree, Colin. That's why I I kind of said like, hey, I've seen things alluding to this evidence which I have not read in depth. Um, so I I do want to revisit that. I think it's time for me to dive back into collagen soon. Um, >> yeah, neither one of us is Keith Bar to have a a confident answer to that off the cuff. So, I'm looking forward to you writing about it after you've dug in. >> Yeah. Um, and then the last thing I want to me, one last question here, um, from 12piece in a soda. Um, sorry. Yes. Yeah. Same same uh same question asker. Um, actually Helms, I'm stammering here, but let let me throw another one in there really quick. Just like a very very quick answer from from you Helms. >> I got you. I'll be quick. >> For your friend from Australia, so it's morning time. You have that kinship. Um, fueled by forge asked, um, creatine. Do you still have it during peak week or what do you do? Do you take it out? I normally just take it out in the last few days >> um because I know that muscle creatine stores will be very high, but I'm not taking in something that will potentially >> um result in any kind of water retention. It's a better safe than sorry and there's literally no downside because you will have almost zero change in muscle creatine content through days. Yeah. But you aren't acutely taking anything that might result in temporary, you know, water storage in the same way that, you know, a carbohydrate excess would. >> Yep. Why not? Nothing to lose there. Uh, shout out to Siraj with the hashtag Trex Nation. Haven't seen that one in a minute. I appreciate that. But the last question here uh was going to be uh yeah, Helms, do you have any simple tips that come to mind when it comes to reducing food focus during a diet? right now you're dieting. It's been a while since I did a real diet. So, I'm curious, are there any strategies that you personally use if you find that your food fu food focus is getting too high or maybe there's some preemptive things you do to avoid letting it get high? >> Absolutely. I think um the most important thing is to aim for higher levels of productivity while dieting. Um, >> smart >> focus is a limited quantity. Um, and it will the the more idle time you have, the more it will shift to to to food when you are hungry. Um, so I think that's really important is I actually try I try to work ahead. I I I find I get more focused during diets as well. So I um like I've actually written both my mass articles for this upcoming month tracks in advance for me traveling. >> Look at you. Yeah, that's that's that that's not something that normally occurs. Normally, it's me apologizing and slack about being three days late. So, um that is the the main thing I would recommend. And then a very close second is having a meal rhythm, a consistent pattern and lifestyle of when you eat what you eat and make it boring and consistent and look like a bro. And absolutely, you could fit more things. You could play play Matt Macro Tetris. You could eat highly palatable foods that are low calories and maximize everything. But what does it require to do that? Changes in your behavior dayto-day. Chasing your cravings, being excited about food, thinking about food, and shopping specifically for these lowc calorie, high palletability food options. And invariably, having coached over a 100 people plus to the stage and having done this thing, it'll be my sixth season, 20 shows this year and being in and around the community for 20 years now. I went to my first bodybuilding show in 2005. It makes it worse. It is not an advantage. It's something to do on a whim. Maybe like, man, I'm really craving ice cream. And here's the distant third strategy. So, just to clarify, be productive and have a meal rhythm that requires no decisions. You just do the same thing dayto day and make very easy simple food swaps as you need to to cut calories. Lower calorie fruit, lowfat option versus normal fat option, non-fat option versus fat, unsweetened versus sweetened, get some Splenda, that type of thing. So, it feels the same qualitatively as far as what you're eating and also keeping your food volume high even though the calorie density is going down. um distant third though is sometimes you're going to get so hungry that you're distracted from your productivity and that even though you have this consistent meal rhythm, you're like, "Man, I would really like to eat more of that same salad that I just had, even though you've like killed your kind of hyper palatable pallet and you're not stressed by it." And this is where sometimes it is worth hunting down that craving that just won't leave you alone. Like if you saw somebody eat some ice cream. You know you've got a refeed coming up. You're doing fine. Grab a thing. Grab a tub of Halo Top. Do it. Get it out of your system. It won't get out of your system, but you will at least feel like you have the agency to do it and you will feel less restrained. Um, but I generally don't do that. What I do instead is I grab a couple pieces of gum and I have another diet soda that doesn't have caffeine in it. And I find that just takes the edge off and just gives me more time to um kind of get back to baseline. I find sometimes I feel I finish meals and then it just takes longer for satisfaction to set in and then before my next meal the hunger will come in earlier. >> So it's like I don't get the same postmeal satisfaction or it takes longer to settle in and then I get an earlier like and my meals will start to get close together and then you're left at 8:00 p.m. with you know I ate dinner 4 hours ago and now I'm starving and you don't want that either. And I think you can kind of bridge those meals together with some sugar-free gum, some diet Sprite, that type of thing. But that is I think a lot of people will leverage that first whenever they get asked this question like what are these little tips and trades and they are truly truly truly onetenth of the effectiveness of the first two strategies I mentioned. >> Yeah. No, and I think that's also good advice for um you know if you are someone who hates taking rest days if even though you need them. If you're somebody who um like has a tendency to push too hard in the gym or if you're somebody who uh is like maybe you need to take a layoff to recover from an injury as I currently am. It's really nice to be able to lean into like just go do something that that strikes you as being productive and mentally engaging. And it doesn't have to be that you're going to go take on a second job or do an extra project. It doesn't have to be occupational work necessarily, but go build a birdhouse. Like like do some kind of project or hobby that is legitimately engaging enough that you will forget about food to the extent it's it's feasible, right? So, um, you know, for me, whenever I'm I I totally echo like the best prep I ever had, I actually wasn't planning on doing a prep cuz I I was under the false belief you need to do a prep when work isn't crazy so that you can bring you don't want to mess up something big at work, you know. Um, but what ended up happening was I got so busy with work that I was like dieting by accident cuz I I barely had time to eat and uh I basically before I knew it was halfway to to stage weight and I was like I think I'm going to do a prep. Um I made like one little food swap and just got super busy and I was like honestly like I'm prepping without even knowing it. I'm halfway there. Why not get to the finish line? So, the only downside was I didn't have like a legit dedicated like bulking period before it. So, I didn't end up having as much muscle on stage as I would have liked. But, um it's amazing what being busy can do in terms of making the dieting process a million times easier. Uh and the same thing goes with when you're stuck out of the gym and you you want more than anything to be back in there. Get busy, take on a new project, and before you know it, you'll be you'll be back in the saddle. All right, Helms. Uh, one more time, can we give a little bit of love to our good friends at Elite FTS? >> Absolutely. Yeah. So, if if you didn't if you missed it in the beginning, we have a great partnership now with Elite FTS and um they have a code 10% off pretty much everything they've got. There may be some exceptions to that, but definitely use MRR10 uh when you go to Elite FTS. They've got great stuff from specialty bars to stuff as simple as bands that are really high quality uh or like TX's personal experience wrist wraps that will literally last until the end of days um that you can keep using. So, it's a true privilege to be uh working with Elite FTS, Dave Tate, uh big shout out and uh can't recommend their equipment highly enough. We we both both Trex and I have Elite FTS equipment and have been loyal members of their brand because they're primarily about education. They don't need to be doing that. >> Yeah, >> they could just sell stuff, but but Dave Tate is all about elevating the uh the community. So, big shout out to lead FTS. Use code MMR10. Um >> MR10, >> sorry, MRR10. I am clearly dieting and that is going to be in the show notes. So, MRR10 and you can get 10% off. >> All right. Um and while you're supporting companies, hey, why not support the show, right? So, if you want to support Iron Culture, uh, be sure to like, rate, subscribe, review, share it with a friend, all that kind of stuff, uh, submit questions either by joining live or going to massresearch.com/ironculture where you could submit questions 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. We love answering them on the air. And of course, the number one way you can support the show is by becoming a member of the Mass community. We have a big um, Labor Day sale going on right now. You can go become a member over at massresarchreview.com. That does it for tonight everyone. Thank you so much for joining us and we will be back with another episode in 7 days.