 However, we got to give some love to the powerlifting scene now because there has been some momentous things that have occurred. This year, we're going to actually have, and we've already had one of the two Sheffield Championships as they shift their schedule, shift their venue, and as the sport continues to evolve and grow. And I have the former Sheffield champ on and the second place Sheffield champ on and the multiple types of world game and championship winner here on today in Chell Beckland from Norway. And we're going to get into his history, his career, and what makes him so unique and what he has done, which is truly, I would say, a legendary performance in the 66 kilo class, which has not historically been his native class. And we're going to start that interview shortly after I appeased the gods of capitalism. So first, I wanted to let you know what happened before we started recording this episode, because if there is any illusion that my Instagram account has any representation of my bank account, this will disabuse you of that fact. So on my 2019 laptop, which I should obviously replace, but I have not, it honestly thinks that anytime I do a podcast, I'm actually trying to power a nuclear weapon. So the fan goes on so high that it actually creates this background noise. And I thought, you know what? I should grab one of the webcams from work. So yes, I'm actually stealing from AUT to fund my own personal business, but borrowing, but borrowing. And I thought that I did that and left it in the car. I did not. I checked the car. It was not there. I came back, restarted things. And that is actually why I kept Mr. Backlund up, uh, maybe a little later than intended. Um, just a few minutes starting late. And we're still actually going to have the same audio issues. And we just have to edit it out in post. And sorry, Trex, because I know that's what you're going to be doing. So hopefully the fan does not start, but you know, we got to roll with the punches. So if you want to help keep this podcast alive, maybe help me upgrade from a 2019 laptop to a 2020 laptop, make sure to give us a like, a subscribe, share it with your friends. If you're listening on the feed, give us five-star ratings. And also, hey, if you really want to be a star supporter of Iron Culture presented by Mass, what is Mass, you may ask? Well, that's the Mass Research Review, where we translate recent publications in sports science, sport nutrition, fitness, and health into practical takeaways with me and my colleagues. So if you want to really help us out, we'd love to have you as a Mass subscriber. I'm sure you'll love it. And then finally, if you're just like, listen, bro, I just lift. I do not need to know about the science of lifting. But man, I can't hold my grip on those final deadlifts when I say, hey, they're not comp legal. But Elite FTS makes some great gear, including great straps, and you can get a 10% off discount at everything at Elite FTS by using the code MRR10. That's for Mass Research Review 10. And now I've appeased the gods of capitalism. Chell Becklin, welcome to Iron Culture. Thank you, Eric. Thank you, Eric. Thanks for having me on. No, it is a true pleasure. And as you know, Iron Culture is all about history, science, and culture. However, the culture of Iron Game, however, has many diverse siloed, I would say, tribes that in some cases don't even ever talk to each other. So when I say Sheffield to some people, they know exactly what I mean. They know this is the all-star game equivalent of the champions of champions competing against each other, that it's hosted by SBD, that it's been going on since 2023. And they'll even get bonus credits if they want to appease my ego by saying, hey, didn't you coach at the inaugural Sheffield? And they say, oh, yes, I did. Thank you very much. It's all about me. But more often than not, if they're not American, they'll go, oh, yeah, isn't that a city somewhere in the UK? And I go, yes. However, what happens there is what's important. It's this meat. And if they're not a power lifter and they're also American, then they literally have no idea what I'm talking about because, you know, geography, Americans, that's kind of like chalk and cheese, oil and water, Republicans and Democrats, which are exactly, you know. So, nonetheless, for those who don't know, you recently had a surprise performance at the 2026 initial, because there's going to be another one later in the year, Sheffield performance. For those who listened to our collaboration episodes where we did our predictions for the Sheffield and our recap, which you could find under collaborations on YouTube, on King of the Lifts, hosted by none other than Six Pack Lapidap, the voice of powerlifting, if you will. We all were surprised by what Shell did because he dropped down to the 66-kilo class last time at Sheffield and kicked that world record down the field well into the 700s, the high 700s, with speculation that he would hit 800. He totaled 770, which is a massive increase in the world record. Crushed it. We predicted. Well, those of us who are correct predicted he would win. I'll say that for myself. But this time, we all had him somewhere in that bottom bracket, somewhere around 10th, 11th, or 12th. And that was because he had publicly lied and destroyed his credibility, saying, I'm going to do the 74s, and actively hid his decision to cut down to the 66s. But no, in all seriousness, I think it was a smart strategic move. Everyone was looking at Austin Perkins. Everyone was looking at Anthony McNaughton. Everyone was looking at Joe Borenstein, these top lifters who are all in contention for being some of the pound-for-pound greats. And then I turn on the live stream, and what is going on? They've got Shell Becklin listed as a 66, not a 74. Is this an error? What's happening? Why did they enter it wrong? Oh, no. He actually dropped down and had been dropping the whole time. And even more impressively, and then I'll let you tell it, you were struggling with that cut to 66 post-Sheffield. Your total actually started to decline from that 770 peak the year you won. And your weight was going up. You were kind of having the not ideal trajectory of these two numbers for the typical powerlifter. I'm going up a weight class from 66 to 74, and I'm having a lower total. And then I can come to find out that you're actually having to cut weight to make the 74s. But you were such a good athlete that you were still able to put up the victory at Euros, Worlds, and you had a fantastic year overall. But you had publicly stated that was crazy. I was on really low calories, really crazy high steps. It was impacting my family life. I'm out here doing weighted vest walks. I'm done with the 66s. I'm moving on. It's time for me to become the elder statesman in powerlifting. And then he just stealth weapons, sneaks in under the radar, and drops a bomb on us. So that's how it came to look for me from the outside. But I wonder if you could give us, we'll start with just how did this transition happen? But how did you go from feeling crushed, overworked, and what many of us competitive bodybuilders feel when we diet for a show, to going, oh, man, I need at least a couple of years off, to then coming back and putting up an even better performance at this year's first Sheffield. What enabled you to make that turnaround? What was the decision like? And then what was the actual process that allowed that to be successful this year? Just the first thing I want to say is that people thought I was struggling with weight to the first Sheffield because I had to weigh in twice. But they fucked up the scale. So we had one scale at the hotel. I was, I think, earlier in the day, I was like 65.7 or something. We get to the scale. I weigh 65.1 or something. I was, or I was 60, 65.9 or 66.0 straight before we went to the, to the venue. And I get there and I weigh like 900 grams under. And like, wow. Okay. Have I been laying in a bathtub and just having a hard time for nothing? Is this real? Is this calibrated? He said, yeah, of course it is. It's, it's, it's 100%. And other people like Jeroen's, Vascar went in and like, I'm spreading the word. Like the scale is, is under forever. At Pluto started drinking and that was a good thing to do actually. Because people have a hard time getting that. And Kedric said, drink, drink. But I'm like, but what if they do something? Yeah. Yeah. And they did. I think they, I think they did three female lifters and that they have to re-weigh them. So now you know. Yeah. And when I got on the scale again, I was 66.3 or four. Got it. So then I just did to run around and get down the last grams. That was like a big shock that that happened. And everyone was like, oh, you couldn't make weight. You really had to. So I was really in weight, but it just fucked up. Right. Yeah. Got it. But, but yeah. But I had a fantastic start of the year with the Sheffield win. And I was so motivated all around. Like people were talking, it was a huge victory. And then you have Euros and thinking that gaining some weight, but not muslimass, right? Just ravage the fat and water and getting to Euros and didn't really, I wasn't really ready for it, but I just wanted to win like everything that year. Did the same topo or five kilo more at that camp? Didn't give the, like the best feeling and I had to cut down. I was like 78 or 77 before the meet or something. So I really had to cut. That's kind of crazy when it's five, six weeks after. And I think the problem was after that, that because we just had a kid and the kid was sleeping in our room, we didn't really get that much sleep. So we put a lot of stress around that. And I was on so low on calories. And I think the problem, and it's probably just me, but when I'm on really low on calories and I'm finished at work, going to the grocery store to buy food and everything. And like, it would be really good with chocolates or something now. Just to get in something fast, just to have, just the cravings, right? And you eat that and then you, and then you drive out of the park or nothing. It's like, no, I shouldn't eat this. You have eaten like maybe 40 grams of it. It's probably a bit. You do the same thing the day after. And, and you do those kinds of things all the time. And because if you're doing that, you do more steps because you want to like reverse the thing you did. Right. It's, I went into like a cycle that was pretty bad. And my wife was saying that like, if you do things like that, you're making a problem for all of us because we have to eat like ground beef and rice. And you go and eat chocolate in the car. That's a big problem. And, and, and I wish that I could say, yeah, I will not do it. But it was so hard because I was so low on calories that I was like out of my mind. I didn't know what to do. Yeah. But I still was hoping for just to a great meat. I had a lot of time to worlds. And you had, you talked about like in the previous show, like it's seldom to do 800 is going to be a good meat. But you saw pretty early that I didn't have like the same focus, energy. Like you saw right through me. And right after the meat, you had, and we talked after the meat, like we, that you thought that I'm, I'm really, it is looking like I'm not a 66 thrifter. It's, it's, I can be a 66 thrifter, but I have to do it in a different way. And I also remember, I think it was two, three weeks before the meat, we had a nutrition course with the national team. And the nutritionist who was there was talking about, if you're on low calories for too long, this is going to happen. This is going to happen. And I was like, yeah, I have that, I have that, I have that, like everything. I have like everything. And that was, I think I really just needed to see it to just find out that thing that I'm doing, I was just hurting me. Yeah. For that, for that, for that was, I could take an easy title, but still it's, it's not, it's not worth it to feel that miserable. And when you said it after the, after the meat, just, you had like a monologue there for four or five minutes. And he just ripped my life apart. Like you, like we can't, we can't do this. And, and, and I really believed that. I really felt it. I'm like, yeah, yeah, it's probably right. And I was fine with that decision. And four or five weeks later, you probably heard about it, that I watched the F1 movie. That really changed everything. I don't know why, but something happened just by watching an older man and the end of his career, trying to find new challenges. And if you look at it now, 74 was never the way to go. Like you saw that even if I was 77 at World Games or 73 at Nationals, my total didn't increase. And it would probably increase in two, three years. I don't have two, three years. Yeah. I'm in this now. So then I started right after the movie, I drove to the gas station and was sitting there taking an audio message to Kedrick, just telling us, we will have to try 66 again. But if we're going to do it, we have to do it a different way. Like, just as you said, if, if, if this is possible, you, you really have to change a lot of things. And we did. And Kedrick was also on it, but he was also like, if this is going to be a failure as, as to Worlds, we will just quit. We will just go in 74. And I said, yeah, we can do that. That's, that's fine by me. And even if you go to 66 and you lift 500 kilos total, that would still be okay. Okay. And I'm like, yeah, sure. I just want to try. Just want to try one more time. So if I went to this meet and did really bad, it wasn't worth it. It's not worth it just to be in 66, just to lift. Because I've been in this sport for so many years. I want to lift good as well. And 782 is good in 66. But I want to achieve more than I did in 74. I want to be stronger. I want to have bigger numbers. So I always aim high. Yeah. And I think the difference from the last Sheffield, when the hype was on me all the time, every podcast I heard, even if it was from you or from Matt or every podcast was talking about. Childish Come to Win is, this is amazing. Everything is good. But this time, this was like more rogue thing. I was just working in the shadows, doing my own thing, just thinking that when people find out, they will just get crazy. And I think just in maybe December, I was thinking like, what if people don't care? If I just get there, like, oh, 66, people don't care. Like, oh, okay. So people really don't care. But they did. That was a good thing. But I thought that 66 was the obvious choice. Because I came to 891. I just did the whole year I did sub 800. I would probably just do 800, 900. But that wouldn't happen. So 66 for me was clearly obvious choice. But then for me, it was just start working with Tupul to not teach. I will go 66 months. Taking pictures of pizzas when we had lunch at work. Actively lying. Yeah, because people are eating pizza like every Tuesday and Friday. So I have to sit there with them smelling that wonderful pizza. And like, okay, let's just take a picture of it. Nice. People are just, ah, you're enjoying the 74 life. Yeah, yeah, really good. And everyone was just, every time I show some kind of crappy food, people loved it. Yeah, 74. Yeah, that's pretty good. So that was pretty easy. Every Q&AI had was about just saying, yeah, I'm 74. I'm done with 66. And we thought that even if people thought I was going 74, they would see it when they saw me. That, okay, you don't look like a 74. But when we got there, people didn't say a thing. And I just think that people were just focusing so much on, yeah, yeah, he said never 66 again. Even when Ramsey, leader of the White House Media, who's been taking, I don't know, 400 pictures of me. And when we took the Resolve, Resolve kit when I was 77 or something. I was lying to Megan and Rondell. And I got that the whole week. Like, yeah, I'm 74. And I hit, I hit like crap that week. So yeah, that they would. Just to hide it. Or just because I could. Strategic refeeds. I like it. To maintain the facade. Yeah. It was so crazy that I was like flexing when I was there. And Ramsey was like, that bicep is a really good 74 bicep. And I'm like, yeah, yeah, yeah. Nice. And I think that the only one who really saw it, like everyone can say now that every new year we're going to see the six. That's easy to say. But Gustav's girlfriend, Sanna, she saw me when I was changing in the, when we were doing the like the photo shoot. And I'm like, should I just change in the toilet? Because maybe it's too obvious. And she was just looking at me. I'm like, don't look at me like that. She's just looking at me like, I can see that you're shredded. But she didn't say anything. And the day before or the day of the lifting, she was talking to my wife. And she's like, how do you need to like cut water and gut cut and everything? Like I saw him, he looked like, he was in a house switch for three years. He was, he was sore shoulder. How could it be? How could it be 74? Or how do you have to cut to 74? She was like, just how it is. Nice. So just by getting there, weighing in light as well, 65.5 or something. That's so good. Like the control now from last time, it was so much better. Like we had more calories, less stress in life, probably more experienced will help as well. Like I've been cutting for 10 years, but cutting to 74 is much easier than cutting to 66. Right. So I think we just, I took your advice that I took that really to heart. The thing you said about when you're on a diet, do not like be your diet, do not talk about it. Like on the first, on the first effort, I was like, I'm an NHL and I'm on a diet. Right. This, this, and this. It was all about the diet. But now it was like that. Now if someone brought the jet, I was like, okay, I can take a little slice. And one was wondering. I think it's just like not drinking at a party. If you're not drinking, people are like, I don't want to talk to you. Yeah. If you just have, I don't know, lemonade in your glass or something, people are like, I'll just eat some alcohol. Yeah. Okay. Then it's good. So I think we did so many like correct things this time. And the same with training, we saw all our faults on the last time and changed it up. And it was a really good prep. It wasn't a perfect prep, but it was a really good prep. Yeah. I mean, there's never a perfect prep, right? You know, there's at least not for an athlete like yourself where you're always looking for ways to improve or things that could have gone better. Like hypothetically, there's a perfect prep, but it would take everything going perfect to the point where like, I just can't think of any way to be better, you know, but, uh, but it's just, you know, it's not realistic. So I totally get what you're saying. And I think I, uh, first I'm, I'm honored that, that I was able to provide some kind of perspective that was helpful, but it's also really understandable where you were the first time. So, um, just for a little bit of context, you know, I've coached probably a hundred people to the stage and it is the norm that the first time, unless they have some kind of really interesting background, like they used to be a wrestler and they regularly cut a big weight or they have some type of like photo shoot experience, something like that. When people drop to a very, very lean condition. And I would say you were absolutely in a comparable condition to certain physique athletes and different divisions, et cetera. Um, there's going to be a really tough rebound and it's so hard to not let the diet become all consuming because it's just this heavy focus. And it's a new thing you've never done the acute weight cut for someone who's dropping even as much as say 4%, 5% of body weight, especially if they do a lot of that with water. And the last week of the powerlifting meet or just, you know, manipulating things like gut contents, it means you're really only like actively dieting for maybe a month or two tops, but to drop to that level of condition and leanness to make a weight class, the water cut is honestly, it's a painful part, but it's not the bulk of the work. So exactly. Right. Especially for a veteran. I think three, four days before the meet is just super easy. Like, oh, you're not going to eat that much. Yeah, of course I haven't done that for the last five, six months. It's nothing, it's not a big deal. And at the same time, this time I'm at the hotel. I can just watch Rocky and just relax. And like when I was at the Worlds in Germany, I was playing World of Warcraft. I was drinking. Nice. Like drinking water and watching the live stream and watching, this has to be Roulant Loroz at the same time. That was like the perfect thing that I can do to just relax and just drink and pee. Drink, pee. That's so much easier than trying to, you have to drink eight liters of water. You have to be at work. You have to go to like the kindergarten to get the kids. Yes. You can't even like wait there for two minutes because you're going to pee yourself. Like things like that, that's the problem. Just being a total, being an athlete, that's the easy part. That's well said. Yeah. I think just to give people context, you know, even when people kind of know what's coming, it is not at all uncommon to have a pretty big weight gain after the diet. So my first time, I did not know it was coming. I dieted down for my first competition in 2007, a long time ago, probably around the time you did your first meet. And in two months, I had put on 22 kilos. So I gained 48 pounds in about two months after my first season. And it was, you know, you probably could have clinically diagnosed me with binge eating disorder. I didn't have a plan. I didn't know it was coming. And it really eroded my self-efficacy. It took time to recover. And I was totally mentally focused on my bodybuilding prep. And then each subsequent season, it got easier. I was able to push to a leaner condition and then not rebound as high. And, you know, now my off-season weight is lower than it was when I was, you know, in my early career. And my stage weight is higher. And I'm leaner on stage. So it truly is something that is a skill and develops over time. And the first time is always the roughest. So I think to give people some background, you know, you said a few things about, you know, how like an 892 total wouldn't be probably not realistic. You talked a little bit about your experience. Just for those who aren't aware, Chell burst back onto the scene coming into the raw division is the one real threat to Austin Perkins. So Austin Perkins is essentially the heir to Taylor Atwood, who was the pound-for-pound goat. I want to say in another era, but I mean, he's still competing. Like powerlifting is moving so fast. But he was the, just a couple years ago before he went up to 83. Taylor Atwood, who you have a history with, was the 74-kilo goat. He had totaled a peak of, I think, 838.5 at U.S. Nationals. And Austin Perkins came around and started bumping that up into the 840 range. But there was one contender who had come back, you know, to the raw side of the sport after a bit of time away. And you were putting up, I want to say your best total was 815. Does that sound right? That I think you did. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think you did that at either the Arnold. Yeah, I think that, yeah, I was at the Arnold. Yeah, so all of a sudden now, at that time, you're within one missed attempt of catching Austin lacking. But Austin would continue to rise. And that 892 is what he put up just a few weeks ago, you know, at the end of January to win the Sheffield title. And create the most dominant men's pound-for-pound performance ever. You know, 891.5, I believe, is the official total that he put up. Which is just insane. And if it wasn't for there being probably some baby powder on the bar, we'd probably be looking at a 900 total. Which is just absolutely nuts for even one weight class up. And it is putting you in potential podium contention at Worlds in the 93s in recent times. So it is truly a stellar performance. And you were right there in second at 782. And you were recapping, essentially, your experience of 2025. Where you won the 2025 Sheffield totaling 770. Shocking everybody with the weight cut. And then you went on to win Euros World Games. And you even, I think, podiumed it at a... You won World Championships and then podiumed at World Games. All in the, you know, 74 or kind of the middleweight division at World Games. But your history is not just this recent era. I mentioned that you have history with Taylor Atwood. You're one of the few people who can say, hey, I took a World Championship title off Taylor. And I was there for that. That was at 2017 Worlds in Belarus. That was Bryce Lewis' first appearance where he took silver. My first time coaching at Worlds in person, which was really cool. And you beat Taylor. And that was when I think you got crowned the goat killer. So you have this reputation, which I think is well-earned, of being the... I don't think we should say unlikely at this point. You've done it too many times. But at the time, at least, like the unlikely contender who does things and maximizes his own performance to the best of his capability. And catches people who are seen as these untouchable goats. Like a Taylor Atwood. Like an Austin Perkins at the first Sheffield. And just these incredible performances. And... But even that doesn't speak to your true history in the sport. And you mentioned how you have kids now. You mentioned how you're not sure how many years you have left in the game. So I would love to get a little more history from you. So, Chell, how old are you? When was your first powerlifting meet? And how long have you been competing in this sport? And across how many different weight classes and divisions? To give people context to your run as a powerlifter. So, I'm 37. Turning 38 this year. I've been competing since 2007. So, been in the sport for 19 years. Had around... I think I have around 90 meets or something. And most of them are winning meets. So... And... What was the other question? Is that again? Yeah. So, you've got... Your first meet was 2007. You're turning 38. And you've competed... Let's see. So, you must have started competing as a junior. If I get my math right. Is that right? Yeah. I was a junior. I think I was first year of a junior. And... And... I started... In the 82.5. That was back then. And I weighed in at 76 or something. Right. To my first beat, I was really trying to cut to 75. Because I really wanted to take the national record of the bench. And I did that just a week before. I'm like... One kilo, I can do that. And I was walking so much. I was sweating. I was trying my all to get down to that weight. Within at 76. Didn't have a chance. Great problem just eating fries or a sausage. Right before I was starting to lift. But it was another culture back then, right? You were supposed to be bulky. You were supposed to be just as strong as possible. No one was lean. Maybe some Americans. But they could probably eat tartag and look like Arnold anyway, right? So... Sure. But... So I had my years in 83. From 2007 until... 2016. 2016 was my first official raw meat. I would just want to try something new that I wanted to try. Because I really hated raw. I was really against it. Like, I really didn't like... There were some things that I've said, like... Raw lifting is not going to be big. And COVID is not going to be a big thing. So... The internet? The internet? The internet? The internet's not going to take off. You know? These things. Yeah. Give it a good shot. But come on. Yeah. So... So... Then I did 74 for... Is it nine years or so now? And then... Yeah. Yeah. I had 66 for the last year. So... I'm going downwards. But it's... Yeah. It's no 59. No 59. Yeah. You probably have to cut off one of those very long arms of yours. Yeah. Probably. I think... That's... That's really good context for people. I think a lot of people are not aware of the monumental shifts in a relatively short time period that have gone on culturally in the sport of powerlifting. I think probably one of the things that contributed to you not being really open to Raw is that when you started lifting in 2007, the IPF did not have Raw. And it wouldn't until 2012. You know? I think that was the first international classic cup. And it wasn't even called the World Championships proper, although it has been historically counted as that. So you had, you know, five years in the game before Raw was even a real option. But as everyone knows the history, it just opened up the doors to so many more people participating. And there also happened to be a pretty big movement in the Raw side outside of the IPF. You know, this is around that time, Dan Green, Boss of Bosses, Raw United, you know, these other kind of American... based, uh, big movements that brought some attention to it. So as soon as the IPF opened it up, it was like the floodgates. Because I remember competing in California in the U.S. where you'd think there'd be maybe a few more options and all these other, you know, meets. And sometimes I would be competing Raw against people who were in equipment. Or there was a Raw division, but no one would do it. Um, and it wasn't, again, around that same time where that totally changed. And I think people also don't understand that with that huge door opening to a broader population and accessibility became this huge influx in the talent levels. You know, we talked about how you competed at the Arnold in total 815. Um, I remember that, uh, a big benchmark for how good you were in the pre, uh, like, like current era was what was your Wilkes score, which is a coefficient that they don't even use anymore, uh, relative to the Arnold qualification. Because this was kind of seen as a pathway where you're not going to Worlds necessarily. And there was a time period where there was a 350 Wilkes requirement to, to, to qualify for this, you know, invitational meet. And that was considered like good and higher. And then it got bumped up to 365, the next year, 375, and the next year jumped to 400, and the next year jumped to 435. And I remember this specifically because it was one of my goals that I thought was pretty reasonable. And I thought I was a decent lifter in the, in the early 2000s because my Wilkes was just around 400, right around the time it jumped from 375 to 400. And I was like, I can get this. And then the next year it hit 435 and I wouldn't hit a 400 Wilkes until a couple of years later. So it exposed me as someone who was only a small fish in a small pond, even at the kind of sub elite level that I thought it was. But you, my friend, I think where, based upon where you started, people would have thought, oh, this guy is just a bench specialist. It's also impressive considering how long your arms were. Like you were talking about, you know, you were a junior and you were in the 75 slash 82 and a half class. And, you know, you're, you're, you're looking at a close to a 180 bench pretty early in your career, if I recall correctly. And now, you know, you're benching raw, uh, you know, 200, right? So in, in, in a weight class lower. So I think the progression is pretty incredible, but I don't know that people would have thought that you would have been as talented as you are now today. If they looked at your very early career, because you're, I think you're like your earliest numbers, you're basically like right around like 200, 200, 200, you know, like your squat bench deadlift. We're all, all pretty similar, which is some of that's from the equipment, but it's also just goes to show you that. I want to say, what is your best raw deadlift? It's like three 40. I think it's your, at your peak, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. It's three 40. Yeah. Yeah. So a massive deadlift, uh, especially for your weight class, but just for anybody and your squat, which isn't necessarily your strongest lift, but that's come up a tremendous amount as well. You, you, you can squat for the American 600 pounds. I think you've done 272 and a half raw. Um, so starting where you were to where you are now, while I clearly got left behind, you continued to rise with the, uh, the sport. So you've had one of the longest arcs in improving as an athlete, despite the fact that you've been actually going downward in trajectory with your weight class, which I think is really impressive. And it speaks to, um, smart programming, longevity, a good perspective, and also just an indomitable drive. So to give a little more context, every year that raw has grown and grown and grown, I remember in 2014, 2015, 2016, uh, it being mind boggling, just how strong people were getting and, oh man, we're actually getting kind of close to single ply or things like that. Or, um, oh, these, these, these, uh, the guys in the IPF are catching up to some of the guys who are, who are untested. We didn't even know how good things were going to be 10 years later. I think, uh, in 2016, there were people winning world titles that would now not be able to podium two weight classes higher than they were at that time. So I was wondering, I, I, I want to hear from you, like when you think about the early raw era, what, what, like, what did you conceive of as strong? What were your totals then? And how are they, they doing for you? And how do you compare that to now? And do you ever look back and go, wow, I can't believe how much stronger I am? That's kind of hard because I always just look at who my competitors are. So that's the problem with social media and stuff like that. I can see, when I look at myself, I see like a terrible squatter. But when you see, I can go to every gym and be pretty strong. I'm not, I'm not, I'm not the best squatter, but I'm, that I can squat like 260, weighing 66. That's pretty good. That's 15 kills on the dual record. From Jonathan Garcia, that is a pretty amazing squatter. So that, that, that's fine. But when I think about like what the prok are doing, it's like, it's, I just can't believe it. But from back, back in the days, like I had a meet in 2014, regional championship. This was two weeks before the Arnold's. I was doing a deadlift, a whole meet, equipped. I just tried it out. Just, just wanted to do like a fun meet. I did like 252 or 250, 195 and 370.5. And we called back in deadlift. That was 760 or 770 or something. And this was over the world record back then. And I'm like, low lifting? Nah. Yeah. And this was in 83 back then. And I, I really wish that I tried it before. I really wanted to lift against breath and everything. I really wonder how my career would be different. Yeah. If I, if I, if I did so. But, and then I think the biggest problem about this is you get to 2017. And you have Taylor who is, he isn't the Taylor that he is now, right? He is still, still was cocky. He still was Taylor. But he hadn't won anything yet, right? He had won some nationals, but, and I just crushed him. He was cocky. I wasn't. I crushed him. He left. Didn't say anything. Came back. And I made a monster out of him. And they changed everything. And he came back and he was, he was amazing. But I think for me that I will not say I'm, I was dominating the equip, but I was one of the best days to equip. Had some gold, some, had a gold record. I was a world champion. And trying to roll out my first international meet, I win by 20 kilos or something on Taylor. I think it was, it was too easy for me. Yeah. So it made me slack off and I didn't take it that seriously. So 2018 comes and I didn't really train that well and I got injured and I really didn't want to go to Worlds because I didn't, I really didn't train well. And then we have 2019 Rose and I also hear in 2018 that Taylor was really pissed off that I wasn't there. 2019 comes and I know through the whole prep that I'm really not ready to do a good meet, but I'm more like, let's just go and just get beaten and just see what happens. And I just get there and he, you know, that when you have your worst day and you see him have the best day and it really doesn't help that Jason and Ben comes to you afterwards, like we are now in for lifting and I'm like, yes, where is the knife or pistol so I can shoot myself? I'm just so, because it's, it's not really that to lose to Taylor. It's that I did 758 in 2007. I come back in 2019 and doing 732.5 and Taylor does 720 or 730 at the, at the meet in 2017, comes in 2019 doing 790. And I just see what the hell have I been doing the last two years? And I go away from raw. I'm like, maybe I'm not just built for doing this. I'm not built for doing like the big raw totals. And it was really fun to just come back in 2023 and just do that 800 total and beat Taylor's record. That was kind of insane actually, because I never thought, or I really wanted to take that record, but I really didn't think that, or maybe I thought like deep inside that it was possible, but I hadn't done it yet. So from the, from the meets in, I did, um, worlds in Malta, 23, I did 760 and I did 800 by four months later. So that was like a super year. And I think that just started to roll that I got the feeling that, oh, maybe I'm, maybe have something to do here. Yeah. Do you think, do you think going back and forth between, you know, single ply and, and, and classic helped your longevity in the sport? Not just physically, because I know that a lot of lifters have talked about how it, you know, it distributes a little bit differently. If you have pain in a bottom position, it gives you more support, but also psychologically to keep you invested. And for such a long time period. I think that, I think, I think it doesn't have anything to do with the pain. I think it's more about, I'm a guy who really likes to win. And I just got, just got beat like harder and harder by Taylor for every year and don't get in the progress because you're so, I don't know, you can't like find the motivation to like keep going to maybe just lose by 40 kilos instead of 80, just by going back to equipped. And I didn't really do that serious either, but it was enough. I remember we had the World Games qualifier at the World 21 in Norway. And I was really on the fence. Should I quit now or should I continue? If I get a podium spot, I will go to World Games. If I'm, if I don't do that, I would probably quit. And I end up by bombing out in the squad. But I got one white light. So the jury changed it. And I got back in the meet and won the meet. And did beat, uh, with Olek for the second time. Who has won, like, 20 World Titans, right? Yeah, he, he's, he might be the most decorated male equipped lifter of all time. Possibly in IPF, I think. Probably. Yeah. And I think the budget, by doing that, okay, then we can continue at least two World Games. And then... Michelle, I just want to point out to the listener that your career has been marked by these moments of, like, like you're talking about your drive to win. And I think you do exactly what every athlete really needs to do is you evaluate and you get so motivated by when you're not at your best. It's not just about where you are relative to other people, which I love. Like, you do want to win, but you also want to be at your best and you want to improve. And I think those two things coexisting is so critical for longevity in the sport at a very high level and you have them. So just as an example, you didn't win the first time you went to Junior Worlds. You had a couple of rough times and then you won Junior Worlds. Then you didn't win the first time you went to Open, you know, Equip Worlds. And I think it wasn't until 2013 that you won, like, an Open World title. I was thinking it was Open. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. So you had to do that. And then, you know, you came over to Raw. You beat Taylor. You know, you became a World Champion now across both Equip and Classic in 2017. And then, like you described, you took some pretty nasty knocks and just couldn't hang. And you were like, well, screw it. Went back to Equip, started doing well. And then now we're kind of back to this timeline where you make this comeback. You take the world record off of Taylor after beating him for the first time and then getting smoked. So you guys have this generational battle. And now you've actually managed a way to continue to stay relevant in the face of people who are just phenomenal. You know, like these untouchable giants by figuring out, all right, listen. I have. You know, I've done the Age Category Worlds thing. I've done the Equipped and the Raw Worlds thing. You know what? You know what I haven't done? I've taken advantage of the fact that I'm actually a lot shorter than the rest of these guys. And maybe I can cut all the way down to 66, preserve my strength. And you did that with the help of, you know, now Dr. Kidrick Kwan. Big shout out to him for finishing his PhD. It's been an honor to watch him, you know, evolve his career and become the most sought after and successful nutritionist, I think, in powerlifting at the moment. So I just wanted to take a second to point that out, that you have had this, you know, defeat, comeback, defeat, comeback, defeat, comeback, probably four or five times in the chapter of your career. And each time it seems you come back more resilient. So I think it's a really cool story. Yeah, I also think that, like, this is in 2022, after World Games, going to Worlds and win that. And I think three, four weeks later, I'm going to Europeans just to try, just to try Lifting Classic again or Raw. And I get fifth place. I'm doing 6.92, I think. I got beaten by Eddie Berdwin, Alexander was beating me. And this was guys I was beating from. I've never lost to these guys. And three more or something like, and I'm like, what the fuck is this? Is this me, 6.92? What is that? And when I'm getting defeats like that, it's not fun. But it does something with me. Like, now it's just like, now we just need to focus. And then come back and do really good. It feels so, and it happens every time. Like you said, like, I get defeated, and I get back. And, like, I lost to Berk in Lithuania, 24. Yeah, I didn't come back as a 74, but I did something that still. You found a way. You found a way. Life found a way, and I did. And it was. Oh, the Jurassic Park quote. Just want to give some love right there. I love it. Go ahead. Yeah, it was. And just coming to that and just doing, like, having an nutritionist for the first time, just really eating good for the first time. Like, before, when I was cutting to meats, I ate ham and protein milk. That was, like, the disease. I was eating. That was the diet. I love it. I love it. So, yeah. And it worked. Having someone who really knew this. I've got a question about that specific showdown where you knew if things went really well for you, and Austin didn't have his best area slipped up, you could have potentially beat him in Lithuania. This is 2024 Worlds. But you really had quite a good meet for yourself. I think, I know you didn't make all the attempts you wanted and things, you didn't feel like you were at your peak, but you knew that you couldn't beat him on raw strength. I think you knew that going into it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm sure. For sure. Like, yeah. It's, yeah. It's, when you have someone as Austin. Yeah. Who squats 50 kilo more than you, or that was worse. That was 100 kilo. At the time. At the time. Yeah. Yeah. But his bench and deadlift is, where am I going to take the kilos back? Like, there's no way. It's just, it's just the facts. That there's no, you have to psych him out, or he have to fuck up because of the pressure he's building up on himself. Like, Perk is his biggest, like, grower, because he's, he has so, he was putting a tremendous pressure on himself. Yeah. So, that was like the plan. And, and I thought that maybe I was possible to beat him. Because my training was pretty good until maybe four weeks before. And, you're saying, like, I had a good meet, and I'm like, did I really? And, when you say the numbers, I'm like, it was a pretty good meet. Yeah. 8-12. Right? Yeah. Yeah. It was a good meet. Yeah, yeah, that's good. Yeah. And, just by, because I didn't win, I just think back at that meeting, like, I was a failure. Right. Right. Right. And, my wife, right after the, the comp, she was like, now I've been hiding all the knives in the house. Wellness check. Note to self, start doing wellness checks. I'll call them, I'll call them chelness checks, just to make sure you're okay next time you don't have a good performance. But, let me ask you this. Let's say that things had gone just slightly more your way at 2024 Worlds. And, you got 9 for 9. And, maybe you totaled, let's say, 825. Right? But, you still lost. And, Austin still totaled 836. Which, it's crazy to think he's almost, you know, 70 kilos, 60 kilos, more than that now. How, how do you think you would have felt? Just trying to evaluate your psychology as an athlete. Things did go well. Maybe it wouldn't be the perfect meet, because, like I said, that doesn't exist. But, you're like, wow, I, I was the best version of myself I've been at Worlds against a competitor who's just stronger than me. Do you think you'd need to hide the knives? Or, would you look and go, hey, you know what? What, what am I going to do? It's, it's, it's Austin Perkins. I remember after my wife said, like, I'm hiding knives. I'm, I was like, I'm, I'm not really that bound out. I, it was still just 2.5 kilos under my, my best. And, and I did win, but I thought that it would be possible for a wild card. Yeah. But if I did 8.25, it would be, would be over the world record and I would probably get the place to get, like, a third spot or something to, to Sheffield. Right. If I did 8.25, I would be super happy because I've learned better. It's all about that. It's the same now with Sheffield. Like, I'm, now I'm 66. I have to focus on my 66 numbers and did 7.70. Then I did 7.42 and then I went up to 7.82. So, I'm super happy. When people are asking, like, are you satisfied with the meat? They're like, more like thinking that I'm suicidal because I didn't win. Right. You know what? It went to plan 100%. Like, 100%. We were focusing on second place. We were focusing on the deadlift record, the total record and getting second place. And we did all of that. We couldn't win. And if we did, that would be a really bad meat for Austin. What else? We probably would have tried if he didn't get his third squat and third deadlift. Then it would be interesting. So, then we probably would have tried. But, yeah. I think, like, for me, it's more about just improving. I thought you'd say that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like, and that's that balance that I think I was speaking to earlier. You know, like, it's understandable. Like, I think people listen and go, 8.12. It's only two and a half less than your best. And you did it at Worlds. And I go, yeah, you know, but you didn't necessarily go, like, nine for nine. But it's Sheffield where you play second. And for those who don't know, Sheffield is based upon the percentage over the world record that you're, the weight class you're in. So, at Sheffield most recently, you were 66. Austin's a 74. So, the direct head-to-head comparison isn't there. And you're looking more so at the percentage over the world record. So, when we had that 8.12 versus the 8.36 comparison at Lithuania, you're missing a few lifts. You weren't at your best. You hadn't improved. I think that's understandable. But when we look at Sheffield, this is, I noticed is you were, you seemed very, very happy with your performance. Very satisfied. Yet, you play second at Sheffield, which is incredible. Because it is, again, the best of the best. You didn't beat Austin. And it didn't seem to be something that really stuck with you. And I think, also, if you look at your attempts, you made a 2.5-kilo jump on bench and couldn't get it. So, you got everything out of yourself on bench you could have. You made a 5-kilo jump on squat and didn't get that. I mean, so, really, like, if you could wind back the clock, at most, you're totaling, like, 7.84, 7.85. So, you're 7.82, you know, and you improved. And that's the difference between, I think, you know, Lithuania wasn't just placing second to you. It was also, I didn't do my best on the platform. I didn't improve on my total. And, you know, sure, I couldn't have necessarily beaten Austin straight up. But I didn't even put myself in a position to where I had that opportunity. While at Sheffield, you're like, hey, I had almost a perfect meet. And I placed second. You know, I'm satisfied. Is that an accurate representation? Yeah, I'm really satisfied. And I'm like, I didn't get the 265, but it was really close. Last time, I had a really close call as well. But at that time, I got it. So, it seems like that just happens, right? We can't get every lift. And for all I know that I didn't get it. But what if I scored 270 at next Sheffield? That's a bigger PR. So, I think that every kilo I don't get. Because even if I got 265 at bench 200, I still wouldn't get second place. Or first place. So, like, the best thing that happened was that I didn't get it. Like, I wish that on my first Sheffield that I didn't get the 317.5 that I left. Because, or, that's kind of hard. Because Matt said 760. And if he was right, that means that we were wrong. That's right. I think it was better. I think it was better that we were right. 100%. No. Yeah. You preserved our legacy. You know? So, your wins are my wins because I'm predicting them. So, therefore, I totaled, you know, 760. You did. You did. I'm very strong. Thank you. And, man, what a weight cut for me. All the way down from 90 kilos. That's tough. So, yeah. No, but in all seriousness, I think that's great perspective. I know some of the listeners are very interested in the actual tactics, the approach, and what changed for you. I think people just don't even really recognize how impressive a 770 total was at 66. You know, you put, I mean, like, worlds and podium spots are based upon whether you're right around 700 at the time. You know, we had, you know, a rough day. I totaled, you know, 690, and then people are tying on body weight to win around 700, right around this era. So, 770 was like a 10% increase on what is like a world champion total. Everyone's like, bonkers, mind blown. And now, but then, man, you had that rebound. You had that crash that we talked about to start the podcast. You explained what it was like where you were mentally. And now you're at 782. You came back to a weight class that you thought you were done with, and it seemed to be a mental shift. And I know exactly what you're talking about. You know, I'm turning 43 this year. I just had my best appearance at Worlds. This is WMBF Worlds. I'm not nearly strong enough to go to Worlds except for coaching and the IPF. But I can look strong or at least look reasonably muscular. And, you know, I have that same drive. And I remember watching, it wasn't the most recent Rocky movies, but it was the one where he comes back because of like a, he sees a prediction. Yeah, he sees the prediction of like the virtual fight and he's like, you know what, I'm not done. And he comes back in his 40s. Yeah, exactly. You and I are like, I get it, you know, because. Yes, 100%. How much time do I have left, right? And do I feel satisfied? Can I close the book and go, yep, that is a satisfying career, at least competitively. I'm not going to stop lifting. Yes, exactly. I have something left. And then when he finishes the fight, he's like, I'm satisfied or something. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes. I worked it out, you know. So I don't think either one of us are done and we want to keep pushing. But we're also acutely aware that we don't really get to choose when we hit our last PR or when we reach the peak of our physique. We don't know. So the decision to go, pardon my French, fuck it, I'm going 66 because how many more meets do I have left in me? The decision for me to go, you know what, I'm going to compete and just put everything into bodybuilding because, you know what, you got a long arc in bodybuilding, possibly longer than powerlifting because I don't have to squat bench and deadlift heavy. But there's a lot of guys coming up and I don't know how much more blood can I squeeze from the stone. So I understand 100%. And I think that is what opens the door. But I think people want to know what did you do once you walked through and you committed? What were the changes that you've made to your mentality but also just the day-to-day nutrition training that enabled you to improve upon that 770 total? And what wisdom do you have for other people who might be in a position where they could be trying to cut down to, you know, a pretty borderline sustainable weight class for their, you know, size? You mean 770 now or 782? Yeah. So for 782 versus 770, what changed? What enabled this A to be possible to do it again and not just say, you know, screw it as far as tactics? Because I think psychologically I understand why, why you took another shot, but it worked. So what did you do that worked and enabled you to improve? I think that just by experience it, that it's actually, it was possible. I think that, I think this time I didn't really think that much of the weight because before I just ate really little because I wanted to weigh as less as possible. But now I use nutrition to try to perform as good as possible. So that was a big change. Like when I had my big STD days every second Friday, it was, I ate really good because I wanted to perform as good as possible on the day. That made a big deal. All the external stress all around me. I tried to like get it down. Probably some with the pressure that people didn't know probably helped a little. That I really liked the pressure, but for maybe for the nutrition, it really doesn't help that much. Whenever you're expecting like you're going to weigh, people are saying it's impossible or it's going to be pretty hard. And I think if, if I was alone, didn't have kids, didn't have life and just do my own thing, it would probably be so much easier. And we took the calories up, that we got it up to a place that I didn't crave that much. I think that it would be better to have a baseline that is higher through the whole prep instead of just being really low and just go on mistakes by mistakes by eating some shit. Right. And I think that's. So can I, can I ask you about that really quick? Yeah. So I, I think sometimes, you know, and sometimes I like Ryan really likes to focus on like the step counts, the macros, the numbers, and he kind of compares those. But what I think a lot of athletes and coaches realize is that, um, it's not necessarily about what's prescribed, but it's about what you can adhere to. And I think there's this assumption with high level athletes that we're superhuman, that we never make mistakes, that we don't have adherence issues. And I can tell you, even coaching crazy bodybuilders, it's probably the minority that never go off plan, you know, have a slip up report in and go, Hey coach, sorry, but I just had a, I had a blowout, you know? Um, and I think sometimes coaches, they will take a really kind of top down approach and athletes feel guilty about it. Like, Oh, it's almost like skipping my training. I don't want to admit it. And they feel like they can't tell their coach and maybe their coach doesn't make it easy for them to do so. Hey, I slipped up. And instead they just go, yeah, hitting the numbers, but weight isn't going. And something that I coach kind of other coaches to do is, is to really make it a, like a comfortable, safe environment for the athlete to talk about adherence and not you're a liar. You're a bad person or punish you because there's this, for those who are listening on the podcast feed, I'm holding up an X like I'm a DMX fan, but it's an inverse relationship between the size of the intended deficit. Or how low your calories get and adherence. Meaning that your adherence go, actually it's, it's, it's not an inverse relationship. It is, it is a linear relationship. The higher, the, well, I guess the lower the calories, the lower the adherence. Or another way to say it is the higher the deficit, the lower the adherence. And I think also the pressure and all those things that add to, to an athlete can contribute to that. So what you want to find is something that is truly quite sustainable because then you reduce the number of instances where that athlete is just struggling to adhere. And also it, you have to have a really, really good rapport and communication with them. So they feel like they can come to you and say, yeah, four days a week, I can hit 1600 calories. But on that fifth day, all it takes is me being out of chicken breast and the wife saying, hey, do you want to get pizza? And I go, you know what? Sure. And, and then I look up the next day. There you go. Right. And you look up and you go, God damn it. And then what does the coach do? Well, the athlete is a choice. Either lie about it and act like I'm stalling. Oh, say I skipped my weigh-in next morning. And the coach goes to me, what do I need to do? Well, I got to cook calories further. And the problem continues. Ideally, what you want to be able to say is, hey, coach, here's what happened. And the coach goes, okay, well, you know what? I want you to go into those instances with more resilience. So maybe we don't crush you with four days of 1600. If, you know, you're always getting off work late on this day and, you know, you come home and your wife doesn't want to deal with cooking because she had a rough day. That's going to be a refi day. We're going to give you a buffer up to 2800 calories. And also the next morning we'll have your big SBD day. And that's the kind of, you know, tactics that enable. There you go. Mate, I've done it before. I've unfortunately been the coach who has set up athletes to fail. So I think these are things that when you really just focus on the numbers, you'd be like, oh, man, you were doing weighted vest walks, 1600 calories. And this time you were eating, you know, 2000 plus calories. You weren't doing the weighted vest walks. How did you do that? Did your metabolism shift? And it's like probably not the metabolism. It was probably, and let me know, it was more related to how well you could follow the diet, how sustainable it felt, and the stress that it put on you while following it. Is that accurate? Yeah, for sure. We still had the weighted vest. We still, but it was, we went from, because the thing you just said, like, that when I just hear it, I'm like, stop, like, stop being in my brain. Like, I ate too much because I couldn't handle it. Yeah. I lied to Kedrick and wrote a wrong weight on the scale. Like, this was for the first effort, right? I said everything was okay, but I had 20,000 steps weighted vest, right? 18 kilos. Out at night. Like, my recovery is worse because I was going out the whole night. And I think that I felt, like, embarrassed. Of course. I think so. Because every time, every time I just think about, probably the thing I just think about, like, who is really, like, into it is, like, Emil Kratsev. He's, like, probably if you see his food log, it's, like, it was never a calorie over. It's, like, it's super extreme every day, right? You never fuck up. Ex-bodybuilder, by the way. Yeah, yeah, that really helps. But I think that that was the problem all along, that I was, every time that I made a mistake, I ate too much. I didn't tell him about it. I tried to fix it myself to get down. Maybe it could be, like, two weeks without having the right scale. And I was eating much less. And I was walking much more. And I was stressed about it all the time. Then I got down to weight. And then I was just off. I was just really tired and my hip was really hurting because I was walking so much. So, but this time we had, like, 400 more calories through the whole breath. That, that's a lot when you're not eating that much. And what you're doing with it, like, the first Sheffield I had, we had, like, Norwegian, like, some kind of a protein shot with milk. 62 grams protein. You know, for a liter is pretty good. But it's also 450 calories. And if I drink 108 of my calories, I should use them more efficiently. So, I changed all of those things that not drinking any calories, trying to eat better for performance. And, and I wasn't, of course, I was hungry at the, at the end of the course. And not the bread. I think the, the, the, the biggest wake-up call was that I've never tried dark chocolate in my whole life. That's like, I'm not eating that. Like, get out of the way. Dangerous. And, but I ate it at, uh, the day before Sheffield. At the gut cut. And like, this tastes really well. This, why haven't I tried this before? And I tried it two days ago. And like, I'm never going to eat this again. It doesn't taste good at all. Like, what, what did I think? Hungry man palate. Everything tastes good. Yeah. But I, I can see it from my TikTok or Instagram that everything is food. Watch your food. People eating donuts all the time. That, that, that's my thing. Like, I'm just watching it. I just really looking forward to eating that. But when, when the meat is done, it's like, I can have a pizza, but I don't have to eat 10 pizzas. So what a shift in mentality. Yeah, yeah, for sure. And that felt really good to just, I know that when Sheffield was done, I wasn't going to, to weigh 68. Because that would be just done. But stay around 72 would be so much easier when you don't have to, like, feel, feel like crap or feel that now I have to take back all the calories I didn't eat. So there was a really big change on everything to this meat. I think we did 95% right this time. And now we're going to do 100. Yeah. Proof's in the pudding. Yeah. I think, and there's still opportunities for improvement. Like maybe not making food porn your, your Instagram reel. To, to produce the, to reduce the cravings. But, but no, you, you, it sounds like you chose foods that had more satiating, you know, ability. So higher, higher food volume with lower calories, no liquid calories. You're using targeted refeeds around your training. You're not advertising the fact and making it everything that you are dieting. You're not in the dieting 12-step program. Hi, my name is Chell. I'm on a diet. Yeah. That's a huge part of it. Yeah. That, that, that. And also that every time when I had a refeed day, let's say Christmas or New Year's Eve or, then the problem last time was if I had a refeed day, it was four refeed days. Yeah. It turned into a, it blew, it blew out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But, but this time it's like one day I was not crazy, but yeah, more calories than I should. And the next day I was right back at it again. So. Yeah. Yeah. We figured it out. Yeah. One, one of the mantras that I think is very helpful that you kind of learned just from the first time of doing it is I tell myself the food's always going to be there. You know, I'm, I'm choosing to restrict my calories. I am not someone who is in the ice age and I fell upon this magic feast and it's going to be gone tomorrow. So I better eat it all. Right. It's like, you know, I'm stopping voluntarily at 2,100 calories and tomorrow I could eat 10,000 if I wanted, but I'm, it's not, it's not gone. Like the, the kind of letting yourself know in the moment that this is, you know, it's a choice. You're, you're safe. You're good. Cause it is really like an existential threat to who we are as human beings. Right. So yeah, massive mindset shift, targeted nutrition changes. It sounds like you improved on the communication and honesty with your coach, which I just want you to know how normal that is. When you are a high performing athlete, you have a high degree of self-efficacy. It's a hard thing to do to tell your coach. I didn't follow the plan. I messed up. And you're, you did exactly what many athletes would do. You know, I'm going to fix this on my own. You don't need to worry about this. This is on me. I'll get us back on track. Don't worry about it. I'll just do extra cardio. And then those things compounding. Right. So I think those soft, what people would consider not the hard skills or the quantitative aspects of what changed are sometimes by far the most important things like, uh, improved communication, integrating the diet with your life and making sure that it is agile. And, you know, not, not taking a mentality that puts so much pressure on you to where you've got to fix your oopsies and that the oopsies are, are data points to improve upon and learn from rather than, you know, chinks in your armor that you want to hide. So just a big kudos to you, man. I really appreciate you going through that. I think people will, will be able to look at this and go, wow, this man has been next year, 20 years in the game, which is going to be something I hope you celebrate. Um, with a world games championship, multiple equipped and raw championship titles, uh, a Sheffield title. And I guess we're, we're potentially going to be looking at another raw win in a different weight class for you at worlds, which would be a pretty fun, that that's, that's the next first, uh, thing for you. Right. Cause you have not yet won a world title at 66. I did last year. No, that's right. Of course you did. Yeah. What am I talking about? Yeah. Yeah. But, but we can say world games, world games. Yes. I haven't done that. That you haven't done. Yeah. Yeah. I still haven't. You got to make it till there. So yeah, I guess that, that's the question I had for you and I didn't tee it up well because I immediately controverted, uh, your record that I got right previously. Um, what is next for, for you? What do you, what do you have your eyes set on? Yeah. For this year is, it will only be worlds in Dubai in June and that, uh, Sheffield in, in November. Hopefully. That's right. Hopefully. Yeah. Uh, it will be a good fight against Joe Jordan. Yes. Really nice. And I don't know who will come from the U S but, uh, looking forward to it. Uh, uh, I think that when PA nationals is done, I will be really motivated for just looking at the lifting. I think that, uh, I need that meat for just like start really good again. I think that the, the wrongs that I've done too many times is that I'm start too quick again after meat. Right. But my body really can do it, do it. It's the takes, it takes a lot of weeks for me to just get back to it. I try every time, but it just makes things worse. Now that I was just watching TV, had my, um, my foot on the, on the table, like crossed over. And after doing that for 15 minutes, I couldn't like flex or stretch my leg. So I haven't been able to walk on that leg for a, for a week now. That's fun. Sorry. And then I just see a perk talking about like, he can do a 900 a day after she did that 91. It feels, feels perfect. And like, okay, people are built different. Um, you're a little older than him too. Still. Yeah. Yeah. It's awful. But I love it. I'm just happy. As you said, like, uh, a little time, you know, that you never know when your last meet is. People can say, why did you do 6% or the world record on the first draft? Like you, you should have come this year and maybe win because you didn't do that many percentages. But I don't know that. I don't know if I'm going to give back. Like, and I don't know, like on every shuffle, I will try as much as possible every time because I never know. Like for every meet that I do, for every PR that I can do, I'm just really happy. I'm just really satisfied. And I think that satisfied, it's something that people should learn to, to praise for it because why do it when you, when you hate it or you're not like himself. But I felt so bad for Perk after the meet that he was crying because he felt so useless or felt not strong. And everyone else is just like, this is, this is so insane that I can't believe it. When he's doing 891, it's the same thing that I just go to a normal gym and that is 200 kilos. He can't, he can't understand it. It's just so, it's another planet. It's super mad stuff. Yeah. It's, it's insane. You're right though. That's, these are such good words from someone who's been in the game a long time. You have to stay motivated to improve, but still be able to appreciate what you've accomplished. Um, and that, that, that duality is really hard, but it is the only thing that allows someone to have the longevity in the sport, uh, that you've had. So I just want to say a massive thank you for giving up, uh, you know, your, your, your Thursday night, um, and, uh, and your patience as I was running around trying to get a webcam that I didn't even get to use. Um, and for sharing your wisdom and experience and I'm wishing you the best at worlds. I can't wait to see it. Um, and yeah, I just want to say a big thank you to everyone for listening in to this interview with, uh, world games equipped as well as raw junior as well as open. And probably I'll predict it right now. Future masters world champion. Uh, once he ticks over the, yeah, I know you will. European champion, everything, buddy. Um, so you've, you know what? Yes. Because, uh, I also have a plan to be, uh, uh, international church. So then when I'm not good enough for the open team anymore, I can still get sent anyway. Perfect. Yeah. And you can start red lighting anyone who is getting near your records. Right. And that, that's, that's the real one. Overturns. Yeah. People are like sitting on their ankles and you're like, it wasn't deep enough, bro. I'm sorry. I don't know what you're thinking. Right. Yeah. Sorry, buddy. We've got to get that jury involved. So no, no, I think that's awesome. Um, so yeah, I, I, I can't wait to see what the future holds and, uh, that you are, are peaking in a stage of a career where a lot of people are thinking that they are no longer at their peak. You are there and you're doing amazing things. So thank you for your time. A huge thank you to everyone for listening. And we will catch you next episode on our next likely live episode of Iron Culture. Iron Culture. you