Hey, hey, hey. Hello everybody. My name is Eric Trexler. I am the one and only host of Iron Culture presented by Mass. ever the coward Eric Holmes neglected to show up tonight. Um, that was scheduled in advance. And honestly, I'm not complaining about it. I'm joined tonight by the esteemed Jake Remmer, who is a doctoral student studying in the lab of our good friend and mass colleague, Dr. Mike Zordos. Uh, and we are very lucky to have Jake here because he's going to tell us all about a brand new meta reggression paper. um part of a series of meta reggression papers. In the past, we've talked about others in this series that have looked at a variety of training variables and how they impact both strength and hypertrophy. Uh and in this case, we've got this new one that just hit uh the preprint servers only a matter of days ago. Um and it's already generating some buzz on the internet. And this one's all about per session set volume. So, if you've ever wondered after that third set, is it time to cut it or do more or move to another exercise for the same muscle group? Uh, all the debates about how much volume is adequate, when are you in junk volume territory, I'm sure we're going to get to all that in more. Um, before I get into introductions and all that stuff, Jake, you're waiting so patiently. I appreciate that. Uh, I'm intimidated. We see the the bodybuilding trophies and diplomas just all over the place behind Jake. Um, he means business. Uh, but before we get to introductions, I got to do the business stuff. So, everyone, if you like the show, make sure you support it. A lot of ways to do it. First of all, easiest, make sure you like this video, make sure you subscribe to the channel, subscribe to the podcast feed, all that stuff. Share it with a friend. Uh, send the link everywhere. Spam it to your relatives. Uh, whatever you got to do. Uh if you want to really support us big time, you could subscribe to the Mass Research Review, become a member of the Mass community. A lot of good folks in there learning every single month. The first of the month, we put out a new publication with uh articles, videos, audio files talking about the newest and most useful research related to your health and fitness goals. And if you want for the first time ever to see the entire mass crew in person, now as we've mentioned before, there are members of the mass crew, a slim crew, only four of us, who have never met each other in person. For the first time in the history of mass going all the way back to 2017, every active member of the Mass Research Review team will be in the same location. And you can be there, too. We're going to be in Austin, Texas for a conference April 12th and 13th. Um, and if you want to join uh virtually, there's an option to do that. You can learn all about it through the Sports Nutrition Association's website. I'll see if I can put a link in uh in the show notes eventually. Okay, Jake, all that out of the way, uh, first and foremost, how you doing tonight? I'm doing great. Um, I I got to say this first and foremost, just like you said, to get it out of the way, thank you so much for having me. Um, I told you before we started, I've been a listener for literally since the inception of both of these things um of of Iron Culture since you guys since uh since the Derek days and um also with Matt like I remember it sort of coincided with me starting uh going back to undergrad after some time between high school and college and I would go every single day I'd go walk to the library because my laptop sucked and get on the public computers and read religiously. I read every single thing that was published in every article. So, this is cool. Thank you for having me. Well, we appreciate that very much and uh welcome to the show. Honestly, we were talking about this um before we hit record here, but I was really surprised that you haven't been on the show yet. Um and that's a massive error and oversight on our part, but uh very happy to have you tonight. appreciate all the the compliments about what we've been doing and hopefully this will be the first uh first appearance of many. Right. So, hope so. All right, Jake. So, since it is your first time, um let's do all the pleasantries and the formal introductions. So, if people want to know why they should listen to you again, aside from the fact that you are just overflowing your background with medals, I just see the medal now. So, the medals, the trophies, the diplomas. So, how did we get here, Jake? What what brings you to uh studying strength in a hot, humid lab down in Florida? Well, not the weather, I'll tell you that. Uh least my least favorite weather that I could possibly have. So, um but yeah, I don't I don't know. I just um a little bit over 10 years ago discovered the gym and uh just got swept up in it and I was going through all the as you do uh searching through social media to find people who were jacked to follow and because they had to know what was right. Um and very fortunately stumbled upon uh Lane Norton almost immediately and uh found out there's a whole evidence-based side to this thing and I was like wow how cool is this? and I didn't know what I wanted to do with my life and eventually I was like man people do this online coaching thing how can I do that how can I stand out I'll go get a PhD right so that's what my brain did but here we are right almost 10 years later and and it's just about working out so that's how that's really how it started as silly as that sounds and just started consuming whatever I could and obviously was ecstatic when you guys started mass and when I found all the you know 3DMJ and and I was iron culture just everything, all the stuff that all of you guys and more have done has just been so amazing. And I'm I'm really grateful now to be in a position where I can start to give back to that community through being part of research or or doing my own, you know, coaching, science, communication thing, whatever you want to call it. Um, yeah, that's sort of how I got here. I just sort of fell into it and ran with it, I guess. Awesome. And you know, I I must say people are going to probably comment if they're watching on YouTube. My my general lack of grace as you're heaping all these compliments on iron culture and mass and things. It's hard out here, folks. Being the producer/host, I'm twisting all sorts of knobs. I'm checking audio levels. So, cut me some slack. Give me some grace. I am humbled by all the kind words. And uh I have to say it's, you know, it it sounds very much like my own kind of entry point into this stuff. I remember um ironically enough, um actually messaging Lane, the very same Lane Norton, um maybe in like 2011, and uh asking him what what should I do if I'm into this stuff? Um you know, cuz you you got to understand like and you you probably know this. I I don't know when you officially plugged into this world, but um if you go back to like 2011, there was like basically think of every bodybuilding case study that comes to mind. None of them were out yet. that that whole wave of like bodybuilding case studies and those little case series and these small pilot studies with little bodybuilding cohorts, the bodybuilding literature basically died in the mid90s and was just gone until it kind of revived in like 2013ish. um all these like, you know, nowadays these like review papers talking about how to get jacked and kind of, you know, how to do an offseason for a bodybuilder, how to do contest prep weight loss for a bodybuilder, how to, you know, all these big review papers that start synthesizing data and put it all together. Those don't exist in 2011. There there was this kind of big change where starting in like about 2010ish, you start to see more of these really applied papers saying like, "Hey, what's the deal with super sets, you know, starting to finally look into some of these things that were just like they just lived in the bodybuilding magazines, which I I totally came up on. Like that's when I first got into lifting, my wrestling coach pulled me aside and said, "We're not doing the team workouts. were doing these special workouts and we were just going through Muscle and Fitness magazine with Jim Stani, you know, taking all the dumbest supplements in the world, but also doing some of these fun bodybuilding style workouts. Um but yeah, it's crazy to think like I hope that now people in that our shoes, you know, have enough good resources out there that they can kind of see a clear path and it's pretty straightforward of how you kind of uh merge your kind of practical enjoyment for this stuff with with an educational angle to it. But man, back, you know, when I was first getting into it and probably when you were as well, it it was uh it it was a little bit harder to see that path. But I think it's a little clearer now for for the young folks. Yeah. Yeah. I think that was 20 when did I get really deep? Was probably like 2014. So So right right when that stuff, you know, just a few years after I was getting plugged into it and that stuff was really starting to snowball. Um, so, okay. What, uh, where where'd you do your undergrad? Uh, Illinois State. Illinois State. Okay. And then masters and PhD are both at uh, at Florida Atlantic, right? Yes, sir. All right. Good stuff. And when did I see all the trophies and medals? When when did that stuff come into the picture? Actual competing? That uh, five months ago. Oh, really? Okay. Yeah. So, we um are I it's been in the back of my head for a long time. I mean, when I I lifted a little bit before this, like I lifted in high school and stuff, but it was inconsistent whatever. I had a couple years after high school where I didn't do anything at all uh for exercise. And then there in like end of uh it was fall of 2014 is when I was like, let me actually let me do this, right? Let me actually try to do this thing. and uh started I got sucked in immediately and I was like man people you can do competitions do I want to do that someday maybe. So it was always kind of there and then I went down the powerlifting route for a while and did some meets and that was super fun. Um but then eventually I had like a not horrible but um meaningful lower back injury that so I couldn't squat or deadlift for six months or whatever it ended up being and I was like well let me just I don't know I don't need to squat a deadlift to do bodybuilding let me try that. So that was really when I started and that was uh the end of 2019 and I haven't really looked back since then. I keep saying I'll go back to powerlifting at some point but I I haven't yet. But yeah. Um but yeah, we just kind of roll with it and attempted a prep at the it would have been for spring 2020 shows and those didn't work out for a reason I'm sure we can all guess. Um so uh ended up we I was five weeks out actually when everything got shut down. So, but uh we got most of it and it's about the journey anyway for me, right? So, I got most of what I came there for, but nonetheless, it was unfinished business. Got busy with school, all that stuff. And then, um here this past year, I was like, let's it's time, right? It's time to do this. And it's actually funny. My uh I was coached by Ryan Doris, who I'm I'm sure you know, and I'm sure a bunch of your listeners are aware of. And um I worked with him for a long time when I was powerlifting. And uh we we had taken a break from coaching there for a minute and it was almost the exact same it was like the same month that I was like I'm committing to this. I want to do it this and I want to get back with Ryan and whatever. He texted me and he was just like, "Bro, when are we doing this prep?" Like just, you know, like the stars aligned. So, uh so yeah, we made it happen. Ended up competing. I did two shows back in November. Um one was here locally in South Florida and then one I actually flew back home to Illinois where my family was there. It was pretty much the 10-year exactly anniversary of me starting training seriously. So, that was cool. And uh yeah, it was it was a blast. Um some of these are participation medals, right? But hey, I'll take them. And uh so I didn't like, you know, I didn't win a pro card by any means, but I'm happy with how I did. I got second in the classes that I did and stuff, so like that's cool. I'll take that for the first time. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. I mean, uh, I I, yeah, your first, uh, competitive season, you know, a lot of it comes down to getting a feel for the process, enjoying it, hopefully having a good experience, um, you know, hitting a milestone where you go from being an enthusiast to a competitor. Like, even just making that step is really big. And uh even if you do happen to take home larger amounts of of hardware in your first competition, it's like you're so far from your best physique ever that it's it's completely irrelevant, right? Um you know, like I I I won uh my my first show I won like the novice class, right? But you look back at it and bodybuilding didn't have there wasn't as much talent in bodybuilding. Like I I started doing bodybuilding and powerlifting before all the jacked and strong people got into it, you know, and so you go back and you're like, "Yeah, I never lost." And then you just look at your numbers, especially in powerlifting, it's so obvious. You're like, "Oh my god, if I walked into just like the smallest local competition today, I'd get my doors blown off." Um, dude. Yeah. So, yeah, it's completely uh completely circumstantial where the placings all line up. And man, I just remember um you know, Columbus, Ohio, where I did my undergrad, had this wonderful gym culture. Still does, I believe. I don't know. I've been removed for a while, but you know, Columbus, you think within a a pretty close proximity, you've got the Arnold Classic every year in the heart of downtown. You've got Westside Barbell, you've got Elite FTS, you've got Rogue. Like, the gym culture there is absolutely excellent. I'm sure I'm leaving off all sorts of bigname, you know, companies and people and things like that, but um it was just a it was uh it's where it was at for for, you know, bodybuilding, powerlifting, and and the adjacent kind of uh strength sports. But, um I remember a guy came into our gym and was just a freak of nature like, and he had never competed. he was in his 40s, uh, like mid to late 40s, and he goes and steps on stage in his first amateur show and then obviously cleans up and then, uh, I think two weeks after his first show where I think he actually did the novice class, um, he goes and takes second at Worlds. And so I'm like, some some poor bastard just went to their like first ever show novice class and they literally could have had like the third best physique on the planet that day and they didn't win their damn show because this guy just like literally almost a world champion ready physique just rolls in and says, "I'd like to try bodybuilding today." Like man, what what a tough break for them, you know? It's painful. Even more reason to not worry about the placing, right? Yeah, that was from from day one. I I like I'm trying to Alberto said that a long time ago, like the best thing is you learn stuff about yourself that would be undiscovered otherwise. Yeah. And that's always just stuck with me and and that's exactly what I got and I'm I'm happy I got the cool trophy also, right? But the uh without that it's still super worth it and I'm glad I did it. I can't wait to do it again. Uh not for a few years. Yeah. But uh yeah, it's it's a beautiful thing. It's it's hard but it's a beautiful thing. Absolutely. But all right, Jake, we did not bring you on here as as much as we are interested uh we did not bring you on to discuss your blossoming bodybuilding career. We want to get down to business here. So we uh in in the past we've talked about like I said this kind of series of meta regressions coming out of the zordos lab. So of course there was the one uh about uh what was it set volume right through over the course of the week right so fractional set volume um there was also one about was it training frequency yep the weekly volume and frequency were in the same page those were in the same one was there there was another meta regression in this series that I'm blanking on right which one was that uh proximity to failure yes of course yeah proximity to failure absolutely and now uh we've got a new addition and you are the lead author of this one. So you uh presumably I'm certain know the data better than anybody and this one is all about uh set volume within a session. And this is obviously something that is always top of mind for a lot of lifters cuz this is really a variable that in my opinion, if I can editorialize, really really gives your program uh kind of one of its most uh tangible characteristics that you really feel about a program, which is when I step into the gym, how much time am I spending in there? You know, how how packed is this whole endeavor? And that's the the one thing when people really start to feel like I'm putting so so so so much into this. The one variable that I think really starts to tip that scale a little bit is just session or uh volume per session, you know, which ultimately ends up telling you basically how many minutes are we spending in the gym here, you know. So I don't want to do any any more editorializing. I'd love to give you the floor here to kind of set up uh you know set the scene and kind of give us a little bit I uh a little bit of a a quick summary of the uh the methodological approach for you know first of all what was your research question and then how did you go about addressing it? Yeah. Awesome. Um, so yeah, it the interesting thing to me about the procession volume stuff is like there's not much out there on it, right? Like there's a couple like in the intro to the paper, like there's a couple studies that we could talk about, but there just wasn't a ton. Um, so we had to get a little creative and that was part of the inclusion criteria process, whatever, of gathering the studies was looking at not just studies that are comparing two different volumes, uh, but also studies comparing different frequencies because ultimately that's that's the interaction that results in per session volume, right? You can have the same total weekly volume split into different frequencies, thus different per session volume. and we got to think about like well man there's got to be a better and a worse way to do this right so how do we actually look at that um was really the the main thing and that was sort of tied to my uh dissertation project as well not to tangent but um it's something that I'm really interested in for that anyway so it kind of worked nicely to to do both of these but um but yeah that was really in very simple terms the research question is people really haven't looked at this a whole lot so it's interesting to do so just for the sake of it, but also what is we've seen this dose response relationship between total volume and hypertrophy and and strength uh and as you mentioned with frequency and proximity failure, but what is the dose response relationship look like for peression volume? Is it the same? Is it different? Who knows, right? So, uh that that was in very simple terms what we set out to do and we had to do a whole lot of uh a screening. Um I think we wound up it was like 67 I believe included studies. Um which is what um like 1% or something of the ones that popped up from the initial search. Uh so it's I'll tell you what uh Dr. Trexler I have learned an awful lot about meta analysis doing this process but uh it's the best way to learn I guess is to jump in. But um yeah if I could take a peek behind the curtain I was I was a little curious about that. So, you know, I I've I've thrown my hat in the ring for a metaanalysis project or two. Uh definitely rolled up my sleeves and done some of that, you know, study screening, data extraction, all that stuff. Now, we've seen this kind of series of meta reggressions, this kind of three paper arc that that's kind of come out of the lab. And one of the things I was curious about was to what extent has that effort of study screening and extraction was the was there ever a kind of initial phase where you just cast a wide net and and tried to kind of gather everything for these three research questions or has it been a truly independent process all three times? Yeah. So the proximity to failure one was independent and then I was actually just about to get into that with the weekly volume and frequency and this per session one. It was the same. So if you read the two papers you'll see the method sections are incredibly similar. The statistical is almost the exact same. Um so I mean it really it really is the exact same. We just looked at a different independent variable. Right. So, um the screening process, all of the extraction, all of that was done collectively. And then because it was just the sheer volume of stuff to talk about and analyze, uh it just made a lot more sense to split them. And um and yeah, so that's that's how we wound up with the two big projects. And I'm so glad that we did split it because like it's hard enough to even talk about one of these things, let alone all of it at once. So, Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm glad to hear that because, you know, I was just thinking if I if I had to do a really big, you know, because this isn't like one of those things where you say, "Hey, we I'm going to pick on one paper in particular that just I was reading through recently, but hey, we're going to look at the effects of betane on body composition in humans." And so, you get four studies and and you throw, you know, throw them into a meta analysis. uh you you know you could do the uh the extraction in a between the two classes you're teaching on a Wednesday, right? But I mean with these projects it was so big. I was like, I I hope that you guys kind of streamlined that and and had a kind of plan ahead of time of how are we going to make this tolerable cuz if you guys went back to the well and started from scratch for three separate uh cracks at that process, I I would feel like at that point you just got to give everyone a PhD and let them go out the door, you know, putting them through that three times. For sure. Or just kick us out for being dumb and not figuring out the smart way to do it. Yeah. Yeah. You know, good point. All right. So, given the fact that, you know, you know, we've talked a little well, we talked plenty on Iron Culture about the the previous meta reagression project, um, you know, we're looking at, uh, set volume and, uh, training frequency, right? Um, and so we we've kind of gone through those methods, but how about just like a little quick refresher of of kind of the approach that you guys took, and then we can get into the results, and then, of course, everyone's favorite is going to be the practical application. Cool. That's my favorite as well. So, um, yeah. So, uh, I guess the, uh, the TLDDR on the methods would be we wanted to try to look at the question in the best way that we could. Meaning like we wanted to cast a wide net, but not so wide that it's completely impractical. Like, you could make an argument that every single resistance training study should be included, right? Like it's a valid argument, but it's just impossible to to do that. um at least given the constraints of the you know the timeline of the PhD and all that kind of stuff. So, uh, we did have to make some decisions and you can see all the inclusion criteria if you read the paper. Um, off the top of my head, there was, you know, we everything up, you know, up until about 70 years of age. Uh, male or female was fine. Studies where they manipulated either volume or frequency or both. They had to control within a study between the the groups or conditions that they're comparing. They had to control proximity to failure and rest times and those sorts of things. So it's as much of an apples to apples comparison as possible. Uh there's a few other that I'm I'm sure I'm overlooking, but you can see in the paper. Um so we have those inclusion exclusion criteria, healthy subjects, another one. Um and then we had to decide, okay, we we need to go through and extract all this data. How are we how are we doing this? And what most uh or all of the the previous meta analyses have looked at sets in a certain way. Uh, and I know when you guys talked about the weekly paper, you guys got into this sum where, for example, a set of bench press would be one set of chest and one set for triceps. They counted it equally. Whereas what we did is we did that, but we also looked at just direct training. So like for triceps, for example, not counting chest press for that, only counting tricep push downs for example. Or fractional is the other one where we counted indirect sets as a half of a set. are trying to get at like this contributes to the movement some or to the muscle group some but it's uh not like directly training it right. So we quantified the the volume in those three different ways and then extracted all the data for all three of those different volume quantification methods. Um and then went through the whole meta analysis process that was uh very involved. Um I I guess the multi-level meta analysis I guess is the the easiest way to say it to help to account for some of those like nested effects, right? to make sure that we're actually comparing like the within study uh comparisons there. We're looking at those rather than just chucking everything in weighted equally and and all that kind of stuff. But um but yeah, I guess that's the super quick and dirty version. We also did one extra thing for this the procession paper which was the question everybody wants is what is the point? What's the cap, right? That's what everyone's looking for and that's what we were interested in also partially, right? we just wanted to know what the relationship was like. But um you know so we're we're we're fitting all these different statistical models and we're looking at it um the the direct model, the fractional model, the total model. We're looking at all these different functional forms. There's like six or seven different shapes that we were trying to see what fit the data the best and all this kind of stuff. And uh eventually we landed on what did seem to fit the best. And um probably unsurprisingly, if you have listened to the episode about the weekly stuff, it was the fractional model for hypertrophy. Slightly surprisingly, it was the direct model for strength. So that was the one that was a little bit different. I'm sure we can talk about that a little bit, but um anyway, we we we so we have these curves and we we wanted to figure out what is this point? Everyone wants to call it the point of diminishing returns. That's what we were calling it a lot. We realized that's kind of misleading because it diminishes immediately. Um, so we we had to call it something else. And we came up with the very annoying title of a point of undetectable outcome superiority, which is uh I think technically correct, but kind of a mouthful and and awkward to say, but what are you going to do? Yeah. So, what was the uh process of uh how did you settle on that particular set of terminology? Was that borrowed from another field or was it borrowed from a different statistical concept and you're like, well, it kind of fits here with a little tweaked name like like how did you settle on that? Yeah, that was straight off the dome to be honest. We were brainstorming and we were looking at like what are we actually trying we we ultimately had to dig into what are we actually defining? And so one of the things that we did in in the methods was we wanted to define sort of the the smallest detectable effect size or or what is the the smallest change in the outcome that we can feel pretty confident isn't just error that you might expect in normal studies. Um and if I remember correctly that was around 2% for strength and around 4% for hypertrophy. Um so we h we have the smallest detectable effect size. And so what we then did is looked at the change in the outcome let's say for hypertrophy for example and the um there's the the pair wise comparison table that you can see in the supplementary materials and for what like what is the number of per session sets where if we're comparing that to any greater number of sets the difference in that outcome has a to think about this is like that point above which you have a less than 50% chance of having like a real tangible measurable improvement that we can feel really good about right um it does still continue to increase technically the model still shows that but we just have very little confidence there's a lot of variation you can see in the figure too those the the green and the blue bands are they get wider and wider as you go that variation gets wider. So that's what we were really trying to define is this this point of where we we can't really be super confident that the outcome is better. And so that's we were brainstorming different uh acronyms for that mess and eventually landed on on that one. Awesome. Yeah. So I tell you what, why don't we go ahead and dive into um really what everybody's looking for. So basically, you know, just to recap where we're at here, um what everyone's interested with the with these kinds of meta reagression projects is on the y ais I want some indicator of muscle growth or strength increases. On the xaxis, we're looking at some quantification of per session set volume, whether it's going to be direct or fractional, whatever the case is. And we want to look at what is that relationship between how set volume per session predicts the outcome of interest either getting bigger or getting stronger. And so um if you want to kind of talk us through we can do uh we can do hypertrophy first and then then we can do strength after that. And while you're talking since we're on YouTube live and this is a multimedia experience I'm actually going to put the um the figures up there. uh over my face because you know why not look at the figures instead of me u especially in my state of disrepair at at this hour of the evening. So uh figure two is the green one. You know it well. I'm sure you've been obsessing over it for quite some time. Um but yeah, I'm going to uh adjust my screen size here so I can get it up there. And uh yeah, take it away. Why don't you walk us through the uh the results here? Sweet. Yeah. Um, so basically, uh, what you're seeing is exactly that, right? Y-axis is the the change in in muscle size. Uh, these are all direct measures of muscle size, by the way. There's no dexa, there's no bodpod, there's no skinfold estimations, none of that stuff. It's all, you know, MRI, CT scan, ultrasound, so on and so forth. Um, and then on the X- axis is the different procession volumes. And what you are seeing is as we do more procession volume that change in muscle size does tend to increase. It does do so in a diminishing manner. Right? So clearly set one is the most hypertrophy. Right? And then set two is still really good but a little bit less than set one and so on and so forth. And uh it kind of you know it curves upwards and it starts to be uh eventually starts to look more and more asmtoic as you as you go. and that uh puos as we as we said where we can no longer have a ton of confidence that it's actually measurably better above that number right around 11 fractional sets in a session. Um, and then on the right side of the figure, I'm visualizing in my head because I don't have it pulled up in front of me, is that's just showing that in general the dose response is positive basically, right? Um, that's showing like the the point estimate of the slope, which would be the change in hypertrophy at the mean per session volume and because it's on the right side of zero, it's positive. So, in general, positive slope. So, uh, increasing hypertrophy with increasing procession sets, but really gets iffy up above that 11 or so fractional sets. So, so in practical terms, that that 11 number represents what to you. That's um, so this is when we start crossing into um, practical recommendations rather than just what the data say, right? Yeah. Uh I was actually was just I've been thinking about this a lot the last couple days because I'm seeing a lot of the conversation online about it and I think it's really important that the the figure is the model that you're seeing in the figure is describing the data and that's all it's doing and then we need to take that and interpret it through the filter of practical experience, coaching experience, training experience, whatever to actually make a recommendation. So for me when I look at this I think Clearly, you can make awesome gains with really low procession volumes. You don't have to go super high. And then as you get higher and higher, you need to start making a decision about like, is this really worth it? And I think that 11 point to me is very much so the again the average person in the average situation, which is what we're looking at here, right? Once you get up to around that 10, 11ish sets in a session fractional, it's like, man, is I don't know. Is it really is this really worth it? Is my performance really good? Is my recovery really good? Does this feel sustainable? All those kinds of questions, right? Um is it really worth putting in this much more effort for a very low chance at a very very small increase in growth? And for some people it is, right? For some people who there's a bunch of people where that's worth it. They want to air on the side of doing more. For a bunch of people it's not super worth it, right? So I I think both sides that's the other thing I I I'm talking for forever right now, but that's the other thing that I I've been thinking about a lot yesterday and today is like I feel like this really supports a huge range of approaches, right? There's the time efficient approach, there's the win at all costs approach, there's the air on the side of more. Like it really you can make a strong argument for anything, I think. Yeah. Yeah. And I think what's interesting about it is that that 11 number puts you I I would say conveniently as a uh a content creator, it puts you right in the fun part, right? So it's not like um it's not like every training program you come across is going to be on any particular side of that 11 number, right? You're going to have some that are above it, some that are below it by default. So, it's one of those things where you can start to actually really have some arguments, right? You know, if you if you were to go, for example, back at some of the old uh bodybuilding magazines we talked about earlier, it wouldn't have been unusual to see a chest day that's like, you know, what 18 20 sets of chest, right? I mean, you would see some of that. I would say the norm for just a pure chest day. I haven't done this, you know, like the fiveday bodybuilding split type training for quite some time, but the norm back then would probably more likely be in the 12 to 16ish range, I would say, for for your, you know, and it would all be direct, you know, for for a muscle group like the chest, obviously. But then you start talking about, well, how much would I do per session in a typical full body program? And for your chest, it's it's probably certainly, I would say, going to be less than 11 sets in that in that single session. Uh what about if you were doing an upper body lower body split? Still for your chest, you're probably doing under 11. Uh then it starts getting a little more interesting when you get into training splits like pushpull legs, you know, for a push workout. Are you doing 11? I don't know. Um my, you know, I would typically do if I were doing a a push workout for chest, uh you know, being the the kind of first muscle group I hit in a push workout, I probably would typically be somewhere in the range of 9 to 12, right? Which is, you know, where things start to get interesting. So, I I think that this is super convenient that it falls in a spot where you start to see some very common splits below it, some very common splits above it, and of course, everyone can yell at each other and get very angry. Now, before we get into the practical, I I want to save some of that for after we at least look at the strength results and things like that. But one of the things that jumped out to me in this figure um and I'm purely um you know this is not a statistically oriented uh uh set of observations here. This is just a guy looking at fuzzy dots and a few squiggly lines. So one of the things that really struck me was just the the magnitude the the sheer degree of variance within the data. Right? So we see these uh you know the these dotted intervals that that are really there's a lot of land between upper and lower boundary of the interval. We see for example that I believe the highest uh y value in the entire data set is at a per set volume uh or a per session set volume value of about threeish three or four. Um so you know kind of at the lower end and then we see the the kind of outlier in terms of the greatest per session set volume actually has has a value on the y-axis that's essentially zero. Um, so it's it and of course you never, you know, being statistically oriented, you never just shop around and cherrypick this data point versus that data point. But I do think that those two data points at least speak, of course, then within the context of those wide intervals that that we see reflecting the general confidence level of of the the estimate. It just really speaks to the fact that there is there's a lot of room in here for contextualizing the findings. And you know, it's not as simple as saying, "Oh, you're only doing eight sets per session. You need to bump that up to 11. You'll grow more." Right? Like there there's uh it would be really hard to make that statement without any other context and just throw it out there and have a high level of confidence in it. So I I guess one of my questions is um were you surprised by all that real estate between the upper and lower interval? Uh and uh to what would you um speculate? Uh to what would you attribute that uh either with a high level of confidence or even if you're just speculating like why do you think there's so much variance uh when we're looking at this relationship between these two variables? Yeah, man. That's a that's a great question. I think the the thing that jumps out to me the most I I've been thinking about this a lot and I still don't have a great explanation. It makes a lot of sense for lower peression volume and higher frequency to be better, but we never like the frequency data just doesn't reflect that, right? um we like just our metagressions recently there was no strong consistent effective frequency for hyp for hypertrophy and it's like well well why didn't we see 30 sets per session is the best then right um and I guess you can sort of combine the two papers in a way and say 10 to 11 sets three times a week gets you to that 30-ish number and whatever um but when you look at the diminishing returns I think there's a very valid argument for like well like why doesn't this work Um, so to me like I I think there is something there and maybe that's why some of that variation is so big. Like it's just we're not quite capturing reality perfectly yet, right? Uh, which is just the eternal, oh, we need more data or whatever, right? But um, you know, I was thinking about this a lot and our the average per session volume in the data set was I believe around six or so sets per session. I wrote that down somewhere um, but I don't know where it is. Anyway, I think it was right around six and it's like, well, maybe that's still sort of too high to see this consistent effect really start to to manifest. So, uh, you know, I would love more data at those lower peression volumes compared to um especially like the really high above 11 and seeing what's up because there's just not a ton of data points out. It's just like the weekly volume, right? there's just not a ton of these super high volume studies that um maybe that even pulls that curve down more and we see the the POS is lower, whatever. Yeah. So, now now that you mention it, you know, especially anyone watching on YouTube right now can really see a lot of clustering in that kind of what I would call a pretty moderate range, you know, so a lot of stuff in that four, five, six, seven, eight range. But yeah, you start getting above maybe 10ish and it really starts to thin out there. And so obviously we we have to be super cautious about kind of you know modeling like this sometimes you can turn it into a you know not not the person actually doing statistics cuz there's literal math happening but as the passive observer uh you can start putting things together like when you're looking up at the the night sky and kind of drawing out constellations you know and say like yeah I think that looks like a roaring lion and then the person next to you said, "Oh, I thought that was a ladle." Um but uh but yeah, so it's like these kind of um these kind of um figures, especially in the areas where the data start to become very sparse. Uh you got to have to kind of you have to work against human evolution and stop being a species that exists on pattern recognition. You know, we we really love to connect dots whether or not they ought to be connected. Um, but yeah, it's a really fascinating relationship that that you guys plot out here. And I'd like you said, I'd love to see more studies that kind of fill in that upper range, just as I'd like to see that with the per week uh set volume where um you know, we it's so it will be so interesting to see are we really talking about, you know, a you know, we fit this kind of log linear model. we start to see where things are really flattening out where they're starting to get almost asmmpytoic, you know, approaching a horizontal straight line. When you fill in more in the upper range, does that does that curve take a slightly different shape? Do we start to see a little bit of a a adjustment of where things really start to flatten out? Do we maybe even start to see more of a um you know more of a quadratic shape where we start to see if you're doing way too much it actually starts bending back down towards zero. Um you know where the the effect size actually starts shrinking rather than merely diminishing. Um, so many questions and ultimately, you know, Jake, you know this as well as anybody, but your guys's lab has done such a great job with these meta-aggression projects, but uh, all due respect, it'd be worthless if people weren't out here running the studies, right? And so, one of one of the conclusions when you come back from a big meta regression project like this is you you look at your beautiful figures, you and you look for empty space and you say, "Hey, somebody's got to fill this in." Right. Uhhuh. You know what is you know what's funny? We we talked for probably two hours one day about what study could we do that would help to like look at this per session volume frequency thing a little bit like very directly, right? Rather than just getting a bunch more data points and you know it's it's so hard to isolate per session volume from frequency, right? It gets out of control really quick. I mean that we had this it was like okay we need four groups. Oh wait no we need six. Uh actually four might be like we just it was so messy and and disgusting that these individual studies are they're very important but some some of them are just really impractical and we wind up being you know we we just need all of the individual studies uh unfortunately with how much manpower would have to go into something that uh that complex. Yeah. But yeah, and then I mean and and you guys obviously you know your lab has worked with James Steel and he was on the show recently and once you start saying okay we're going to do this study and the measurement you know the outcome is measured imperfectly as they all are but there there's going to be measurement error involved and in order for us to get have those six groups that allow us to actually test the hypothesis uh now we're talking about maybe you finish the study with like eight people per group, right? And then at that point you say, well, what are we actually estimating, you know, like do like are are we really do we have any confidence at all that when you get through measurement error and sampling error that we are testing any hypothesis at all uh in in a in a meaningful way? Uh, and I think James, uh, to the extent that he was able to drag people into the abyss of despair and black pillness, um, would convince you like it's almost hard to work up the energy and allocate the resources to put a study like that together and then come out with it and everyone's first response is going to be, I'm not sure if you're actually actually estimating something worthwhile here. And then, you know, deep down they they're kind of right. Um kind of hard to uh to sink, you know, a big chunk of your life into that for 6 to 12 months. It is. Um it is. All right, Jake. Uh so let's go ahead and let's move on and look at the strength results if you don't mind and then we can kind of really break open into a kind of sweeping discussion of practical applications cuz like for me this is where things start to get interesting because we now have the meta regression on you know we have proximity to failure we have uh you know volume per week we have frequency per week and now we have volume per session. Now you can start getting into by piecing all that together some really interesting discussions and debates about actual training programs like you know it's it's very different from looking at them in isolation when we can start to look at how all these different puzzle pieces fit together uh and start making some inferences. So I've got the figure up here, this beautiful purple figure where on the y-axis we have change in strength uh maximal strength in this case and on the x-axis we have uh set volume per session. Yes. Uh I'm glad you pointed out maximum strength because this is um this the strength it's it's it's really funny because the strength data does you know it's interesting. It's cool, but I think uh there's a one of the limitations that I put at the end that I don't think is I haven't heard anybody talk about it. Yeah. Which is like the like I said earlier, the the model is going to describe the underlying data, right? So the data are what they are and the outcomes being maximal strength whether it's isometric or whatever one- arm squat, whatever it was. But like the when you look at the actual training programs, the average rep range that was done in these studies for just the strength outcomes was like nine. And like the uh I think on average it was like two sets a week or two sets a session maybe. I think it was two sets a session. That was um Hold on. I wrote this number down so I don't screw this up live with all the all the pressure. Yeah. So, two sets per session were done on average. About half of those were done with something that was what most like powerlifters would train with, right? Like there was hardly anything above 85% 1RM. Hardly anything that was above like a six rep max load. Very unspecific training. Yeah. In general, right? So, I think people should keep that in mind when they look at the strength data that it's just it is what it is. It's the best we got right now, but like there's something to be desired with the specificity of the of the training. Um, nonetheless, we did find the very similar relationship to the weekly one does increase. It is a positive slope on average. More procession volume is better for strength, but it uh tapers off quite quickly. And that point of undetectable outcome superiority that we were looking at right around two direct sets per session in this case. Okay. Yeah. And and this was one where um when I first looked at the figure, I became very confused um because I think my brain was just really really conditioned at the idea of fractional set counting. And so then you you look at this figure and you see not only is there a lot of clustering in in terms of just the frequency of a given, you know, amount of per session set volume, but it looks like a lot of the clustering is at zero. And I was like, what do you mean you're doing zero sets and you're still bothering to measure muscle strength? I'm assuming that basically what we're talking about there is muscles that only got indirect training through the the training program as it was put together, right? 100%. Yeah. So, they had some fractional sets uh presumably, but uh in terms of direct sets, they just weren't getting any love. Correct. Yeah. Correct. the um the direct we we tried to look at also like what was the rough contribution of indirect sets to the to the outcome and it was something like it was like 16% I think it was like in theory an indirect set would count as roughly 16% of of a full direct set which I think is also sort of explaining why we saw the direct model fitting the data the best because the direct model assumes indirect is zero whereas Whereas fractional assumes it's 50%. So it's sort of 16 is closer to zero, right? Um so yeah the the indirect sets don't do nothing. Uh clearly they don't do nothing otherwise we wouldn't have effects at at zero rate but the uh yeah biggest bang for your buck does certainly seem to be the direct test which makes sense right specificity is something people have been talking about forever right now again speaking of variance um man data really quite the spread here you know we see which makes sense I mean just when you think about strength as a variable as opposed to hypertrophy right so strength has a lot more variability to it. Um, you know, even just daytoday, right? Let alone over the course of a study. So, not super surprising that we see just generally a little bit more spread there. But, you know, you start to see I mean, you know, zero direct sets per uh per session and then a Y value of 60, right? and you know the the gap between upper and lower boundaries being from you know + 25 to minus5ish 20-ish you know again just uh a tremendous amount of variability and so that's you know people might look at that and I think um maybe critique the meta reagression approach in general you know like people might look at that and say like hey you don't have the goods to actually you know have the gull to draw a line between that mess, right? But um you could look at that and and you know you you could have I think a very spirited and informative debate between two very statistically oriented people where one person says you don't have the goods like this d these data aren't ready for prime time. There's no point in drawing a line between that mess. And yet on the other hand, you could have someone who says the fact that that we're seeing so much variance um and and the relationship is so murky between Y and X, that is actually why meta regression is the right approach to try to to sort through that stuff. Cuz if you're just going study by study, you're never going to get it. Like if you if you're just doing the kind of thing where you cherrypick and say, "Well, it this amount was better in that study, but this amount was better in that study. Therefore, we've cracked the code. You're never going to get it when the relationship between Y and X has this much cloudiness to it. Uh and so that that's one of the one of the areas where meta regression actually shines. Uh in my opinion, for sure. Yeah. And like the example you gave the the zero direct sets that has the super high outcome. Like maybe that was one of the untrained subjects with a completely novel strength, you know what I mean? like the the strength test and all these, you know, there's so many, as you said, variables to strength, like the novelty of the test, like the it's pretty rare to see uh people doing multiple baseline tests to establish a reliable 1RM before they do the Oh, yeah, for sure. So, maybe maybe pre-est was a random high or low day. Who knows, right? So, yeah, it's it's very messy. And I think you were sort of getting at this a little bit, too. you know, we tried to use some of the tools at our disposal statistically to tease this apart a little bit more. We looked at a bunch of moderators, uh, things that could potentially impact the relationship and all that. And it's we had this super long list of stuff and just we can't have super high confidence in in really any of it just because it's I mean, it's better than nothing, I suppose, but it's just so messy and there's so much variation and there's so little uh homogeneity between study methods. like there's just a lot going on. So, uh, we even put in the paper like we did these, maybe it's a hypothesis for a future study or something, but like that's really all we mentioned, which was really disappointing to me. Can I just say that I was really excited to see what's going what's like you mentioned the the metagression on the proximity to failure stuff. How is this different when you train to failure versus not? You know, like there's so many questions, different training status, uh, like upper body versus lower body. is lower body more fatiguing, thus you need less thought. Like there's so much stuff that would make some logical sense based on what we see in the real world, but it just didn't come out of of the models confidently. And so that was a little, you know, a little disappointing. I'm not going to lie. The data are what they are, but I was hoping it would at least be interesting. Yeah. Absolutely. So, I tell you what, wrapping up the kind of look at the the results here. I'm looking at table one. Um and so it looks like the it's called the approximate conversions of POS from the best fit model to other volume quantification methods. Um and so if we look at um the the bolded ones are the ones you actually modeled, right? So fractional sets for hypertrophy and direct sets for strength, right? Correct. Correct. Um so yeah, for total sets, hypertrophy is 13.8 and strength is about five. For direct the values are 8 and two and for fractional the values are 11 and about 3.5. And remind me so direct sets and fractional sets I think we've uh we we've hammered out those definitions. Remind me again total sets is that where uh for example bench press is one set for chest and one set for tricep. Yep. So a full set for tricep being the distinction there between the total set and the fractional set approach. Yes. Cool. Okay. So, yeah, I think table one is is really a a pretty straightforward table that kind of hammers it home where um you know, if you're taking the fractional set method, you're saying, okay, uh looking to and again, this is oversimplifying to a level that's going to make you start sweating uh if not uh shaking in your chair. But you know if if you look at this meta regression and like many you're saying I want it boiled down to where does the where do the diminishing returns diminish to an extent that maybe I don't want to go beyond uh and and kind of put a whole lot of effort beyond level X uh for fractional set counting which I think a lot of people use as kind of their default set counting if I had to guess. Uh, hypertrophy is at 11 uh, sets per session and strength is at 3.5. Now, I think this is where the fun stuff starts. And I'm going to go ahead and put my face back on the screen so I can do spit takes and make use facial gestures as a means of communication non-verbally. Um, so now we've got these meta reagressions, right? We we've got one about proximity to failure. We've got one about how many sets you should do per week. Uh you know, how how you would distribute those in terms of, you know, frequency across the week. Uh now we have uh an even more nuanced look at that volume distribution where you're actually looking at uh sets per training session. And and rather than tiptoeing around the practical applications and kind of warming you up and creeping into the deep end, I think I'm just going to do a cannonball here. um and say having been around the lab as these three meta reagression projects have come to fruition and now are are seeing the light of day. What let me ask this. How has it trained or how has it changed your kind of approach to training in terms of how much you aim to do? What kind of training splits or kind of architecture to your training programs do do you start to apply? And then a sub question I think would be how does that impact the way you you might program for people throughout the training lifespan? You know, so it it's one thing to say how you as a person who's been training for what 10 11 years, maybe more. Yeah, it's one thing to ask how you now look at your the the nuts and bolts and the kind of skeleton of your training program, but also how does that differ when you bring in somebody who's brand new and you start saying, well, let's, you know, go on the lower end of some of these variables versus someone who is, you know, they've been competing for 10 years and they're they're in their prime and they're trying to achieve their best physique ever. Yeah, man. That is a cannonball, isn't it? Um, I guess I will start I'll start with the strength side because I think that's much more simple that by and large I think it's it's fairly reasonable to say at this point despite the limitations I mentioned earlier that less is more for strength often. Um, and this is something I I kind of stumbled upon this anyway just through coaching and and noticing like especially the stronger somebody is like you just can't do that much, right? You beat them up too much. It's so fatigue sensitive. So, it makes sense to me that that's sort of what we're seeing in these meta reagressions now. Um, that you just don't need a ton of of work. Um, sort of get in, do something that's really high value, couple sets, whatever. Um, even like, uh, PAX's research on minimum dose stuff lines up with this very nicely, right? I don't think that's a coincidence. So, less is more for strength. That's pretty simple. Um, frequency you, you know, hasn't really changed too much about what I do. Um, well, I was going to say with myself, but I don't really train for strength these days. But with clients, you know, usually, you know, twice a week, you know, maybe I guess you could call it one and a half for the deadlift sometimes or even the squats sometimes for very strong people. Um, bench you can you typically do a little bit more frequency, but still right, it's just not crazy volume. Um, hypertrophy, I think, is a lot more there's a lot more stuff going on there. And my sort of trajectory with this has been um my my confidence level in the dose response of volume is higher than the dose response of proximity to failure personally just for me. Yeah. Uh just because you know and it's all in the paper too the proximity to failure when there was some estimations that went into figuring out how much RI a certain study was using and things like that. So um there's just more data in the volume uh meta reagressions too. So I have a bit more confidence in that side. So it Yeah. And if I may if I may interject I just um I yeah I I really struggle between you know looking at the original studies themselves and and then just like years of of experience with my own training training other clients. I I just really struggle to get myself to the belief that you're really missing out on much when you leave a rep in the tank. You know what I mean? That that you're crossing into some magic threshold when you when you do that one extra muscle action. It's just it's really really difficult for me empirically and mechanistically to get my to get myself there. So, I I'm with you on that. Agreed. I think it would make sense if it's like a a little tiny bit better maybe. Right. Right. Yeah. Then is that fatigue worth it? Who knows? So to me, the question sort of became like, well, you know, if very simplistically saying more is better for each of them, but they both compete for your recovery resources, which one do I lean into more? What I started doing with myself and with clients is like, okay, well, let's maybe we go a little bit closer to failure on average. Not that everything is to failure, but um on average it's a little bit closer. And how much does that impact how much volume you can recover from if it's a lot? Probably not super worth it. Maybe we back off a little bit, stay a bit further from failure so we can keep that volume in. If it doesn't impact your recovery that much at all, which in my experience has been most people, not everybody, but I think you do sort of get used to it after a little bit and we can keep the same volume in a little closer to failure. Sweet. Um, or you can experiment the other way, right? Um I think as as long as you're I it sounds like we're both in agreement. As long as you're pretty close to failure for the most part, you're going to be fine. Yeah. Um and then what these meta reagressions recently on the the volume ones have sort of made me even more confident in that. Like okay, that's that's sort of the lever I'm looking at the most in terms of let's try a certain amount. What's your performance like? How are you recovering? Do we actually seem like we're growing also? Right? Performance and recovery are great, but we need to see some other stuff too. Um, does it feel sustainable? Do you just hate going to the gym for three hours? You only have 30 minutes. Okay. Right. So, there's a lot of a lot of wiggle room there. I think the biggest takeaway that I've gotten to sort of, you know, the to sort of wrap it up in a sense just because there's just so many options on the table that with the procession stuff, if somebody like myself is able to recover from very high volume, I'm going to split it into more frequency. if we start getting up into those 10, 11, 12 fractional sets, I'm like, let's let's split this up a little bit more. Right. That's probably been the the biggest change that I've noticed um through going through this whole process, which still isn't a massive change. I think most of us do that intuitively anyway. Yeah. But now I have more of a reason behind it, if that makes sense. Yeah. And it kind of also I I think like you said, it's a bit intuitive because it kind of matches what you feel uh and also just your just the tediousness of it kind of keeps you in check a little bit. So for example, let's say you are going to follow the guidance of like hey I'm not super worried about efficiency. I want to get all the gains that are on the table. I'm going to do really high weekly set volume. If you want, you can try to squeeze that into a session or two sessions for that muscle group. Um, but you can feel toward the end of a workout, you're like, I'm just I I am so uh as a vegetarian, I'm allowed to say this cuz I have enough karma built up. I am so beating a dead horse here. Like I am, you know, when when you're you're at the point where you're just like, what am I doing here? you know, my my performance has dropped off so much from where I began in this session. Like whether or not you can, you know, craft a meta reagression to quantify what junk volume is, I'm in the garbage dump and I know it, right? Like I I have to be um because I know how strong I am and I know what I'm doing right now and it just it I can't get myself to believe it's as stimulatory as the stuff I was doing 45 minutes ago. Right. Right. Or even have you had it where like you're training, you get a pump, whatever, and then the pump goes away and you just feel like numb. Yeah. That can't be good, right? I don't There's no reason. It just can't be good. I don't know. Yeah. You you've already been through the life cycle of like you you pumped up and you flattened out. Your performance has tanked and and you're just like, I I got to get out of here, right? So, that that's one of the constraints that I think practically helps people in it. I there's got to be a better way to split this up. And then of course another thing is just like you it's very atyp a lot of people that I've coached and certainly myself as well you know we like to turn our daily workouts into a repeatable behavior that is fairly consistent and it gets really weird. So like for example I teach a weight training class right now. Uh it's one of my teaching assignments here at Duke and and I was kind of given an option. Would you rather do it's like we meet twice a week. Would you rather do one lecture a week and and have like a really short workout that day and a longer workout the other day or would you rather lecture for an equal amount of time twice a week so that training block stays the same on Monday and Wednesday? And I was like, well, my life is easier if I just teach once a week, get into the flow of it, and and go with it. But like, the class is not for me. It's for the students. And it would drive me nuts if I had this kind of offset. On Monday, I work out for 45 minutes, and then on Wednesday, I work out for 75 minutes. It's like, you have to have such a different approach to those two two different workouts. And so like if you want to do this ultra high weekly set volume approach and not end up airing toward higher frequency, you get into this weird thing where you're like, "Okay, so Monday, Wednesday, and Friday morning, I'm in the gym for like 95 minutes." But then what am I doing with that time on like Tuesday and Thursday? it it just creates this weird asymmetry in your day that um I think also acts as a practical constraint where a lot of people are like I just want to have my hour or hour and a half in the gym at the same time every day that I can count on and make it part of my routine. You know what I'm saying? Absolutely. Absolutely. And like also I don't want people to hear higher frequency and think it has to be you're training your chest five times like right it just maybe just don't do one. You know what I mean? Think about even most people when we think about frequency I think um the not certainly not everybody but the majority twice a week is like their standard right that what's wrong with three right like you might notice with your chest for example you can train it three times like the soreness isn't going to overlap that much and you can do some things with like exercise selection for example where if you're training three times a week one of those is going to have two rest days later right so maybe on that session that's where you put your uh your chest flies that are going to create more muscle damage from that lengthened position and so on and so forth. You know, the other days maybe it's slightly less procession volume or slightly further from failure, whatever. You can sort of manipulate the recovery in those other ways to still keep the volume in, which I think makes sense because the volume is probably the variable I have the most confidence in personally. Yeah. So, those are some of those programming like when you the the research is not going to ever tell us how to do that. It's so much of it is just I don't know like reasoning um and what sort of makes sense. Yeah. You know, one of the things I I like about your answer when I when I just did that cannonball like a bull in a china shop and said here's here's a question of how should people train essentially go. Yeah. Um, I like the fact that you took a deep breath and essentially said you kind of set the stage of like this is going to be a somewhat wishy-washy and meandering and underwhelming answer. And that's a good thing. Um, and I think, you know, one of the things that we really have to be cautious of in evidence-based fitness is we have to make sure that as researchers, as people consuming research, as people making content about research, and as people just sharing information broadly, we have to remember to maintain a high level of nuance in the way that we interpret and then disseminate that information from research. church. So, what I'm getting at there is I am sure that someone out there in this world, the world that you and I share with them, believe it or not, um is out there going, "Well, we know because of meta regression that this is the perfect uh weekly set volume and this is the perfect frequency and this is now the perfect uh set volume per session." And therefore through three projects from the Zordos lab, we have solved training. Training is now a solved question and we can move on to nobler pursuits of art, uh studying history, uh maybe get into music, whatever. But re exercise science research in resistance training is done. And I I like the fact that you would not even entertain drifting near such a kind of superficial and simplistic just bam bam bam. Here's the answers. Everyone lock into the evidence-based training program. Trademark 1999. Yeah. Well, I mean, I thought about that. It's just three sets of 10, right? I mean, that that's the real answer. So, I thought about leading with that, but then I was like, ah, you know, we should probably try to sound smarter than that, I suppose. Yeah. But, but but so for for the person who there's no correct answer. Yeah. for for the person who wants to interpret it that way. Um what what is your kind of 60-cond sales pitch of here's how we ought to actually use these rather than a literal road map to gains? Yeah. Um I would look at the just the nature of the relationship, right? So like uh the percession volume for example on average increases hypertrophy with more peression volume but with less and less with every additional set. If we keep that in mind I think that can guide a lot of our decision-m if we don't have a ton of time. That's fine. We're getting the biggest bang for our buck anyway. diminishes so much right so rather than thinking about the numbers thinking about the general magnitude the general direction of the relationship and letting that like Dr. sort of says all the time uh conceptualize and integrate right that's like it's such a great teaching tool I think that applies here very well that if we think about just the concept then we can apply that to whatever we're doing yeah yeah it's a great answer and you know I think a lot of folks you know you you've been lifting for 10 years 11 years some somewhere around there you're in that world now where you create your own programming right or or you create it for other people right but for a long time before you're a program uh creator, you are a program consumer, right? You you'll go and Google want to get big, how do and then something comes up and you're looking at these three different programs and they all have testimonials of jacked people saying this is what made me jacked. Don't do anything else. And so I think these types of meta reagressions, like you said, they can give you these kind of uh directional relationships. you know, you start to get approximations of different ranges that you might want to operate within. Uh, and so then you can look at these two different programs you're contemplating and say, well, I'm into strength, and this one seems a lot more compatible with the type of ranges I'm used to seeing in, you know, these different variables, right? the types of ranges that seem to be in the neighborhood of sweet spots. Uh versus I'm more into hypertrophy. So, I think I'm going to go with program B instead because it's hitting all these numbers that seem to be a little bit more compatible with again the ballpark values and directional relationships we're we're seeing in some of these meta regressions. So I think that um once people get over the disappointment that we haven't solved training uh conclusively they can at least uh look at look to those insights with optimism a and kind of appreciate the utility that we can glean from that. Yeah. Um one kind of final line of questioning here if I may is uh so this when when did this get uh posted to the preprint server? Oh, like a week ago. Week sometime. Yeah, I think it's been less than a week. Yeah. So, what what kind of feedback have you been getting and what would you say is the single flavor of feedback that you most want to nip in the bud and put to rest before it uh you know before it takes over the internet? Uh there's there's been good conversation. Um, I think there's been very very good points made. Um, I think we already sort of nipped the biggest one in the bud, which is that you should do 11 sets per workout no matter what. Yeah. Um, that, you know, we've talked about that plenty. I think that the the two main things that I've seen that unfortunately the answer is like we just don't really know, right? one being the like, hey, 11 is less than 30. Why are we not seeing this effect of frequency in the like we talked about earlier, we just, you know, we talked about that. I don't need to rehash it. That's I think that's the big one that just like I understand it doesn't make perfect logical sense. I get it. The data are what they are, but like that doesn't mean that you can't do less than 11 sets, right? There's a lot of options on the table. I think the other one um very very valid concern being the this idea of like these high volumes are leading to more growth because there's a lot of swelling, a lot of edema. Yeah. Um very valid, right? I totally get it to um this is one of the limitations that's listed in the paper that we uh we were able to find a few studies that looked at this a little bit and it doesn't seem to be a massive concern but that doesn't rule it out completely. Right? So the the research that we have is is not much and it's not looking at the question exactly how we would like. Right? So, like there's a couple acute studies that they just had people do super high volume programs that create a lot of muscle damage, a lot of swelling, and they saw like how many roughly how many days did it take for it to kind of come back down. And um both of those were seeing like a day or two after the session. We're about we're no longer significantly different from baseline muscle size. So, it's like okay, you know, maybe that's fine, but that's acute swelling. It's not necessarily chronic swelling from a long program. Um, you could argue that maybe they were still a little bit swollen from their previous training program before they started the study. It wasn't super clear in my reading like how long they had waited before they did this acute study. So, h could go either way. Um, and then there was one um that Martin Ruffalo did was a lead author where they took their measurements three days after the last training program. Cool. and then did another measurement two or three days after and they found very little error. It was really really good agreement between those those measurements. So it's like okay cool maybe 3 days is fine but then you could also say well maybe it's still an issue five or six days later right? So it's you can make an argument either way. We we don't really know for sure. I personally would tend to think that it's probably not a massive deal but uh I could be wrong. Right? So, I think that's another big thing that um I'm not going to take a super hard stance on it either way, but I think I that that also means that I'm not going to say these results are absolutely due to swelling, just like I'm not going to say they're absolutely not due to swelling. It's I would hazard to guess that that's not a huge huge contributor, although I'm sure it contributes some, but uh but yeah, I guess I would throw that out there um just to kind of let that be what it is. Taking the middle ground as always. Uh it depends, right? Yeah. Absolutely. And h have you generally been pleased with some of the the discourse and discussion? Yeah, I mean some of it's some of it's funny. Uh some people will will troll just to troll. Yeah. Um and that's that's fun. But the what's the most common trolling tactic that you're seeing these days? What what are they going with? There there's been some just like people just put like Yeah. No. Or like something just, you know, clear-cut like that, which fine, fair play. Yeah. um or uh if only it wasn't all swelling or somebody mentioned that um we can't just put a trend line wherever we want on the graph and say that it means something which is really fun. um which is true, you know, but um so there's there's been some comments like that, but for the most part, uh people are are have been really interested and um able to have conversation of going back and forth of getting a little bit more context, which is especially nice when when they've when you can see that they've read the full paper, you know, they didn't just look at the figure. That's that's pretty helpful. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, for what it's worth, I I do think for some reason that um that particular that particular line of like everything we see in every paper is pure swelling. I I don't I don't pay enough attention to fitness content creation to know where it's coming from. I don't either. But I think somewhere in that game of telephone, people are getting it way wrong. Cuz I've seen that popping up in evidence-based conversations. And clearly people are getting it from some like centralized source and it seems that it's being dramatically overstated or if it's not being overstated, it's being overheard. You know what I mean? Like whatever that amplification is where you make a very nuance small point and then it becomes uh something that's well out of your control. Yeah. That may be what's happening. But um I I don't I I don't understand why people have become so convinced that like virtually all growth that we observe with training is swelling. I I don't uh and yet they train daily. It's like if you really believe what you're saying, like you should just stop. Yeah. Because the the low what's interesting to me, too, is like the the low volume approach typically involves going to failure or past failure, which like that's going to give you a lot of swelling. Yeah. So, um I don't I don't know. I don't know where it came from. I'm I would assume that it's kind of gotten blown out of proportion, but I don't know for sure either. One of these days, you know what? If you So, I'm I'm too happy a guy. I'm too well adjusted. Life's too good to get drugged into this pettiness. But someone who's really into this stuff should just calculate out like whatever this exaggerated magnitude of swelling is that people think is explaining all growth in studies just kind of calculate out if we extrapolate that over a full body program you must be walking around as like a giant water balloon at that point. Right? So, so what would be the magnitude of weight loss we weight loss we would predict if you just stopped training for 6 days and secondary question does that at all reflect the reality you live in and I don't know the answer to the first question but I know the answer to the second one it's no right so like point I don't understand why people think if it if it's a bicep study we can assume that all growth like there's just this massive water balloon in people's biceps that is filling up with inflammatory crap app um which is you know because it's not just it's not just gas right there has to be some kind of fluid volume that's actually causing this this expansion of the tissue um and I haven't thought through this well and it's not good to kind of verbalize your thinking process on live uh podcast but here we are anyway but I feel like you could kind of shut that whole thing down by doing a fairly simple calculation of like what would happen if a a person who trains their whole body which is the resistance training population. Like, where does all that go when you just don't train for five or six days? You know what I'm saying? Yeah. 100%. You can tell me I'm way off base if I if I'm oversimplifying or missing the the magical piece of the puzzle here that makes me stupid, but no, that that makes sense to me. I'll tell you what, I can uh I can make an Instagram post and I'll take the bullet, right? So, either I will be just vaulted into the upper echelon of evidence-based content creators or I will be absolutely eviscerated for being an idiot. Cool. One of the two will happen. Yeah, I'll wait for the dust to settle and see if I want to try to take credit. But now I've got the receipts if I ever want to go that route. And I have the YouTube login, so if this episode gets buried in the vault, it it's just because I speculated incorrectly. That's fair. That's fair. All right. Well, um, the final question here, well, second to final question as we approach the 90minute mark here. Uh, it's been a really lovely chat. I'm I'm I'm certain that people listening have gotten a lot out of it practically speaking. Um, is there anything else that you would like to get off your chest about this paper or or set the record straight? anything that you'd like to close with as it pertains to kind of commuting communicating this paper out to the iron culture? Wow. Yeah. Um, you know, I think we've hit on all the big stuff. I think if there's one sort of even bigger picture thing that I sort of alluded to this earlier too at the very beginning this process has been so illuminating for me of actually doing one of these things and seeing you know we we come into this research world and or not even that you know we come to the evidence-based fitness world and we hear about the hierarchy of evidence and meta analysis is up at the top and you know so me whatever seven eight nine ten years ago was like okay these These are perfect, right? This is they're as close to perfect as we can get anyway. Yeah. And I didn't realize how many completely arbitrary decisions go into these things that can, you know, it's probably not going to be a night and day difference in the results, but it it can shift things a little bit here and there. And there's there's just a lot of that stuff. So, like that was eye opening that has made me a bit more um cautious with with even this top tier of, you know, evidence. And then also in in a similar vein just the idea of really now like I knew it but I didn't like know it if that makes sense until now that these describe the data it's not that's all it's doing right so that the data that goes in like that is what controls what we what the output is and it's really important to look into that right if it's something you're trying to implement with what you do in your training or in your life and in whatever way. So, I I think that's that's been the biggest thing that I would maybe throw out there is just like, you know, for for anyone who is trying to use research to help guide what they're doing with themselves or clients or whatever, make sure to even with meta analysis, uh, unless you've also seen Dr. Trexler completely redo them for mass articles, which is always funny. Um, just keep in mind they're not perfect, right? And there's there's always limitations and it's it's just describing the previous research and that's it. And then you got to interpret from there. Beautiful. Yeah, I totally agree and I I will um I will protect you. I will put out a shield. So, you said there's all these arbitrary decisions in a meta analysis and I totally know what you mean. I just want to put a little caveat again. We're putting up the iron culture shield to protect you from the haters and the losers and and the the lowquality people out there who want to attack you. So each decision itself is nonarbitrary, right? You go into it and you say based on theory or sure method methodological considerations or norms or best practices or whatever we could go left or right at this fork in the road and we are going to go right this time. But then you run into another one and again based on theory or practice or you know norms or whatever the case is this time you reach the fork in the road and you say we will go left and you you navigate through this se a long series of decisions. None none of the individual decisions are arbitrary, but you get the overwhelming sense as the person making them that at the end of the road. You almost if you didn't write them down, it'd be hard to track your way back, right? And and you start to wonder what are the multitudes of paths we could have taken defensively. And and what you find is that the answer is more than a couple, right? You could have gone left, right, right, right, left, left, right, or, you know, fill in any number of combinations and they all would have been defensible. And so the way that I would uh bolster your point and agree with you is that when you get to the end of it, you say, "I just made 20 nonarbitrary sets of decisions that each had an each had a m a tangible like a substantial or or at least substantive impact on how we got from beginning to end." Mhm. And when I look back at this unique combination of 20 decisions in a sequence, that feels arbitrary because I could have just as easily had, you know, multiple other trajectories that would have taken us to a slightly different path and they would have been completely defensible. So the the the cumulative impact of of the path that you wo there does start to get that arbitrary feeling because you look back and you say can I necessarily say this path is unequivocally better than some other fabricated path I could reconstruct from that whole meandering set of decisions and the answer is uncomfortably more often than not no like like I I cannot conclusively say this is the best path that we could have taken and So, I totally agree with you that once you start to put it all together and say, "Well, why did we do this set of 20 answers instead of this very similar set of 20 answers or that one?" That's where you start to feel like that does feel kind of arbitrary. And you, of course, as a metaanalysist, you can observe and you can feel the big ones, right? Like the really really big ones. And so at least we can help ourselves sleep at night because we can go back and do our trusty sensitivity analyses and say, "Okay, we knew that that was a big fork in the road, right? So if we had gone left instead of right, would we have found a fundamentally different set of of answers or estimates in this meta analysis?" we can go and check that and and we can uh you know calm ourselves down from thinking that we made some dumb decision that altered the trajectory of history uh as it comes to this meta analysis. But uh but no, I I totally agree with your point and much much like yourself, the first time I did a meta analysis, I went into it and I I keep using this language because it's it's really kind of how I felt the first time through. Well, that's not true. That's not true. I took a class on meta analysis before I did my first one. When I was entering the class, I thought I was entering a class that was this is how we are going to learn to unequivocally solve blank, you know. So I faciciously said, you know, you guys solved training. It's a solved question. We can set our sights on other things. I I really did have that kind of intuitive sense that metaanalyses are are functionally how you achieve the resolution to a a a research topic and question at hand. And much like you observed once I took that class and then did one of my own, you start to realize, oh, we're all just working toward the most defensible estimate we can produce uh based on whatever data we have available. And a little um a little fun fact from history is that the the first ever meta analysis, I mean, you know, you could you could get really creative in kind of deciding what you consider a like rudimentary metaanalysis, but what is widely agreed to be the first kind of modern approach or modern attempt at a metaanalysis was undertaken by Carl Pearson. uh and it was related to a question about whether or not the British army should pursue the use of a vaccine for its soldiers. Um and essentially getting to the punchline of the story, um he said, "You know what? I'm going to do this thing and it's going to pretty much lay the theory for what metaanalysis is and it's going to give us our our rock solid can't miss answer." And he was wrong. So, so it really kills me kind of from a historical perspective that nowadays we think of meta analyses as these like can'tmiss endeavors that find their way toward the um universally true answer um that the human mind couldn't work to on its own and and ultimately the foundation of it was taking a swing and getting a big whiff and not being able to tell if the vaccine worked or not. So, it's a little funny trip down uh down the historical track there. All right. Now, now I'm just like a 90-year-old man reminiscing about funny statistician stories. So, it's time to cut the episode. Uh Jake, thanks so much for joining us. It was absolutely a pleasure. Uh I've done plenty of self-promotion. So, now I want to ask you, if people want to stay up to date with what you're doing, uh where can they find you and heckle you about your future research papers? Yeah, bring on the heckling. I'm here for it. Um, yeah. Uh, I guess probably Instagram is the easiest place. It's just, uh, jake.remer_coach. Nice and easy to remember. Yeah. So, uh, there's that. Or I got a website, jakemer.com. That one's much easier to remember. But, um, but yeah, that's probably the easiest place. That's kind of where everything goes. And, uh, thank you so much for having me on. This is super fun. This is awesome. And, uh, like I said earlier, a huge honor to, uh, to do this full circle moment. Always. Absolutely. Well, it was an honor to have you. Uh, really really great work on this paper. Um, I I I thought it was fantastic work and and I I think you guys are doing a tremendous job down there in the the heat and I don't know how you can think straight with the humidity, but but keep it up. You guys are you guys are killing it. So, awesome work. Thanks for being on and hopefully we'll have you back on very soon. Uh, folks, as always, thanks for supporting the show. Hope you enjoyed it and we will see you back with another episode of Iron Culture in approximately 1 week.