Hello everybody. Welcome to Iron Culture presented by the Mass Research Review. My name is Eric Trexler. It is 700 p.m. Eastern time, Monday night. That means it's time for another live episode. I'm joined by the good Dr. Eric Helms. I want to thank everyone for their patience. If you got here on time, you did your job. got here at 6:59 p.m. sharp Eastern time. You may notice we started a few minutes late. Um there is some kind of mysterious infrastructure project happening in the neighborhood of Eric Helms. Uh a lot of ominous heavy heavy machinery. We don't know what they're building. We don't know what they're working on. It's really hard to say if what they're doing is uh building uh different types of armaments. Uh we know New Zealand tends to be very aggressive. Uh, it's hard to say, but there is some massive top secret project causing all sorts of chaos and noise. So, we had to reshuffle a little bit. So, we get Helms in a more leisurely condition. Um, a more relaxed um different vibe for the show. So, Helms, how we doing tonight? Well, I'm chilling now. I had to retreat to uh our bedroom, which is on the other side of the house from where the uh like you said, ominous machinery is. Um, and I am particularly concerned. Um, even though I'm relaxed, chilling on my bed. You see our nice headboard here. Um, but I'm particularly concerned because my wife is on the body corporate. You say, "What's a body corporate?" It's the New Zealand term for the homeowners association. So, she volunteers her good time to know what's going on in our area. And either one of two things has happened and both are disastrous. one, she is not being informed about what's going on in our our apartment complex, condo complex, which would be a breach of uh really the duties of the rest of the body corporate and especially the president. Or two, she's not communicating to me as a co-owner of our home and her spouse what is going on, which is a breach of our agreement as a married couple. And um we're coming up on our 20th anniversary in January and I don't know if we're going to make it if that's the the if that is the is what's actually going on in in category 2. Yeah, that's tough cuz you you don't want to have a strained relationship with your homeowners association. You also don't want to have a strained relationship with your wife. And unfortunately, it looks like you're working with one or the other. Uh and those are two of the most important relationships in your life. So, I I I don't know what to hope for on your behalf, but but I hope for a speedy resolution. I hope you get get to the bottom of whoever's trying to sabotage you and by extension me. Um, but it'll be okay. We'll work through it. Um, tonight we have a monster episode as always and you are going to tell us a little bit about an article you have coming up in about a week when the new issue of the Mass Research Review drops. And folks, obviously, if you like what we're doing here with the show, this is only made possible uh by the blessings bestowed upon it by the Mass Research Review. So, of course, you can do the tier one of show support, which is like, rate, subscribe, review. Tier two, share it with a friend, show up live, contribute questions either live or through our portal at uh massresarchreview.com/ironculture. Tier three, the platinum membership gold star member is to become a member of the mass community. Uh, and you can learn more about that at massresarchreview.com. But Helms, you've got an article coming up about protein and the potential harms or potential health risks associated with high protein diets. And I'm going to do like a semiin here to get us started just ask you a couple a couple questions about it. But the the first one that I think probably a lot of viewers are wondering and listeners are wondering is why why write this article knowing a couple things. First of all, the kind of orthodox perspective that is very pervasive in our space is this debate over the potential health ramifications or risks of a high protein diet is dead. You know, high protein diet good period. So that is unanimously accepted across almost all contexts. But I will acknowledge, you know, I think most people in the evidence-based fitness st space would say unless you have like a pre-existing medical condition, there are medical conditions that are that that do impact, you know, how your body responds to higher protein intake. So I feel like people have enough nuance to layer that caveat, but this does seem like a fairly settled debate, so to speak, in the space. Number two, another reason I'm I'm curious about your decision to uh to take this on is Helms, this is one of those topics where I don't think it matters what the risk is. People are not going to go on super low protein diets in the fitness world. Um so with that kind of uh background information uh contextualizing the question, why write this article at this point in time? Uh, two words, clickbait. Boom. Yeah. Boom. Got to pay the bills. But in all seriousness, that's right. In all seriousness, it actually is specifically for those reasons. Uh, because I think it gives us the opportunity to think a little more critically, which is often the Trojan horse of many of my articles. Either that or how to get incredibly jacked. Uh, or both at the same time. So, I specifically chose this because I think in our silo, um, we do think this is a dead debate, but the reality is is that there is a ever and faster revolving, uh, content. I'm going to call it merrygoround just because it it exists in a circus uh or a carnival, something that is macabra and depressing at times, but also can be fun if you can detach yourself from the existential crisis that is uh content online. Um you're going to see something crop up about protein being harmful. uh I'd say these days monthly, you know, I could have said uh quarterly five years ago and every few years if we were in the early stages of the social media kind of news cycle, if you will. Um but now it's constant and this has actually not been a new phenomenon. If you go back 60 years, there are these intermittent periods where there is some type of panic or scare that makes some degree of penetration on the uh the mainstream kind of awareness of nutrition. And now it's just all the time. Um whether it was the the quote unquote China study or whether it is um something being promoted related to vegan diets or whether it is a clinical concern, this is something that people are faced with intermittently. And while we ourselves in the fitness community, especially the more bodybuilding oriented, body composition kind of strength focused uh community, um we're not we're typically not victim to this because it doesn't fit our bias. Uh we are well aware of the research. Um and it's been something that's been debunked many times already. um your clients, your family members, and people who may rely on you for information because I think a tremendous number of the the cult, the iron culture listeners, as well as the mass subscribers are in positions of being educators, not just seeking education from us. So I think these days when people are especially good at crafting narratives and uh using mechanisms and sounding pseudoscientific, it's especially important not to just, you know, whack the mole and say, "Nope, that's false. Trust me." Because someone else is saying, "No, no, no, no, no. Here's true and here's why." So, while we are still dealing with the asymmetry rule, which is that it takes tremendously more effort, time and investment uh with people who don't even want to hear what you have to say, which we'll talk about later, um to debunk something that is false than it is to just perpetuate a myth in the first place. I think just being able to understand what arguments are typically laid out uh as far as why is protein potentially harmful is really helpful. So I think most people would understand kind of the the four specific claims that were addressed in this article and would go, "Yeah, I know that's false." But I think in a few cases they might be, "But I can't really tell you why. I just know that the data has not shown that." And you know, we've talked about empiricism as well as rationalism uh and mechanisms versus outcome, which are closely related topics. One thing that I think people like you and Irex that lean heavily on empiricism, if we don't have some of those fundamental physiological understandings, we can sometimes appear like we don't actually know what we're talking about. Like I'm aware I'm I'm aware of four meta analyses which say, you know, uh, bone losses aren't a thing from high protein diets, but someone could come at you and say, uh, well, I I I think those meta analyses are because it's epidemiology, and how do you explain higher levels of calcium excretion that track linearly with uh with higher protein diets? And here's a PubMed ID. And to someone else looking at that, even if they're reasonably well educated, but in an adjacent field or not specifically in the philosophy of science, if you don't have an answer to that, you kind of look like the person who doesn't know what they're talking about and you just got I'm actually got it. So, I think being able to explain or have a response like, "Oh, yes, no, it is true that calcium excretion does go up with protein intake, but here's why that is not necessarily indicative of decreases in bone mineral density." and I can walk you through that and also point you to an RCT with a couple hundred people over multiple years or the equivalent of that for each one of these claims. And again, you're you're you're on on the wrong side of the fence for the uh asymmetry principle that you're dealing with in that situation, but at least you can respond and for those who are open to it, who want to do a deeper dive, they'll be able to see that and that will also spread within our community. So, we have more people who are able to combat uh these false claims. Yeah, and that's a good point is that um you know, you mentioned being on the wrong side of that fence. Um but but the the other thing you mentioned there is um people who are interested who um if this is happening in kind of a public square digitally speaking you know you may find that when you are trying to counteract some of these untrue uh biased BS claims you know it takes different forms. Sometimes it's well-intentioned people who are just not up to date with the literature. Sometimes it's just total BS. Um, but you know, you may be going back and forth with somebody who is fully entrenched. You know, their their Instagram, you're talking to them on Instagram and their handle is low protein Joe, right? So, it's like you're not going to convince them, hey, actually, like low protein diets aren't optimal for this case and that case. Like, they're dug in. They're they've literally built a persona around that belief. Um, so you're not going to talk them into anything. Uh, nor should you really be all that interested in it, frankly. But that interaction for others who are viewing can inform all sorts of people who are not actively engaged in that conversation. I think that's an important thing to keep in mind there. Um, but yeah, so you mentioned that there were four specific claims in your article. Do you want to go kind of give us a quick snapshot of what those are and then maybe go into each one of them and kind of walk through this process of, you know, here's the grain of truth if if there is one, here's kind of the most legit kind of steelman argument you're going to see on behalf of this claim, but but here's the real scoop. And I'm glad you brought that last point up about steel manning. So, yeah, this is um big shout out to the original authors. This was an invited opinion paper which is essentially uh taking the form of a targeted narrative review by French and colleagues and it's titled the harms of high protein intake conjectured postulated claimed and presumed but shown question mark and it came out a little bit earlier this year not not too long ago um and they basically looked through the last 60 years of claims and I think a really important thing we have to acknowledge is sometimes we think of quote unquote bro science or pseudocience or fake news and we assume it is always coming from some influencer um some charlatan pseudocientist um even as you guys discussed on uh Front Page Fitness, someone with a a clinical doctorate but not a PhD uh who is willing to either reach beyond the their expertise if we're being charitable or purposely ob obiscate um in bad faith. You don't know. Uh, and we're not going to make assumptions, but nonetheless, um, the reality is is that actually many of these claims did start in the scientific research and they were either overextrapulated on, overextended either by the authors themselves or the media or people who science communicated at that time. Sometimes we're talking 50, 40 years ago. Uh, and they kind of caught hold. And this is that that that problem where the first time something gets interpreted by the media or by a given population who's interested in it or many times by the authors themselves that becomes the prevailing narrative even after it has been disproven. And it's not like there's something that needs to be retracted. What I'm specifically talking about is just hey we looked at a mechanism and then we extrapolated beyond it and we made assumptions. You know, a really kind of innocuous example of this in the hypertrophy realm is the idea that the short-term increases in growth hormone, as an example, post exercise are therefore causitive of hypertrophy. And we saw this 10-year period where we were providing programming guidelines for hypertrophy based upon what would optimize growth hormone. So, it's compound movements, sets of 10, one minute rest. And man, you know, that's that's some hard training and it will make you grow, but it's it's a correlatory thing and we're also over extrapolating on what growth hormone does. So the four claims that French specifically called out is do high protein diets cause kidney damage without prior kidney disease. So in a healthy population, do high protein diets cause bone loss or increase the risk of fracture of bones? Do they cause or lead to type 2 diabetes or increase your risk of developing metabolic disease? And then finally, do high protein diets reduce longevity or increase mortality rates? Are they more likely to make you die earlier than you otherwise would have? And to go to your point about steel manning the argument, something that I really like that they did was they stepped away from the mistake we often make in science interpretation of taking a binary assessment of this. either we have the data or we don't. And also they will they did not conflate an absence of evidence for evidence of absence, which is something that is actually really important when we think about what we truly can and can't know and the philosophy of science. And that ultimately, and we talked about this in previous episodes, when we put forth a hypothesis, that's just where it starts. And then in our own data sets, we're trying to see if we can show that that hypothesis isn't wrong. And in a way that's truly saying actually it's the null that that survives, you know, the this comparison. We don't see a difference statistically between these two outcomes. So therefore, we're going to continue to believe that the null is true, that the thing we manipulated made no difference. And then once we see repeatedly in a sufficient sample size or if we don't have a sufficient sample size a sufficient number of underpowered studies to the point where we think we have a large enough powered meta science analysis of the same question. You know what this is probably not purely due to uh variation or probability. We actually do think there is a difference between these two. So therefore our hypothesis might graduate to becoming something like a model or eventually a theory. like gosh darn it, Newton was right. Every time I drop that apple, it hits the ground. I think we've got the theory of gravity going for us here. So, they actually had four different categories which they would rate each one of these, not just disproven or proven. It's either one, the evidence strongly supports supports the existence of the alleged harm. And I'm not going to bury the lead. Good news, folks, is you are right. Your biases have been confirmed. None of these four are do we have strong evidence for. Uh the second category down is that the alleged harm has not been demonstrated, but there is actually some evidence suggesting the claim could be plausible. And that's a relatively low bar. I just want to put that out there. Just because a claim could be plausible, but hasn't yet been proven, it doesn't even mean that I necessarily think it's likely. It's just if we're going to be responsible scientists and science communicators, I can't just re reject it out of hand. If someone comes to me and says, you know, high protein diets do X, I can't be like, that's because I don't want it to be. I can go well I we don't have any data to indicate that's the case but it's plausible we need more research. Yeah. The next category which is where we're often at in my opinion uh in in in this realm of health and nutrition research is that the alleged harm cannot be ruled out based upon the existing evidence but the existing evidence suggests implausibility. And TX, this is one we're going to talk about a lot later in this episode because of the limitations of what we can and can't know with our largest data sets and the way that nutrition operates in the real world out in the wild where people follow dietary patterns rather than isolating specific things. And we kind of have to ask ourselves, okay, well, if this was true about this nutrient, what would the world look like? and certain claims are really implausible. Even though I can't show you with actual true causation level evidence, that's not the case. And then finally, um, where we sometimes get to, but not always, evidence seems sufficient to rule out the alleged harm for practical purposes. So, there was a mixture across these last three categories for each one of these claims. And I think the the steelman case for each one of them I can go through that next if if you think that's we don't need any more context and I can get to it a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Let's dive in. Okay. Cool. So the first one is one you actually covered um a few issues ago or maybe last volume. The idea of uh lifespan and mortality. Yeah. And I think this is an interesting one because it's based upon animal data and specifically insect data. uh where if we see uh where we can actually experimentally manipulate protein intake and observe the entire lifespan of an insect because they don't live very long and indeed when you restrict the protein intake of insects they do live longer and oh wow maybe we should do something with that. Um and in fact that doesn't seem to hold up very well. The reason being is that in subsequent work in a better but still far from perfect or even typically useful uh model to extrapolate to humans, a rodent model, it doesn't seem to hold up. And if anything, there might be a little bit of data indicating that energy restriction could extend lifespan in rodents. Um but even that data is pretty weak. And then when we think about the problems with extending not only energy restriction but the far more speculative protein restriction to humans. Obviously we're not doing great with energy restriction as a species at the moment especially in the industrialized world. Right. Yeah. We don't specialize in it. That's true. No. No. No. We seem far better at the opposite. Right. Right. Um, and if anything, there's reason to believe that it would actually backfire. Um, and I think the the the related topic not of just all cause mortality and lifespan is also health span, which is what you wrote about. Yeah. And the data actually pretty consistently shows that protein is either neutral or positively related to healthy aging and you know, fall risk, sarcopenia, all of these things. Now there's obviously some coariantss. Typically people who are eating a healthy diet that is high in protein tend to be more active. So healthy user bias is a thing here. But um the the data mostly shows that in fact if you look at people aging well, they're generally eating a higher protein diet. And there seems to be more consistent positive relationships with um dairy uh mostly uh vegetarianbased sources of protein and then in some analyses uh you know fish and other lean meats. And the data is still overall positive for total protein intake and even in some cases protein that we might you know vilify more like red meat or something like that. But it's it's very difficult to take a look at the longevity data and and make this and square it because there's there's no data in humans that is cor that is causational that can be shown either way. The correlational data actually shows the opposite. People tend to live longer or have healthier lifespan. And then our mechanistic understanding of what happens when you try to restrict protein intake. Well, actually sometimes that leads to a higher ad liibbitum overall energy intake. So it might even, you know, backfire and hurt the thing that has a better chance of enhancing longevity. And that's protein leverage theory, which I think we've probably talked about before. And that's the idea and actually a pretty consistent observation that when you look at people free living just consuming as much food as they want, they will typically as one of the many things that influences how much they eat and when do they stop, they're going to reach a certain relatively low protein threshold. You know, maybe around 1.1 1.2 grams per kilogram somewhere in that range. Certainly not we would consider a high protein diet in our field, but definitely more than what would be considered protein restriction. So, by trying to restrict your calories, you might in inadvertently end up consuming uh sorry, by trying to restrict your protein, you might inadvertently end up ingesting more calories and kind of throwing the proverbial intended baby out with the bath water. But there's no good data in either case to indicate uh that, you know, protein is associated with with mortality in general. and the observational data that's most uh recent and that I think is highest quality indicates the opposite. So that one we are going to put in the box of we can't disprove it but it's pretty implausible. Yeah. If I may you mind if I jump in with a little extra context here? So I think um there are likely to be some people Helms who say you know hey I'm I'm not an all or nothing kind of person. If you know some folks are saying out there protein restriction helps out insects. I've been doing my bodybuilding thing. I've been eating you know 2.2 gram per kilogram of protein per day. Um, I tell you what, I'll meet you halfway. Maybe in the interest of longevity, I'm gonna drop from 2.2 to 1.6, 1.4, 1.2. It's really important to recognize like when we talk about protein restriction as an intervention to extend lifespan, we are talking about very aggressive severe protein restriction. So, for example, in a a paper that Speakman and colleagues wrote about kind of the feasibility uh just even the possibility of what protein restriction would look like and what it would offer. They argued that reducing your protein intake from 20% of your energy uh which is not an unusual protein intake for a human being. reducing it from 20% of en of your calories to 4% which is a for all intents and purposes a nonp protein diet would uh incre would be estimated to increase lifespan by half as much as the typical caloric restriction intervention if we pretended that these effects actually translated from insects all the way to humans and we have ample evidence to suggest that is not the case anyway. So like if you think you're going to dip your toes in the protein restriction water and maybe get a little residual benefit, no one is holding out hope for that who's actually read this literature. So it's it's really important to kind of emphasize like it's one thing to kind of throw a Hail Mary and say, "Hey, maybe this will work for me because it works for insects." But if you're going to dabble into, you know, tiptoe into it, you have to realize you're not even doing the intervention. uh and and then when you start thinking well if that's the intervention what do I what do I know will happen right uh and the answer is you are really going to lose a lot of muscle tissue uh that is not going to be good for you know for for just your ability to be a robust resilient person who won't who who will maintain their mobility and their independence later in life who won't s you know suffer severe injury from uh a little bump or bruise here and there, you know, a fall that you would otherwise be able to manage. Uh, so it's really important to recognize with protein restriction, if you actually do the intervention with the level of severity it requires, you are knowingly walking in to sarcopenia, which is a health condition that we know shortens health spans. So, it's like it just frankly could not be a more inadvisable uh intervention to do by the book. Uh, and then if you're not doing it by the book, it it really just makes no sense to even try to dabble in those waters and tiptoe your way into some kind of modified, you know, modest approach to it. Uh yeah, I I think um you know the the people who wrote this review paper, you know, I think they they did a really nice job uh being very objective, very deliberate with with their wording, being by the book, but you know, not um not being demonstrative in terms of like saying this is a fundamentally terrible idea, but I as a dude on YouTube will tell you this is a fundamentally terrible idea if you're interested in a long healthy life. That's that's my two cents. Exactly. And I I I I really love philosophically that they said, "Listen, we're not going to have the RCT that manipulates protein intake for someone's entire life." Right. Right. Um there are some places where we do have that ability though and one of them is the claim that high protein diets lead to bone loss tracks. And uh this one is actually one that I think has been relatively well disproven. Um and it did start and originate in the published research as to the speculation of why it' be a problem. So I'm aware is maybe the early 90s perhaps the late 80s there was the observation that with increased protein intakes there was a small but relatively consistent positive association with protein diet. So high protein diets leading to increased calcium excretion. And the idea here is that the overall solute load of of the diet then needs to be processed by the kidneys and that is causing issues. So I'm sorry, excuse me. The sulfur containing amino acids acidify the blood. I got ahead of myself. I was thinking of the liver. Um or the kidneys rather. Wow. I'm killing it. So erase everything that I said from your brain. We're starting over. Hard reset on Eric Helms and uh and his mouthtobrain connection. And so the idea and go. All right. So the idea is that the sulfur containing amino acids lead to higher acidity in the blood. Therefore, we have to balance that, you know, being more basic. So we're going to pull calcium uh from bone. So we're seeing bone resorption in order to buffer the acid. And indeed we see urinary calcium excretion reliably increasing when someone consumes a higher protein diet. And that mechanistic indirect observation of a marker potential marker I'll even say of bone health led to the hypothesis of hey higher protein diets could lead to calcium excretion and then bone loss. But I think it's really important to make a distinction between a direct rather than indirect marker of bone health. something like oh I don't know bone mineral density which we can actually measure with dexa um or the actual occurrence of f fractures uh falls that result in actual fractures right so I would say the most convincing piece of data is actually a randomized control trial three years long that occurred in 2002 and it was done in community dwelling over 65year-old uh individuals healthy adult and women So, this is hundreds of people and it's a three-year randomized control trial. This is the type of thing where most of these RCTs are not possible in other fields of nutrition, but because of what they're specifically experimentally manipulating and looking at, they were able to get a kind of a cool insight here. So, what they did, what they did not experimentally manipulate was protein. They were just looking at, okay, what are the ranges of protein consumed in this group? And then what we're going to experimentally manipulate is we're going to give some people a placebo and we're going to give others calcium and vitamin D supplements and then we're also going to have the control group. So you've got a double-blinded placeboc controlled trial and they're looking at the impact of calcium and vitamin D but they're looking at the interaction of protein intake. And the really interesting thing they found was that in the community dwelling participants who had a higher protein diet or rather just who were consuming calcium and vitamin D, there was a positive relationship with bone mineral density and protein intake. So when there is a sufficient amount of calcium and D in the diet that's been insured by the supplement, now we're actually seeing that protein is positively associated with increasing bone mineral density. And you could maybe say, oh well, well, hold on. What happened in those not receiving it? Well, in there, there was no significant relationship. There was nothing to be seen, but there was not a negative one, which is what we would need to see to claim that in any instance, a higher protein diet results in in losses of bone mineral density. And this has been something that's not just shown in that paper. I just think it's probably one of the more convincing RCTs being as long as it is as well powered it is and being, you know, double blind placebo controlled and the findings they had. But if you look at all of the position stands and like meta reviews, so people reviewing systematic reviews and metaanalyses, if anything, the claim that is being made by these osteoporosis organizations is that a low protein diet, at least in elderly populations, creates more risk of fracture or bone loss and is something that you want to try to correct. If anything, we should be trying to get the message out to the elderly for the reasons you just stated in the last, you know, segment. we probably want to get a a higher protein intake confirmed there. But of course, you know, calcium consumption is is very important as well. So for this one, this is one of the ones that we can definitely lay to bed. Uh we have the highest quality data on it and a tremendous amount of observational data. And we also just need to understand that a indirect marker uh may or may not in different circumstances be connected to the direct marker. So calcium excretion is not the highest quality gold standard evidence of whether or not you have bone low bone mineral density. Believe it or not, that would be an assessment of bone mineral density. And then we would also actually want to look at to what degree is a change in bone mineral density related to and potentially an increased risk factor for fracture risk. And we have a lot of data on this. and and ever since the the uh the basically the creation of DEXA scans um we we've seen a much higher quality understanding of this. So that one also we can lay it to bed. Yeah. So just out of curiosity it's okay if you haven't brushed up on your bone physiology. This is kind of a detailed question out of left field, but uh it may solidify semi pun intended there may solidify the understanding for people who are confronted with this claim. So the calcium that is appearing in the urine presumably is coming from bone. So what are the what's happening in the bone that is essentially offsetting this this loss of calcium? Uh for for in other words like if the bone is losing calcium, why isn't that actually materially impacting bone density? Do you happen to know off the top of your head? I am not necessarily sure the premise is true. Okay. Yeah. So I think I think that that is not something I am fully convinced of. That's why I threw a big if in there. That's right. So, if you're consuming more protein and we see an increase in calcium excretion, it could be that you're not absorbing as much of your calcium into bone rather than actually excreting it from bone, which is which are two importantly different things. It's a reallocation of resources, but I would imagine from an evolutionary perspective that actually giving up calcium from bone is pretty low on the priority. It's pretty high on the priority list for the body before it starts doing that. And ultimately, I think when someone is consuming a higher protein diet, they are often also consuming more dietary calcium. I would be really interested in a tightly controlled experimental study where you're able to clamp calcium intake and increase dietary protein. And again, I'm not a bone expert. This may exist, but I don't think that's the case. Um, and and maybe that could create a scenario where you'd run into issues, but I I I I think that's not uh a premise that I would I would necessarily take for granted. And I and I have not brushed up on my um you know, the source of that calcium excretion of where it's coming from. Yeah, it's it's um I mean and I don't I don't certainly wouldn't fault you for that because I wouldn't have either because I I think you you kind of alluded to this earlier, but we both tend to be um you know, fairly on the empirical side of the of the spectrum there. And yeah, I think you and I both kind of work from a top- down approach. And personally, I mean, I'm I'm very biased. Um, I just stated my bias, but I personally view that empirical inclination for people in our field as not a not a sure sign, but sometimes a bit of an indicator of just experience uh, in the sense that our field is so prone to this like this notion of like I'm going to cook up a story for you and it begins with a mechanism and it ends with something that's either fantastic or terrible. And you can only go through that process so many times and have it just completely unravel. Uh when it comes to the actual outcomebased studies, you you can only fall for that and get wrapped up in the narrative so many times before you say, "Okay, you know what? Let me stop you there. Before you tell me this big elaborate story based on urinary calcium, I'm going to go look at fractures and maybe take one step down and look at bone mineral density. I'm going to look at the outcome and the most proximal uh measurements that would actually be highly predictive of that outcome. And only after I verify those am I going to even meet you at this mechanistic level where we start to figure out why what we're observing is happening. Um but but I I think you know frankly Helms it's one thing it's one thing to say like through experience that some might call learned wisdom I am going to just not put myself through this every single time and and get pulled into every rabbit hole. Um but but it's also like it's just practically like pragmatically speaking there's only so many hours in the day Helms you know we we've we're on episode 333 of the podcast here um and we've covered more than six topics which means like if you really want to and as a practitioner you have no choice. You have to develop conclusions. Um, you know, some of them you feel stronger about than others, but you have to develop clu conclusions that actually address the needs of your clients. Um, and you really shouldn't be getting into the biochemistry of everybody process every time someone throws a claim your way. It it's it's a much more pragmatic, practical, convenient, and timeefficient strategy. Let alone is it in my opinion more more logical to say okay you're telling me there's a problem and the problem manifests as the following outcome. Why don't we go look at the outcome oriented research and work our way back to the mechanism rather than solidifying the mechanism and then assuming that the rest of this cascade occurs. So, all that is to say, um, yeah, I I I may brush up on that out of curiosity, just getting back into some of that bone physiology and, um, but but for all intents and purposes, frankly, it's it's really not that important because like you said, Holmes, for this particular claim, um, this thing's dead. Yeah. And I actually just pulled up a paper that um specifically outlines it's from 93 um and it outlines how data from the 70s and 80s really reliably show this consistent increase in calcium excretion with higher protein diets and they then talk about hey hold on though um in their implications specifically basically what I said that their their postulation here and this is before the widespread application of DEXA and they're still, you know, they're thinking through this whether harm results will depend on the basic adequacy of of dietary calcium. Simply put, the interaction that the efficiency of calcium conservation is influenced by the level of protein intake. At high calcium intakes, the effects of protein can be easily offset by improved absorption efficiency. However, at low calcium intakes, the degree of adjustment possible is usually not sufficient to compensate for the protein induced calcium loss. And then they go on to talk about the ratio of calcium to protein in the diet. So, at this point in the '9s, they had speculated the point of saying, "Hey, hey, hold on. We we don't think, you know, high protein diets are just bad. You just need to make sure that this nutrient nutrient interaction is taken care of." And that's basically why I I I bet if I looked at the 2002 hypothesis for Dawson and Hughes paper in those community dwellers, they'd say, "Well, maybe high protein is fine so long as they're getting a calcium supplement." And what they actually found was high protein is good if you're getting a calcium supplement, but it's neutral if you're not. So I it just doesn't there's no way to work through how could it be that the bone is the primary source where this calcium excretion is coming from to your point. Absolutely. Yeah. I think um I I think especially with micronutrients um a lot of people really oversimplify what what's going like it it's gotten to the point um I think everyone should aspire to have uh adequate intake of all their micronutrients. A very bold claim by me. I'm really uh pushing back against the orthodoxy here. Uh but it's a it's a no-brainer. Try to get the things you need. Um, but I really don't get very I'm not all that interested in tracking micronutrient intake very deliberately and closely because it has so much to do like in terms of what what then, right? So, so it gets into your body um based on the food labels you consumed, right? But there are so many things you can do in the pan that make the labeled amount of that micronutrient irrelevant. And then there are so many food combinations that can make what was on your label either an underestimate of the actual impact in your body or an overestimate of the actual impact in your body. And this is another, you know, you you've mentioned like even just the premise that different tissues can adjust the the way that they turn over or or conserve or release some of these micronutrients. Um, so I I just just as an aside, I think the way people talk about micronutrients as as if it's as simple as like you need, you know, three micrograms of this, so get three micrograms of this, period. Um, it's just a huge huge mistake. And I I continue to be um amazed by more and more papers that um you know I I've seen papers recently where they're like I forget exactly which micronutrient they were talking about but it's a micronutrient that tends to be a little bit light in vegan diets. And I've seen this I think for at least a couple micronutrients where researchers say, "Huh, these vegans aren't really eating enough of it." And yet when we test them for adequacy they're fine. And it turns out they're e, you know, there's some kind of adaptive ongoing adjustment where they're extracting more from their from their diet than we thought they would or they are retaining more of it and not turning it over as much. Um, but but the moral of the story is we thought they would have inadequate values in the actual tissue we care about and they do not. Um, so so yeah, that the um you it's so much more complicated than calcium and urine. Looks like you don't have any bones left. Uh yeah, a lot going on in there. Yeah. The next claim uh I'll go through quickly because I really do want to talk about the recent Instagram controversy which we'll extend from this. Yes. Um is where you you'll see where my brain fart came from and that is the claim that high protein diets harm kidney function because it has a really similar hypothesis uh and it's attributed to an author by Brener, the Brener hypothesis. I think it goes back to the 80s and it is that high protein diets produce higher solute loads um and that is primarily uh from increased ura production and that's from the nitrogen that's present in protein but also from just whatever the mineral content is in the specific food you're eating that is high in protein and that varies by source. So that requires your kidney to increase its filtration rates which you'll sometimes see as glomular filtration rates if you're looking at a blood panel or if it's described and hypothetically that creates a strain on the kidneys which results in uh eventual kidney damage and reduced function. And this is actually reasonably well established in animals. So you can look at rodent models and you can see that if you give very high protein diets to them you see kidney hypertrophy. then you start to see actually scarring in the kidneys. Uh when you dissect them and look at it, you see the development of chronic kidney disease and it's all bad, right? Um however, the human data does not bear that out importantly in healthy individuals. And when we actually look at systematic reviews of controlled trials, um we tend to see either neutral or slightly positive impacts um on on on other markers of kidney function. And I say other markers because I think just like seeing an increase in calcium excretion, seeing an increase in kidney filtration rates, glamular filtration rates, if you kind of started down the Brener hypothesis rabbit hole, you might position that as just seeing that as an overall negative. But when you really think about this from a physiological perspective, is it necessarily a negative thing or a pathophysiological thing to see higher rates of kidney filtration? Not always a bad thing, right? And in fact um when they look and when you look at the recent more recent like opinion papers like the German nutrition society in 2023 they did an an umbrella review of 12 systematic reviews six of which had metaanalyses and they looked at the relationships between uh high protein diets and all a bunch of markers of kidney function and they concluded that high protein diets do not cause kidney disease and the small and not even that consistent increased filtration rates are in almost all cases still within the normal range and they reflect just a simple physiological regulatory but not pathogenic or uh you know pathophysiological response to higher protein loads. So essentially what they're saying and this has been repeated uh by a systematic review by Chang and colleagues with almost 150,000 people looking at epidemiological observations is saying hey you know what we're seeing inverse associations between high protein intakes and uh and kidney disease or markers of kidney function um in humans. So what's going on here because we are seeing increase in glamular filtration rates. So the idea here is that as a modest in in improvement or sorry a modest increase in protein intake actually results in a functional improvement in your kidney's ability. It's adapting right? It's just like your heart when you're doing exercise you know so it improves its ability to filter effectively and it's not overloading it to the point where it can't adapt to it. Right? It's a functional and positive adaptation. Now I can't sit here and tell you hey you know look at all this observational data you know therefore we can disprove this one out of one side of my mouth just based upon my biases. The strongest piece of evidence which shifts this from being implausible to fully disproven is something where you can't actually determine causation. And this is something I think uh I don't know that we've talked about mandelian randomization before on iron culture. Do you think we have tracks? No. No. Okay cool. Well, there's a great study in 2021 by Park and colleagues where what they did was they used a genetic variant um so a gene that specifically influences the amount of macronutrients you eat. So people who have this e either this gene or don't have this gene tend to have higher or lower fat and protein intakes. um and they were able to look at the relationship between macronutrient intake with effect effectively the randomizer being that okay is that due to some behavior or is it due to the the the presence of the gene. So mandelian randomization is essentially a way if you make sure this is important that the specific gene does not have other relationships with behavior, lifestyle or disease occurrence of any of the other variables you're looking at. doesn't co-vary with any of the outcomes or or moderators that you're interested in. It can be used as a natural experiment. It embeds randomization into the observation. So, it makes uh the the potential of confounding factors, reverse causation or bias being introduced greatly reduced. And I think it is uh it's accurate if if those you know if those specific delimiters are in place and you have made sure that there's no coariantss that aren't controlled for or you're not influencing something else that could influence the outcome to say this is a method of observing uh causation. And Parkin and colleagues specifically found that high protein diets were actually associated with better outcomes for kidney disease. And it was if anything higher fat intakes were causally related to increasing the risk of developing kidney disease. So they saw higher protein decrease risk. Higher fat intake increased risk. So this one is another one where we can put it firmly in the column of this is not a thing. Yes, we see increased glamular filtration rates when you increase your protein intake. But in healthy people that is actually a functional positive adaptation. your your kidneys are getting better at filtering and it's actually protective against developing CKD or chronic kidney disease. And I really I do want to just emphasize this though because sometimes we get just too caught up in the world of everyone is healthy and there's no one who's like has clinical issues. There are actual experimental data showing that when you get higher glamular filtration rates in people with kidney disease, it's not a good thing. That is actually an indication across a a milloo of of of negative signs. And more importantly that protein restriction in people with existing kidney disease can actually slow the progression of chronic kidney disease at least in the early and moderate stages. It's not a huge effect but it is a small uh benefit that they see. So a small effect size. So it is still valid in someone actually with CKD to go, you know what, we want to pull back on protein even though in healthy people, you know, a higher protein diet typically is associated with better outcomes so long as you know, fat intake is controlled and you're doing other things in a healthy manner. Good stuff. Yeah. You want to quickly hit the high notes of the uh type 2 diabetes claim and then we can get into the the broader conversation about the uh the controversies on social media. Yeah. And this one is easy to hit the highlights on because this is actually the one that fell in that category of you know what technically we need more research. Now I'll tell you my personal interpretation of this is I'd be very surprised if anyone was able to create a link causally and independently with protein and risk of type 2 diabetes or any type of metabolic disease. But what we have essentially are a mixture of observational data a heavily confounded set of observational data. I'm not aware of mandelian randomization. I'm not aware of really wellont controlled meta science on this that has observations to the opposite. Um but essentially what we see is that in some cases there are uh relationships between diabetes and protein intake. And that could just be because people who eat more calories and especially people who eat more western processed diets, more fried foods, um also tend to increase, you know, higher protein intakes. Like if you went out and ate a whole bunch of like burnt meat, I'm you're probably going to get cancer more often, but you're also going to have a higher protein diet. And what other behaviors do people who eat tremendous amounts of heavily charred barbecue have? Like they probably live somewhere in the south. They might be drinking sweet tea. They may not be very active. They could live in a food desert. And you can technically control quote unquote I know you hate that terminology TX for all those coariantss but the reality is is that statistical uh adjustments are just that we're not truly then oh we've made this an RCT that's not what's happening right when we look at AI know we think like okay if I'm looking at a study of six months of manipulating red meat intake how is that that different besides the time course of looking at an observation study over six years of people with higher or lower red meat and I I control for things like smoking and obesity and activity. They're pretty damn different because the former what you're really doing is you're looking at food substitution as an intervention because when you give someone experimentally a food it will displace something else in their diet. That's just the way that works. But when you observe people you're observing overall dietary patterns. You might be focused on red meat consumption but you are not aware of or you have not necessarily taken account for everything else that happens to occur in people with that dietary pattern. So there are birectional relationships here because some data yeah like I said protein seems to contribute to the risk for for type two diabetes but other data says actually that's not the case and we see you know plant dairy egg proteins either having neutral or positive effects and there's even one analysis of markers not actual incidence of diabetes where red meat was experimentally shown to have some small reductions in postprandial glucose for people which would be you know an acute marker that would be indicate you're less likely to get type 2 diabetes. So anyway that's all we really have and then there's also potential mechanistic arguments of uh why act downstream mTor activation could result in you know uh insulin signaling that that could lead to something. So, it's a really messy area and we basically just don't have firm data to truly just go, "No, this is not a thing." Yeah. Except and and here's why I'm very skeptical of it. When we look at interventions in people with metabolic disease and experimentally going, you know what, let's try to put you on a high protein diet that's also healthy. That's generally associated with better outcomes, better appetite control, which is not just the protein, it's a lot of things. um and reductions in visceral atyposity, reductions in uh blood glucose levels, triglycerides, and everything that you'd want to see as well as importantly just overall fat loss and being in a caloric deficit. And it's hard for me to square that circle where we know that counseling people to increase lean protein sources and improve their diet is a huge net positive and one of the best tools in our belt, but actually the protein's causing an issue. Yeah. Yeah. So to me that says maybe at worst high protein diets in the presence of other things cause issues, but more likely the clustering of behaviors that lead someone to develop type 2 diabetes often includes in the data sets we have and in the populations we look at high protein intakes as well. Yeah. The only thing I would add to that uh I totally agree. I this is one of the areas where I will rarely call a mechanistic shot and say empirically I know we got a ways to go but I actually have a strong hunch on this one. I am of the belief uh based on some mechanisms that have been reasonably well established. I I think we have a scenario where uh developing type 2 be type 2 diabetes alters your metabolism of branch chain amino acids. Um, and I I I think a lot of folks um that that make this link a lot of times they they look at, well, how do you explain these high, you know, circulating branch chain amino acid levels that seem to correlate really well with all these different, you know, type 2 diabetes and and the various morbidity and mortality outcomes. Um, I I think what we're really looking at here is in the observational stuff, people who eat more calories eat more protein. And uh I I think what we're looking at in the mechanistic stuff is that diabetes alters branchst chain amino acid metabolism not branch chain amino acid intake gives you diabetes. Uh so I I feel pretty pretty confident about those two things. But um like you said, if the goal of the review paper is to be purely objective and not forecast in the future, but just say what do we have currently, I I do agree with the assessment of the authors while also having a very strong prospective hunch about where this work's going. No, I would totally agree with you and I think if this paper is written again in 10 years, I would suspect we would have this one shifted into the implausible category if I had to guess. Yep. All right. At home tracks pe people hate you on the internet. They do. Yeah, they do. You know, uh we had the good folks at the sports nutrition association making collaborative posts with us at Mass, trying to get the word out, doing more education for people interested in understanding nutrition. And you foolheartedly wrote an article based upon epidemiology of all things. And I've heard there was actually a funer of this epidemiology paper which means it's suspect and probably part of the food conglomerates which want us all dying from seed oil consumption. Correct. That's what I took. Yeah. Yeah. Um so in my defense I did not write this article thinking, "Oh my god, this is going to make the best Instagram post." um as you know our dear friends at the sports nutrition association they read mass uh as all good people do and uh you know they they'll say hey we like this article we want to make a little post about it and you know we'll we'll do kind of a collaborative post um one of my I mean I'll I have to be honest I I knew that this article was going to be somewhat controversial um be you know it was an article about two new studies which is rare for a mass article which made the communic education even more fractured on the Instagram thread. Um, but it was about the uh the two new studies, one of which was looking at the comparative effects of plant-based oils, including seed oils in the diet versus saturated fat in the diet. Um, looking at a variety of mortality related outcomes. The other paper was the now infamous uh observational uh study where they had a bunch of uh quote unquote lean mass hyper respponders who had a history of being on ketogenic diets. They observed their plaque progression over a one-year period. They found rapid plaque progression and then um interpreted the study as if they did not find rapid plaque progression. Uh so both of those things get lumped together in this article because they are they kind of fall into this umbrella of the kind of what what I call not to be disparaging but I think it is objectively true. uh the kind of nutrition science contrarians of today who who basically have uh and you know not all people uh fall in line with every element of this kind of overarching theory but you can broadly uh you know paint with a broad brush and summarize it as follows. All that crap from 1950 to 1990 that everyone was saying in the nutrition world, all that research about saturated fat, LDL, cholesterol, APOB, heart disease, that stuff's all nonsense. What's really killing you is really two things. The American diet has too much carbohydrate and the American diet has too much seed oil. And so if we ditched the carbohydrate, ditched the seed oils, and got back to the good stuff, which is a lot of meat and a lot of saturated fatty acids, uh, we'd all be better for it. Um, now I I call it contrarianism because it does really ask you to look past a lot of very robust, very rigorous, very established science. Um, that's not to say that we fully cracked the code on what the optimal human diet is. Uh but many of the claims that that are uh put forward by this camp are really unfounded and directly contradictory uh of a lot of the evidence and so and causal evidence I'll point out. Oh, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. Causal evidence. Uh and so basically, you know, my article went over the um the findings of the paper, the two papers, which were basically it's not a good idea to have LDL consistently at triple the upper limit. that's recommended. You know, if if your doctor says, "I'd like your LDL below a 100, don't keep it at 300 for two decades." Um, that's a that's not a controversial thing to say. And the paper basically found that in people who literally were in that up you know 200 250 300 uh for their LDL levels they rapidly were acrewing plaque uh in their arteries uh which which is a crash course for cardiac events later in life. Um, so, uh, that was the one kind of set of claims was basically the things we know we actually do know. And you do not want to have sky-high LDL and APOB levels. And if you do have sky-high APOB and LDL levels, you want to reduce them. And how do you do that? Well, you probably don't eat a super highfat animal-based ketogenic diet. You probably shift to a more planttoriented dietary pattern. doesn't mean you have to go vegan, but you probably incorporate more high-fiber plant foods. You probably go to leaner protein sources. You probably get your your total fat and s certainly your saturated fat down a little bit. Um, and so that ruffled some feathers. And then the other paper um basically modeled out the the different mortality um um and this is where people actually lost their mind, which is wild to me. like the um out of the two papers, one being this complete comedy of errors. Yeah. Still hitting branches while it's falling. Internal debates between the authors, massive conflicts of interest. Internal debates. Yeah. Yes. P. That's true. Public debates between authors is what I should say rather than internal. um conflicts of interest stemming from not only uh vested interest in the ketogenic diet itself, but also the imaging software used to see the accumulation of plaque that now we're going, "Oh, that must be terrible. This can't be true." Between authors on this paper, again, people saying, "I didn't approve this. I don't I'm just curious how long is it going to take for this thing to get retracted?" That that that that's the that's the debate. That's what we should be betting on. that one. No, no one said anything about it, but they were like, "Hold on. Are you citing epidemiology tracks?" Yeah. Epidemiology. Yeah. Like that whole field. Don't you know it's pseudocience? And honestly, like prospective cohort studies as well, which which are like kind of pretty good as far as epidemiology goes. I mean, there's there's varying degrees of of robustness, but it's not like they just went out and said, "Here's a few surveys. what have you what have you been eating your whole life? You know what I mean? Like it's this is where they actually recruit cohorts. They they have followup. They actually track their behaviors over time with repeated uh you know surveys and and check-ins. Um but basically actually le let's take a second because I think most people they hear epidemiology, they hear observational and that gets lumped into one spot, one tier on the evidence pyramid. And there's various versions of the evidence pyramid out there, but I think it's worth talking about the difference between a cross-sectional analysis versus a prospective cohort study in a little more depth. People actually know why that's potentially more useful. Yeah. So, um, epidemiology, as we've kind of like hinted at in in a few different ways, I I should just say observational studies can take a lot of different forms. Um now of course everybody wants the giant super long randomized control trial for everything. Um but that's not reality. Uh sometimes resources are not permissible for that. Sometimes it's not ethical. Um sometimes the timelines are simply not feasible. So sometimes we do have to really lean on uh observational evidence to get at questions that we can't really test in a randomized control trial uh with any level of affordability or feasibility. But observational trials can take many forms. So for example, that that keto CTA trial that we were just talking about was an observational trial, right? They basically said, "Hey, you guys are you meet the criteria. We just want to watch for a year and see how much plaque accumulates in your arteries." Um, but people, I guess, give that the benefit of the doubt because it's smaller. And usually when you look at a study, you don't say, "As long as the sample size is small, then I'll feel good about it." But um in this case, I think people feel more comfortable about the more nuanced measurements that are available in a smaller observational trial. Um I think people intuitively feel like you can extract better nutrition information from people in a smaller cohort purely based on its size. I don't find that to be true at all. Uh and generally speaking, people are using the same diet uh diet logging tools or diet recall tools whether they have a 100 participants or 3,000 participants. Um but but any all that is to say, you can have a small group that you're following based on habits they report. Um you could recruit a big old group of people and say, "I want to follow you for the next 15 years." And do do check-ins. And so that would be a prospective study where um you know you kind of have this established ongoing you know repeated serial measurement protocol where it tends to give you some really nice observations of these longitudinal trajectories which goes a little bit it it goes a longer way than trying to say you know I just want to survey a bunch of 50 year olds and say how are you eating today and I'm just going to assume you've been doing that for 50 years of your life right? So what you can do is actually establish this longitudinal track record of what behaviors this person actually engages in. You can see how they change over time. You can also do uh case control studies where you say we're going to find, you know, uh a big group of people who developed type 2 diabetes and a big group of similar people who didn't and try to work backward looking at their habits and figure out how you know some people go left, some people go right. So there's a lot of different way we can do. Mandelian randomization where you say I'm not just going to rely on what I what you list your behaviors to be. I want to look at a particular genetic variant that tells me a lot about how your trajectory is going to go as it pertains to this one variable. So, for example, there's been um Mandelian uh randomization studies where they look at alcohol intake and they basically say, I know that this genetic variant basically sets you up with a much higher likelihood that you're going to overconume alcohol in your adulthood and this particular variant doesn't really seem to dictate anything else. So, it gives us this kind of true experiment um that that it is still has its imperfections, right? because not every person's entire life trajectory is dictated by their genetic code. There going to be some people who have that genetic variant and do not engage in in a lot of, you know, drinking. But but all that is to say, there's all these different tools. And if you go into a conversation and you actually want the answer, like you're actually interested in the truth, then what you would say is for almost all instances of for almost all research questions, the perfect evidence does not yet exist and may never exist. But let's use what we've got, interpret those things within the context of their shortcomings and see if we're getting a constellation of findings across different types of research. That's basically given us a picture. Right? So when you look up in the stars, you say, I've been told that that's supposed to be a lion in that constellation. I'm not so sure if I'm sold on that, but it's not a hot air balloon, right? I'm at least in the ballpark. I I get what you're getting at up there. Um, so so that usually is the goal if you're not married to a theory and you're willing to go down with the ship. Um, and and so Helms, I you know, the the other paper I covered uh in this article that became a social media post was basically modeling out um using a few cohorts of these kind of, you know, really big cohorts in uh most if not all of them were prospective uh studies. So, nurses health study uh one and two, health professionals follow-up study. So, you know, these really big cohorts that they're following for multiple years, long follow-up times. Um, and so basically they were looking at a variety of different uh mortality related outcomes uh in this study across these groups. And they're trying to figure out, you know, based on the dietary habits of these people, you know, do we see an increase in total mortality or cancer mortality or cardiovascular disease mortality when you're consuming, you know, butter uh versus olive oil versus uh soybean oil, a bunch of different oil types. And then they did kind of break it down into butter versus just any plant oil. And so what what was cool about this, what was really nice and this is really ironic Helms is that they didn't just say this oil was was associated with increased risk and that one was associated with decreased risk. A lot of times observational studies leave it there and say do with that what you will. But they actually took the very pragmatic approach of saying, you know what, I'm gonna venture to say that if you reduce the intake of one fat source, you're still probably going to need to get that pan lubricated before you cook. So, let's go ahead and assume that you put something else in there instead, right? And I think that's uh in my opinion a really awesome thing for observational studies to do is to actually model out replacements because in reality when you say okay I'm going to remove a thing from my diet you are probably in the vast majority of cases going to replace it with something else and the question is if we can predict what that probably will be why don't we model that out and see what that would look like and what's really ironic about it is that someone in the thread criticized uh for they're like, "Well, that that's a false dichotomy. You don't have to choose between butter or a plant oil. You could just have less butter." And it's like, well, you already have that effect estimate cooked in here. If we want to isolate the effect of butter compared to other just anything else, we have that. But this study takes it a step further and actually answers the more practical question is, which is that I decided I'm not going to have as much butter, but I'm about to cook eggs and I don't want them to stick to the pan. So what if I use something else? Um so so what's really um interesting about the way that that thread unfolded is um a lot of people just said like full stop. You are acknowledging that epidemia epidemiology exists. You're an idiot. Like if you believe you where did you find your PhD? That was one good comment. Yeah. And luckily that was directed at you not me even though I wrote the article. So good uh to disparage you and your institutions rather than mine. But um correct from from from the highly uh objective poster I believe like like the carnivore bodybuilder or the original car carnivore bodybuilder. Yeah, that one I I probably didn't feel like engaging with. Yeah, it is true. So that that's kind of what I was getting at. that um it it was telling that a lot of people who came in really hard saying this is stupid literally put their dietary biases in the handle of their Instagram. And so you know right away like I am not in a random Instagram thread going to convince someone who has like keto or carnivore or butter, you know, in their handle. They're not going to have one random interaction on the internet and be like, "You know what? maybe I was wrong about everything now that I think about it, right? So, I did try to engage in the thread where I could in places where it felt constructive and kind of, you know, provides some uh food for thought, so to speak. Uh but definitely there were a lot of people who just outright said nutritional epidemiology is stupid and fatally flawed. And it's not just that I don't accept the findings of this paper. It's that I think you are stupid for even bothering to take a peek at it. Now, in the article, I cite randomized controlled trials that are fully in line with the types of findings that we're seeing here, but I can't say that they are I can't say that I I can say they're in line with the general premise. But I can't say they found the exact same thing. And that's the biggest point, Helms, is if you're in a room with a bunch of people smarter than you and they're looking at the papers that you think are useless, you may very well be wrong. You may not get why they're looking at those papers. And the reality is there are a lot of people who think smoking increases your risk of lung cancer, but not because of a human randomized control trial. Uh to the best of my knowledge, that doesn't exist. The more extreme example is most people when they skydive bring a parachute just in case. Uh but we don't have that randomized control trial either in humans. There are some questions that either, let's say we're talking about a pathology or a condition that develops over a 25- year time span. You're not getting that in an RCT in humans. Uh you could try to do it in a rodent model that has, you know, much shorter lifespan and try to play that out, but but then people are going to say that's that's a mouse, idiot. And they're right. It is a mouse. I'd honestly rather look at some of these a combination of these different types of observational evidence where we actually can say, "Hey, what'd you live like for the last 70 years and how'd that how'd that turn out for you?" You know? Uh so there are some things that are just prohibitive in terms of the timeline of progression and development that we can't really do a randomized control trial and uh walk away with really strong conclusions. There are also things that are simply too in unethical. Um, and so like, yeah, if you want randomized controlled trials that look at mortality as the outcome, that means somebody submitted an IRB where they said, "I believe I'm going to kill half these suckers." And generally speaking, IRBs don't like that. So, it was a it was a thread that definitely tested my patience a little bit, and I think my patients succeeded. Flying colors. I would agree. Yeah. I uh I I was um I didn't beat around the bush, but I I think I was very kind and diplomat pro probably kinder than than was warranted and frankly just said, "Hey, listen folks." Like one thing you won't find in the Instagram post is me saying this is the perfect paper. Wrap it up. No, we we don't need anything else. This is it. If I find one epidemiological paper that supports my bias, I'm done. I'm good. Um, but unfortunately that was the way a lot of people took it. Um, and yep, you know, to me honestly I and this was a mass article. I'm just going to heap praise on the mass audience. Frankly, sometimes I find in my writing lately, I respect them too much to necessarily point out the painfully obvious stuff, which is, you know, every time I write about a nutritional epidemiology paper, am I going to say, "By the way, did you know that the average person can't say with 100% certainty how many grams of butter they have on a daily basis? I thought we all knew that." You know what I mean, Helms? Like so when you interpret any paper, you're going to interpret it within the context of its findings. The same way that like Helms, every time you write a paper about this nonsense of, oh, long muscle lengths, blah blah blah, nobody cares. Uh being facitious, playing into my character and how much I hate the long muscle length stuff. You don't at the end of every article say, "By the way, this was an eight-week training program and if you plan to train for more than eight weeks in your life, you may want to think about how how this will actually extrapolate into the long term, right? You don't necessarily say that every single time because of course, right? Like probably don't need to probably don't need to paint, you know, paint that whole picture every time." But all that is to say, um I I think it it's a good example of um you know, when when people get really married to an idea or a theory, you know, sometimes it it seems as if they are hiding from the best possible assessment of the evidence rather than seeking it out. And so you'll say, "Well, okay, I've got this uh observational study that really doesn't support what you're saying at all." And they're like, "Nutritional epidemiology is crap." I said, "Okay, but it actually supports or or is completely compatible with the findings of these three randomized control trials." And they say, "Well, I don't like the way they designed that or it was too short or why didn't they measure inflammation?" But every piece of evidence you throw at them that isn't basically Xvivo, a tissue in a petri dish or a mouse, it's like all other findings are are, you know, uh, fatally flawed and not even worth reading. But of course, my body is going to respond the same way a mouse does. I'm certain of it. And and not just any mouse. a mouse that is genetically bred to have very distinct characteristics that make it fundamentally different from all other mice. So, yeah, it it was one of those threads where you you you have to kind of accept going into it there's going to be people who are enthusiastically hiding from an assessment of the evidence that we currently have. And it's intriguing to see the way they throw certain forms of evidence under the bus without without actually applying that same level of critical thinking to the sources that that ultimately support their line of thinking. But but Helms, if I can say one last thing here, this is in my opinion the most important point. No, I don't want to say no one. Very few people are going out there and saying basically painting a picture of an actual effect estimate saying seed oils are bad. They are doing this thing which is causing a very very very modest negative effect that will only be perceptible. They can only separate that signal from the noise if you if you analyze your data in the following way. No one is giving that prescriptive approach. What they're telling you is seed oils are a catastrophe, an abomination that the American population has been subject to uh for for decades and it is literally killing you. However, the effect doesn't show up in any of the the long-term studies. So it's like you you can't give me the fire and brimstone. This is the most toxic thing you encounter on a daily basis. And then I say, "Show me anyone who's suffering, you know, any kind of ill effects when we actually look at these outcome focused studies." And they say, "Well, that stuff's all trash anyway." Well, you know, it's the same stuff we used to figure out that cigarettes were bad. And and that stuff was pretty clear. The effect estimates Helms were not small. They they were very very large. And even though we didn't know the exact number of cigarettes per day people smoked, we could kind of discern three packs a day, one pack a day, none, smoked for 20 years, smoked for zero years. We could sort it out. Um, and so when you when you use this overly bombastic, completely hyperbolic language about the negative health effects of this thing, at a certain point, it has to show up in some kind of data that involves a human being. Um, and and when especially when it comes to the seed oil thing, that's just not the case. Yeah. You know, that's really well said. I think if I could help wrap a practical bow on this for people trying to discern who is trustworthy and also to know how to use data when they come across it. Um, someone is I'm not going to say they're not trustworthy. It may not be it's this isn't a value statement. It's they're more likely to lead you astray because of this limitation of their knowledge or this way of approaching things philosophically. If the informative piece of the limitations of a given type of research are reject or use, you're in a bad spot. Um, if they are looking at limitations instead to go, what can we know and what can we not know with confidence and what does what can this tell us? What are the limits? Because a limitation is not a decision to reject. It's to understand the limits quite literally. That's the that's the word of what it can mean. And something I've said forever about uh observational research and anecdotal data um is that it tells you what was insufficient to prevent the outcome. And I use this a lot of the times in the bodybuilding world. We can look at all the Mr. Olympias out there and we can say everything they did didn't stop them from becoming a Mr. Olympia. Some things were neutral. Some things were mildly negative and some thing and a lot of things were probably positive frankly their parents you know. Yes. Right. But none of the decisions they made in the gym, the kitchen or in their lifestyle was so bad that it actually prevented them from being Mr. Olympia. So at the very least when we're looking at observational data, it's the same story. If the consumption of seed oils is as bad as it's being claimed, well, how does that square with observational data where we don't see these catastrophic negative relationships? Does that mean everything else in their lives is so positive that it's offsetting that? And then how how much does that stretch the credility to stretch the limitation or stretch the imagination for that to be that that to be true? And then now we have to understand okay okay okay okay okay that's the limitation of observational research let's take a look at what's the almost fundamental limitation of control trials because you're trading limitations when we're talking about mortality death we're not going to be observing death for the reasons you stated before I'm not going to rehash that both the length of time and the ethics and that also typically means that we can't observe the actual occurrence of a disease state or anything unethical for the time time length and the also the the ethics involved. So that means we're always going to be looking at markers, not outcomes. We're going to be looking at blood pressure, cholesterol, we're going to be looking at self-reported scores. We're going to be looking at blood glucose, uh, HbA1c, whatever, right? And those are markers for health and they they're subject to the same limitations I talked about with calcium excretion as well as, for example, uh, higher glular filtration rates. And we saw the issue there. A higher glomial filtration rate is not chronic kidney disease. It might even be protective. Right? So we're either going to be looking at maybe for a couple years, best case scenario, highly funded, extremely expensive study, a marker for health, but not the actual outcome. And now we're we're doing an RCT, but not on the thing you actually making a claim about. So now, for example, we'll do a parallel with bodybuilding research. Now, we've got this really wellunded study, but we're only looking at MPS and it's only for three days, right? Or we can look at eight weeks and we can look at hypertrophy, right? Or we can look at, okay, what do these Mr. Olympias do? But unfortunately, nutritional world, we don't get that middle one. We can't look at actual hypertrophy over a reasonable time period. Uh that that then we have to extrapolate to longer time periods. All we got are the two ends. You can either look at the actual thing you care about but have it be confounded by it's it's occurring in a cluster of behaviors or we can look at a thing that might in some cases potentially lead to it but only for a short period of time. So now what we can do is instead of rejecting one or the other based upon whatever decision you make of of rejecting something based upon its limitations, you look at the limits of one and the limits of the other and you realize in fact they're complimentary. So we're not throwing them out. We're looking at both and we're figuring out if this were true, how would these two things play out? So, we can start with saying, hey, clearly this can only be causing a sufficient level of harm to not be showing up when we look at it observationally. Okay, well, let's look at the markers. If this was killing us in X, Y, or Z way, which markers would go up if we consume more of this in a controlled manner? And the controlled data don't show that either. Sorry. So that then you're left with someone who is either going to reject the mechanism and say no no no no lean mass hyperresponders or I don't believe in in in LDL it's something about this specific classification of it or APO BOA or whatever. Um or I need to throw out all the science or I need to point out the funding source or I need to point out the bi like that there's there's some type of nefarious data analysts or or the or the methods need to be thrown out. So there's a playbook, you know. Yeah, it's a playbook and usually Helms what you find especially in this conversation is that the secret page that underlies the entire playbook is insisting you know you mentioned previously um that the absence of evidence is not evidence of absence right and basically what that means is um you know just because a thing hasn't been very very deliberately and directly shown doesn't mean that it is simply not a thing that happens. You know, it doesn't mean like well that that couldn't possibly be true, right? So a lot of times what you find is like the that last page of the playbook that undergirds everything in it is I am going to construct a metabolic and physiological scenario that has never actually been put to the test in research and I'm going to suggest that only when you unlock that do you find the real optimal human health and that everyone in these observational studies everyone in the R RCTs is so metabolically unwell that none of my theories are getting the opportunity to shine. Uh, and that's ultimately like and you can't really think of a better, more on then description than lean mass hyperresponders, right? It's like, okay, so the optimal diet in the cracks. Yeah. You prove to me that if a person is lean, has wildly high LDL, uh has high HDL, has extremely low triglycerides, you show me several forms of robust evidence suggesting that that person uh is going to suffer ill health from their LDL um being, you know, triple, you know, the level it's supposed to be. Um, and and they're going to say, "If you can't show me that, then you have no no uh grounds to to to suggest that just because their LDL is 350 that they might want to take care of that and kind of get it lower." Um, and you could easily just go right back at them and say, "You proved to me that the link between APOB and heart disease holds in people who are left-handed." Mhm. In people with red hair and especially obviously, as we all know, people who are left-handed with red hair, that relationship completely breaks down. Prove me wrong. And that's essentially the whole playbook here is I am going to work my narrative increasingly into an area where evidence is irrelevant. There's no such thing as evidence in the the playground that I play in. So therefore, you give me epidemiology, I say that's crap. You give me an RCT, I say all those people are fat and sick anyway. And you you you are hiding from evidence rather than like you said, Helms, trying to triangulate all these different forms of evidence with the limitations they have and work your way towards something that feels like uh a pretty blurry but not meaningless picture of what's really going on here. Yep. If someone just says correlation is not causation, epidemiology is is crap, healthy user bias and funding and they manage to work all of those in into a single post and their name is not the carnivore blank, it might as well be in many cases. Yeah. And that that's the other thing that that I haven't addressed is the the healthy user bias one. It's like a lot of times that that's like the first thing that comes out um when you look at some of these observational trials. And the idea there is that essentially surely anyone who gives a crap about their health is already avoiding I guess in this case seed oils or or no they're eating more seed oils. Yeah. So the healthy user bias would be uh pe people who are all the things they're doing. Yeah. this. So, it's healthy people who happen to not be who happen to to be eating seed oils and their activity levels, their body fat, all the other things they do that are positive have fully offset exactly the disastrous effect that apparently is not that disastrous of seed oils. Exactly. So, so you take your average, we've already basically addressed it to be honest, but yeah, you you take your average nurse and you assume that everything else that they're doing is so healthy that these these toxic seed oils couldn't possibly catch up with them. Um, it's it's just a really nonsensical thing. So, Helms, lest we uh feed a fed horse here, which is the new and improved slogan there. Beat a dead horse. Yeah. Yeah. Got lest we do that. Uh any closing words that you want to wrap up with or should we get out of here? No, I I would just say hey if you want to know what the heck are we talking about? Check out uh the the recent post we have in collaboration on the Instagram for Mass uh with the Sports Nutrition Association. And um you know what I I'll ask on his behalf. Dr. Trex has been waving into those waters. He's tried to demonstrate how to handle with with grace, professionalism, and an unbiased approach to the evidence some of these claims. But if you want to get in there, and please be polite. I know I'm I'm calling for for for people to help you out, but please do it respectfully. Please please know that we're I'm not asking you to to just get into a flame war with these folks, but if you want to point out some of the things we've talked about, we're not going to stop you if you do so politely. And just keep it respectful. Keep it classy, folks. and help us. Yeah, it's it's true. The reason I I recoiled is because Helms, you know, as well as anybody. There's one of two ways that these uh threads can turn around. One is that somehow you summon the army that that does, you know, fights the good fight and and lays down some good science in there. The other one is that it simply dies and goes away. Lost lost to time. And uh I feel like it's at a lull where I may be saved by just uh the short attent the short attention span of the internet was just about to bail me out of having to deal with more of it. But um but hey, if people want to get in there, that is their right and their prerogative. Just like that, they pulled me back in. Yeah. All right. Uh folks, thank you so much for joining us uh on this lovely Monday night. Um like I said, if you want to support the show, many ways to do it. I'm not going to rehash them, but you know what to do. At the very least, give the video a like, subscribe, all that other stuff. Uh we really appreciate you. Sorry we couldn't get to any uh live chat questions today, but you know, we'll be doing it in the future. Uh we appreciate you. Take care. Have a great week, and we will be back in 7 days.