 treks. O-omarkin,retch, O-omarkin,retch, O-omarkin, treks. O-omarkin, I can't believe this happened again, man. crap about the third host. That is not the case here. We're just sticking with the facts. But Trex, you know, Trex be pulling his shifts, okay, at the university, doing some serious work. He comes home ready to participate as part of the holy triumvirate that is the Ira Colt. We get on to do an episode with one of our good friends, Jared. And what happens, Trex? What's going on, man? Well, Helms dropped the ball. I mean, I get home, I put down my lunch pail. I pick up my dinner pail because I'm doing the, you know, the midnight shift here. And I've always said when it comes to teammates, partners, et cetera, the greatest ability that I look for in people is availability. And Helms is nowhere to be found. Our technology was a mess because he just, I don't even know where he is. He's on some kind of international vacation trip thing. He calls it work because he like lifts weights once a day when he's traveling. So that's work for him. But anyway, he blew it. And that's kind of the long and short of it. And Jared, we just want to apologize to you because, you know, this is part of the Iron Culture Apology Tour. We were fully prepared for a change. You know, Trex is always sharp and on time. I was there 601, which we can call basically being on time. And so this was completely outside of our control. Trex, as I understand it. Yeah, I think Helms is somewhere in Italy, you know, gallivanting, you know, across the beautiful plains. He's drinking, I believe what they call cappuccinos. And so we're here, Jared, with you a little late. And we just want to say we apologize. I accept your apology. And the charisma in this in this meeting room more than makes up for it. This is going to be an episode. Look at look at our guests, how gracious he is. Okay. Because there are so many different points to talk about when it comes to your journey for those that have been listening to Iron Cult, the culture, I should say, for a long period of time. I believe, Jared, you were last on. It was episode 168, right? That was with Nick Licamelli and also your buddy, John Flagg. You got it. Just just about two years ago. And since then, I'm sure we're going to get into kind of your story here. Not much has happened in your life. Just same old, same old being a lifter, being a dad, being a husband, lifting, right? Pretty much nothing of note at all. Definitely no life changing paradigm shifts. Yeah, yeah. Really? Because of those things. I mean, I do read, Jared, on occasion, you know, the classic and Trex and myself were talking about this in a previous episode. You know, hourlifting recap post such as like, hey, woke up, woke up Trex an hour earlier than normal. Thus, my day was ruined. Then I get to the venue and the humidity, guys, it's 65%. You know, I'm a 60% or less lifter. So that threw me off. The carpet, the fabric that they had was slightly dissimilar to what I'm used to. So when I got set up to do the bench press, well, I lost another 2.5 kgs. So it's a lengthy personal essay. And by the end of it, you're no further informed. There's no illumination to be had, no kind of spiritual or personal growth. And that's typically what one will read. But as I understand it, Jared, you did a powerlifting meet recently, but it has quite some significance to it. You totaled that the most you've done when it comes to the deadlift and also by coefficient, by dot score. Is that correct? You got it. I did. And that was May 25th. So about a month ago at this point. Amazing. And then we'll get right into it. But maybe one more question, then I'll give it over to Trex and we'll begin with your journey, man. What was the last time you competed before that? Last time would have been 2019. I was scheduled, that was in October, I want to say. And I had another meet scheduled for May or June of 2020. But some other event happened, which, you know, kind of impeded that, which we shall not name. Okay. Okay. So Trex, before we begin, my man, is there anything that you kind of want to, like as a precursor to this episode? Because I really do think people will have a newfound appreciation both for yourself, Jared, for your journey, for their own journeys, for their lives, for what we all go through. And maybe the lessons that the iron can teach us. Trex, is there anything that you want to say before we get started? Honestly, I'm really excited to dig in. I don't think people want to hear me flapping my gums. We got a story to get into. We got things to learn. I say we should dive right in. So we, Trex, well said, man. So Jared, we've been teasing about this. We want to hear exactly from you. So they know you, people online as a competent coach, right? As someone who's respected in our field as it relates to strength training and otherwise. But you also have your own personal journey, something that happened over the last few years that quite frankly was remarkable. So the floor is yours. Please set us up for it. We were kind of teasing once again, you had a recent meet, but there are some circumstances. Continue. Absolutely. So this goes back to New Year's Day of 2023. And my family and I, my wife and I, we've got three young girls, went over to my, my in-laws place, had a great day, great visit, came back home. Next day, start to feel a little unwell, getting the head cold. Didn't think too much of it. It's the middle of cold and flu season. My wife started to get sick. So did my daughters. Uh, so just kind of trucked on and, and started to feel, you know, the usual malaise, the stuff that you'd expect. By the end of the week though, my wife and daughters were fine and I was starting to get worse. So that continued on to the next week that turned into swinging fever, chills. Um, it turned into insomnia, which was the first time I'd ever experienced that. Um, so something wasn't right. It started to also feel like sinus related stuff. Went to the family doctor, got some antibiotics and figured hopefully that's it. We'll just run its course. It didn't. And it kept getting worse. My lymph nodes started to swell as well. So I went to a smaller hospital, not far from where we're at. And, uh, they diagnosed me as having mononucleosis. Um, it was a surprise to me. I'd never had mono before. I had no idea how I contracted it. Uh, that's caused by the Epstein-Barr virus, which as I understand it can be a pesky little bugger in that it can lie dormant for a period of time. So it's not always clear where transmission happens or infection happens, but got diet or, uh, excuse me, prescribed a sleeping medication for the insomnia. Went back home, still feeling pretty rough, but hoping that we turn the corner. But three or four days later, my wife looks at me and she says, you're yellow. And my skin had started to jaundice. So we knew something really bad was happening at this point. So went to a larger hospital a little further away from us, but we knew we needed more, more facilities at our disposal. I remember walking into the ER, uh, and my heart was just racing. Um, they do your vitals right at the, the intake in the ER. And my heart rate was somewhere between 165 and 175, just standing. Blood pressure was spiked. Uh, after doing our intake paperwork, I told the nurse, like, I think I'm going to pass out and admitted me that day. Six days later, I'm on life support in the ICU. And I had liver failure, hence the jaundice. My kidneys were failing as well. Uh, I'd be put on dialysis. My spleen was massively enlarged, uh, for anybody not familiar, like I wasn't, uh, the spleen is the largest lymph node in your body. So highly, uh, involved when it comes to the immune system. And the doctors didn't know what was going on initially ran a whole bunch of tests, tons of images. And I also had, um, I forget the particular term at this point, but some, some hemorrhaging in my throat, um, hemorrhagic tonsillitis actually might have been what the term was, but lots of things going on. Very much not a good situation. Eventually we land on the diagnosis of something called HLH, which is, it's a initialism for hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. It's a rare disease. Uh, it's autoimmune ish. It's not technically a true autoimmune disease. It's a hyperinflammatory syndrome, but there are two main types, primary and secondary. Come back to those in a minute, but HLH, uh, involves the immune system going haywire. There's a big cascade of events, and then it leads to, uh, macrophages and lymphocytes, particularly, um, attacking healthy blood, healthy cells, blood cells in particular, at least organ failure. And it's, it's absolutely deadly. Um, primary is genetic. I didn't have that. That usually shows them in infants and newborns. I had secondary, which is caused by either an infection as was my case, because of the mono caused by the Epstein-Barr virus, or it can be caused by a different autoimmune disease or by some sort of cancer. So, uh, based on the stats that I'd seen, uh, fatality rate is somewhere around like 57%. And it moves fast because we're talking about January 2nd, started to feel a little unwell, admitted to the hospital January 23rd, uh, the day before my twin's, uh, fifth birthday. And then six days later on ICU or on life support in the ICU. So it's, uh, it moved fast. And we went from feeling okay. It's a pretty hellish, pretty quick. So you did, um, you, you, you mentioned, um, as you're kind of going through these diagnoses, trying to figure out what's going on. So it was not a misdiagnosis, the mononucleosis, that was the trigger for this kind of cascade of events. It sounds like. Correct. Yeah. The mono was, was properly diagnosed. It just led to the cascade and the full-blown HLH afterwards. Yeah. And so you, you mentioned, I mean, like this sounds, I mean, aside from obviously you're on life support in the ICU, that means it's serious by any measure, right? Like that's as serious as it gets. Um, hemorrhaging in the tonsils. I mean, is that exactly as it sounds like? I mean, just coughing up blood and, and I mean, this sounds absolutely grisly. And when did that occur? Like, were you kind of awake and present for that? Or is that something that kind of was an onset after you were already pretty much out of commission? No, that started, I want to say the, the hemorrhaging in the blood and you're correct. That's exactly what it was. It's, you know, you get some phlegms and like some loogie stuff in your throat, you cough those up. It was that, but blood flots. And that, yeah, it was rough. Um, it started when I was in the hospital, my, my lymph nodes, uh, through my neck and my shoulders were so swollen that it felt like that mini mountain range. That's how I conceptualized it at the time. And I think, I think it was after the admission, that's when the, the bleeding really started or at least picked up. But I remember being in the hospital, in the ER, I wasn't yet in the ICU and trying to cough up these, these blood clots. And it was tough because I'm already starting to weaken. Uh, I was already experiencing some valerium too, um, which led to some sedation. They needed to sedate me. Um, especially when it was time for life support. Uh, but there was just kind of an oddly comical moment with my wife. She's in the hospital with me and I'm trying to get this particular clot out. And I'm like, I got you. And she laughed. I laughed a little moment of levity in the minute or in the midst of all that stuff. Man, that, that is an incredible story. And I don't want to jump too far ahead, but, um, just something that I, I'm really curious about is like, what, what is the, um, likelihood of a reoccurrence of this type of thing? Is, is this something that is kind of on your radar in perpetuity or is this the type of thing where people typically have, you know, one really severe episode and then they're, they're kind of in the clear? Yeah. So that was one of the questions I had for one of the radiologists who ended up joining the team and 20 to 30% is the chance of recurrence. Um, and, or for my category of HLH and it's a rare disease. Um, we're really basing the protocols and the stats off of the case studies that exist globally, but it's not as well researched or as well documented as, as most conditions. Um, but 20 to 30% looks, looks like it. And radiologists after saying that was like, but look at it the other way, 70 to 80% chance that it doesn't happen again, which I'll take those odds any day, but it is something that is on my radar. And, you know, we talked through, you know, what it would mean or what we should look out for in terms of signs, symptoms, what are indications that like things are going South again. And it's, it's the case where we'll have, you know, sort of a stepwise approach where if I'm not feeling well and that seems out of the ordinary, you know, it takes me an hour for longer or it's just have a bigger impact. I can't get up and I can get out of bed and do the normal things that I'm used to doing while sick to go see, you know, a family doctor. If I can't get in in a timely manner, urgent care, if that's still not working or I can't get in there, even emergency department. So we kind of have our, our action plan, emergency action plan as needed. Uh, but yeah, it'll, it'll continue to be something that I think about, especially post chemo, which was a big part of the, uh, the treatment protocol. And it's, it's had an impact on my immune system for sure. So, so chemotherapy was part of the process there. It was, yeah. Cause for, for HLH in both types, chemo is part of the, the protocol. Um, I think it was originally created in 94, 95 and updated again in the mid two thousands. Um, but chemotherapy is a big part of it as well as corticosteroids, monoclonal antibodies, and then any other ancillary medications to treat like complications of which I had many in the ICU. Um, the differentiator in terms of treatment between primary and secondary is if it's genetic, you absolutely need a bone marrow transplant. And then for secondary, you may need one. I haven't needed one so far, but we did start those wheels in motion to look for matches in the bone marrow databank so that down the road, if this were to happen again, we have some, some cards in play already so we can move a little faster. Yeah. I mean, this, this is just an amazing story. Um, and, but it, but it is, uh, encouraging to at least hear that, you know, like you said, 70 to 80% chance that it doesn't recur or reoccur. And if it does, you know, you're not walking in with liver failure and saying, Hey, let's start testing now and figure it out. Right. You know, you have such a big head start on kind of getting that plan in motion. Totally. And to that end too, one thing my wife and I were, uh, relieved or are relieved about now, or at least it's, it'll aid us in those situations is now we can tell whoever we're speaking to, you know, a family doctor or somebody else in urgent care emergency. I've had this before. Look for this, run these tests. Uh, cause a bone marrow biopsy was one of the definitive tests that we ran to confirm it as well as some other imaging and blood panels and stuff like that. Jared, this is why I said, this is a monster episode. You think stubbing your toe interfering with your lifting is a big deal? Just wait. So Jared, please continue, man. So you said about 57% of people were this, unfortunately they pass away. You're in the ICU. All these things are happening so fast. Your life was completely normal before this certain you're in this tailspin. There's so many things going on. Uh, please continue. So already within what you said a month, you're in ICU. Um, you're put on life support. Yeah, absolutely. So I, I go on life support and I mentioned that they had to sedate me because, uh, the delirium was really strong even prior to those medications, just as my body was in that tailspin. And my wife tells the story, uh, cause I had to be, I had to have the backfill afterwards. Cause there's about a five to six week black hole in my memory, uh, from this point on. Um, but my wife and my parents were on the front line. Parents dropped everything, came running. My wife was there as often as she could be. And she talks about how it was terrifying for her where, you know, I'm five, 11 and a half, I'm six feet with shoes on. I weighed about 193 pounds going into the hospital. And, uh, with the delirium in full effect and like really on the tail or this landslide down, um, how terrifying it was in her words to see me in pain and look and sound so helpless and affected by this, you know, she's used to me being, you know, big, strong, the head of the household helping take care of our three little girls. And so that was a really tough thing, understandably for her to go through. So, uh, they have to sedate me. They start to put me on dialysis. I had that for two or three weeks as I understand it. I had to be ventilated. Uh, they initially had the tube down my throat as you do, but there's a limit to how long they like to leave that there, uh, for fear complications that I believe atrophy. So I needed it for five weeks total. So I had to do a trach, uh, tracheostomy, punch a hole through the windpipe and hook me up that way. Um, and yeah, IVs. I do remember before being sedated or even potentially where I woke up during, uh, they had to take blood every probably six hours or so. So my right arm was all bruised up and they had to use my left arm. But one of the IVs, uh, whether somebody didn't set it up properly or check that the lines were, were flushing, um, one of the meds they had didn't go intravenous, didn't go into the veins. It stayed in the tissue, which caused necrosis, just killed off all the tissue back of my hand, back of my arm. And I, I, again, it was largely unconscious through this time and I couldn't eat. So they had a, uh, a nasal gastric tube, uh, through my nose down to my stomach, just pushing that and also some nutrition, but it could give me a whole hell of a lot because my body was just in such a weakened state. Uh, so I didn't receive much nutrition for those five weeks, which meant that I went in at about 193 pounds. And then when I woke up, as they removed, remove the sedation, I was weighing about 150. So, uh, uh, it, it would, it was no stretch to say when I woke up, it really felt like it was in somebody else's body. My hand was gone and black. I was withered. I wasn't strong enough to get up out of bed. So it was, it was absolutely shell shocking. Jared, this is what I mean. And having a treks here too, where he found out about your story only a little while ago, anyone that hears about it, it's, and we're not having you like, you know, relitigate your past because this is what we're attempting to do. Like every horrific moment, Jared, that you experienced, we want you to tell. Uh, but there is such a silver light or light at the end of this tunnel here, because one thing is you said not to jump ahead, but you just noted about the 40 pounds of weight loss. Uh, you basically phrased this, I believe a few times in some of your posts, how essentially truly, and this is, you want to talk about functional, uh, lifting functional strength, how treks lifting saved his life because part of that, you know, you gave the 57% a statistic bodies wasting away a muscle tissue. You said, and I'm paraphrasing, please explain this, uh, Jared, that if it was not for all the years of lifting, accruing all that lean body tissue to basically hold on, uh, uh, to, well, you know, you're hospitalized, the chance of surviving this would have been a lot lower. Can you, can you just talk about this? Let's see. It spoke about the necrotic tissue, spoke about being, uh, intubated, all those sorts of things, the weight loss, but you had a lot. You said you're, let's call you six. All right, we're going to round it. Your story, you deserve to be six feet for this story, but almost 200, almost 200 pounds here. And you lost 40 pounds, but I wish a good amount was lean tissue. What role just real briefly, and then please continue. Uh, what did lifting play in terms of this journey for you? Critically. So I've been lifting since I was 16. I'm 33 now, maybe 34, uh, started lifting to be the bigger, stronger on the football field, and then turned into more aesthetic pursuits. What is can be natural bodybuilding for a good chunk of time. I never competed. I just found that it wasn't the right match for me at the time. Uh, and then found powerlifting around 2014, stayed with that ever since. So I'm talking what, 17 years of, of lifting consistently. And I heard it from the doctors who, who worked with me in the ICU and through my recovery in the hospital afterwards. Like, unless I was as fit as I was going in, we wouldn't be talking right now. Because all of the, the lifting, building the lean tissue, uh, ended up being, you know, this, this insurance policy had no idea I was paying premiums down on. You know what I mean? Or at least in this way, because we can look at and should look at what the data says or say as far as, um, the impact of muscular tissue in particular, but overall strength and fitness, especially as we get older. Um, gravity never gets any less. Those blown us down at the same rate. And, um, people like friends and colleagues of mine, Dr. Scotty Boisier, Dr. Christina Previtt are researchers and physical therapists. They, they focus on, um, older folks and geriatric populations. And you think about one rep max living, which is what happens as people age and get weaker and you have to sit down onto a toilet or a chair and then stand back up again. Uh, the, the less capacity that you have and the closer that the effort is to stand up, uh, to a one rep max for you, the harder life becomes and the greater the risk is. Um, it gets more compounded when you think about, uh, with a bone mineral density, especially osteopenia osteoporosis, which can affect men and women, but especially women. And at a certain point, uh, a fracture, especially femoral head or pelvic or things like that is a, is a death sentence effectively, uh, because of complications, things like that. No, no, it's, it's not an exaggeration is what the data bear out. So I knew that I knew that being strong work on my fitness came with a whole plethora of benefits and I wanted to do that for sure. Um, but definitely never predicted it would end up being so needed in such a critical way, uh, such as giving my body enough nourishment to sustain itself, uh, for, for five weeks until I could come out into a more stable place and receive nutrition, uh, in a more typical way. So no stretch, no exaggeration to say strength saved my life. I got to straight from the mouth of the doctors too. So, yeah, I mean, it's, it's, um, really fascinating to hear, you know, this kind of unexpected, um, benefit of kind of a life of lifting, you know, kind of carrying over and having this protective effect where you least expect to need it. I mean, I don't know a lot of people in their, you're probably early thirties at that point, right. Who are thinking, oh yeah, I lift so that I can, you know, do better on life support or on a month of bed rest, right? Like it's never crossing anyone's mind. I don't want to skip ahead too much, Omar. I don't want to pull the steering wheel away from you, but I am really intrigued to hear about kind of what comes next. Right. So, I mean, I, unfortunately I've been with family members who were on life support in the ICU, uh, very fortunate that they recovered, uh, much like yourself, but that's where the journey you're, you're barely at the halfway point, right. When, when you're off, off life support, right now, it's like, like you said that you wouldn't, unless you've seen it firsthand, you wouldn't even begin to imagine the number of complications that come with being on life support, being in the intensive care unit for an extended period of time. Bed rest is a massive change physiologically, but that's just the beginning of it. You know, we're talking about, you know, all sorts of potential complications from intubation, from feeding tubes, from literally overhauling the physiological function of your body. So I'm really intrigued to hear about, you know, you wake up, you're what, like 40, 50 pounds lighter. Uh, you don't know. I mean, it's just like a complete blank spot in your memory, right? You just, one day you're there and your body feels heavy. You feel no strength. You've fundamentally changed your body. And that is the beginning of this recovery process and this rehabilitation process. And I'm just, uh, Omar, if, if you're good, uh, skipping ahead to that part, I'm, I'm just intrigued to hear what that's like, because, you know, you mentioned you've been lifting since you're 16. Omar, how old were you when you started lifting? About 18. Yeah. So same. Yeah. So, so I was 12, right. And like, once you've been doing it for 15 years, uh, you can't even really fathom what it's like to, in an instant, at least as you perceive it, you know, being kind of just out of it, uh, for, for much of that time, you know, you, you wake up and you are back to not even square one. I mean, because, cause it is a particular type of untrained to be on bed rest for, for weeks on end. And I mean, I just can't even imagine in the blink of an eye kind of reestablishing that new normal of saying like, we're not back to square one, we're back to square like negative 30. Right. Uh, and, and that rehabilitation process must have just been so, uh, arduous and, and, and eyeopening. Absolutely was. And you're exactly spot on because yeah, when I start to come to, and they reduced the sedation and, uh, gradually they kind of made those decisions as I was, uh, becoming more stable, which was miraculous enough to earn me the nickname miracle man. After we got to, what was the last treatment option? My hematologist told my parents, like, we're going to try this and his body's going to do what it's going to do. Um, so I hadn't responded well to it. And the nurse pulled him aside and said, like, you need to understand what she said. There's nothing else we can do here. So, you know, there was, uh, and Trex, we were talking a little bit about faith background here. There's a lot of prayer and that's another dimension of the story. Um, and that's the point where I started to, to make a recovery, not fast mind you, but enough to, uh, really be remarkable from, or on the, by the accounts of the doctors and nurses who worked with me at the time. So start to come to, and really it's a matter of getting my bearings because I'm, I knew I was in the hospital and while I don't have memories from just before life support to starting to wake up, I have really weird dreams that I recall, which as I understand, or is my best guess is my brain trying to process what was going on between medications and the interactions of people in the room and working with me and all that stuff. But then I start to realize is how weak I am. Uh, I realized that because of the bed rest, even though the, the staff had done their best to reposition me and move me around, uh, it doesn't take a long time for pressure ulcers to form. Um, when there's blood flow that's disrupted to tissues in the normal way and there's maintained pressure, uh, particularly between soft tissue and a bony prominence, like your tailbone, your heels, your elbows, those are common sites for bed sores. And I had a big one on my tailbone. I had a couple under my heels, I think. So suddenly wound care becomes a thing we got to take into account. I had this really strange infection on the inside of my thighs, which we ended up calling a cellulitis. Uh, I'm not sure the doctors ever really felt a hundred percent on that diagnosis, but it led to this really odd, like tunneling wound on my left inner thigh, where if you can imagine sticking your finger, you know, half an inch under the skin and then turning it down towards my feet and tunneling that way. That's what that wound was. So even longer and more intensive bit of wound care there. Uh, there's my hand, which now we have to start to try to heal up with wound care, ended up needing a skin graft at the end. And I was so weak that I couldn't hold my iPhone above my, my face. Like it kept slipping out of my, my hands. And that's when it started to really dawn on me how long of a road I was looking at here because yeah, it wasn't square one or square zero. It was, I owed squares at this point and needed to start to build up super foundational strength. Another complication I've forgotten till now because of the, the intubation in the trach and also not eating, speaking or swallowing for five weeks. You don't think about it, but the atrophy that happens in your throat musculature is significant. So I had to relearn how to speak with a valve first, uh, and then learn how to swallow. I had to work pretty intensively with some speech language pathologists, uh, because it was, it was unsafe for me to take anything in my mouth because of the risk of, of aspiration stuff falling down to my lungs and leading to pneumonia is and like potentially really big complications. So yeah, this was a gradual process of me thinking or realizing like, well, shit. Okay. This is what it is now. And then it was just starting the, the journey back. So I would imagine at first you mentioned, you know, um, working with a kind of like speech pathologist, you know, work, working on regaining function of like the throat musculature, mouth musculature. Uh, I would imagine, I mean, I could be wrong here, but I would imagine that the time course is probably focusing first on, uh, recovering from any acute infections and wound care before you get into the more kind of physical elements of, of rehabilitation. And if I were to guess, I could be completely wrong. You probably started out with something more, more, something that more resembles occupational therapy, more so than like typical physical therapy, right? So kind of like regaining kind of activities of daily living and things like that. Pretty close. Yeah. So you're right. We were first focused on making sure that things became more stable, medically speaking with the, uh, complications and just by overall status. And when we started PT and OT, uh, uh, began roughly around the same time, there certainly was a big role for occupational therapy through the whole process, um, learning how to use, uh, my hands again, I also had a tremor. Anybody seen people with neurological conditions like Parkinson's, for instance, um, I had tremors, which would start whenever I tried to move my hand and like do stuff. So it was trying to regain hand function, foot function, learning how to, how to write, um, working with the speech language pathologists, uh, start to work on swallowing, which we began with, um, uh, ice cubes or ice chips rather. There were a lot of ice chips and they, the technology was really cool actually where they, they assess your swallowing function. They give you, um, uh, different, different objects like ice chips and they might give you puddings and they'll kind of work their way up depending on your, your ability, but they'll mix in barium and then we'll have a dynamic x-ray to watch what you're doing and to watch how things travel down your esophagus and see if it goes into trachea, stuff like that. So, uh, we started with working on the ice chips and like that was a three times a day rehab regimen for that, uh, PT when, again, I think that started, it started in the ICU. Um, and I had a crew of three PTs coming through or at least one or two PTs and a rehab assistant. They were great. They, uh, treated me really well and they helped me get up in like a sling lift because that was the only way I could get out of bed, get to a chair and in physical therapy, consisted of sitting in a chair for 20 minutes, 30 minutes, because even just being upright was enough of a strain on my body that it had to acclimate and get used to that. Um, and then, yeah, OT, uh, was trying to help me regain those activities of daily living, excuse me. And, uh, and then progressed to PT became working on sitting up at the edge of the bed, which I could do for maybe five seconds before my blood pressure, maybe need to lie down again. And then it was working on trunk control and being able to lean left and right. And then it was working on standing up with a lot of assistance and then staying standing for a few minutes or a few seconds, excuse me. Uh, and then it was literally working on taking one step forward and backwards, which is one foot. Cause even my ability to plant reflux and dorsiflex, you know, thinking about doing heel raises, I could not, which was pretty wild to realize. And just, it was kind of this continual process of realizing where the baseline was. And, uh, it was tough. It was tough physically, obviously, but mentally more than anything, especially because, you know, being a physio by trade myself, it helped in one sense where I understood a lot of what was going on. And it was also really hard because I understood a lot of what was going on. I'm a little curious. Um, so as you're trying to restore these activities of daily living. And so for example, something as simple as like plant reflux, right? So, you know, kind of like a, like a calf raise or something. What does that feel like to you when you're unable to execute a movement like that? And what I mean is like, does it feel like you are trying to do a calf raise with 10,000 pounds or does it feel like you're trying to do an exercise where you just have like no mind muscle connection? Like, does it feel like there's just like a disconnect or does it just feel like this, this load that you cannot overcome? For me, it didn't feel like a disconnect. It felt like I was on a calf raise machine. Uh, and it was just set so heavy that nothing was happening where I knew that's incredible. Oh, well, what I wanted to have happen, I knew how to do it. It just, it wasn't going anywhere. That's unbelievable. So, uh, I am curious about the, uh, where's our timeline here to the point where, you know, you have woken up and, you know, you're, you're kind of catching up with what just happened. Right. And now we are getting to the point where we're doing OT and PT. Um, and we're starting to think like, Hey, maybe I'm ready to take a walk around the building or, or a walk down the hallway. Like what kind of a timeline are we talking about there? So I spent all of February on life support, started to wake up late Feb, early, early March. So those early PT sessions in the ICU focusing on like trunk control, uh, getting up with a lot of assistance that would have been early to mid March, let's say. And then over the next couple of weeks, we were working pretty diligently to take, you know, two or three steps forward and then two or three steps back with a walker and assistance. I believe I've shared the video a few times. I think the timestamp on my phone, I'm sorry, the video of me walking with two or a PT and a rehab assistant with a platform walker. Uh, basically anybody listening, you think about a walker you can stand up on and you can dress your forearms on and see your support, some upper body. Uh, I think that was like March 30th or 31st, uh, was when we were out in the hallway, taking some steps and like going down the hall and with a wheelchair behind me, uh, somebody was trailing my wheelchair so I could sit down and we were doing a couple of legs that way. Um, it wasn't till mid to late April that I'm lapping the unit, uh, and pretty consistently, uh, with a, a walker that we went down to what most people see like the four wheeled walkers. Um, and then came down to a cane, a quad cane, a bigger basis for, but that I was rough with the timeframe. Jared, this is this story, man. I almost wanted Trex for a second to be incredibly insensitive and pretend to be like we're on a Joe Rogan podcast. I said, what do you think your bench press was at the time? Out of curiosity. No, but like, okay, so we're on this journey here slowly. I really like how you're going into the details because it feels very blissful. The story where we could follow right along with you where, you know, because we haven't been in that scenario, we've had maybe family members, other people that we know, we don't understand all the things that it entails. So this journey now, uh, you've brought us now to like end of March, early April. So slowly, but surely you're sort of regaining function. Can you just talk to us like kind of how that felt, what you were thinking of, because the time course just entering into life support must've been so short. You have your business, you're a physio, you have your family, there's all these factors. And then, you know, during this time, uh, you're kind of out, you come back, your whole world has kind of changed. And now you're like slowly focusing on just trying to regain function, but there's also a lot of other things going on. So you just talk about, um, Jared, a little bit, the mental component and then how you sort of got through it. I don't want to ask you the most stereotypical lifting question, which is, do you think all your years spent lifting, forget the muscle mass, like helped you at any way? It's like, nah, man, I saw a post I forget by someone else the other day where someone said, uh, what people think is heavy. It's like a power lifter who like lifted a lot of weight. And it's just like, you know, they're like squatting 800 pounds or whatever. It's like what people think what's actually hard. And it shows them like raising their children or whatever. It's like, dude, like there's so much more than lifting. So I really think it's, it's going to be the other direction when you share about your power lifting journey, all your experiences here, how it's going to make all that stuff easier, but please, uh, your mental state, all the other things you're thinking about this journey, kind of this personal journey that you're undertaking alongside the physical journey as you slowly regain, uh, kind of function and control of your body. Yeah, absolutely. Cause in, you know, in some ways I'd say in a few ways, the mental game, the mental challenges were, were harder just as, as I got my bearings, as I understood the gravity of the situation and how long of a road it was going to be on the way back. And, uh, the first thing was a lot of grieving and, uh, grieving for what I'd lost, what felt like it was taken from me without choice consent. Um, and not just for me, but also for my family as three young girls at home, my wife at home, who became a single mom effectively overnight. Uh, thank God we had a ton of, um, very generous support in terms of time, uh, money effort, uh, to help take care of them while I was down for the count, which it eased a lot of the, it eased some of the stress, right? Knowing that they were taken care of. And then it allowed me to focus on, on my role and a big, the biggest driving factor was I got to get home. I got to get home to my family. Um, so I have never had a, had any problem with putting in work. And I say that because one of my, my mentors, his name is Frank Benedetto. He's a physical therapist as well. Um, and I work with him as part of a business incubator called the honey badger project. Um, Frank Cedric, my business partner, I mentioned before John, they were absolute rock stars, both in helping my, my family being taken care of. Uh, but also making sure that my business in the meantime was, was taken care of. John stepped in to take care of my clients as I obviously couldn't, but I bring up Frank because he and I had a phone call once I learned how to speak well enough to call him. And he told me, look, your problem is not going to be work. Your problem is going to be not wanting to rest. And he, he told me like, you need to visualize, uh, on the time during the times when you're resting, like you're a thong plugged into the wall. And I'm really glad that he said that because I would have, and I, at times I did work myself, uh, pretty damn hard and I don't regret it, but certainly in this circumstance and also broadly speaking, uh, it's, it's the pairing of effort, enough effort, but also commensurate recovery that's going to make progress and move the needle. I mean, shoot, you see that when it comes to our workouts, we're not getting stronger acutely after, after a session, it's going to be after the fact given appropriate nutrition and hydration and recovery time and all that. So I needed to, to be okay with, uh, being the patient, which is another thing. One of my doctors told me, like she said, look, I know you're a phys, you know, I need you to be the patient right now and, uh, still be cooperative, still take an active role in all this stuff, but let, let the team do what they were hired and brought in to do. Uh, and it was, it was a lot of reconciliation, like, all right, here's where I am right now and I can't change anything about what's happened before. I can, I can just control what I do today and I control how I show up tomorrow and I'm just going to do the things and the things were like learning to do a heel raise again and learning to walk upstairs and then learning to do some lateral raises with like a soup can. Uh, and this is a pretty far cry from where I was before. Not that I have been elite before, but you know, used to deadlift and, you know, 450, 475, squatting 405. And now the paradigm is I'm going to take these three steps and I'm gonna have to rest because that's going to be a lot. So that was, uh, that was the mental game in the hospital, which really continued afterwards as well. Jared, let me ask you this, man, because within you, you know, even when we interviewed you now, it'd be almost two years ago. And now, you know, I would regard what I personally perceive as a lot of maturity, um, entering into this scenario, like the way that you handled it, the humility, the grace. Um, what would you kind of attribute some of those qualities to? Because you said, like you, there's no consent to this. Like this just happened to, you have a lot of circumstance. I know you're very close with your family. Um, I know also previous, I don't know if you want to mention it, but there is kind of not an urgency within you, but you're aware this isn't necessarily the first health issue that you've dealt with. Were you aware that time is precious in a way? Like, what do you think, what were the components that sort of allowed you to, I wouldn't say process this better than anyone else. It's not a judgment, but in a way, it seems like I remember like the whole time where you're posting it and you're sharing it and all these sorts of things. These are life-changing, uh, you know, transformations, even the statistic when a Trex, you know, I kind of ask you like, what is the probability of this happening again? You know, you have many other, let's say, like if you, if you've had a heart attack or like many other stuff, they'll give you, you know, 3%, 4%, like five, like a percentage where it's definitely a possibility to be in the back of your mind, but somewhere where you're like, you know what, I'm probably going to be okay. The percentage that you gave is quite high, but the way that you answered it seems like you've entertained all the possibilities of what that could be, but you have chosen a focus, uh, on life as an example. So what, uh, what, Jared, would you say are some of these components, I would say that, considering all the things that happened to you, I think you've handled it remarkably well. Thank you. I appreciate that. And I'd say there are a few, uh, so yeah, as you alluded to, I've got another genetic rare condition called CHM or chlorderemia. Um, my, my old joke now is I'm two for two on rare diseases, uh, just one of the, a different lottery than I ever wanted to enter, but that's a genetic progressive disease that erodes night blindness first and peripheral vision, and that can affect central vision. And I've known about that since I was 20 or 21. So it's an incurable thing that required a lot of processing, a lot of wrestling with, and it's honestly still does. So through that and having to come to terms with that being a thing and just having the decision in front of me of what are you going to do? Because there's the option of, you know, be feeling, however, upset, anxious, deciding to recoil from, from life and not engage in the same sort of way, but the clock's going to take regardless. Or the option that I chose and continue to have to choose. I mean, some days it's easier to choose than others. It's just like, uh, I know I cussed a little bit. Can I cuss again? Of course. Yeah. Show the fuck up and, you know, take the shit by the horns. So that, that plays a role. I've always been a fan. Always. I've been a fan of stoicism, uh, you know, philosophically since about like 2017 or so. Um, especially when it had its, uh, kind of rise to popularity in the circles that I run in the rehab world. I don't know how well it's going to show, but I had Lamento Mori now tattooed on my arm after all this, which literally translated means, remember, you must die. And stoicism. And here he is. Do you have Seneca as well? Uh, I do not have that on the shelf. Is he even a real, uh, stoic at this point? No, this is the, the training wheels. This is the day one stuff. Give me time. That's right. That's right. So you have a tattooed as a 2017. So stoicism, sorry, you're saying. Yes. So Memento Mori, um, that phrase is one that the stoics would use, which sounds brim, but not, you know, you could perceive it that way. Um, but it's meant to be an exhortation to live intentionally because we all, all meet the end. No one gets out of this life alive as they say. So the stoics use that to encourage people to live intentionally, to not waste time on the stuff that doesn't matter, to focus on the things that do to pour into the relationship you care about. And I always liked that. I, as soon as I heard it and it applied in rehab, I applied it more to my life generally. Um, you know, prior to all this going down and then when it happened, it wasn't so much a conscious, uh, a conscious decision related to stoicism. But when I got my bearings of what was going on, it was an easy decision. I'm like, I'm not, not quitting. I'm going to, if there's a chance and I can fight, then I'm going to fight. And that was it. But it, it was again, an ongoing thing. I had to keep choosing it. Sometimes it was an hour by hour decision, especially when things got pretty hairy. But, uh, but the direction was pretty easy to decide to go. Jared. So we're going to reach the part now. Okay. Of the story that every single lifter is going to cry in jubilation in unison because now, okay. So let's say we're around April, uh, you're regaining a function of a variety of different things. So you're walking, you're moving around more. You're starting to realize you're coming out on the other side. You've been on this tremendous journey. You start, you know, sharing about it more, like you're kind of slowly regaining some sense of normalcy. What's next for you? What's going on in your mind? Absolutely. So starting to feel better after getting into more of a groove with, in the width training, which was really remedial sort of rehab type exercises in June and July. This is your heel raises. This is your yellow TheraBand type stuff. Um, but it was appropriate challenge and, uh, just stuck with it. Eventually got a, an empty bar in my hand to do some limited range RDLs this mid July of last year and, uh, did some empty bar feed up bench press because I had a whole lot of like restrictions and, and, uh, range of motion limitations in my hips and stuff. So we just had to find the entry point and it felt really good to come back down to my gym, which is my basement. Um, I'd been home for about a month, you know, after the hospital and I hadn't come down because I wasn't ready. And also navigating stairs was tough, but as soon as I saw the squat rack, just the song by Stank, it's been a while started playing in my head. Uh, and it felt good. So rehab became looking more and more like training and my now co-founder or business partner, John, as well as one of our coaches, Dave, uh, Dave took the reins in the early days in terms of programming for me. And then John came in, uh, in a more active role later, but it just morphed into, uh, based on what I could do, we went into some SSB chair squats because that range of motion was tolerable. And I could now squat with more load than a golf squat. So RDLs were the main hinge that we progressed because that was manageable. Uh, feet up bench was what we did for a while too. And then eventually, uh, the SSB chair squats turned into pin squats, uh, in which we'd work down in terms of range of motion based on what my hips could handle. Um, eventually got a deadlift off the floor, conventional first and worked with that for a while and went to sumo a little later. I chose the dark side and went back to the cheaters to dance for the deadlift. Um, and this was just the ongoing process for, from like mid July, early August through the end of 2023 with a hiccup in like October, November. Cause I had some, uh, I had pneumonia, which was undiagnosed for a while. And that was really rough because after the chemo, after everything very clearly immunocompromised and that led to awful pneumonia that took, well, probably the better part of a month, month and a half to kind of get over and then recurred again later. But, um, kept training through this and I knew I wanted to compete again. Um, we, I didn't have any concrete ideas when we, when I began, um, the rehab journey after the hospital, exactly when that was going to be. And I didn't put any, uh, any concrete numbers all on the hit list. I didn't know that I didn't care. I just knew it was going to serve me best to focus on the process, keep showing up. I don't, I wanted to get stronger. I knew the direction and we were just going to figure out, you know, where the milestones were along the way. And then it was January, February, uh, probably closer to February where I was at a point where like, I want to compete again. And based on how I was doing, it was looking like may, may ish was going to be a good time to maybe take, take a shot at it, which would have ended up being, you know, in and around a year out of the hospital. Um, at this point I was weighing, uh, I think one 78, one 79 pretty consistently, uh, on meet day when we ended up competing. I was one 80, it was 24 hour weigh in, uh, for this fed, but it was like one 82.3, uh, or excuse me, 80, 82.3 kilos. That's what it was. Um, but yeah, decided I wanted to compete. I had no idea I was going to be, no idea I was going to put up on the platform or just don't want it to do it. So signed up May 25th was the day that it ended up being for the first one. And, uh, it's, it, I knew it was going to be meaningful. And I also intentionally came in and we had goals. We had closer, uh, approximations for like what we thought the attempts were going to be based on training data. We talked about it, John, myself, and Dave. I got my good friend, Nick, uh, who came in and handled me on the day. So we talked about the strategy and like what we were expecting and all that. Um, but my decision was come in, have fun and just really savor every moment through the day. And yeah, it was probably the most fun I've had at a meet, uh, maybe for obvious reasons, but, um, we walked away nine for nine. Uh, we walked away with a, I think it was like a three, around a three 73 75 pound squat, two 48 pound bench, and then a lifetime PR of 501 on the deadlift. Rex, are you kidding me, man? This is, I want to just take a moment here and give huge respect to our co-host Eric Helms, because I will say when we first started iron culture and the tagline below it's iron culture for all lifters. I think Jared, your story like perfectly encapsulated the iron cult, what we hope to even convey. And this is easily already one of my favorite episodes that we have done. And I'm sure if Helms was here, he would a hundred percent agree, but just the remarkable feeling, man, seeing it on Instagram from sort of following along, you know, uh, as a voyeur, uh, your journey and seeing what was going on and all the things you did and how you handled it was such a, I said, like grace, humility, the resilience that you showed throughout the journey. Um, man, what, what a meet, uh, I want to hear how you felt, but also the question tracks. And I want to hear from you that I was thinking as after everything you had been through all the, you know, questions you had to face surrounding yourself, your family, your journey, what would the future hold for you? I kind of assumed that, yeah, you started having fun with the lifting, but when it came, it came time to do the actual lifting after yet the, the clear go ahead and, uh, the restoration of function with your body, that must've been the easy part, but it's a nice little, like, it's like the cherry on top, because I do want to talk afterwards about what lifting means, uh, for you, to you, as it relates to your family, the things that you hoped in part, as you said before, I think previous on the previous episode to your, uh, daughters, but I can't, I can't help but feel that when you arrived to that point, like, not that it was a natural, uh, conclusion to what you'd gone on before, but it really would give you perhaps an enhanced perspective, you know? Absolutely agree. Yeah, it was, it was in a lot of ways, uh, the easy part and it was a hell of a lot of fun. It was, it represented a lot of work and not just mine, you know, um, I don't know, people including myself might feel one way or the other when you see posts for people to talk about, like, this one's for the homies or for the hometown representing so-and-so and, like, I think there's a time and a place for that and, I mean, I am all for pride and, uh, care, trying to do the people that you care about proud. For me, coming into that meet, it was meant to be a win for not only the, the medical professionals helping along the way, some of whom I've connected with on history and they've been following me, following along, uh, unbeknownst to me for a period of time, but some have reached out and have asked permission to share, uh, posts and updates on how I'm doing with other people who have worked with me before. I have absolutely given it. Uh, it's meant to be a victory for everybody who has supported my family in any way, shape, or form. There are people, uh, who wanted to do something when I initially got sick and they went to go donate blood and donate plasma because I needed a ton of transfusions and they decided they were going to do that to help and try to pay it forward or for whoever needed it, uh, for anybody who followed along and supported in any capacity, uh, you know, in a very conscious way. I wanted this to be a win for everybody who cared and that didn't add pressure. It was still, I'm going to have fun and do the best that I can. And if things go well, cool, everybody wins. And that's how it went down nine for nine. Uh, it was 27 white lights and it was great because on my second squat, the MC came over to my family because my daughters were there. It was the first time they got to watch me compete and, uh, put the mic right in front of one of my daughters. Go dad, as I'm getting under the bar. And it was a blast, an absolute blast. And, um, yeah, just, there was a lot of gratitude all through the day. There still is. And it's fun. Um, it's, it's part of my livelihood, you know, as a strength coach and a rehab professional and all that. Um, then it has taken on an enhanced perspective, an enhanced meeting, um, because of all that stuff for sure. Just to, uh, bring things kind of getting back onto the timeline. So this meet, I think you mentioned was in May, is that correct? So like literally just like a month or two ago. Yeah. Month ago, it would have been May 25th. So I was discharged from the hospital May 1st of 2023. So a little over a year after discharge, which was when we took the platform again. So you are the only person at that meet that added 500 pounds to your deadlift in the year prior to that meet. I think it's safe to say. That is correct. To my knowledge. Yes, man. That is just absolutely incredible. And, uh, do you have, uh, competitions coming up? I do. I'll have another one, August 10th. Uh, that'll be in, in Burlington. Um, so yeah, looking forward to that one. I might, we'll see how the rest of the year plays out. Maybe we'll, we'll try to squeeze in a third, but I'm, I'm just excited to be able to compete at a, at a regular cadence. I'd say again, but for the first time, cause, uh, in years past, it was disrupted by, uh, you know, lockdown is having kids moving, you know, the having kids and moving were great. Lockdown is less so, but, uh, I'm excited to compete regularly here. Yeah, absolutely. Rex, this is, this is what I mean, man. I, uh, you know, if there is one bias we have with iron culture, it is the love of iron. And so as soon as I saw Jared's meat, that's why I messaged Helms. I'm like, we got to get Jared. Like this is the, not that it needs. And that's what I was getting at with the question, uh, Jared, not that you needed to do a meat to be made whole again, or for your journey to have any significance or meaning to it. It's a way for us or for lifters, just to kind of contextualize like where you were before, where you are now, the journey in between and what a triumph it is. But as, as soon as I saw that, that was joking. Like, cause I showed Helms and he's like, holy shit. He saw that. And that's why we're so enthusiastic because what I think it's a sobering, uh, uh, reality check for a lot of people listening in a wide variety. I don't mean that in a judgmental way, but like, let's say like Trex, like bro, like yesterday's example, you know, I get under the bar, man. I'm like, oh, you know, Trex, like my knee, my knee's kind of achy right now. And you start with those narratives, right? I should have walked it off. Like we had that one on the main side, myself and Trex. And then you hear these stories and it's, it's just so life affirming that I think, uh, uh, Jared, we're so happy that you're still here, man, that you're kicking ass, that you're taking names. I do maybe with this wraparound now segment, now that, you know, you reached it. So you came back, did a meet, hit an all time PR. It's crazy. Less than a year after, you know, being out of the hospital and being like a hundred percent able to train and move. Uh, but you've said before, I'm just wondering if you want to crystallize this, if you want to talk about this, any reflections, uh, previously what lifting meant to you, what it means now, or what did you hope to impart? I know it's very important, like the resiliency, uh, already before this, that you wanted to show like to your children, to your daughters. Uh, but now I assume with this journey, there's probably some extra layers. So that already was a component. Like I, I'm, I'm, uh, a sure shout out, uh, to John Flake. Like you said before, uh, your buddy who was also on that episode, you mentioned that, but you know, it's been a hell of a year. Any thoughts, reflections on that lifting in general, your family? Absolutely. Um, lifting prior to all this was, was my anchor. Um, yeah, like I knew what the data say as far as, you know, impact, uh, longevity, all those sorts of things. Uh, I also come from a background of being a fat kid who was never good at sports and like had no self-esteem. It seems to be a pretty common or more common story among the many of us who find our way to the iron and found that the gym could be a second home and loved it, gravitated towards it, absolutely addicted. And then it got me through some pretty dark, uh, mental health times, especially after, um, in the years following my CHM diagnosis, trying to wrestle with what that meant. And the, the, the gym became an outlet, it became an anchor and it was a place for me to show up for myself and, uh, or refill the tank so I could show up as a husband the way I ought to, show up as a father, the way I ought to show up as a coach, as a physio, the way I ought to, and model what I talk about. Um, because as I found out more, more and more recently in the last year and a half or so, um, or since everything went down, there's power in examples, um, with or without words that accompany them. And since getting sick, since recovering, and now just with the journey that follows through here, um, my mission has crystallized. It's, it's become more, even more important to me because strength in a very real way saved my life. It's the reason that we're here now. It's, I've seen it change the lives of clients in the entire time that I've been coaching and working as a PT and in sharing my story and what the journey has looked like, what it will keep looking like. My, my intention is to inspire, to motivate, to show what is possible, maybe an extreme example for sure, but, um, to hopefully point at some principles of endurance, of perseverance, of hope that are transferable to wherever people are in their own lives. And my desire is to motivate them that way, uh, to help with the people that I do work with and coach to help them cultivate their own strength. Because, uh, we know that life is guaranteeing us challenges down the road. We don't know when they happen. We don't know how long we even have. We hear that line, you know, uh, no one knows how long they have. And it sounds trite. It sounds cliche. Uh, it's absolutely true, but I had a very close brush with it just to remind myself of it apparently. So, uh, that's why I'm here, um, to show the, the transformative power of strength, um, and to hopefully help people along the way. I think that's an incredible message and it's, it's so powerful, um, you know, that, that it has, that this experience has impacted you at this point in your life and in your career where you really are in this unique position to kind of empower others and kind of give other people that, that gift of saying like, Hey, like, trust me the way that you're, the way that you treat your body, the way you train your body, you know, developing this strength is something you can access that can bring personal growth, resiliency, but also, um, the, this kind of physical tool that you, you never really know when you're going to need it, you know, like the, the fact that, that you can kind of help people find that, that physical strength in your role as a physio and a coach and, uh, and, you know, have this experience behind you. I mean, I can't even imagine how much more effective this has made you, uh, in what you do in terms of, uh, helping to refocus people, helping to motivate people and helping people really understand that what we're doing is not just some trivial chasing a bench press number. You know, this is, this is healthcare, this is resiliency. And, and this is something that, uh, that you really do carry with you in life and you, you never quite know when you're going to need it. Um, and even for, for just the, I mean, Omar people in, in the, the barbell game, whether it's, you know, power lifters, bodybuilders, whatever, if we're not careful, sometimes we convince ourselves that our favorite hobby that we're doing is actually more like a job and, and, you know, we're toiling and, and agonizing over, Oh my God, I got to go to the gym again. And, and sometimes it's, it's exactly what you need to have someone in your corner who says, do you have any idea how fortunate you are to be able to wake up today, go into that gym and do what you promised me three months ago you loved, right? So kind of refocusing people. It's just, uh, it's an amazing story and amazing experience. And, uh, I, I can't, I can't think of a more uplifting story in the, the lifting world in terms of, uh, going to such a, such a, I mean, a brush with death, such a low point, uh, such a, a huge challenge that I'm sure at times felt insurmountable. And then going all the way back up to the peak of setting PRs a year out of the ICU. It's just, it's just phenomenal. I really appreciate that. And yeah, exactly what you said. I mean, even for me where, uh, it's still, it happens, you know, especially at this point where thankfully life is full again between, uh, my coaching business and the coaching, the business incubator, taking care of the family and all this stuff. There are days where I'd turn up in the gym and, you know, start griping and grumbling. And, uh, it's one thing that I'm still working on, you know, I found out that it, even after a life changing and near death experience, uh, it's easy to slip back into just the, uh, you know, the grumbling and the toil of day to day life and not to discount challenges and what's hard, but the recalibration to perspective of even these hard days now that I have by all accounts, statistically, there's a, there's a very real situation where I shouldn't have the opportunity to experience them, but I do. And that's, that's a blessing. It's something that I'm grateful for. And I choose to do these things. You know, I choose to train. We, we choose our heart in this way, especially in the iron game. And I think it's important for all of us. I know it's important for me specifically to keep it in that perspective and, uh, and keep cultivating that gratitude. And I am a little bit curious, you know, you mentioned that, um, stoic philosophy kind of, you know, what was really a powerful tool for you to use it as you were, uh, navigating all of these challenges, all these hardships. Were you someone who was interested or studying stoicism before all of this happened? Or was it something where you kind of gravitate toward it, uh, as you were going through all these challenges? It was, it was prior prior to, uh, but I, I'd be like your typical kind of pop. Uh, this is not disparaging meant to be disparaging at all, but like your daily stoic, your, the obstacle is the way type reading. You brought up meditations before, uh, I wasn't bringing out my, my Seneca texts at that point in time, but definitely was interested in it. Definitely enjoyed hearing about it, learning about it, and then trying to, um, just see how it applied day to day. And then it took on a new dimension through all this and certainly afterwards. Yeah. I think it's really interesting, um, not to editorialize too much, but to, to kind of observe the parallels where it's like the, the physical training you did for your body came in really handy when it comes to just building up that robustness to weather the storm during this, you know, tremendously intense medical emergency. And I, I think it can be very powerful to study different types of philosophies and mindsets that equip you to deal with challenges when things are good. Um, you know, like, uh, I, I, over the last few years, I've done a lot of study of Buddhism, uh, and, and then gotten into some stoicism as well. And, uh, I think that if you can set aside time to build up some of those skills, whether it's physical strength, whether it's a mental and emotional resiliency through some kind of philosophy that works for you, I think the best time to address those and reinforce those capabilities is when things are going well. Uh, because just like with a surprise bed rest, you really never know when you're going to have to, to really open up that, uh, philosophical and emotional toolkit and kind of dig deep and find something that, that helps you get through really immense challenges. And so, uh, um, my advice to folks, uh, cause we don't have to, I don't know if you've seen the logo for the podcast. We don't really have to twist anyone's arm and tell them to go lift some weights. Um, but I do think it's interesting to think of if you're searching for some philosophy to pacify your mind, once you're already in your darkest days, that's, that's a tough battle. And so if you can build up not just physical, but also mental and emotional resiliency and build up the, those different tools and resources when things are good, boy, will they eventually come in handy? I wish they didn't have to, but it seems like that's kind of part of being a human is eventually you're going to need it. Couldn't agree more, you know, and just on the philosophical and even theological side, you get someone like St. Ignatius of Loyola who had the ideas around what he called spiritual desolation, spiritual consolation. These periods of time where it's, when it's consolation, that's the good times. Things are good, you're showing good. Uh, the idea was to kind of store things up in your, in your storehouse for the times of desolation where things were not good. And, you know, change the wording or the philosophical lens as listeners might wish. I absolutely think that's useful. I mean, I certainly, uh, in an unexpected way, I found it to be true. Derek, this has been the journey, man. We are so thrilled to have you on Iron Culture. Again, you know, I would say that we knew we would have you back on, which is the truth, not under necessarily these circumstances, but what a journey and what a story. We don't want you to, like we said before, uh, just constantly relive your trauma. Hey, tell us all those, you know, details of what was happening and that was, oh, the averaging, but maybe on a lighter note, uh, Jared, to end, uh, this way, because I'm sure, uh, since you've gone on this journey, it's given, uh, both yourself and an enhanced perspective, but as well as your followers, is there anything else that you want to share this? Not, not that it's, uh, unrelated to what you just, uh, spoke about, but it's been two years since we saw you on the Iron Cold. Now you have. So, uh, as we said before, just a little bit on the business side, uh, where you said, I, I knew you as Jared from Unbreakable Strength and now there's some sort of rebranding Jared Rebuild, uh, uh, stronger or something, something like that. But like, uh, just talk to us now, maybe as a full, uh, uh, wraparound. I mean, you're a coach, you're an excellent strength coach. Uh, so you have that, but anything that you want to talk about doesn't have to be on the light. You're like, Omar, I'm actually going to go even deeper and darker now. That was the preamble, but the floor, I'm saying the floor is yours. Uh, we'd love to have you on as a guest, uh, whatever you want to talk about now in closing. I appreciate that, man, for sure. And yeah, now a bit of a rebrand because, you know, I can shout out to, to John flag, my business partner now for stepping in and, uh, taking care of my clients when I was down to the count. We worked together in a lot of capacities. Uh, we worked together through clinical athlete organization for, uh, healthcare providers, uh, for continuing education to help them become better and more proficient at serving athletes, lifters, absolutely included. Um, so, you know, that's one avenue, the honey badger project, uh, the business incubator we both coach in. So, uh, even though the circumstances sucked, uh, the, we merged the businesses, it's officially still rebuild stronger. We brought the name over from John's business, but the tagline is become unbreakable doing justice to both. Um, so yeah, anybody who wants to chat, if this episode served, you, I hope it did, um, come find me on Instagram. It's Jared dot rebuild underscore stronger would love to chat, whether it's about lifting, whether it's about star Wars or Lord of the Rings, cause I'm a massive geek that way as well. Uh, or anything about, you know, this episode would be happy to, and I'm excited for what comes, uh, later this year and beyond, um, I have the opportunity to commentate some powerlifting meets. Uh, it was at the ghost clash three in Miami in April. Um, and I've got another local meet in October that I'll be commentating. We've got some travel earmarked for later this year for clinical athlete for a really cool super total, uh, weekend in Austin, Texas, but be a combined certification of clinical athletes, weightlifting certification and powerlifting certification. So quit Hennick, the, uh, the founder of clinical athlete and John and myself will be all down in Austin, uh, for a two or three day event, which I'm stoked for. And yeah, man, just a lot of gratitude in general, uh, and gratitude to you guys for the invite. Uh, it's, it's always an honor and just thanks for giving me the chance to chat with you guys and share my story. It has been a pleasure and an honor chatting with you. Um, obviously last time you were on the show, Omar and Helms hadn't come to their senses and made me part of the gang, but, um, I'm glad that you saved the, the really hard hitting stuff for your second time through. Um, no, it's, it's just been a, it's been a pleasure to talk with you. And like Omar said, I'm, I'm glad that you're here. I'm glad you're still kicking. I'm glad that you're stronger than ever. And I'm excited to see what you're going to do in the coming years. Thank you. That means a lot. Well said. And let me just say, it's great that you're here. Shout out to our boy Helms. If it was myself and Helms combined, and then Jared gets on and we start talking about Star Wars or the rings, it's like an hour of that. And then it's five minutes of this story. It's like, well, we ran out of time. So I really think probably in this instance to highlight your story, Jared, it was for the best, but yeah, exactly what, uh, Trek said. It was an immense honor to have you back on for you to share your journey. I think you do such a good job. Like, uh, you know, Trek's new, uh, your story, uh, via like some of the social media recapping it and catching up prior to this interview, but even seeing like Trek's reactions as you're sharing it and all, it's not just the details, but also experiencing, like I said, and being able to explain the mental state and then what it meant. And I think any lifter, you do not have to have undergone anything related to what you did to either sympathize, empathize, uh, walk away with something. So this is just one of those quintessential Iron Culture episodes. And we have you to thank. We'll make sure that Kai, in the description links that all down below for people to follow you, to check you out. And we just want to thank every single person for listening or to listening, uh, with another episode. It's Iron Culture. We're back every single insert date here, but guess what? You could go ahead and leave a rating and review on Apple iTunes. It does seem to help us out. Typically people will leave five stars as we learned recently, five stars might not be enough for some of the hosts. And that's all we'll say, but nonetheless, Iron Culture is back every single insert date here from now until the end of time. We'll catch you in that next episode.