 os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os os particular order, right? Okay. Helms, what about you? Anything you want to add before I read a review that is five stars? I should, A, I made a vow between myself and Trex. We'll only read five-star reviews in front of you. We typically, we've had 2,400 reviews. Our average rating is now 4.9. So it's quite good. So, you know, odds are it's going to be five stars, but nonetheless, only five stars. It's a five-star review. I'll lead with that. But what would you say? So we, yeah, we provide, you know, education, entertainment, edutainment, spiritual guidance. Lessons in history, philosophy, and perspective, I would say as well. Okay. No, I think that's fantastic, guys. So this review is- Oh, and important conspiracy theories that could be true. And I try to keep people updated with pop culture. Right, exactly. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Now, is it a conspiracy theory if it's just true and people don't know about it? It's just the truth, man. Denmark. Okay. Interesting. Five-star review. The emojis, not a title, an emoji. Interpret what you will. Cheese and then a gorilla. Cheese, gorilla. Don't know what that means, but interpret what you will. Okay. Fantastic podcast in researchers, but this is a serious review. I find this interesting. It would be great if you linked all the studies you talk about. You do that with the vast majority, but the study that showed people getting very different numbers of repetitions with the same percentage of RM, I couldn't find. If you could please link it in the next episode, that'd be great. I want to put some respect on this person from Denmark called the Kal Ol, is the username. Just how specific it is and the fact that someone has to be feeling validated in this conversation because you put the links to the studies. We talk about it all the time and someone's actually leaving a review because they're checking it out. And I know other websites, other people have given feedback when they do so that, oh, only two or 3% of people that read the article, check it out. But I find this interesting. Like this person's requesting just one of the studies, which is okay that we did not link Eric Helms. Don't panic. This is like a positive constructive feedback that they're saying. They actually like reading the reviews. I think that's awesome. So I actually, um, I prefer to complain about both sides of this coin. I complain that no one reads the actual studies that you mentioned, but then if someone says, hey, do you mind linking that? I get extremely angry at them. So I complain in both. Helms, didn't, isn't that literally your paper? I am on one of these two papers that came out of Dr. Zerdos' lab. Uh, the, the first one, uh, and, and by the way, we very much appreciate Kai because he fits into his busy life as a, he was a master student and now he's a PhD student. He's traveling to go speak at conferences and then like, you know, between like flights, he's, he's doing our, our, our, our timestamps for these, these links and listening to the whole episode in advance to try to see what links should be there. So huge shout out to him. And by the way, some of his research is getting published. We're going to break the fourth wall. We're going to get Kai on iron culture in the future. You heard it right, Kai. But anyway, one of these studies, the, probably the one that I think is, uh, that you want to look at is by Cook and colleagues at C-O-O-K-E. Shout out to Dan Cook. He's both a Dr. Zerdos and, uh, AUT alumni did his PhD here as masters at FAU. Uh, and the PubMed ID is 306, 40306. Body mass and femur length are inversely related to repetitions performed in the back squat and well-trained lifters. And it describes the entire range of reps performed by pretty homogenous group of lifters on 70% of one RM from six to 26. And there's a slightly different range in another study, but I think that one gets the point across of just how variable that range can be. I want to give some respect to Kai. There's no tax intended. When we read this review, Kai is doing it as a service to the culture. Iron culture is a negative cashflow endeavor. Um, so he's doing it essentially out of the goodness of his heart. So let me be clear. Me reading that review was not an attack on Kai or anything that we do. I do just find it very interesting that we do have some hardcore listeners that want to further their level of knowledge. Right. And so this person just wanted to see it. And I think, uh, to me that's meaningful, but I know we have a power hour episode, so there's another review. Can I, uh, throw one little thing in here before we move off of that? Just an interesting little tidbit. Dope. Uh, in the mass research review, high quality publication, new issue coming out in a day or two. Thank you. Uh, I covered a whole back and forth about this study about like cold showers and ice baths and stuff like that, or like cold water bathing. And it got shared on this big platform. People flocked to it. Everyone was talking about it. Then the paper got retracted. And I was kind of commenting on how everyone saw the paper. No one cares that I got retracted. So it's kind of like the retraction didn't really do anything. Uh, cause the public still believes the first part and doesn't even know about the second part of that whole saga. But what I found interesting was on the journal website. You could see the ratio of abstract views versus full text views for both the original paper and the retraction notice. And it was really striking along these lines, Omar, of these interesting, like listener and viewer, uh, behaviors. The folks who got the good news when the paper got published were like, sweet, ice baths are the best. Huge number of abstract views, virtually no full text views. Everyone was like, okay, I've seen enough. I'm good. What I'm doing is awesome. I'm happy. The ratio is completely different, fundamentally different for the retraction notice where there was like very few abstract views, but the percentage of them that actually clicked through to the full text was like through the roof. So it was like two fundamentally different groups of individuals in terms of their, uh, reading and viewing habits, which I thought was really fascinating. And I am happy to know that the people in the cult, in the iron cult are the people that click through to the full text. Good on you folks. Come on, come on. There there's a whole conversation we had about that. I will read this review. So Helms could do the topic that we have, which is a sizzling topic. Okay. So another five-star review. Hey, everyone's happy. Another five-star reviews, a guy, so you can leave it. Apple iTunes is where we read them. This one's from the United States. The username is C dog. And that's a little hint of the actual review. It's five stars. Person said diving deep into fitness, no gills required. That's the headline. It's a little bit of a lengthy one. Iron culture is like the water world of fitness podcasts minus the mutant gills, but packed with epic voyages into the depths of muscle and might. Host Omar and the Erics are like the mariner and his trusty sidekicks navigating through the fitness float stand with width sharper than a jet ski on rocket fuel. Each episode, they dive deeper than Kevin Costner searching for soil in an oceanic apocalypse, uncovering the secrets of swole science and lifting lore. Think of them as your personal fitness cartographers mapping out a world where gains are as plentiful as adventure in water world. More thought is put into each episode of the water world screenplay. With guests that sparkle like bottom dwellers and debates as fiery as oil tanker explosions, iron culture is more entertaining than a water world discussion forum. This podcast earns a solid five star salute. Or is down the best ride on the waves. I love it. Helms explained that very briefly to Trex. We had a whole like episode tangent, maybe a few where we spoke about water world. I kind of forget the reason why it doesn't really matter. But this, this is what I mean about these deep cuts where this person will use water world as a sounding board to write a review about iron culture. And that's epic. This is an example of a true five star review. Um, not one that is actually a, one of our many enemies in disguise, getting us to read it, a Trojan horse designed to destroy my peace. Um, as we've seen many times, which I appreciate you two are now shielding me from because my soul was fragile. Um, no, no, no, don't, don't. Trex, I got a question for you. Okay. Did you, did you have to look up water world or did you, had you heard of it? I, I had heard of it. I knew what it was, but, um, the thing that I was shaking my head about was that Helms, you look so deeply into these refute, into these reviews to kind of, uh, essentially concoct your own slights, uh, that you take offense to. And you were not offended by being compared to water world, which I'm looking at rotten tomatoes.com 43% audience score. So like you really didn't have to look that hard this time. I'm stunned that you took that as a, a completely, uh, 100% straightforward five-star positive review. That's because I've been misaligned, misunderstood, and misattributed as someone who has a fragile ego and is always needing to feel like the underdog coming up. Um, they said, I couldn't do it, but I can. Um, the reality is, is that I know the people who are after us and I just have a better eye for these things. And this person is a great example of a true iron cult diehard fan because they specifically identified probably a double digit episode number, or maybe in the one hundreds where Omar and I bantered. And I think it was maybe only two or three episodes. We, we brought water world back up because we very quickly got stuck together on a different topic. And I tell you what, that kind of deep cut to then go, you know what, I'm going to give these guys a review entirely based upon that one short arc of banter. I mean, if someone had come in and gone, you know what, I'm going to do a review based upon Danny Lennon being a secret serial killer. Not that that's a claim could be true. Don't know. He might be, can neither confirm nor deny. Um, but we did like 20 episodes on that tracks. Exactly. We had that for a whole arc, you know, and then that even led to a second arc on whether or not the Irish potato famine actually occurred. I'm not saying it did or didn't. Uh, we've already apologized for anything that we may or may not have said as our lawyers have advised me to say, but to then pick up on the water world arc, that's like, they made a deep cut. And then they were like, let me go deeper into the cut that was already deep. Like, poof, I respect is all I got to say. So that, I guess that's why, um, I see it a little bit differently is because I don't consider episodes that I'm not on part of the iron culture canon. So that, that makes sense. Yeah. It's, it's part of like the Fox universe, not the Disney one. So yeah. Yeah. They're both X-Men movies, but what's the real one? I will say, um, that, you know, a positive way of framing this one tracks is that yes, well, water world was a colossal failure, both artistically and commercially, uh, which one is more important. It's more the grandiose vision of the director, the auteur, Kevin Costner attempting to bring about his personal vision, right? So is it misguided? Certainly. Is it poorly formed? Sure. Is the acting atrocious? Are gills on a human just undesirable in general? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. But we have to respect maybe the hubris and the ambition to even do the damn thing. And in that way, it's kind of similar to iron culture where there is the cult that understands it. Now, as a representation of the general population, what percentage is that? Well, it's kind of similar to the amount of people that actually bought tickets to water world, but the people that did, and it became a cult hit for, which has a dedicated base, stayed in the theater, the whole thing, the whole thing, the whole thing, right? So banter, banter is like all the crappy parts of water world. It's like the test to allow you to make it through. And then when he made it through and tracks, he discovers land at the end. I think, I don't remember. I watched it one time. I was like eight. Um, it's, it's just like such a revelation and it, it makes you feel whole. And it's something that you don't see in cinema these days. You just have to respect it. You just have to respect the tricks. I got to give you more, more context because this is amazing tricks. You'll appreciate this at the time water world was the most expensive film of all time. And it led to those, those reviews that you saw. So it is almost like the story of Icarus, but except Icarus is a billionaire or let's just say a famous actor named Kevin Costner. And he's already gone up to the sun, burned up, crashed to the earth. And he said, you know what? I think if I could have just made it all the way to the sun for a little bit longer, things would have gone well and then built a massive elevator actually into orbit. All of his money took every piece of mass in the solar system to create this multi-generation spanning space elevator that got into the sun just to burn up again. And then though he could stay there and then burn all the way to death, learning not at all from the first mistake, that's essentially a water world. So you have to appreciate that level of commitment. I don't think you realize exactly how on the nose that is. Are you up to date on the Kevin Costner? With his latest film. That's what I was going to say. I wasn't sure if Hellas was. Yeah, because that's accurate. He did it again. He invested all his money. Speaking of not learning from lessons, apparently Costner put up like his own like personal fortune to fund what he built as a four-part film series. The first one alone was three hours and one minute. And the tomato meters got it at 49%. And they're already like, yeah, maybe we're not going to go ahead and do all four. So he learned when you are halfway through hell, you're out of food, you're burning to death, and you're actually just guessing you're halfway through. And you didn't read Dante's Inferno and it's actually just level one and you have nine more to go. Keep going and die on level three and then somehow get more money, go leverage everything you have to the hilt and then just keep going. And essentially don't even worry about where you are and just keep going. That's the never say die attitude. We bring die on culture regardless of our success. Now, the final thing, and we're getting to the topic. You guys want to know the most incredulous thing I feel that I've ever heard Kevin Costner say, and he has said many, I would say, semi-controversial, controversial things. Do you want to know the most incredulous thing I think I've heard him say now that he's like our personal pet-like enemy that we have? We should get him on the show. Probably now that he's bankrupt, probably we can get him, right? We just called it the Waterworld episode. Anyways, he stated that Whitney Houston, the mortal Whitney Houston, that he was the love of her life. He stated that after she passed away, that he was, because they were in the film, the bodyguard together. Yeah. Or do people accuse him of being a narcissist? Sure. Whatever. But he said, no, no, no. Out of everyone that this person has ever met, I clearly was the one. I think that's the most incredulous thing he's done. The Waterworld, this new film, Trex, The Failed. Just to state that out, right? I'm like, that actually makes, I can kind of relate to that because I have it on good authority that I was the love of the life for every person I've ever dated, including those who are currently married to other people, which is weird. Right. But I will be sure to let everyone know after they pass. Respectfully. Yeah. So you just wait until they don't have a voice or any power to challenge the thing that you're saying? I think you just control the narrative, Trex. Yeah. He's a good guy. Guys, I think we should watch Waterworld. Yeah. Yeah. I think we should watch the documentary, The Bodyguard after that too. So. Okay. So Helms, yes, extended banter. They have the timestamps. They already know. What is the topic? What are we discussing today? Why is it a power hour? Yeah, man. So this is a topic that we have definitely addressed before, the role of hypertrophy for strength. It is something, I'll frame it as this. It is a controversial topic, but probably among a minority of people in the sports science field. There is a reason for that, that it is controversial. And I think it is like a reasonable reason even, I would say. But I would think that the overall consensus is that muscle size does have some contributory role towards strength. Now, why is this a question even in the first place? I think that's something very valid for people to ask because it's baked into biomechanics. Like when you're thinking about torque, when you're talking about anything, you get to this kind of mathematical like assumption of, believe it or not, contractile tissue produces force. And we think that more contractile tissue produces more force. So how could muscle tissue not produce more strength, right? However, if you look at it through a very, very, very pure empirical lens, the relationship is not super, super clear. So Trax is a big lover of design and methodology. And I think he would agree that technically, if we want to attribute causation to something, we would need to have a design model that is able to isolate variables and that the specific dependent and independent variables that we're looking at are controlled in a manner where we can make some assumptions about causation. Would you say that's an accurate framing, Trax? Yeah, you need control and you'd need, you know, a good temporal cause and effect relationship to be established very tightly. So if I wanted to create the design of a study that could actually test whether or not hypertrophy caused increases in strength, is that a challenge? As many review papers would suggest, indeed, many papers back and forth, very much so. Yeah, because essentially what we're getting at here, if you were to think about it and compare it to say like a randomized controlled trial of a drug, you would randomize people to either doing not taking anything and knowing that not taking anything, a placebo, a fake version of the drug or the drug itself. And then we can pick apart with randomization and a sufficient sample size and a zero exposure group in two different groups, but also having the expectation of the placebo. Did this drug reduce, I don't know, blood pressure more than the placebo effect or random variation over time? And what kind of reliability do we have around that inference? Do we think it's pretty robust? Is it meaningful? All that stuff can occur. If we want to know, does hypertrophy cause strength? Essentially, what we're asking to do here is that we have to randomize people to different degrees of hypertrophy. But we can't do that, at least not in any straightforward manner. What we are actually doing is randomizing people to different resistance training programs that cause different amounts of hypertrophy and strength, and then we're trying to make an inference between these two. So we can't actually make hypertrophy the independent variable, at least not in any super straightforward manner. So this has led to these debates as to whether or not hypertrophy causes strength that have not been resolved, despite the seeming like something that is very theoretically solid and sound, and we shouldn't even have to question it. So it's resulting in these back and forths and questions of basic assumptions, and we've had to rely on non-causational data. And this is actually quite similar to something that we've talked about in terms of nutritional epidemiology, which is also a challenging topic. And you try to nail someone down, and you know, their pet theory about a given nutrient being good or bad, carnivore diet, low-carb diet, you know, militant vegans, you name it. As soon as you really start to pin them down, and they start to lose any argument, they goalpost shift, and they go, well, yeah, but let's see the RCTs. I want to see people being randomized to an RCT diet, where they're consuming zero animal products or all vegan diet, and I want to see it for their whole lifespan, and I want to see who has a better life and dies more. And you go, that's physically impossible. We'll never have that study. And they go, well, then you can't say I'm wrong. And we go, great, awesome, perfect. Please keep getting back on Twitter or X or whatever platform you want to have and telling people things that are going to harm them and making money. So very different environment, but a very common thing is when you don't have the ability to ascribe causation, it leaves doubt. It leaves space in the cracks for whatever pet theory that someone might want to have. And in the case of this, what we're often looking at is correlation. If I was to go out into any public space, and I bring with me a force plate and a chain and a dynamometer, and we do mid-thigh poles, and we get a peak force measurement, and then I also take my trusty portable ultrasound. I keep these with me all the time in the truck because I do this on Thursdays. Scan your quadricep hamstring or glute or lumbar, really any muscle thickness, and I start to do just a basic regression in Excel. And I just go, equals, correl, and I look at the correlation. We'd see a pretty strong correlation based upon a lot of research between who has bigger muscle thicknesses and who has a higher isometric mid-thipole. And then the hypertrophy skeptics would say, what? Correlation doesn't equal causation. And in fact, sometimes they seem to be right. We take those same untrained people in the population, we put them through an eight-weeks training study, and sometimes we actually see no significant correlation at all between the changes in these two variables. And this is where it breaks down. This is kind of the stemming root cause of this initial debate as to what's going on here. And you get some theorists who are kind of going at this from a more conceptual standpoint saying, well, the first adaptations to resistance training are primary neurological. We're seeing these large increases as you're just doing motor learning and neuromuscular adaptations. And after that, we'll see a stronger correlation. And then you get the back and forth and you're saying, well, listen, even if we saw a correlation between changes, does that really tell us what we want? And on and on we go. Now, I will try to solve this for us, at least help you understand my schema of how I understand this to be and where my perspective lies. But I did want to give that background knowledge. So one of the things that is often not done is actually looking at correlation between changes in well-trained populations. And those studies are few enough that I can probably count them on one hand to my knowledge, but we have a tremendous amount of data looking at correlations. And I think one of the more useful populations to assess the correlation between strength and hypertrophy is actually powerlifters. Because powerlifters are doing 1RMs, they're pretty highly trained, and the movements they're doing are not super complex, but they are trained lifts. And importantly, they're primarily dependent upon peak force output. Ironically, powerlifting is not a very power dominant sport. It's quite slow. So on the load velocity spectrum, it's just movement, move it enough to keep it going until you lock it out, right? And when we look at baseline correlations in powerlifters, we see pretty damn strong correlations. I think on average, if I was to take all the four or five studies that look at baseline correlations and look at 1RM strength in powerlifters and indices of muscle volume, thickness, cross-sectional area, lean body mass, or like composite scores of different muscle thicknesses for different lifts, you're looking at correlations that all sit higher than 0.5 or 0.6, and many of them around the 0.8, 0.9, which means they're almost perfect correlations in some cases, or at least moderately strong. But until now, we had no studies that actually looked at changes in strength in powerlifters and changes in hypertrophy and actually tried to correlate them. We did have some correlation data on changes in strength, but they're primarily in what we would describe as novice moving to intermediate phase lifters in a more colloquial sense. So this study was just published relatively recently by Tremaris and colleagues, 2024, and that is lean body mass, muscle architecture, and powerlifting performance during preseason and in competition. And this, again, is a study, I'll just say it up front, I don't think it would convince some of the hypertrophy skeptics to change their mind, but it does give us, you know, as close as we can get to or closer than some of those baseline correlations in a more likely representative and useful population where it's not confounded by those theoretical neuromuscular adaptations, some indices of hinting at potential causation, and we're going to talk about them today because it's pretty cool. So this is a study that was on pretty damn strong powerlifters. I think there was 11 of them, mixture of men and women, and they were training for Greek nationals, I believe. So not IPF, but it was a different federation, and they are pretty freaking strong when you look at some of the average 1RMs in this group. So for example, among the men, the average deadlift was 266.6 kilograms, bench press was 155, and their squat was 250. So this is probably one of the most well-trained groups that you will observe in any literature. And among the women, we also saw some pretty high numbers, close to a 70 kilo bench press, 132.5 kilo squat, that's, you know, roughly 300 pounds for the Americans out there, and a 135 kilo deadlift, that's actually a little closer to 300 pounds. So 12-week study, and again, this was not a randomized controlled trial. It couldn't be, as we discussed. They weren't comparing different things. It was observational in nature. And over this 12-week period, they followed a periodized plan, so they went from more of hypertrophy training or higher volume training into more specific training, and the post-test in a very ecologically valid manner was them competing at Greek nationals, which I think is pretty cool. And even with the variability of attempt selection and perhaps not hitting your maxes, that's baked in as a limitation. They saw some pretty cool relationships, okay? So at both baseline and at post-test, they had these folks both get into a DEXA scan, so they got indices of body composition. They're able to look at lean body mass. They're able to look at different regions of lean body mass, so upper body, whole body, and like limb and trunk lean body mass. And they also used an ultrasound to get cross-sectional area of the quadriceps and also looked at muscle thicknesses. And they looked at some other morphological aspects of the muscle as well, things like pinnation angle or fascicle length, which I don't think it's worth getting into in this discussion. So they've got that at pre, they've got that at post, and they also did pre-testing on the big three, and then they looked at how they did in the competition, and they were able to plot these 11 folks over time, looking at changes in hypertrophy with those various indices and changes on 1RM strength. And what you would absolutely expect to find is that if you look just cross-sectionally, just at the pre-test and the post-test, not looking at the change, we saw some really strong relationships, most around like that 0.8 range. So strong relationships between baseline and post-test, not the change, hypertrophy on all indices as well as strength. Okay, that's been established. That's actually been seen in powerlifters, like I said, probably four times before this. This is the fifth study showing very similar findings. So we know that if we just walk into any powerlifting gym, we grab everybody, you know, I bring my stuff in my trunk, we're going to see strong relationships in most powerlifters between their 1RMs. But the question is, is what happens over time? And this is the first time that's been investigated. And very tellingly, there was actually quite strong relationships between their performance change and their strength performance. So I think that's pretty cool. This tells us some interesting things too, when you look at the specific correlations. So while it is true to say like correlation is not causation, it is a little more meaningful when you're looking at correlated changes versus just baseline things that are correlated. Trex, I don't know if you want to maybe describe to the audience why you think a correlation between changes is perhaps a more reasonable inference than of potential causation and just baseline. Sure. Yeah. I mean, uh, the, the simplest explanation is that it's the question at hand, right? Uh, so a lot of folks, when it comes to this debate about the role of hypertrophy in resistance training induced improvements and strength, I mean, the, the very nature of that question, a lot of those folks will even tell you at baseline, whoever has the biggest muscle will be stronger on average, not, you know, a perfect one-to-one relationship, but a lot of folks argue from that point forward, that's where there's this divergence and that for some reason, the muscle growth that is stimulated by resistance training is not having a causative effect on actually driving those strength gains. Um, and some folks will say it doesn't even contribute like, you know, because clearly it's not the sole cause of strength changes, right? But they'll say, no, it's, it's essentially fundamentally unrelated. Um, and so at the end of the day, you know, a correlation really quickly of like, Hey, do the bigger power lifters lift more? It doesn't really get to the heart of their main or their chief complaint or their chief, uh, area that they're pushing back on. So, uh, yeah, the more straightforward, um, answer is that it simply gets to the question that's actually being challenged. You could also, um, in the case of this type of design, you could also say, Hey, it's a little bit stronger because we're also kind of bringing in this, uh, temporal element, right? So something is changing from before the intervention to after, or from this time point to that time point, you're, you're introducing the variable of some temporal change in both size and strength outcomes. So if the two co vary together longitudinally, that gives you a little bit more of a justification than just saying, Hey, these two things seem to be kind of related. If we grab someone off the street and have them do a bench press repetition, you know, so the temporal element also can, can add some extra weight to your argument. Perfectly well said. And, and just to give people the, the counter argument that it's not always a perfect, uh, you know, it's not the same thing as causation. Let's think about use of lifting chalk. If I was to ask at baseline, how often do you use lifting chalk and how strong are you? We probably see a strong correlation between certain metrics of strength. Um, but let's take an obvious one that aren't related. Your squat one RM would probably have a strong correlation to use chalk because serious lifters who are probably power lifters or weightlifters train with chalk. They're going to have a higher one RM, but we wouldn't anticipate that using more chalk would make your squat one RM go up. And even if you started training more often as a weightlifter, you would use more chalk and perhaps because you're training more often, you would see your lifts go up, but it would still be not causational. That would be a spurious conclusion to say that using more chalk increases strength. So it's certainly not rock solid to give credit to the other side. Yeah. And one additional thing to keep in mind when looking just as like a general note at this type of, you know, correlating two changes over time, this can get a little bit weird depending on, uh, baseline values, right? So if you would imagine, um, you know, at the beginning of an intervention, people that start the intervention, super, super strong versus people who start the intervention, super, super weak, you can already imagine that their trajectories, their change during the intervention is, is naturally going to be quite different. So depending on the research question, depending on the study design, sometimes the baseline value has a huge impact on what the change value for one of those variables will be. And every now and then you'll run into a situation where you say, oh, look at this terrible program. And you're like, oh, actually they were all just like super strong at baseline. So not as much room to go, you know? So sometimes you have to factor those baseline values in as well. So again, many reasons that you can't just look at these, at any two correlations and say, ah, okay, changes over time. Now, now we're talking causation. Well said. Yeah. And I will admit that when you start trying to interpret non, like data that cannot tell you causation and you're trying to look for instant causation, it can be a bit of a Rorschach test. It can uncover your biases. But I think you have to do that when we're in a situation like we are, where there is no opportunity for us to develop a perfectly controlled trial where we can randomize hypertrophy, at least in any straightforward manner. So with that caveat out of the way, I think it is quite telling that we saw strong correlations, not just, you know, moderate ones between changes in strength and changes in many, but not all the hypertrophy metrics. And it's not a rock solid case in this study, but it is pretty solid. I think one interesting thing is that changes in body mass had a stronger correlation with changes in strength than changes in lean body mass. So do I have a good answer for that? No. Was it a whole lot stronger? No. But I think that is, you know, just, it's just showing that this is not, it's not perfect. And I don't want to paint a rosier picture just because I personally have the belief that, that hypertrophy does contribute to strength, but some things really are interesting. So for example, if you look at the correlations in squat one RM changes as a percentage change correlated with changes in lower body lean mass, you see a strong correlation like 0.81. But if you look at trunk lean mass, uh, it's actually weaker. It's like 0.67. And I think that makes like, it makes sense from our understanding of what contributes to the squat most. You do need your trunk to hold up the squat, but it is not the thing that is the prime mover, right? Uh, another really interesting thing is that if you look at changes in bench press, for example, you only saw relationships to body mass and total lean mass, but you didn't see a relationship to lower body lean mass, right? So there was not a correlation between changes in bench press strength and changes in lower body lean mass strength. Which kind of makes sense that, okay, it's the local muscle mass that is probably contributing. And you saw a similar thing with deadlift where it was related to changes in body mass, lower body lean mass, trunk lean mass, and total lean mass with deadlift being a bit of everything. And then probably the strongest piece of evidence of where you're seeing things fall in line, um, from these correlations is that they looked at cross-sectional area of the quadriceps, and that only had a correlation 0.68 with squat, but not the deadlift nor, uh, the bench press. So, you know, you can say lower body, uh, lean mass on a DEXA scan, that's encompassing glutes, that's encompassing hamstrings. It, that makes sense that it would be related. But then when we isolated even more, let's just look at the quadriceps. We wouldn't anticipate that more quadricep mass would be a meaningful contributor to your deadlift going up. So things are falling in line. If we just look at, uh, the specific correlations and their strength relative to one another. And again, like I said, it's not perfect. Um, if we look at muscle thickness, for some reason, there was no correlation, but cross-sectional area there was. So you could certainly frame this as going, well, where are some of these intuitive correlations? They're not happening, Eric. How dare you paint this, you know, this biased picture. So I just want to be clear on that. Um, I think another really interesting thing that you were talking about, Trex, is how you might just see some natural, like you were kind of describing regression to the mean, right? Like if you'd see a whole bunch of people who have a very high value and that that's an inflated value at that cross-sectional time point, it's probably going to be lower next time you measure them. And this is even true if we think about powerlifting. Most of the time after you hit a PR, you're going to hit a plateau or even see a slight decline. And if your, your trajectory is overall on the upswing and getting stronger, you know, you step back far enough, you start to see what looks like a straight line. But when you're zoomed in, you see these peaks and valleys and that's just the nature. You know, if you ask any strength coach, you know, what comes after a peak, a valley, you know, after every peak is a cliff and, uh, you can't just continually have this linear increase in strength after the novice phase. So you could have people who are getting tested. Maybe they did regionals three weeks before and now they're doing nationals and their strength doesn't change at all. You know, that could be some fatigue dynamic that's, you know, kind of, uh, collating over time. So that regression to the mean has lots of reasons for it. But it likely applies in sports performance. So anyway, another interesting thing is that there weren't any weird aberrant instances when you look at individual data points. So there were some people whose numbers went down over time. So for example, specifically when you look at the lower body lean mass correlations, and they've actually got a plot in this text, they plot that against changes. So changes in not lower body lean mass, total lean mass and changes in squat 1RM. And the only person who actually observed a loss in total lean mass was also the only person who had a decline in their percentage change in squat 1RM. And I think when you see strong relationships that maybe are not actually real, you're more likely to see that one aberrant data point where, oh, that person got stronger, but got smaller, that type of deal. And you don't see that here. You know, the magnitudes don't match up perfectly. That's why it's not a 1.0 correlation, but the directionality holds true. So all of those things together, when you look at this, first, it's the first time we've seen a study actually looking at measured changes in strength and hypertrophy in powerlifters, not just cross-sectional relationships. And two, it's the first time we've seen such strong relationships between these two metrics. Typically, when you look at these baseline versus change metrics, you can see, and this is the argument of some of the hypertrophy strength skeptics. Yeah, we saw a strong baseline correlation in these, quote unquote, trained participants, not powerlifters, right? But then the change score, it was either non-significant or the correlation dropped from 0.8 to 0.2, which is that that's representative of some of the research out there. So I think this is spurious, which is a fair conclusion in that case, if you restrict it to just that. But I think when we look at this study, you have to ask, why is it so different? Why is it intuitive? Why does the directionality match up? And I think that's really cool. Now, Helms, if I may, I have a question. I think you did that study justice. I think you did a great job covering it. And I do think that some of those more local estimates really do bolster the case. But whenever this comes up, one thing that I'm curious about, I don't know if you're going to know the answer to this, but this argument that changes in muscle mass are not contributing to changes in muscle strength when a person goes from untrained to trained in resistance training. What is the argument from people who share that view when they are given, for example, evidence that testosterone injections, super physiological, have a dose response impact on strength in the absence of resistance training? Or for example, I remember I was so thrilled when I did my undergraduate physiology coursework, they did a rotate, it was like at the medical school and they did rotating professors. So when you learned about the kidney, it was from someone who is a kidney expert. They study the kidney, you know, they have pictures of kidneys up on their wall at the house. They're just obsessed with it. My muscle physiology was taught from someone who was doing randomized controlled trials with myostatin inhibition. And he would just show during these lectures, slide after slide of check, check out these mice who just blew up like Ronnie Coleman after we inhibited their myostatin. And they, they weren't resistance training, but their strength went through the roof. They did it with mice, they did it with primates. So what is usually the response to those lines of evidence that appear to so strongly reflect the theoretical relationship that, that many of us find to be so inherently intuitive? That's a great question. And I want to take care to not unintentionally straw man anyone in this, because this has been a debate that's going on for a while. I remember the, one of the times I got into a debate with someone on the other side of this, I was still a PhD student. It was on Facebook. So we're talking quite literally 10 years ago. And I know that their thoughts have evolved, but what was said at that specific time, when I pointed out some of these things, and there was a couple of things, which I think we can pick apart. One was they said, Hey, look at this study. And we saw a decrease in strength, but an increase in hypertrophy in this participant. Therefore they cannot be related. Like one participant? Or any, any example of that. I think there, there, there, there's probably a study that might show that on the group level as well. Um, probably not significantly. I'm not aware of any studies that actually show a significant decrease in one, and this is an increase in the other. Uh, but certainly, actually there's, there's a great case study that Dr. Zerdos was a part of where, um, they did what RM daily maxing. All three participants got a lot stronger, well-trained. And in one of one or two of the quadricep measures, we actually saw a decline. And this is a short-term study. We're talking 40 days or 37 days, I think when they peaked in their strength. And what I was trying to explain is this is what we're not saying that, um, from a causational perspective, that hypertrophy is a necessary or sufficient condition for increasing strength. Meaning that the only way to increase strength is to get bigger or that every time strength goes up, it goes up, but a contributory cause. And if you think about it, just kind of from a multivariate perspective, right? Okay. If your motor pattern with the squat gets worse, more than your muscle size is increasing, you could see an increase in quadricep size and a decrease in squat one RM. I think that's something that's intuitive to people who've trained for both like strength and hypertrophy. I stepped away from squats for a year and I blew up my quads with a whole bunch of like pendulum squats, leg extensions, et cetera. Then you chucked me into a one RM and I did not hit my peak squat from back when I competed in powerlifting. Yeah, right. I don't, that's not sufficient proof in my mind that there's, there's no relationship between hypertrophy and strength and it doesn't, it doesn't rule out a contributory role. So I think that was the initial disconnect we had in that conversation. That was their proof. And that evolved over time. Cause I think. Yeah. If I may though, I am, I'm like, I'm like holding your feet to the fire for something you don't believe. But so that, that makes sense in the case of like, if they were pushing it back, pushing back and just trying to make the argument, these two are not inherently coupled in all cases. Um, but like what you described was strength going up while muscle mass goes down, which I find to be extremely explainable. But when, what I don't, what I can't even, I don't have the imagination to come up with an explanation for we inhibit myostatin or we give doses of testosterone with no resistance training stimulus and muscle growth occurs. And then coincidentally strength goes up 25% in the absence. So how, how, have you heard any pushback for that? What would that be? I have. And, um, again, I don't want to straw man anyone because I think this is when you're having a debate with someone live, their primary premise is we don't have empirical proof of this. Therefore, we can't say one causes the other. And there have been times where I've asked, well, then what is causing the increase in strength when hypertrophy goes up? Sometimes the answer is, I don't know, but I don't think it's hypertrophy and that's fair. You know, like, like that, that's just because you're like the burden of proving or disproving, right? We could get to that. So when, when they say that I like it, but I have heard some things that I think belie and show the bias that is there. So one of the times that this was brought up, the specific thing about what about people who take testosterone? And I'll get into some data on that in a moment. Uh, the, why I think this is not true. Um, testosterone, how does that increase hypertrophy in the absence, sorry, strength in the absence of resistance training? One of the responses I got, well, testosterone must have some neuromuscular effect that we don't know about. And I think that is like, well, why would we just assume that? And then say it couldn't be hypertrophy that that is obviously not an equal weighting of evidence. And also there's actually evidence to counteract it. So there's a great study that you were specifically alluding to by basin. And this is that, that famous researcher who has the 600 milligrams of testosterone when you're not training produces just as much hypertrophy as when you are training and you're, and you're drug free. They've done other research where there was nobody training. So there was this pretty cool study that they did where they specifically gave people different doses of testosterone. And there was a very clear dose response relationship between testosterone, muscle mass and strength, but nobody was lifting weights. And I think the specific claim of, well, there must be some effect of testosterone, just having it there maybe makes you more aggressive or does something to your neuromuscular system to enhance strength. It rests on shaky ground because they looked at the correlation between leg press strength and serum testosterone levels. Now it exists just like there's a relationship between taking chalk and having a higher squat one RM, but it, the R score was 0.48 and it was pretty highly significant, but it was not as strong as the correlation between leg press strength and fat free mass, which was 0.74 or muscle volume, which was 0.54. So to me, that tells you that we're getting closer to the potential actual thing that's causing that, that, that strength change, those size of your muscles, which is caused by testosterone. Because if that wasn't the case, we'd see the inverse of those relationship strengths. We'd see, okay, if there's a dose response between how much testosterone is in serum, or you're being impacted by right now, it's having some type of neuromuscular effect, then that's what's going on. Unless we're claiming that adaptations over time to testosterone scale with dosage in your neuromuscular system, but it has nothing to do with hypertrophy. So, and those, you would then have to also say, and let me whip up a totally different explanation for myostatin inhibition. Correct. Correct. Even though they share a common, like, both of those interventions increase strength in the absence of resistance training, and they both, you know, their primary outcome happens to be making the muscle dramatically larger. Yes. So this is the, and this is actually the way that we get to public health advice for nutrition. Right. So if we want to make a claim about you're going to die less if you follow this nutritional pattern of eating fruits and vegetables, yes, the carnivore diets can say, well, where's my 60-year-long RCT where you randomize people to higher likelihood of death and your ethics approval board is like, that's fine. And yes, here's $20 million to do that. And all your participants were like, yes, I will absolutely never eat an animal product again for the rest of my life, and I will have 100% perfect parents. And you go, okay, great. I guess, I guess you quote unquote won that argument, carnivore guy on the internet. What instead they do is they look at short trials and they have different exposure levels, or maybe it could be an RCT, but instead of the outcome measure of, did you have a heart attack? The outcome measure is what did your cholesterol blood panel look like? What did your triglycerides look like? What did your, the biomarkers that we associate with risk, how did those change in the short term? So that's not saying that we know for sure it's going to make you die less, but we have the short term data. And then we step back and we go to epidemiology and we go, okay, if we look at a long-term data set and we are controlling for the variables as best we can statistically, and we have high quality data sets, we're trying to do really good, uh, you know, recalls with people, we're controlling for smoking status, et cetera, et cetera, all this stuff. And we see that there's a linear dose response up to say 500 grams of plants that you eat per day and lower all cause mortality. And we see the inverse relationship when you have specific forms of, of, of saturated fat for heart health. Okay. We combine those two together and we have a mechanistic rationale of understanding certain forms of cholesterol's role and their impact on arterial plaque. Pretty damn sure you want to eat more vegetables and you don't want to eat a whole lot of charred, burnt, fatty meat. Right. Um, and, and, and, and that's as best as it's ever going to probably get until we have some, some fundamental change in the way we can do science. That's kind of, I think what you're describing here is how do you respond to all these things? And exactly what you're saying is why I hold the belief, not the super, super, super, super strong belief, nor do I understand the exact magnitude in all cases, but I do believe that increasing muscle size contributes to strength gain. And there's other ways to look at this too. One of the ones that's the biggest head scratcher to me is why is strength sport weight class based, you know? And I would say there's the hard and the soft version of the, I don't think hypertrophy matters for strength. The hard version is they're completely unrelated. And somehow we're, we're moving through space, just floating on a neuromuscular system and all strength is due to neuromuscular adaptation. The much more defensible soft version is I don't necessarily know what is causing these strength changes, but I don't think it's hypertrophy. And I will say this, maybe, uh, growth related, uh, changes in, in your, in your body during puberty and during certain phases are, they, they, they cause a lot of your strength and some inherent things, but the changes are so small that you can get from resistance training that that's not going to have a major factor. Ronnie Coleman's super strong and super big because he's Ronnie Coleman, not because he got bigger from training kind of that that's, that's that argument. So the, the less defensible version of that, when I brought this up, why is powerlifting weight class based sport? You know, like, and you see this, this curve, we have a coefficient for a reason, bigger people are stronger. They go, uh, man, it's because of the weight cut. And I go, but all of the weight classes have to do a weight cut. And you see this relationship continue. If you look at open powerlifting in the heavyweights and they go, shut up, Eric, you know, so that's not very defensible. Right. Um, and, um, so I think, I think there's a lot of lines of evidence that make it really challenging to hold a belief. And I think the philosophical thing to do here and what I did when I was in these debates at a certain point, I recognize I have a bias. I don't understand how I could live in a world where contractile tissue doesn't produce contractile force. And I can't conceive of how this could work. So I'm very dismissive of this idea. And maybe I'm not giving it a fair shake. I go, okay, what would it take for me to change my mind on this topic? And the closest thing I could think of, of randomizing hypertrophy was taking testosterone in the absence of, um, resistance training. And so when I first saw the base and data, that kind of turned, turned the corner for me. I was like, all right, like I, we have no known neuromuscular mechanism by which testosterone is primarily increasing strength. The theoretical rationale lines up with the correlation. It's stronger than the correlation with serum testosterone and they're not training and they're getting, you know, they're getting bigger. And then there's been more things that have also made me think that. So for example, the recent extreme stretching data, one thing that people are less interested in because of why wouldn't you just go train to make yourself stronger is that when you look at the groups, uh, in the stretching only groups, not the comparisons, the few studies where they've compared like the long duration static stretching to, to resistance training that Warnecke has done and that, uh, Waller has done or Wolin, excuse me, has done in the pecs and the, and the calves, the stretching groups are increasing without training calves at all, except for the pretest that occurred six weeks ago. They're increasing all measures of calf strength by doing one hour of stretching in the boot that is, is causing increases in hypertrophy. So I think that's wild. You know, you're seeing these reliable five to 10% increases in maximal force output isometrically and dynamically on like a one RM lake press or a, uh, you know, a fixed position isometric contraction of the plantar flexors after just stretching in a boot like I did for, you know, six weeks or longer. So it's, I, why would we think that you'd be getting more neuromuscularly strong from stretching, you know? And so like you said, myostatin, static stretching and testosterone, they all line up for the same kind of conclusion. It's very difficult to conceive of a world, in my opinion, where they don't line up. Um, one thing I will say tracks, and I want to give at least a methodology shout out to the skeptics is there was a study led by Buckner. I think it was done out of, uh, Lenneke's lab or it could have been done out of, uh, out of Buckner's lab. I don't remember if it was while they were at the same place or not. So my apologies if I get that wrong, but in, I think a very elegantly designed study, they used it within participant design with bicep curls where one arm performed hypertrophy training for a while. And the other arm just did singles, just did one RMS, right? And then after that, they both went to this phase of training where they did a little bit of back off work and they worked up to a one RMS every session until they saw strength start to plateau. And they went, listen, okay, if there's a hypertrophy potential, or rather if you can increase your strength potential with prior hypertrophy training, we should see the arm that got randomized to do the hypertrophy training before should get even stronger than the other arm, which just basically all the way through did this one RF familiarization. And they didn't see any significant change or difference in, in groups and strength, but they did see significantly more hypertrophy. And that could be the death knell if you just present it in that way. But when you really look at the study, unfortunately, there weren't meaningful changes in my opinion in strength or hypertrophy. And if you're trying to look at a relationship between two variables, you need to see a significant enough change to relate them. Because I don't think hypertrophy is strength. I think it contributes to it. So if we're only seeing like a very, very small, like three or 4% change in muscle thickness, we're not talking about the overall muscles potential to produce strength. Now we're thinking, what does that very small change produce in terms of the change in strength? And if it's a small sample size and relatively untrained individuals, we have to think about what's a meaningful amount of muscle change we would need to see to expect to actually see a change in strength. And I think it was far less than what occurred in that study. So yeah, bicep curl, probably not the best design for that. Squat bench and deadlift, where we're working with, you know, much larger numbers than a 20 kilo lift. We're talking about a 260 kilo lift in the, in the men in this study, for example. Now we can see enough of a shift where we should be able to look at these correlations. So elegantly designed study, don't get me wrong. I think that's a really great way to look at it. And there's lessons there. But while that is a design that I think gets at this question, that design, you still need to see the thing you're testing the hypothesis of change to know if they're related. I think you've, you've ascribed, uh, the idea of getting insect repellent to stop metabolic adaptation as a good analogy for this. Like, okay, we want to see if refeeds or diet breaks will prevent metabolic adaptation for occurring. We did refeeds and diet breaks, no change in RMR. So it doesn't, doesn't do that. And then the question you raise your hand, you go, hold on, did you observe metabolic adaptation? No, we didn't. Okay. So if you use insect repellent in a building where there's no insects and there was no change in the number of times you got bit by insects, do you know that the insect repellent doesn't work? Or do you just know there was no insects? Which is, I think, I think that was a really good analogy. And I think that applies in this case as well. If there wasn't a meaningful change in hypertrophy, how can we expect to see a meaningful change or difference in strength, uh, between groups? So that's kind of where they hang their hat. That piece of evidence for them says, listen, we tested this with an elegant design and we did not see that getting bigger made you stronger. And I think that's fair, but that's insufficient evidence to disprove those other lines of evidence that we see. And they don't explain why we have weight class based sport. They don't explain why myostatin deficiency produces stronger, uh, you know, animals. They don't explain why testosterone makes you stronger without resistance training. So where are we left? We're left looking at kind of these, these different elements. But to me, it paints a relatively clear picture where it's hard to imagine we live in a world where having bigger muscles doesn't at least have some potential impact on your strength. Yeah. And I just want to drop a little cherry on top here for the discussion. Uh, one like kind of technical note and then one more general, uh, kind of science theory note. The technical note is in the Buckner study, do you know if they did equivalence testing or if they were just doing, um, testing for significant differences between the conditions? That's a good question. I would have to look it up. Um, cause I do not remember, but if you have your other point, I can look that up to see if I can find out. Yeah. I'd be curious and just, you don't have to look it up, but, but I hope that, that they would do, um, equivalence testing in that context. And, and listeners, if you've not seen that very much, it's not you, it doesn't happen very often in research, but rather than testing, if these two groups are different in terms of, you know, right arm versus left arm, you know, changes in hypertrophy and strength and whatnot. Uh, it can also be in some cases even more informative to kind of shift the, um, the, the burden, so to speak, in terms of testing. And if you're going to say that no relationship exists, you actually kind of need to clear a higher bar and say, I'm not just going to prove that they are not significantly different from one another. I'm going to provide evidence that they are statistically equivalent to one another, which I think would, would probably be the more appropriate threshold for this type of hypothesis. Yeah. So to their credit, and I haven't looked deep into these stats, it looks like they actually used a Bayesian approach. So which, which would be appropriate because it's not just a null high, null hypothesis testing. Fair enough. So, so good. So shout out to them for using a good statistical analysis for that. There you go. Uh, but the, the bigger picture thing, um, much more impactful in my opinion is one of those things in science that everyone has it in like built into their intuition, but we don't talk about it too much as Occam's razor, right? The idea it's kind of a scientific principle. If you can't really prove, you know, that theory A or theory B is, is better, you know, if, if you, if you don't really have definitive, uh, evidence that one is superior to the other, the general, uh, tendency is to lean on the one that requires the fewest assumptions, you know? Um, and that's kind of the thing that pops into my head so frequently is, you know, when, when it's like, well, okay, well, testosterone, you know, dose dependent increases in strength in the absence of resistance training. We know that at baseline tests, larger muscles are stronger, kind of seems like making a muscle bigger, makes it stronger. And it's like, well, but maybe that baseline thing is something else. And then maybe there's a neuromuscular impact of testosterone that's yet to be discovered. And so like, whenever you find that the argument is like, well, let's look past the thing that is known and hang our hat on the thing that is not yet known, we don't know everything every now and then that is going to be the correct, uh, the correct, uh, approach. But in terms of just kind of the system of thinking, the scientific approach to problem solving, you know, when you have a really credible set of data here that relies on very, very few assumptions, it's very difficult for me to throw all of that away and say, what if what we think we know is false and what we need to know has yet to be discovered when it already seems like the working theory does a pretty good job explaining what we're observing in the real world. So I think sometimes when you, you know, if, if you're reading along in one of these debates and there's so many of them in the fitness world where you've got these authors kind of throwing letters to the editor at each other and you're sitting there reading and say, I don't know, they're both making good points. What am I supposed to do? Right. Um, and I mean, anytime I'm reading work outside of my area of expertise, that's how I feel. I'm like, I don't know, both smarter than me. I don't know what's going on here. Uh, and usually if you can identify the one that seems to hang its hat on the fewest bold assumptions or, you know, Hey, just a ton of undiscovered stuff, but forget the stuff we do know. You generally want to err on the one that, that, like I said, has, has fewer assumptions and it's just kind of a, a more tidy, more concise, uh, hypothesis. Well said. So let me just say, Omar, you're getting, you get yacked. I anticipate that if you were then to go through a phase of training specifically on the big three, you probably all say it's a PRs. Has that been your experience? What, what have you seen my friend in your, your time as a trainer, your time as an, as an athlete who's gone through both dedicated phases of strength and hypertrophy. And you've also gone through phases where you're doing highly specific training and then trying to maintain the other over time. Since, you know, we first started talking back in 2018 about maybe how power building should be done in an ideal sense with like singles and things like that. What do you see in, in, in, in, in, in the trenches? Hashtag we're so back. I'll just answer a yes to that. Cause that's to be boring. What's more interesting is taking the conspiracy theory position, which is yes, this all sounds well and good, but if we take a look at real world examples, if a hypertrophy or increased muscle mass plays a role potentially in getting stronger, how do we explain the super heavyweight phenom, the challenge, Jesus, this sphere himself, Timor, fantastic name, the Georgian Titan who came out there. Honestly, I don't even want to know what his body fat percentage is because his body fat percentage is beautiful. Um, and Jesus was looking just like a stud, like he's just chiseled out of stone. He's almost 420 pounds and Timor. Um, I honestly don't know how much muscle he had and he was lifting more than Jesus did as a junior. And of course you could make the argument. Yes. Oh, more, they're different people. We don't know his muscle amount. The argument that you were saying about the soft position of hypertrophy, uh, against hypertrophy ever being, uh, related or impacting a strength, um, is that we said it's, uh, not related. What you're saying is that he might have a little bit, maybe that little bit, uh, that he's gained over time has made increase. I don't know if he's gained any muscles. What I'm going to say, I don't know. Okay. All I know is what he looks like in a singlet treks and, um, he looks beautiful and he's insanely strong and he doesn't look like Jesus. So yeah, what, everything you said, uh, Helms made sense. Myostatin treks, testosterone observations when people aren't doing resistance training, like I'm buying it, but then I take a look at this specimen. Um, that's a hundred percent just beautiful. And I don't have a rational explanation. Helms. You know, the funny thing is I know you're joking, but there is actually some interesting discussion here as to the assumption there. Like, okay, if we actually, well, well, sure. Let's even pretend we could visually assess who has more lean mass. And that was the only thing that mattered. And you know, like attachment points, lever lengths, all the other biomechanics that can go into play. Yeah. Who cares? Right. Yeah. There's even another assumption baked in there that all human muscle has the same per volume or per area strength potential. Um, and that is something that's actually been studied a lot and tried to be measured like, okay, as you get bigger, what is the per unit of mass or area force production? And that there is probably some variation, uh, between individuals there for, for reasons that may be modified by training or reasons that are not, uh, which I think is, is pretty interesting. So, um, I know you made a joke. I know you were kidding, but I think that is a really interesting question is essentially what we would need to see if, if we don't take a, what I would say is a completely untenable position that contractile tissue doesn't actually produce force or something like that. We go, okay, it does. But for some reason, people gain muscle mass, they don't get stronger. What we're actually claiming is that as you get bigger, we're seeing a decrease in the per unit of area or mass strength potential of muscle size. And that actually has not been shown. We don't see that. So when we look at more mechanistic data and we're going, all right, let's hypertrophy this, this, this muscle fiber, and then let's see if it's force potential has gone down. Is it getting just, you know, bigger, but at the cost of force production. So it's this net, no change. We haven't observed that either. So the specific tension is, is what, what we're talking about there is, is another actual avenue you could go down. Um, that I think is probably not necessarily useful in this context is some of the more bigger picture applied stuff, but that's actually gets it to exactly your point. And I think that is one more kind of layman's misinterpretation of this is like, why is this dude who's bigger, not stronger than that person? And it's like, well, how far did the bar have to trouble? What lift are we talking about? Um, how long has that person done that movement? Do you actually know the muscle tendon unit properties unrelated to muscle mass that might be influencing it? Um, I mentioned not wanting to get into penation angle or fascicle length, um, or even when you hypertrophy, does it change the angle of the tendon connecting to the bone, which actually makes the internal moment arm a different length. Like all of those things are like strength is a product of a lot of factors. Interestingly enough, it does seem like muscle size explains a lot of it, but it doesn't explain all of the variants. It explains like, if we're talking about, let's say the real correlation is 0.7 or something like that at baseline, there's that only explains 50% of, of the total variation in strength. You know, if you were to get an R squared score mathematically 0.7 times 0.7, 0.49, that means half of the strength. And I don't know that that's the real correlation, but I don't think it's unreasonable guess based upon the data we have. That means only half of your strength potential is directly related to your muscle size. And then, you know, an interesting thing that we also see is that when you start using more constrained tests of strength, like an isometric test, for example, um, or, uh, instead of say like a one RM, the relationship improves between muscle mass and strength. So when we remove the skill component, the clarity improves, if you will, between the relationship of muscle size and muscle mass, sorry, muscle strength and muscle size, which is another kind of potential feather in the cap there. But I know you were totally joking, but I'm glad you said that because there is that whole perspective as well. Trex, is there anything that you want to say in closing? Cause we've done this hour of power. I saw some fantastic questions on your end. Helms, I think you did an amazing job. Um, monster episode alert. Anything you want to add? No, I think Helms said everything that needs to be said. And Omar tried to make a joke. And I, I've told you once, I've told you a million times, Omar, Helms is not a man to make a joke around. He will suck the air out of the room, get into all his science BS. And it's just not a good time. So I don't know how many times you're going to keep falling into that trap, but it was a good, a good shot, I guess. Got him. Uh, turns out a core, the correlation was the friend we made along the way. I still want Timor to be studied, you know, at some point, just because he is, I was just stoked. And I always, for one, it's completely, a completely different tangent. Um, but like the overemphasis on, uh, you know, hypertrophy, yes, being important for strength, but people getting kind of stuck in that power building either, right? It doesn't really matter, but just seeing someone that, you know, genetically the way they're built, just like many, many, many, many, many factors. There's going out there and demolishing, uh, you know, numbers that if anyone was to see this person off the street, it's not just his body fat level. It's like literally if you're just stripping down and see what muscle he has, there's just like, there's, there's a good amount, but it's not the amount that you'd assume. I love it. I love it. I love seeing people out there like that. So I do want to give a respect to him. And I wasn't trying to disparage him because I do think, uh, potentially we're going to see what happens in the super heavyweight division that he could be a world champion. He's super, yeah, he's a junior Trex and he was, uh, he broke Hazus's record. Anyways, that's a tangent. I'm going to end it there. Thank you so much for everyone listening to another episode of Iron Culture. You could go ahead and leave a rating and review. Typically people will leave five stars. Sometimes they request that we, uh, drop all the studies that we mentioned. Sometimes they'll get into a personal essay about water world, which is probably the only personal essay that's been made about water world since 1998. Um, when it landed with a spectacular thud, but we're back every single insert date here from now until the end of time, we'll catch you in that next episode.