 trexler, trexler, trexler, helms, trexler, helms, it's just you and I today, on the iron culture, the way it should be, the way it should be, the way it's supposed to be, the way God intended. That's right, that's right, that's right, um, I mean, you could argue that perhaps, Omar and I starting this means that, maybe he should be involved, but, things change, Old Testament, New Testament, like you said, the way God intended. No, uh, Omar and Helms walked, so that Helms and trex could rot. I love it. Wow. I think, you know what, um, I think, you know what, um, we're standing on, on either shoulder of a giant, um, some may argue that he is being crushed by us, and he's begging for us to get off of him, but we know that, um, that progress requires sacrifice, mainly on the part of Omar. Human sacrifice, in this case. Human sacrifice, exactly, at the top of the pyramid. So, um, yeah, today you are the beneficiaries of that sacrifice of Omar, Omar, and, um, you know what, I haven't asked our audience how they feel about that, but given that this is a, uh, not necessarily a democracy, with us ruling on high, um, I'm gonna go ahead and just say that they are comfortable with that, because once I've said it, it is true. Yeah, I think I know for sure, based on reading our reviews, that they'd be more comfortable if one of the Erics was, uh, you know, perhaps the one getting crushed. And I think we all know which one that is. We do. And we don't need to go into it any further than that, because one thing that I am for sure is that we both need to protect our inner insecurities with this shield of narcissism. And the only way that two narcissists can coexist is by both secretly seeing the other person as something that we don't need to say, and seeing themselves as something else, which we don't need to say. Are you happy with that? Yes. Okay. So, um, with the obligatory, uh, peacekeeping out of the way that is necessary in any kind of multi-person relationship, even when that, you know, third person in the relationship is just a, uh, a platform with which you are currently standing on. Um, let's talk about the topic. So, so Eric, I have been, uh, kind of wrestling with trying to reconcile a number of different concepts that are evidence informed, uh, personally informed through my experience as an athlete, and also personally informed through my years of coaching. Um, and this has actually been something that I really want to give a big shout out to, uh, the data-driven strength crew, um, Zach and Josh, the last two episodes of their podcast. By the way, if you're not listening to the data-driven strength podcast and you like our more science-y episodes, you're missing out team. Uh, but currently now, Dr. Zach Robinson, soon to be, uh, Dr. Pellant, they had some really good conversations around maintenance volume, maintenance dose, um, training age, and whether or not the required dose to adapt changes over time and increases with training age. And I think this is where we have a number of different narratives, which, you know, as the, the cliche, but true saying is all models are wrong, but some models are useful. Where some of the elements of the wrongness of these models starts to come apart and we don't have a cohesive understanding of this. Um, and I'm going to try, I'm going to try to impart upon you, dear listener, um, an understanding of the relationship between training age, what is required to maintain, uh, a certain level of gains, what is required to make progress and what might optimize things and why there seems to be, um, anecdotes and narratives that don't connect, but seem to be true in certain cases, but not others on this topic. Dr. Drexler, your role is to take my potentially scattered thoughts and keep me on track, hold my feet to the fire, make sure that what I'm saying is actually, um, cohesive in some nature and hopefully focus my, my scattered brain into something that is useful. Are you up to that challenge? Focus your rage into something productive rather than destructive. Yes, I am, uh, I am raw potential. I am the Padawan and you are my sensei. You are my Jedi master. Yeah. Can you, can you focus me? Absolutely. And I, I do want to point, point out one note of clarification. You said that you've been wrestling with this idea, but I think we all know that you have been lying awake at night, agonized, you know, agonizing over this topic, staring at the ceiling in a cold sweat. Um, you haven't been sleeping. You look terrible. No appetite. Uh, the whole nine yards. So if nothing else, even if nothing productive or informative comes of this, I'm just happy that you're getting it off your chest. Cause I, I want you to get back to that point where you are no longer just riddled with anxiety over this. I want you to be able to sleep and eat again. Um, so let's spend an hour or so. Let's get it out. Let's talk through it. Maybe, uh, people find some useful things to help them, uh, kind of forecast their volume in their lifting career. Maybe, you know, people just get to enjoy Helms, um, liberating himself from this heavy burden he's been carrying for quite some time. So we'll see how it goes. No, I thank you. And then I appreciate you pointing out that, that, that service that we're doing for me on top of the, uh, the potential educational benefits. So, uh, Trexler, you, you, you admitted recently that you're, you're not necessarily as in touch with the bodybuilding community and culture as you used to be. But I think this is probably something that supersedes that the perspective on, I'm going to say the dose, which I think is an important distinction rather than volume that is required over the course of a training career. I would say that the, the overwhelming consensus, maybe not entirely overwhelming, but I would say the broad consensus is that as you become more advanced in your lifting career, you need to do more. And there's only arguments around what more means and whether that's constrained or focused more on intensity or volume. Um, and I, that's why I'm using the term dose very specifically here. But would you agree that, that, that is something that most people believe to be true? I, I would certainly get on board with that with one qualifier. And I believe, correct me if I'm wrong. I believe you use the term training age. Is that correct? Yes. Yes. I would, the only little asterisk with a tiny footnote and, you know, size eight font, maybe in Jokerman font or wingdings, uh, you know, non-serious comic sans, whatever. Comic sans, best preferred. I prefer using the term training status. Um. I like that. Just because I've, I'm, Helms, I'm sure you have as well, had conversations with folks who say, I'm an advanced lifter. And I say, well, how do you know that? And they say, cause I've been lifting for eight years. And I'm like, what have those eight years looked like? And they're like, well, I'm an advanced lifter, but I haven't gotten very strong or very big. And the first seven and a half years of my training was not a productive way to approach training. So I'm like, okay, so you've been training for six months in a meaningful way. Right. So training age, sometimes people make it this simple. When's the first time you stepped in a weight room and how old are you today? Whereas training status says, hey, I've made big strides over my training career and got to that point where I really need to squeeze out. You know, I need to perfect the little things in order to squeeze every drop out of these gains. So it is essentially what we're trying to encapsulate with the term training status is a better one. How much have you adapted relative to your potential to adapt? Right. I think that, that, that to be clear is what we're after. And this is a challenging thing to nail down. So for example, we try to do the best we can in study designs by requiring both a minimum training age or years of experience of being in the weight room. And then sometimes we will also impose a certain objective standard in sports science research specifically of how high are you in your sport. But then what is say your relative strength? Can you at least squat 1.5 times body mass? And this is still imperfect because as legend goes, Andy Bolton, if you're not familiar, at one time held the world record on the deadlift. The very first time he deadlifted, he deadlifted 600 pounds. So there's a question as to whether or not, or the degree to which individual response variation really does matter compared to baseline starting point. So think about it this way. Let's pretend Andy Bolton was just starting lifting now. And let's also pretend that I was a lot stronger than I currently am and that I had slightly better potential for power lifting. Let's say that within five years, I was able to deadlift 600 pounds instead of what actually happened was that within five years, I was able to deadlift 500 pounds. Okay. And let's say that Andy Bolton and I both went to do the same power lifting competition within maybe the first year of his training. And I was trying to go from 600 to 700. And he was also trying to go from 600 to 700. We both play similarly in the competition. Let's say we're both in the same weight class. Again, this is a different version of Eric Helms. I don't even know why I need to be the person in this. Let's just say somebody else. You signed yourself up for this. I think you just wanted to talk about Eric Helms trying to chase like a 700 pound deadlift. I think that's it. I'm still trying to chase a 600 pound deadlift. So we're living in the dream world already. But okay, let's say we got the super heavyweight, stronger version of Eric Helms that I wish I was, but I am not. He is probably going to look across the aisle of Andy Bolton and think we're in the same place. We're both in our late stage intermediate, early stage advanced gains. And if I can match this guy, I'm going to beat him at nationals. So what happens when we get to nationals? He deadlift 750 and I deadlift 680. And I'm like, crap. He is a higher responder than I am. And responder is potentially what I might be thinking is that the rate of progress he's making as a function of who he is, is faster than mine. But it might actually be that if I was in the stage of my career, the rate at which he's progressing from 600 to 700 was the same rate at which I progressed from 450 to 550. But his baseline was higher. And as a proportion, it's actually quite similar. But the experience we're having, because objectively we're being evaluated differently, or rather on the same terms in a competitive environment, is, oh man, this guy is a higher responder to resistance training. And that is sort of true if we think about baseline differences. And also, therefore, if there is an eventual such thing as a plateau where you have capped out your potential, if that potential is relative to where you started, at least to some degree, then it could be in a way true. Even though if you were to match us for our training status, our potential relative to our maximum, there might not actually be a difference in the rate of gain. Or it would be smaller than anticipated. So that's where this conversation gets messy. Because we don't have any objective way of knowing where you're at relative to your maximum capacity. And of course, that's why we constantly have videos of natural potential. How do I reach my potential? How much should I be gaining? What's a novice? What's an intermediate? What's an advanced? So I think that's... Well, you forgot my favorite genre of video, natty or not. natty or not. Exactly. Yeah, that's the more likely outcome that would have occurred from us both going to nationals and him deadlifting 715 and me deadlifting 680 is not me actually thinking, oh, maybe he had a naturally higher starting point and he was more gifted. But he must have hopped on the sauce and I did it. And now I can protect my ego. And then, of course, there's somebody who deadlifted 500 pounds, has been training for 10 years, and he thinks we're both on the sauce and he's just taking more and I'm taking less. And now we've explained the internet. Yeah. So, okay. So with that understanding, now we can kind of look at what has the experience been as a coach. It's very possible that you get that person who's been training for a year or a year and a half and has a much higher starting point who signs up for your coaching. And you also get that person who's been training for five years and they're at a relative similar point. And in your mind, it's ambiguous as to whether they're advanced, late stage novice, late stage intermediate. And if they don't give you good information on your background, that coach will now have the perception that some people are higher responders to training than others. Right. And that may or may not be true. Again, I do think there is probably such a thing as individual response variations, specifically looking at the rate of progress. But we know for sure that people start at different points and a bit of a black box after that and that people have different potentials. Okay. So, now we have to think about the interaction of training dose. And this is where it gets confusing because there are people out there who have achieved incredible results and achieve what we would objectively determine as a champion level physique or a champion level of strength on what seems to be a very, very small dose of training that for others seems insufficient for them to achieve that same height of performance. Is that an observation that you would agree with, Trex? Absolutely. For sure. And I can think of this not like the first thing that pops in your head is, you know, Arnold versus Menser, but we can make it a little more sanitized. I can think of a number of natural bodybuilders who do relatively low volume and have and have made progress, not just achieve something that maintained it versus those who seem to do a lot more to get to a similar place. Right. That is probably some expression of that conundrum that I talked about and the fickleness of the complete or incomplete information you have and how we gauge things. So that's why I don't think there is the clear, clear, clear cut answer of the dose must go up in terms of volume over time. And some people, especially in the high intensity world, would say, no, you need to do a very small amount of volume, but you just need to keep training to failure. And as you get stronger, that failure is going to be with a higher load. So you've met the demands and you're good to go. And that could be true. But we've actually tested that hypothesis and it does not seem to be true. So the first point of evidence that I want to bring up is a study that was actually recently published by none other than the good man, Dr. James Steele, who is an excellent sports scientist, excellent statistician and design specialist titled Long-Term Time Course of Strength Adaptation to Minimal Dose Resistance Training Through Retrospective Longitudinal Growth Monitoring. And the cool thing about the study, it was on nearly 15,000 participants, 60% female, so about 40% male, if I did my math right, assuming that there weren't folks who didn't identify as male or female in that sample. They were middle-aged, so they were 48 plus or minus 11 years, which would make me think for the most part, they're going to be adapting in a similar way even to a younger population. It's probably not an age-related constraint. And it tracked them for nearly seven years. Okay, so this is pretty cool. This is not the typical type of data that we have in sports science. And they were only training each muscle group one time per week with a single set to momentary muscular failure with a personal trainer there, so we can have some confidence in that is probably what was happening most of the time. So, if it was true that the typical person could just do a single set per exercise, train to failure, and just increase load as needed to fail within that same rep range, we should see a generalizable adaptation in these folks that would match our anecdotes in the real world. What actually happened, though, is that within the first one to two years, they reached a plateau. And it wasn't explained by sex, body weight, or age. So, substantial strength gains occurred, but 30% to 50% of them occurred in the first year, and the remaining 50% to 60% occurred over the next six years, but the vast, vast, vast majority of it all occurred in the first two years for almost everybody. So, they're effectively stuck at whatever level of their potential, their training status plateaus around that one to two-year mark. So, now, what I've seen as a coach, what I've seen as an athlete, is that people who are not locked into just doing one set to failure per week, they do something when they hit that one to two-year mark. Because I am personally not, I'm not currently plateaued anymore. I know many people who are not, who are way past that point. And more often than not, what they do is they do, if they were doing a single set to failure, is maybe they think about doing a second set or a second day. I don't know, is that something you've observed? If they really catch the bug, they might throw that second set in there. Yes. Yes, absolutely. You rarely find people who say, you know what, I'm going to stick with this long-term, and I'm not going to change a thing ever. Yep. I also think, you know, the typical kind of observation or the nihilistic black-pilled version in the natty world of this is you've made all your gains in the first five to seven years. Oh, yeah. If you wanted to convince someone, let's say that, you know, a friend or a significant other is spending way too much time in the gym, and you want to, in a very dishonest, very sneaky way, ruin their life and separate them from lifting, here's what you do. Here's the surefire way to achieve that. You show them this study, and you say, hey, listen, everything that you're ever going to achieve is done, okay? You are now spinning your wheels in perpetuity. Also, remember this study where people on steroids who don't lift gain more mass than people that are not on steroids who do lift? You're done, okay? There's no point. Give up. Mm-hmm. Exactly. But I do think it's telling that the narrative is five to seven years, and then maybe you can have some spurts here and there, not one to two years. So, and I think the reason that occurs is that most people are not doing one set to failure per week when they first start training. And that is a unique aspect of this study, which is really informative to this discussion. Because you got a whole bunch of people who didn't lift. They started, you know, the six-year study. On average, they're 48 years old, right? So you got a whole bunch of people starting as middle-aged folks who didn't have a prior history of lifting. And they're doing a HIIT protocol, a minimum effective dose truly. And they're seeing a plateau at the one to two-year mark. I think the average person who just gets exposed to the YouTube fitness community is probably doing five to ten times that amount. They're probably doing something between five to 15 sets if I had to, like, if I had to guess the two standard deviation out, I'm out. So it doesn't surprise me that that is going to result in some type of plateau two years later. Now, the next assumption that I don't think is true would be, okay, well, then when they plateau, if they've been doing five to 15 sets, they've got to do 15 to 30. That's where I think we struggle. And that's where there's a disconnect. And I think we need to think about the complex, multivariate nature of this relationship. And here's where I'm going to get into it a little bit. But these folks could probably maintain this intermediate level of fitness forever doing one set to failure. So their minimum effective dose has become their maintenance dose. But they've never gotten past the intermediate stage. So what we can infer from this is that as your adaptation increases, you will actually plateau if you're not doing a sufficient dose at something below your potential. And therefore, you might need to do more to advance past it. And now, all of a sudden, there's a dose that could result in regression back to where you were previously. And we actually have anecdotal support for this as well. So the good news is that we have a fair amount of case series, case studies, and even some actual comparative controlled trials where we look at highly trained strength athletes. So, for example, there's a great study where they looked at two national level weightlifters in the U.S., a case series, going to nationals. So these are very high level lifters. They're competing at the national level in an Olympic sport. And they went through this periodized plan that included an element of linearity. So 11 weeks out from competition. Now they're looking at measures of cross-sectional area as well as, say, squat jump performance and their actual performance in nationals. So shout out to Travis, preparing for a national weightlifting championship, a case series, great study published in 2020. The really interesting thing is as they go through this tapering phase and strength block, so now they've taken the amount of volume they were doing at their peak, of which they were doing to accumulate muscle mass and hopefully increase their potential for strength down the track. We're seeing that as they go through this linear progress, volumes coming down, intensities going up, there are actually measurable decreases greater than the typical error in cross-sectional area. So that means they're doing more than the minimum dose, which is observed in this 15,000 person study, and losing muscle. Right? So, and it's not the only one. This isn't just this isolated study out there. There's also a great study on a similar topic by, I think, Suarez. And then there's also the minimum effective dose training that came out of Dr. Pack, Androlakis Korakakis' PhD, where he said, hey, if we just do a single three times per week on bench at a higher RPE, twice a week on squat, one times a week on deadlift, some, like there's some gains, some people don't make gains, and we see a plateau around the four to six week mark. But if we simply add three back offsets after each one of those days, now everybody's making great gains. You know, at least in aggregate, the vast majority of people. So we can see that there is this relationship between training age, is that you will never get to the point where you're intermediate if the dose is too low. So you can maintain something below that with a very low dose. But therefore, what do you need to maintain a higher level of that? Well, your MED, your minimum effective dose, is rising with your training age. And here's where the third wrinkle comes in, Trax. It's that gains are something we assess in a reality that has time. And in a reality where we have interpersonal comparisons, and sometimes in a reality of sport, right? So an objective standard. So what we deem to be a plateau, I think more often than not, is just an unacceptable or an unrecognizable rate of progress. It's too slow. We either can't tell that it's actually happening. I don't want to wait six years to add, you know, a quarter centimeter to my bicep circumference. I'm competing next year. I want to see a measurable change. And we're seeing this, you know, curvilinear response to where it's slower and slower gains as we get closer to our peak potential. So if we know that we're never even going to become an intermediate, unless we do more volume than the minimum dose, we're seeing our rising minimum effective dose to maintain things. And then if we start to expect a certain level of progress, like if I'm an intermediate, I'm used to novice gains. I want that rate again. And the only way for me to even get close to my novice rate of gains is to increase the stimulus to get an increased return on the efforts I'm putting in, but notably a decreased return on the unit of investment. Meaning that I might have to do 20 sets to get half the gains that I got when I was doing 10 sets. And I have to deal with all the life constraints, fatigue, and all those other things that are occurring. So I'm not necessarily increasing my ability to handle that amount of work. And I'm not necessarily, because I'm bigger and stronger, getting more time off work or less stress or more sleep in the day. What a weird world we live in, though. Like, you should be able to go to your employer and say, listen, we all know I've gotten much stronger, much more muscular. Therefore, I should be able to make the same salary while giving you less of my time and effort. It seems to me that that would be a very equitable system. But as you noted, very few employers are willing to do that. No, and it's ironic because you're explaining to them, listen, I am trying to make the same salary of gains that I made two years ago, but I have to work twice as much to get half that salary. So you can't help me out here? Come on, bro. Yeah. You know? So this leads to a very consistent anecdote that I have as a coach, and I also have as a personal athlete, that the intermediate slump, that intermediate quote-unquote plateau, seems to be broken very consistently by increasing volume in intermediates. That is something that I've just heard repeated too many times for it not to be at least something that we're all collectively hallucinating about, right? What I think is actually happening is that in many cases, it is just people are unsatisfied with the level of progress they're making as an intermediate compared to being a novice, and that's exacerbated by if they were using a relatively minimalistic approach to training like they were as a novice. And if you go on any Reddit forum, any place, and you go, what's a good beginner program? They tell you a lot of these low to moderate programs, like starting strength or five by five, typically doing five or six sets of the basic compound movements. And you will see fantastic progress on that, but you'll also see fantastic progress on anything when you first start lifting. So now you have the capacity to do more. You need to do more if you want to even approximate the rate of progress you made previously, but you're not actually plateaued. If we were to stick you in the growth modeling study like this, and you stuck with, say, a five set per muscle group protocol training at a high proximity to failure, you might actually make it to that five or seven year mark before you start to plateau. But if we asked you retrospectively, how did you feel about your gains from years four to five? You'd be like, I wasn't making any gains from year four to five. And you go, no, no, look at the chart. You increased your squat by 10 pounds. And you're like, yeah, but I increased my squat by 200 pounds in my first two years. So it didn't feel like I was progressing, and I didn't even notice it. And I think that means that even though, from a very, very literal perspective, you are not plateaued, we don't assess plateaus based upon whether we're adding imperceptible amounts of grams of tissue over years. We assess plateaus based upon the goals we have, the desires we have, and the people around us. For another real world example, I competed in 2023. I got my WNBF Pro card. That was amazing. And I did okay at Worlds. I played seventh out of ninth. And I decided to set a very arbitrary goal that I don't have a lot of agency over. You know, I'd really like to crack the top five in the WNBF Pro middleweights at Worlds in 2025. Because that's what we do with goals. We make them time-bound when they're objective like that. But I've been lifting for 20 years, Trex. I don't know if I actually can make the level of progress that I need to make to improve by 2025. But I do know that if I want to try, I have to increase the rate of progress that I'm getting. And I think when someone simply just looks at my program and they go, oh my God, why is Eric doing 20 to 30 sets on most of his muscle groups? That's unnecessary. It probably is. I think I could probably maintain my level of size on half of that, if not maybe even a little bit less. And I could probably even make progress, albeit at a too slow of a rate, I think for what my goals are on maybe one or two thirds of what I'm doing. Like, do I really think I couldn't make progress on 20 sets? Do I actually need 30? Need is the operational word there. If I want to give myself every chance to place higher at WNBF Worlds knowing the freaks I'm up against, maybe shit, I should be doing 35 sets. I don't know. I can't know, right? I only know once I'm sitting on that stage, either disappointed or happy. Honestly, I'm gonna be happy no matter what, because I know the efforts I've put forth. But from an objective standpoint, I am playing in a world of unknowns. And I am trying to leverage this relationship to the best of my capability and knowledge, understanding that I can only retrospectively know whether it was the right decision or not. So I think that creates this artificial perception that the dose must always escalate. I think when in reality, there's probably a maximal rate that one can progress at. You don't know when you're past it. And there are risks to going above it. I'm not saying that the more volume you do, the more likely you are to get hurt or that the inverted U, you're actually gonna start regressing. I think it's probably more of this long plateau of making equivalent progress, but you're just wasting your efforts and you're doing a lot of work for no return. So I think there's not too much risk if you can recover from it and if you have the time and your schedule. But I think that kind of illusion persists a lot and it's what leads to these lack of understandings. And I can also understand why some of the high intensity folks totally disagree. So for example, if you started with a very high volume approach and you are a high responder, you are someone with a higher baseline who does very well with a given dosage of training and you find you're getting burned out doing 20 sets per week because you've been doing it for the first three years and you have maxed out your rate of progress because you're a high responder and you would actually do just fine on five sets, you start doing HIIT, all of a sudden your recovery is through the roof, you're happier, you're spending not as much time, you're spending a more appropriate time in the gym, maybe the better aligns with your life goals, you're feeling better, you're less achy and creaky and you're making the same or perhaps even slightly better gains. All of a sudden you're a HIIT convert. But really what happened is you just were doing an unnecessary amount initially and you happened to respond very well to training. So I think this model at least explains a lot of what we observe. The other anecdote that I think is really interesting is that some people notice that as they get more advanced, not necessarily just an intermediate, but they don't require as much volume. How often have you heard people say that, Trex? That they don't require as much volume when they get more advanced? There's a certain point where they actually need to scale things back a little bit. Have you heard that? I've heard it some, but admittedly not as much as the inverse. You know, I think it's more common to hear people say, I'm advanced, therefore I need all the volume that could possibly be fit into the time I have available. But I have heard some folks who say, now a lot of times it comes from the perspective, I've maxed out whatever I could possibly hope to get from volume, so now I'm shifting my focus back to intensity. Yeah. Yeah. I would agree with that. I think there's a pretty persistent thing that I notice when I see these anecdotal observations. And I think the fundamental truth behind it is that you can't fast track to the same degree. You can always add more volume. Like right now, anyone could start doing 40 sets per week if they had the time availability and if they didn't get hurt to prevent them to keep training. However, some skills of lifting that occur in the gym, not in the theories and listening to Iron Culture podcast, they can't be fast tracked to that degree. And that is knowing how to push to failure, gauging proximity to failure, and actually performing exercises in such a way that does put the stress on the right tissues or that you're improving your motor patterns and getting better and better at just the skill of lifting and the mental fortitude required to train. So, what I see is a lot of people who are not yet skilled lifters, they start to push the thing that they can push right now. The thing they can fast track, which is do more and more volume each time I plateau. And I do think it works, but once their skill level finally catches up with their neuroticism and their passion and their willingness to do all of that, they find that every unit of training can now actually be more effective. If you ask them, what were you doing when you were in your second year of training, they say, oh, I was doing 20 sets to failure. And in reality, what they were doing is perhaps they were doing 20 sets of poorly performed, maybe not great exercise selection exercises at a 5 RAR. And now, they're actually doing exercises that better suit their biomechanics. They have learned more about what is a more effective technique or exercise. And they're actually training at a, say, a 1 or a 2 RAR. And then now, all of a sudden, they only need half of that volume and they're progressing maybe even better. And I think I can demonstrate how this absolutely could be true if we take a look at some of the research that's out there. So, very recently, there's been a study where they compared hypertrophy in the hamstrings between doing bent leg and, you're thinking, oh, Eric, why are we going to be talking about long muscle lengths again? We'll just take it forward to this. No, it's, when you talk to Eric Helms, it could be call on him to wish him a happy birthday, of which he's had many. It could be any, any non-fitness conversation. It will get to long muscle length training and specifically hamstring training. I don't remember the last time I talked to you and we didn't talk about some combination of long muscle length training and either hamstring training or, of course, calf training. And I talk to you at least four days a week. So, this has been going for months on end. Then it won't stop. Yeah. Until we start investigating different muscles. I probably could use a bicep example if I wanted to, but I'm not going to just because you said that. Yeah. So, we're going to stick with the hamstring example. The hamstring curl. Which include the real biceps, right? The real biceps. Yes, sir. So, we got, we got seated hamstring curls versus lying hamstring curls. It's far more common for people to do the lying hamstring curls. They're a more common piece of equipment historically and they're a little less pain in the ass to set up and they fit more people's bodies in my very casual observation. However, you can see like A-50% better hypertrophy response in some of the studies in certain muscle groups doing seated hamstring curls versus lying hamstring curls. Okay? So, let's just say you were doing lying hamstring curls and you switched to seated hamstring curls. Same amount of sets, same proximity to failure. You could see 50% better growth than some muscle groups. That's a thing. So, when we use this very imprecise metric of sets per week per muscle group to failure, there's a lot of things baked into that. You change out the quality of that exercise for how good it is for that muscle group to grow. Relationship changes. We go, oh, actually, your ability to gauge RIR was terrible and now it changes. We see that you could potentially be experiencing A-50% difference if you're farther from failure than you really understood you were if we get pretty far down in that track, right? So, those qualitative aspects are often baked into training experience. we do have some data to support the notion that you get better and better at gauging proximity to failure the more experience you have in the gym and with that metric. That's not super well shown and there are some data that would contradict that to some degree but I think the general leaning is that that is probably the case. So, if you're actually training to failure and if you are actually using more effective exercises, that may change things. I would also state that you can only impose so much stress on your body as a beginner because of those factors. When you see these rapid changes in strength neuromuscularly, that tells you that you're using a load that is actually not that morphologically challenging to use a weird term when you're not yet getting those early stage adaptations, when your technique is shit, when you are unable to actually target the effective muscle group, when you think you're close to failure but you're not. So, I think there is a point where some people start to be more savvy in their exercise selection, more accurate in their RIR estimations and also are performing exercises more effectively and getting more out of themselves to where every unit of volume becomes more effective. And if you were already on a low volume program, maybe that just offsets the rate of progress. But if you start with a high volume program and then you're just getting burned out from all the time spent and you go to a low volume program after or as you're making those adaptations, I think that pretty well explains why some advanced lifters go, whoa, the things actually got better or stayed the same when I decreased my volume. Maybe I had it wrong all these years and maybe everyone else is just talking mess and they don't know what they're saying. Do you think that tracks? Yeah, so basically, you know, you have quantifiably reduced the volume of your training but in a way you've simultaneously adjusted the dose of the stimulus so to speak by having a much higher quality and higher intensity effort. So it's a step down in volume but still actually a step up in the overall stimulus. Absolutely, and this is why, you know, shout out to introducing the concepts, popularizing them and talking about them. I don't mean this to be a shot but the Renaissance periodization kind of Mike Israel told the discussion of the minimum effective volume, maximum effective volume and maximum recoverable volume, I don't find them to be as useful of terms as if we just replace that word volume with dose. Because there is a pretty large interaction between these factors that can make the volumes really change but if we just thought about it from the collective stimulus, now we can go, oh, okay. And that's what I like about this modeling study out of Steele is they're starting with I have a coach guiding me to momentary muscular failure and we're time and we have a time as a factor and we've held constant it's one set one set per muscle group per week. So we don't have that type of clean observational relationships in the real world or even in other studies so we have to kind of pick apart and explain these things. So ultimately what we see here is a relationship where as you get closer and closer to your potential the minimum effective dose does rise and if you were doing eight sets at a 70% out of 100% effectiveness to get there you could potentially drop to five sets at 100% effectiveness and you're actually in a pretty similar place and you might be able to keep progressing and you think oh did my minimum effective dose go down it did not you know did my volume requirement go up well the minimum requirement did go up to maintain the level of adaptation you're at but you could drop down and you would regress to your intermediate stage or you'd regress to your novice stage from wherever you were and I think a parallel for this which is useful is when we start thinking about other fitness adaptations when we get a little bit outside of the realm of muscle mass and strength anyone who's participated in endurance sport long enough to get pretty damn fit knows that if they were to go on the casual walking or jogging program that would take someone sedentary into a level of acceptable health you know where your markers look good and you're no longer at risk for falls or early death they would actually regress Trex what's what's a high level VO2 max for let's say a cyclist or a runner you know this better than I do like elite yeah oh I mean 70s sure 70 something milligrams per kilogram so if you took someone at a 70 VO2 max and you gave them the current activity level guidelines well what is that like 250 minutes of moderate exercise or something like that per week easy 150 150 see chill so if you gave 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous exercise to someone with a 70 VO2 max would you predict that they would maintain a 70 VO2 max I would not I wouldn't either I think they would probably regress to something substantially lower I think they probably lose 10 20% you know oh yeah definitely so this is not necessarily a crazy concept and to get back to it they wouldn't require the same amount that they required to maintain 70 you know they could probably just add another 100 minutes they get up to the like the oh okay now I'm 90% of where I was but to actually make visible progress over time when you already have a 70 VO2 max it's going to be either some not too much volume but some insane intervals at a very very high intensity you know percentage of your heart rate max which you know we see parallels of that in the bodybuilding world I remember watching Blood and Guts Dorian Yates video and he was actually asked well what if you do a plateau he said well you have to find a way to increase the intensity so he was operating an environment of I have a fixed amount of volume which wasn't as low as a lot of people think it was but you know four to eight sets per muscle group or something like that doing some kind of warm-up sets and some pre-exhaust and they would do force reps or he'd control the eccentric even longer or something like that you know you can see these intensification techniques you can go that route you know we have more options on the table now like letting a range of motion decay until you're barely just pulsing that lengthened position so that individual set becomes more effective there was actually recently and now we're going to talk about the calves there was a recent study where they compared continuing a set until you're barely even doing a half rep doing length and partial supersets right so you do one group just does calf raises and stops once they don't do the typical movement standard the other group just changed the definition of failure okay I can no longer do a quarter of so you kind of train past failure if we want to use colloquial terminology yeah and what a world that we live in I guess I'm now at that age where all the myths of my childhood have died all of the cliches of my childhood are now you know out of style I remember when I learned to lift and I had very angry strength coaches yelling at me they said if you're not completing the full repetition you are wasting your time and more importantly you're disrespecting your team you are disrespecting your coach disrespecting the building that you lift in and bringing shame to your family that was all from only completing three quarters of a rep and now these Gen Z kids are coming through here saying hey only do half of a repetition I don't know what to think anymore the world is changing too fast and at my age it concerns me and it frankly scares me well that's why you need someone who is truly older than you because I was saying the same things not about Gen Z but about millennials of which you are one and all I can say is you know what you guys didn't ruin the world Gen Z maybe won't either but I'm not super confident in that all I know is that the world still exists even though we've had now what appears to me as two generations of completely insane people who are doing terrible things because I'm uncomfortable yeah well you said that we haven't ruined the world but I will remind you the average age of an American politician is actually 87 so we haven't really had a chance to make our mark yet so give us about 40 years and then we reach true adulthood in our eighth decade of life into the ninth decade of life and we'll see what we can cook up beautiful so I just need to hold on until I'm a lot older to see if you guys ruined it and then anything that was probably least attributable to my generation I can blame on you yes win-win so no I get it I think things are changing but the good news is that sometimes in that changing environment of information we come to a better understanding and I feel like we're getting a little closer to understanding this concept of dosages and the interaction with training age and I think there's I get why people are confused about this because dose is the aggregate of the intensity and also the amount of that intensity you're doing and we can encapsulate intensity to include we can call it efficiency you know like how effective is every unit of volume which is going to come down to exercise selection how well you perform it how close to failure you get etc and then just how much of that do you do so there's that and then there's also the recovery factor you know I think an interesting thing about hypertrophy is that you can be doing a very very high level of volume and you can be growing but your performance may be more variable because you're struggling and you're always kind of in and out of recovery even though you're still doing a sufficient amount to actually produce a stimulus and you're probably seeing some drop off in the efficiency even within a series of sets or session so it's a messy complex relationship just to define the training dose and now we're thinking about okay what's the least amount I need to maintain and now what's the least amount I need to see progress and what's the amount that I need to see the progress that I actually want and then there's a theoretical max amount of progress but we actually never know when we're there we just know can we see it and are we satisfied with it most of the time the answer is no so we try to do more you know or we try to increase the efficiency of it and on and on the game goes but I think when we look at the data and we match it up to the anecdotes there is a cohesive narrative here we see that minimum effective dose can only get you to an appropriate level of adaptation for which that minimum effective dose is sufficient to achieve so you might be one set per week to failure if you're satisfied with plateauing around the one to two year market probably what we would describe as an intermediate and it may not be much higher than that if you want to plateau what would be described as a high level intermediate if you want that to occur in the five to ten year mark and if you really want to get those gains as quickly as you can and achieve a higher level here's where the disconnect is that I want to retouch on it might be even more than that you know but I think I think the fallacy is that some people think it's just a difference in the rate of progress like yeah you can follow hit but it'll take you 20 years to get there and I actually don't think that is true I think the rate of progress is either so slow or it's just an insufficient amount to nudge over the quote-unquote anabolic resistance to get higher that as we saw in this you know multi-year long study again in 15,000 individuals over a seven almost a seven year period there really was not much more progress after the first two years these people are probably never going to become advanced no longer no matter how long you watch them so there's a certain minimum amount you need to reach each quote-unquote threshold that we would objectively define as novice intermediate and advanced and again it's so hard to gauge that because one person's advanced we talked about that Andy Bolton versus fake Eric Helms comparison is another person's novice stage so I think the minimum dose does increase with training age and then the minimum dose required to see a level of progress that we're satisfied with probably also increases but the actual responsiveness may not it may just be that we have to accept a slower rate or do more a technically unnecessary amount of more to get some approximation of a rate that we are appreciative of so that's how I see it that mental model makes sense to me it is robust to the anecdotes that I've observed and it also fits the data that exists but the real thing I need to test is does it fit Dr. Eric Trexler's interpretation of the data and anecdotes because he's a smarter more cohesively thinking man than I am yeah as you've been explaining this I've already prepared a three article rebuttal series picking apart many elements of your argument no I have I think you laid that out really well and I think like you said it's probably the best we can do right now with what we have available in terms of data and what seem to be fairly repeatable anecdotes and I do think Helms one of the things that you and I share is a pragmatic view that it is important to satisfy both of those boxes you know like I I think that we both have the humility as scientists to acknowledge that we don't have all the data that could possibly be needed to answer every question and lifting and so therefore if we see these very legitimate very repeatable anecdotes we should probably at least try to make those fit our working understanding of these really key concepts now that doesn't mean if we have data soundly rejecting these anecdotes we say well I'm going with the anecdote right but especially in areas where there is relatively sparse data available and things that have to be looked at fairly indirectly in most cases you would prefer some degree of compatibility with these very very repeatable generalizable anecdotes having said that I do have two questions that I don't think will I don't think that they push your working model of this but I do think they are worth addressing in the sense that people at home might be wondering how these fit so the first question I have is you know if I'm understanding correctly you know we're seeing that over time you know our dose of training needs to be high enough to reach basically the highest level of advancement that we wish to achieve right and plateaus often are experienced or perceived plateaus where maybe our gains haven't grinded to a halt but they have grinded to a snail's pace and we were thinking more cheetah right so what we need to do is you know make sure that we increase our dose to an extent that will get us back to what we see as an acceptable rate of gains and then ultimately make sure that the absolute amount of that dose is high enough to reach the highest level that we have in mind but within that framework why not start out you know fairly early into your intermediate stage with just a super high dose of training like why wait and say well I'm going to go ahead and add a couple sets here wait for my plateau and feel like I'm really grinding to a halt and then I'll add just a little bit I mean we're lifters we're maximalists in every way possible why not just say screw it if Helms right now needs you know 30 35 sets a week eventually I will too so why don't I jump to that fairly early in the process and try to get that super steep curve going I'm so glad you asked that because this conceptual model and explanation that we've been working with is essentially operating in a vacuum where we don't consider environmental constraints and I think environmental constraints are often something because of our maximalist nature that we go yeah yeah sure that's for other people but I'll work around that and I don't think we acknowledge the realities that I would say in 90% of cases and I include elite athletes in this that is actually the thing that prevents the theoretical optimal rate of gain because the thing that this relationship exists on the background of is all the other things that can modify the rate of progress and the rate of recovery and potentially constrain the amount of stimulus that you could even provide and benefit from so you take the same example of someone who's only going to eat one gram per kilogram of protein and now all of a sudden there might be a point I don't know how this relationship works where theoretically you're doing so much volume that you're actually creating an unsustainable environment and you can't recover and you can't do the theoretical amount that you benefit from or you take an environment where someone is only sleeping five hours right or you take somebody who had an injury in high school and there's potential tolerance limits for certain movements at certain proximity to failures to certain loads or in certain rep ranges or ranges of motion that make it practically unfeasible for them to to train in the way that could get them there or if we're talking about the novice who's a maximalist yeah if they could do an appropriate proximity to failure keeping the target musculature engaged for x number of sets they'd max out their gains but they can't do those things and also the difference between them maxing out their gains and not maxing out could be a threefold difference in volume because they're so responsive as a novice that 10 sets would get within the same amount of 30 sets even if we could do a meta regression with 5,000 people we'd be like yeah but actually there is a 0.02 effect size benefit that's real we categorize as trivial to if you went up to 30 and then we think well all right was that worth it and here's where the practical constraints come in for example I'm not saying that higher volumes are associated with higher risk of injury but I will say this tracks we count injuries per thousand hours of training and I'm pretty sure that if you went from 10 sets to 30 sets that it would probably require and I'm going to estimate here very broadly three times as much time approximately or somewhere in that range if you started using like antagonist paired sets and you started doing drop sets etc etc to get there substantially more time in the gym and you would be by definition potentially increasing your rate of exposure to injuries not because of volume just because of the time spent training and I would also put forth that I don't think we can predict the amount of time off or the amount of losses someone might experience from those injuries that they'd be incurring at a higher rate which could result in a tortoise versus hare scenario yeah so there's two factors I'm getting here is one there is a risk to doing the most amount you could possibly benefit from to where it ends up being something that is not beneficial and that's only assuming you have created the perfect environmental storm to where you are just there to adapt you know you are truly a muscle farmer you're getting your nine hours of sleep per night you got your macronutrients micronutrients phytonutrients! lifestyle stress everything perfectly set up you are living to body build and body building to live I mean I try to get to that as close as possible but I still got stuff going on in my life so you can benefit from it you've actually created an environment where you can do all that and I think in most cases you can't and the relationship even if we were to do a metaregression which by the way is coming is coming shout out to Helen and colleagues this is going to be on the horizon pretty soon I would guess that that that constraint of what's an appropriate dose is probably going to be related to the average environmental constraints that exist in the population studied rather than some type of stimulus limit that exists inside of our titan molecule or something like that you know yeah and I think you're I think you're in the clear with your alarmist talk about injury I know that you probably noceboed tens of thousands of people here but I will personally award you the biopsychosocial presidential medal of freedom for the way that you described when you said someone had an injury from back in high school and maybe possibly in some ranges of motion with certain loads there may be something resembling an intolerance the way that you describe that I want to clip that and use it for the rest of my life and when I was a kid the old timers in the gym called that their bum knee from back in the day but you managed to make it a probably a 36 word sentence and I just very much appreciate that but you're right though I mean like I think people who may have a tendency to be critical of your discussion about super high volumes and just increased exposure to a thing that in small rates is still considered injurious over you know the long run it's kind of like I'm not saying that if you go swimming once you're going to get eaten by a shark but you're probably not doing yourself any favors if you surf like you know seven days a week yeah kind of increasing your exposure there you know not many people get bitten by sharks but you know a good way to minimize the likelihood is by maybe not spending four hours out on a surfboard that makes you look like a seal you know what I'm saying 100% okay the other question I had if I may yes this is just something like a little scenario to kind of test some of the limits of how you would operationally define this model or explain it but whenever I hear folks talking about the amount of volume you need to get to a certain level and you know what dose of training is enough to elicit a certain response and get to a certain training status you know everyone treats volume in these types of discussions understandably as a fairly linear thing and the one set of studies that I'm curious about how you would kind of how would you would describe their findings in light of this model you've laid out or kind of you know mental model so to speak of how this stuff fits together there were a couple studies by Ogasa Wara and colleagues 2011 2013 the 2013 one was a fairly extensive six month training study which is pretty solid and the idea with this study in general is that some folks lifted for this 24 week period 24 yeah 24 weeks six months but another group instead of just lifting for those 24 weeks they kind of alternated between six weeks of training and three weeks off so going back and forth and I believe correct me if I'm wrong I believe they did that for 24 weeks yep so there's the 16 a week version of the study then the 24 week version okay yeah so they they didn't complete the same number of training weeks they completed the same duration of the study correct yeah which meant they spent several weeks on the sidelines while the other group was training and you know the main finding the kind of conclusion takeaway according to the authors was that improvements in muscle cross-sectional area and strength were similar between the groups despite this disparity in the total volume that happened and these you know fairly substantial three week detraining periods so how would you kind of work those findings into this concept conceptual model and I think it's also fair to if you feel inclined challenge the findings right because this is not something that's been shown time and time and time again in large sample studies so what do you make of that particular line of research which is admittedly quite sparse yeah I think this implies what we would think of as a resensitization effect in it right I think a very very important thing to remember is that during these three week detraining periods I think what okay what often gets focused on is that these folks who trained for six weeks and took three weeks off and trained for six weeks and took three weeks off and then trained for six weeks you know they had these either two or three three week periods of not training yet they still got to the same place as the folks who trained 24 weeks comparatively is the end point and the fact that they didn't do as much training what they're forgetting though is that they are actually experiencing detraining during those three week periods and this is critical so if we go back to the mental model of the minimum effective dose escalating as you adapt more and more and more what we're observing here is a group of people who are untrained at the start of this 24 week period so at each end of a six week cycle they're at some stage of later stage novice than untrained and during the next three weeks they decay to some less trained version of a novice which means that when they restart training they now have a lower effective minimum dose which means that the same training before which got them there is now more effective so they're seeing this compensatory increase in the slope of progress they get for a given unit of volume that then stops once they get back to that new place they get to and I think the critical aspect to remember is that they got to the same place eventually and there is two potential outcomes if we stretch this out into infinity and we did a 48 week version and then we did a 72 week version is that maybe that relationship stays the same and these resensitization it is actually true resensitization where this group would actually end up surpassing the group that kept training continuously but what I think is also a potential outcome which could occur is that they would stop being able to get back to the same place as that other group right because that slope gets a little bit less each time because they're not getting as high each time so they're not regressing quite as far and we actually end up start to see the continuous training group pull away at some point a few years down the line as that continuous training group is reaching higher levels of training status and is never actually well this is assuming that they could keep maintaining on the amount of volume that they were doing because another way of thinking of taking time off is effectively doing two thirds of the volume of the other group yeah so there's a reality or let's say if we use my mental model and we assume that the volume done in the group that is training continuously is sufficient to get them to let's say advanced status maybe not elite but advanced that the other group would always end up falling short of that because they detrained a little bit each time they got close and it was an insufficient amount to get them all the way up there or that they'd get there later yeah because of that detraining effect so either there's resensitization and that might surpass them or it is something more like the ladder where you would see a late stage reaching of the advanced status by the group taking the time off eventually but I think in the six month time period which coincides if we look at that study by steel where people plateaued doing only one set per week far less than they were doing in the Ogasawara study because they're doing three sets of ten three days per week so we're talking about a nine fold difference in volume here right for a population that we know based upon steel study can make gains for one to two years doing one ninth of that importantly so doing far beyond what they need to maintain things and then losing a little bit during those three weeks so I think there's a possibility there's a world where where either one of those outcomes occurs and we don't really know to what degree and in what circumstances there's a resensitization effect or simply a regain of lost training status that occurs at a faster rate because you're by definition at a lower training status and therefore more responsive yeah I mean I know where I where my money would be if people were taking bets on that I definitely feel that the kind of latter explanation the one not the one where the there's dramatic resensitization and they start to break away from the pack I find the opposite finding to be more likely like you said we probably need more data to conclusively make that claim but I've always struggled with this idea that somehow you would be having this pretty substantial detraining period interspersed fairly routinely and the idea that that would yield a dramatic benefit in the long run with considerably less accumulated volume that's always struck me as kind of difficult to sink my teeth into and I think the alternative explanation in my opinion is certainly far more parsimonious it does not rely on the robustness of a very strong resensitization effect for which we don't have a tremendous amount of really high quality evidence linking it to substantial longitudinal differences you know what I mean I do know what you mean and here's a way that we can flip it on its head ask a different question change the assumptions and kind of test our our priors if you will let's take the study designed by steel we've got people doing one set per week to failure for seven years do we think that if we took a subset of them and we had them trained six weeks on three weeks off meaning that three weeks in a row they were doing nothing and then six weeks in a row they were doing one set to failure that at the two year mark they would all be plateaued at the same point I really struggle with that because as a personal trainer I had a lot of clients who would miss a ton of sessions you know they're coming in twice per week with me they're probably doing a total of three to six sets per muscle group they're not ready to train to failure because they don't like it it and I could never get them past the intermediate hump with the level of training they wanted and then I think okay what if instead of coming in twice per week they came in once per week and instead of getting a couple sets per muscle group that I could actually have them take to the house they just got one and then I think what if I purposely had them take a somewhat baked into it is the fact that they have a reasonably moderate training dose in the first place they're doing three sets of 10 three days per week not one set once per week and I think if we ask most people if you apply the same Ogasawara model to this seven year modeling study I actually think we see the opposite! My guess my hypothesis which I don't! data to back up except for anecdote is that those people would be plateauing later than the group that is training consistently so that to me would indicate probably we're not looking at true resensitization we're looking at an increase in slope due to detraining and regaining what you were getting Alright Helms I'm satisfied with both of your retorts I'm sorry it got so heated! I think you've done this idea a lot of justice I know that it's not a fully formed 100% baked idea that you're going to be trademarking anytime soon but Well third editions are coming out and I do have to explain the difference between these different doses so hold your horses There you go I think I really like the way this episode came together I think this is a nice informative chat and I think there's a lot of food for thought and for future discussion and debate within the fitness world but certainly as far as I can tell a very sensible very cohesive way to put together these many different questions and pieces of evidence related to volume or I should say training dose that's right prex literally could not have done it without you I appreciate the questions I appreciate the focusing and this was a really fun exploration for me and I also really want to reiterate how much I appreciate the data driven strength guys I'm very much taking a lot of the content that they've talked about in their last two podcast episodes I'm not co-opting or appropriating it but it stimulated for the first first videos I made on the muscle and strength training pyramids back on my Samsung S3 and the small conference room during my Ph.D. back in 2015 I wasn't comfortable with the idea of saying you need to do more volume over time because it would get crazy and the reality is you don't but you do need to do more of a dose if you want to approximate the rate of gains that you made as an intermediate when you are uh sorry as an intermediate when you're advanced or as a novice when you're now intermediate and you won't even get to the intermediate or advanced status if your dose is too low in the first place and those two additional pieces and then the interaction with all the environmental factors individual genetic factors that may or may not play a major role we shall see more data needed um and everything else that comes into making the efficiency of the dose change i think like oh this actually is robust to the observations it's robust to the data it makes sense and when people ask me questions it doesn't go oh well i guess that doesn't make any sense because it doesn't match up so thank you for that and i really encourage the listener definitely check out those other resources to get an even further understanding on this get some um arguably smarter people than myself dr zach robinson is is is is the man data driven strength they're doing great work i do have a question if i may please do i do wonder i i think that if you go back a year ago some of the predictions about what AI would or would not do in the very short term time horizon i think some things were overstated but one area that i'm curious about is next time you hear one of their podcast episodes that you enjoy um you know you've been making a lot of like pretty straightforward content where you are just sitting in front of a camera talking at it for hours on end going all the way back over a decade i do wonder if we're at the point where we can just take a transcript from one of their episodes feed it into some type of software and just produce your half of the screen just kind of saying those words but with your voice and your uh your likeness your image i feel like um it could be a tremendous time saver which could really cut costs over at the floundering operation of iron culture so it's something worth considering and also as a bonus a very ethical thing to do a win-win if you will yeah um no absolutely i love that idea um we're going to have uh brandon edit this out just in case the data driven strength guys are listening and um yeah if you are interested in our next episode of iron culture which is actually an episode of some other podcast that has been AI edited to look like me omar and sound like trexler um then you're in the right place so if you want repurposed appropriated content done to a photo or video realistic standard stay tuned as AI advances and as we become far less ethical but have a lot more time on our hands to do more unethical things yeah absolutely i'll be making more of those posts where i'm uh near a pool in a a beautiful sunny place saying i i work three hours a week from my laptop why do you go to work every day you know exactly because the work we're doing is just taking other people's work to make it look like our work and guess what folks that shit works or it will work once AI gets on the right level so with that very very serious business plan that we're going to implement and we suggest to everyone else that is also um ethically defensible in all ways as far as i can tell i want to say thank you dear listener for tuning in this has been one of our science heavier episodes but i also like that it wasn't just us citing data we were playing with it we're thinking about it we discussed the practical implications we made sure that it met the anecdotes because that's what iron culture is about not only the science but also the history and the culture and you dear listener are a huge part of that so do your part and please give us a five-star rating give us a like a thumbs up give us a review omar loves reading your guys's reviews myself you know my feelings on them they need to be impeccable and to a very non-trojan horse standard of five stars for me to feel good about them but i do encourage you to leave them and if you're unsure what type of review to leave that's okay just save it for next time let someone else who has a glowingly positive five-star review to leave it they'll do it and i will catch you in that very next episode of iron culture insert date here