

=== FILE: Ep 346 - Helms Updates + Q&A [4i1Wmbw2wIg].txt ===

 j gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin, gin gin, gin, gin gin, gin, gin gin, gin, gin gin, gin gin, gin gin gin, gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin gin on a previous episode. He was saying a lot of things that made me question his dedication to really the iron in general and the culture that surrounds it. So I'm very pleased to see that you've had a change of heart and you've come back and you are always welcome. I just didn't know if you were still into this stuff. So lovely to see you and welcome to the show. Yeah. So I am not going to acknowledge that, Trex. I guess I just did by saying Trex. I can't help myself being nice. But I will just speak directly to the cult, the cult who has known me since the start. And I will say that don't worry, Papa is home and everything is going to be fine. And let's just make sure that things are clear because that claim that I don't think is worth repeating. Um, and in fact, the specific claims, uh, on the last episode, or you had the good Dr. Colenzo Semple on with you that I had denigrated individual, uh, iron disciplines, including Olympic weightlifting, bodybuilding, and powerlifting, um, the specific quotes that will not be repeated, but broadly that I had issued the iron game, um, frankly are offensive and preposterous. And also they directly conflicted with the claims made on the prior episode where it was stated that I boycotted, uh, the episode with, uh, the good Dr. Mark Lewis, strength conditioning coach for American football. Um, because I only have interest in the iron game and that I will refer to obscure weightlifting comps and which I think was kind of said with almost a dismissive tone. So I'm not sure if this was trying to, to, you know, deflect some of the, the negative commentary that was coming your way from that, or maybe there was just a moment of, uh, I don't know, it was a poor decision, a lack of lucidness. Um, but to have just a one week apart, me boycotting an episode because it wasn't iron game focused enough, which wasn't even true. And then the next week for me to be disparaging the iron game as a whole, when in fact I was actually away because I was attending for, I would point out the fifth year, I believe the European powerlifting conference, and also doing an event with both techno gym and optimum nutrition, where we were doing co-branded presentations to educate the good people out there who are interested in lifting weights. Um, frankly, I was disappointed and, uh, I'm here to, to come back and make sure that everyone knows that nothing has changed and things are only getting bigger and better and more jacked and more tan and more strong. And the iron cult is, the iron cult is as strong as it's ever been. And, uh, I am still here as a part of that community contributing to it. So I don't know if you feel you need to make any apologies or if maybe we just want to, you know, say some things are in bad taste, you've lived and learned, you want to move on, but I'll, I'll give you the floor back, my friend. I think it'd be a good opportunity to get some clarification. So you're telling me that you did not say, uh, that bodybuilding has too much pageantry and therefore isn't a sport. You're saying that you did not say that. That is correct. I think it would be impossible to find me saying that on the record unless it was a deep fake from AI. Okay. And then you're also claiming, and again, I'm just, just asking questions. You're claiming that in regards to power lifting, you didn't say one rep, big deal, wake me up when they can do three. You didn't make that claim. I did not. Okay. So it appears a little game of telephone. Some wires got crossed. Uh, maybe a quote was misattributed. I will get back to my sources and try to see if I'm get to the root to this, uh, of this miscommunication. So work will be done. And I, I'm sure one of us will be vindicated. And to address your concern about the timeline of events, the way I saw it unfolding based on some of the sourcing I had, which has always been reliable. Um, it seemed to me that you lost interest in sport and therefore you boycotted the Mark Lewis, um, interview because he's a sports scientist. Um, you've also always had a, a cagey relationship with data. So sports and data, you put those two things together. Helms is, he's jumping ship. And then I assume that you subsequently the following week also lost your passion for the iron game. So it's not that you boycotted the first because of the second. To me, it seemed like a very rapid, uh, precipitous decline where you essentially, uh, lost interest in both sport, data, science, saying both. It's really a laundry list, sport, data, science, and then ultimately bodybuilding, powerlifting, and Olympic weightlifting. And some people may say, Oh, those quotes were off the record. You can't prove them, et cetera. But here's my thing. I feel like a person who still cared about all those things would have been there for the culture. And I feel like you left the culture high and dry. So I'm not saying anything. I'm asking questions. I'll get back to my sourcing, everything, you know, the, the light will, will, will shine. We will get to all the lack of clarity and ultimately get to the truth. Uh, but in terms of you and the culture, I think that's between you and them in terms of how you want to show them, um, how committed you are to being part of that culture. And, you know, I, I'm one of those people, I don't get bogged down in the past. I always, I'm always thinking forward. So I would say things happen, people drift, and then they come back, they right the ship. So as long as you're here for the next two weeks, I think that'd be a clear show of faith that you are down for the cult and you are locked back in. So unless something's going to happen and that's, if you think that'll be a problem, then again, I'm just, I'm not sure how we reconcile all these moving pieces. Uh, I'll say two things. First, um, I will take some ownership that as soon as those episodes came out, I probably should have made some social media posts on my own to clarify things instead of letting the stigma sit, because as you will find out when you check with your sources, um, not only did I, were those things, it's inaccurate to even say that those things were said in jest or out of context, they weren't said at all. Um, but you know, as I was traveling for, uh, you know, academic conferences for powerlifting, uh, you know, sports nutrition and a global education event for lifters, uh, for techno gym and meeting up with, uh, both academics and bodybuilders in this space, I didn't have the time to clarify that I have not, you know, eschewed or been disillusioned or stepped away from data, sports science, uh, or bodybuilding or powerlifting or strength sport in general. Um, cause I was too busy, you know, directly engaging with those things. Even yesterday I was thinking about posting it. Uh, but unfortunately I was a little too busy, uh, guest lecturing for our internship in strength conditioning at the sports performance research institute, New Zealand, um, in the labs where I'm the strength conditioning, uh, lab leader, um, you know, where I also did my master's and PhD in sport and exercise and, uh, where I am still a senior research fellow specifically in the sports physiology and nutrition as well as strength conditioning extremes, um, where we collect data on sports science, do sports science and actively teach a large, uh, sports science program that's ranked in the top 50 in the world. Um, so yeah, I didn't have the opportunity while doing that to specifically mention that I am invested in sports science data and, uh, and, uh, and, and, you know, generally. So, um, that may, but I do think it's just in very poor case, like, you know, being, uh, a fellow in that laboratory is, is fantastic. I don't think they need to take any jabs at your age. Why do they have to call you a senior fellow? I mean, to me, that's just really inappropriate. I feel like the, you don't need to bring attention to that. You know what I mean? Well, the one thing I do like about, um, certain communities and cultures, uh, maybe not, uh, some of the ones that participate in my non-AUT work, um, is that age is seen as something that is to, uh, be respected rather than something that by bringing it up is seen as a jab. So those cultural differences are, are a little different here at, you know, maybe the university versus, uh, in other places like math. Um, but you know, we'll, we'll strive to shift that culture. Um, it's difficult to lead, uh, if you aren't respected, but you do what you can. Um, the final thing I would say, uh, related to the next two weeks, um, and, uh, I can understand how this is awkward timing in that I just stated I was committed to the cult, but the next two weeks I will not be able to make iron culture because I am specifically 11 days out from my first competition, notably a bodybuilding competition, um, which I have been discussing and preparing for. So I am going to go compete in the WNBF. Uh, I think they call it the diamond cup. It's a 10, 10 year anniversary of WNBF Taiwan's show. So, so I'll be competing in the, uh, amateur classic physique and pro bodybuilding division. Really excited about that actually. And just bought the tickets, um, you know, paid my entry fees, all that good stuff. Uh, two sport athlete. Yes. Um, I'm following in the footsteps of, of many, a great other two sport athletes like Dion Sanders, Bo Jackson, and notably yourself, uh, Dr. Trexler. And, and I would hope that you would understand the commitment it would take to be a two sport athlete. Uh, and that, uh, yes, that you would perhaps forgive my absence from, from the cult, um, for the next two weeks and, uh, also accept my appreciation for you holding it down. And perhaps just if anything does come up in the next two episodes where you hear some claim that I am somehow not committed to the iron game, bodybuilding, sports science, strength conditioning, um, you think, let me think, what, what did Eric say in, in that last episode he was on? And if he is missing this episode, why? And if it's him because he's actively competing in a bodybuilding show, perhaps that might not signify a lack of commitment to bodybuilding just because he can't make these two episodes. So just, just some things to consider for the next two weeks. I could be, I, I was led to believe that you had gotten very deep into cinema. And so you had, you were done with sport, you were done with science, you were done with the iron game, and you were now just really into film and the art of making film, which is a very notable, uh, endeavor, a very respectable endeavor indeed. Uh, so I wasn't judging, uh, but it appears there's been a miscommunication. So, um, so Helms, with all this on that note, I will say there has been actually a substantive effort on my part, um, to be dedicated to cinema and, uh, perhaps ironically, and maybe the source of some frustration or feeling left out, it is actually the iron culture documentary, which is in its final edits, uh, which was a pre-iron culture. Just enough time, just enough time to cut me in. I, I don't know about that. And I, um. With AI, you, you can't just put me in some of these scenes? Uh, unfortunately we've committed to, um, not using AI, uh, in iron culture documentary. It was something we did a priori, um, to make it, you know, retain that, that cult connection, if you will. And so it's all practical effects, all the stunts, all the illusion that it's all practical. None of it was done in post. We did all of our own stunts. Okay. Yeah. The stones were lifted by us, not doubles, uh, when we were able to lift them, which was, was rare because they're pretty heavy out there in Ireland. But, um, yeah. So, uh, if, if you need to talk on air to me about, you know, the fact that we're releasing a documentary for iron culture in which you're not part of it, um, I mean, this is to try to, it's a capstone on the, on the Omar Helms era and it was fully, you know, filmed before you were part of it. If that is something that perhaps is causing maybe a passive aggressive response, um, maybe we just talk about that off air. You don't air or dirty. I don't think this is a feelings and emotion thing. I think it's strictly a legal thing. And so all I would ask is small concession on your end and Omar, I'm sure he'll, uh, I'm sure he'll go along with this. All I would ask is that when you release this quote unquote, so-called documentary is that you spell iron culture with a K, um, the same way that if you were going to have imitation crab meat, it would be crab with a K. Uh, I think this is ultimately the, the world has changed. The iron culture is now me and my surrounding universe. So I think as a sign of respect, that's all I would ask is a minor tweak in spelling. I just to let people know it's, this is an imitation culture. I acknowledge that you're asking that. Perfect. All right. Uh, so Helms, you got stuff going on. Uh, where do you want to start here? Cause this is, uh, all joking aside. Um, you know, you've been busy, you've been doing travel, talk, et cetera, um, engaging with the iron world. And then you got a couple of weeks here where you're traveling for competition. So this is basically your shot to, uh, talk to the good people and give them an update on, on what, what's going on in your life. So, um, where do you want to take it from here? Well, the first thing I want to do is leave them dangling on that precipice with a dissipation before we know the good word from our sponsor. Big time Helms. Did you see the last time that I gave this pitch? I did. Did you hear it? So the first time I was like, ah, I lost those straps and, uh, wrist wraps when I was moving completely false because elite FTS, they manufacture their equipment so well, you won't lose it. That's how good it is. They, they have found a way to make it, uh, somehow stick in your mind in such a way that even when you move apartment to apartment to apartment to house, you will retain these precious items. So, uh, folks, I had the good sense in the year, I believe somewhere around 2010 ish, 2011, maybe. I knew I needed some heavy duty lifting straps and I needed some heavy duty wrist straps to keep my wrists happy with all of the irresponsible bench pressing and squatting and other pressing that I was going to be doing. And as a fine gentleman of central Ohio at the time, I knew the highest quality products in the world were down the road at elite FTS. And we have been so, uh, privileged, uh, so humbled by the opportunity to partner with the good people at elite FTS, Dave Tate and crew. Um, and so if you are in the market for any lifting oriented apparel or gear, we're talking high quality bands, wraps, straps, you name it. If it has something to do with lifting, they probably got it in the shop. Head over to elite FTS.com. Use our, uh, promotional code. MRR10 stands for mass research review 10. That'll get you 10% off, uh, most things that they carry in their store. Anything I left out homes? No, I mean, just that if you've been, and by the way, you've done a fantastic job holding it down and, uh, we're very proud of this partnership and, uh, yeah, big shout out to Dave Tate, big shout out to elite FTS. Uh, and it's, it's, it's an easy one for me and trucks, both having been customers for a long time. Well, yeah, I mean, um, now that I think about it, um, one of the nice, I mean, obviously you can look through the history of the show. We don't like go reaching for all sorts of promotions and sponsorships and whatnot. Um, what's really cool about this one is Dave Tate, uh, the legend has it. I wasn't even involved at this point was one of our very first like original OG subscribers to the mass research review. We offered him when we saw he signed up, the story goes a free subscription. He said, no, thank you. I'd like to pay for it. Um, and, and again, even before, uh, you know, a million years ago, I was a loyal customer of elite FTS. I got their wraps, their straps. I think I even, if there are any photos of me floating around from that era, I know I had a prized elite FTS shirt that I used to wear. Uh, it was like my very comfortable kind of oversized gym shirt. Yeah. With that classic, uh, like squatting logo. So, uh, that, that's what I think is cool about this partnership is that it was a partnership before it was a partnership. You know what I mean? We supported their, their, uh, gear cause we liked it. They supported our content cause they liked it. Of course, elite FTS has a lot of great content of their own. They don't just make gear. So, uh, if you like us, uh, we support them. We think you should as well. So check out elite FTS.com. And with that, we'll get back to the cliffhanger, the precipice of what's going on and, uh, and, and the Helms world. So, uh, yeah, I am back from a two week trip. That was really cool track. So all serious now, uh, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll drop the, uh, the fake banner. It was, it was a pretty cool opportunity. Uh, from the third to the eighth, um, I was in Bali and that was for techno Jim's global education event. Techno Jim, uh, normally has this event in Susana, Italy at their HQ, which is a really cool spot that I was in back middle of the year where I got to do a co-branded seminar with them in WBF Italy. Um, bit of biomechanics. And then on the, uh, the WBF side, uh, some nutrition. So I did, I got to do that presentation on biomechanics again, with more hands-on, uh, with a lot of their Asian delegates. So there was like, I think 11 different countries. We're talking Philippines, Korea, Japan, India, uh, Malaysia, you name it, Thailand. Um, they were all there. This is a really cool event. Um, and I, I had a lot of, uh, I would say variability and who attended. I had some, some people who were competitive natural bodybuilders who specifically came out to see me, but I had people who had no idea who I was, who were just in the broader fitness space. Uh, and they were looking to, you know, increase their education. And I was only one of the five, um, educators who techno Jim brought out. It's a big shout out to everybody else. Uh, it was pretty cool. Um, there were people who are top level coaches in functional fitness. Uh, there was representatives from the most popular gym chain in Hong Kong. Um, uh, people who are experts in, uh, pregnancy and, and women's health. So it was a really cool event and it was a challenge for me as an educator. I'm sure you can appreciate this. There was one session cause we split these folks up into like, well, it fit into fifths and they rotated through where I had a pro natural bodybuilder with a master's degree in biomechanics sitting there as well as a, uh, you know, a physiotherapist who was a competitive bodybuilder himself sitting next to a wellness director manager who didn't lift weights. And I had to kind of talk to them both about biomechanics for bodybuilding and display it. So it was a really welcome challenge as just as, as an educator. And it was really fun to try to, make it applicable, um, engaging and interesting to people who probably weren't looking forward to that session out of the five and people who were exclusively there for that and would grudgingly sitting through the other ones, you know? So, um, and we got really great feedback from everybody. Um, so, you know, a little bit of a pat on the back, but it was also an awesome experience and, uh, I had never been to Bali before and, uh, Bali is like influencer central and we're in, uh, yeah, we were in an area that probably didn't get me a huge exposure to true, you know, Indonesian culture, but I was very fortunate. Shout out to Brandon Kempter who attended, uh, Brandon Kempter. He's an Australian bodybuilder who's been living in Bali for the last few years, uh, him and his partner. And he, and he lives in a, with a very local lifestyle, a little bit outside of the main area. So he took me on his moped, which by the way, if you get on the streets of Bali, it's like armies of mopeds going around and what you can fit on a moped shocked me. Like what we do in the West with like a contractor who gets like a van and he's got a ladder, you know, three other guys, uh, all this stuff, you know, a pane of glass, all that you can fit on a moped. And if you ask me how I tell you, you gotta see it to believe it. Um, but yeah, quite literally I was, I was floored by, uh, the ingenuity of the locals and what was getting done there. That is a great experience for me. And I truly relish the opportunity to reach beyond my linguistic and cultural limitations. Trex, this, this is some Star Trek shit. Okay. The majority of attendees could speak English. Some couldn't. We had a Korean delegation and some, and some delegates from China who needed a translation. We didn't have a translator. We had this specific device where the speaker and the listener both were a headset. Okay. They set it their own language. And then in real time, it interprets back and forth into your ear. And I also had, there was one other person who was there for both the Korean and the Chinese delegates who was bilingual, but wasn't, you know, like live translating. They were just double checking to make sure it worked okay. And like you get everything and they're like, yeah, totally understood. And I was telling jokes. I was speaking in, you know, English sport and exercise biomechanics terms. There, so there was, I was trying to limit my jargon, but it seemed to be fine, which blew my mind. Um, so that technology is advancing, but it was a really good experience. Um, the one thing that was interesting was that for this two weeks, except for that, I went to Europe, which I'll get into next. Um, the goal was for me to simply like not be in a huge calorie deficit and get flat and depleted while we can come back two weeks out in the hole. Um, I would say semi mission accomplished. I really was truly trying to, you know, eat and, and, and not be in a massive deficit, but we were working, man. And it was in the heat, ton of steps. Um, you know, access to food was not always super, super consistent. So I would sometimes make it up here and there. Um, I'm going off hunger, but I'm, you know, I'm engaged and I'm moving and it's so much higher energy expenditure than I'm used to. I, I, I basically got into stage shape while I was there. I hit like probably the leanest I've ever been. And that's where I'm at now, which is pretty cool. Um, about two weeks out, I'm about as lean as I was back for worlds 2023. And here's this, the lowest weighing in I've seen is still two kilos heavier than the lowest weighing in I ever saw in 2023. So I look back at my logs. 78.1 was my two lowest, deep, darkest weigh-ins out of all of 2023. And I have had one weigh-in at 80.1 and it was coming back from the trip, probably dehydrated because now I'm back up into the high eighties, low 81s. So I have probably put on legitimately four pounds of lean mass, two kilos ish since 2023, which I'm very proud of. Um, so yeah, after that, went to, uh, uh, how hot, how hot was it in, uh, in American units in Bali when you were there? It wasn't too bad. Um, because you know, the, you know, summer's flipped. So we, we weren't in summer, uh, summer in Bali is, is a different time period. So everyone's thinking, oh, you were a summer in Bali, but it's not summer there. Summer is like, uh, December, January, February range. So it was in American units. I will tell you, uh, let's see, 30 degrees Celsius. Wasn't too crazy. Um, it was in the mid eighties on most days, some days it got a little higher, but the good news is, you know, my metabolic rate is tanked. I have no insulation. So I was fine. I was, I was going to say, man, like, um, I did a prep where I was really grinding it out in like late July in North Carolina where it's humid and, you know, mid to high nineties often. And honestly, that is the best way to be when you're really grinding your prep, because first of all, you're more comfortable day in and day out. Um, cause yeah, you're, you know, your thyroid hormones in the basement, most likely you have no fat. So you're going to feel cold all the time. And then on top of that, like I I'm, you know, this is kind of one of my fun little, um, hobby horse topics, but I'm very intrigued at the relationship between ambient temperature and appetite regulation. And man, like there is really something special about being slightly uncomfortably hot in terms of suppressing. I don't know if I want to say appetite necessarily, but certainly desire to eat. You know what I mean? That's a good way of saying it. Um, and yeah, so like for me, if you told me I was going to be prepping during the colder months, I'd say I'll just, I'll, I'll pass. Like to me, the, the warmer months are so much easier. Have you, have you noticed, um, cause you've done preps that have kind of spanned into colder periods of the year in terms of ambient temperature. Is it as bad as it feels like it would be relative to the alternative? I hate prepping when it's cold, dude. I freaking hate it. And, um, it doesn't get crazy cold in Auckland. It's basically like Bay area weather, but you know, like San Francisco winter's not warm, you know? No, no. Um, and it was, you know, ironically, so I went then from Bali to London and Limerick, Ireland, um, where now it's Northern hemisphere. So we are technically in summer, but it was very similar weather to what we're getting down here in Auckland. Um, because it's, you know, London and Ireland. So like it was in the mid fifties, low fifties. So we're, we're coming like out of the forties in Auckland into the fifties, which I'm loving. But prior to that, so during our winter, my wife got me a, uh, she's amazing. This is, this, this is, this is when you know you got a good one folks. Um, she got me a heated jacket. So you plug in a little like a portable USB charger into it. It's got panels on the front panels in the back. But I was, I was running around every morning. We'd, we'd go to breakfast in a heated jacket, beanie and wearing this sweatshirt underneath that heated jacket. Uh, and then in the coldest portions of the month, I had this little sleeve that when I was feeling, uh, a little more confident with, you know, being perceived as weird and, you know, not self-conscious, I pulled that thing up over my nose cause the tip of my nose and my ears would get so just like cold to the top. I wouldn't even know if my nose is running. It was so like, I just couldn't feel it, you know? So yeah. Trying to avoid frostbite. So I, I, that is, it's funny. I've gotten to the point where I'm so good at living the bodybuilding lifestyle that I'll, I'll be honest with you. Like hunger is not much of an issue. Post-meal satiety, it's, it's not there, but I just, I, I don't really feed into that too much. Um, so the, the food restriction and like food focus, it's just not nearly as bad as it used to be. Like I am definitely preoccupied. Like I lick plates and I observe it, but it's very much like, Oh, that's, that's interesting behavior. It's not like, Oh my God, I'm starving. Uh, the things that I struggle with are, I can't sit down now that I'm this lean for too long, or I start to get, uh, like a dead leg. I just don't have enough cushioning in my butt. Anywhere I sit, I have to put a pillow underneath me. It just makes me feel fragile and weak. I'm cold. Elite, elite human performance right now. Yes. Yeah. Sit on a pillow. Yeah. There's just like these levels of annoying fragility. Like I'm normally a super laid back. I like chill, like whatever. Like I can live life, but it's like, well, if it's under 50 degrees, I need a heated jacket and, and like mittens and earmuffs. It reminds me of what you do when you have like a four pound dog and you're like, I'm going to give them the little booties and the little jacket, you know? Yes. I am a small shivering dog in terms of my needs. Like I can't sit on hard things for too long. I can't even sit on soft things for too long, to be honest, Trex, without a Yeah. No. And that's for me, that was always really hard because, um, like I'm w because of my history of like sacrum and back and all the issues. Um, for me, I'm, I'm really like, I can't sit on padded chairs. It bothers my, my back. I hate it. So I sit on really hard stuff. Like even right now I'm sitting on a metal folding chair and in my office at work, I have a metal folding chair and they're like, bro, we can get you like a nice desk chair. And I'm like, absolutely not. So, um, for me when I'm prepping and I'm starting to get that lean, it's, it's really unbearable because I'm like, there's nothing I can really sit on. You know, it's, it's tough. I'd rather stand like, dude, if you gave me a metal chair to sit in right now, I'd be like, not going to happen. I got five minutes before my right leg is totally numb. Um, yeah. So yeah, it's that, that stuff is what's annoying and, and trying to, I, I, I did a, I think it was good a job as I could. And I'm glad I went to Bali first. Cause I got like a three hour jump on going to the UK, but dude, the time zone difference between New Zealand and, and the UK it's, it's basically, you just flip the AM to the PM. So it is, it's a tough one. It normally takes me five days to acclimate, but I did it in about two or three because I had that third to the eighth in Bali, which I acclimated in about one or two days. So I kind of got that intermediary jump. And then the UK and Ireland was awesome. So are you an F1 guy? Are you into racing or any possible that stuff? Before we get into that, may I do a quick detour to it? Cause you mentioned the travel and the time zone changes. We actually had a relevant question in the chat. Do you mind hitting that while we're on the topic? Let's go. Someone asked the Greek Trojan said, uh, what are the best tips for jet lag? Um, going from California to Japan. And why I want to know the pro moves and helms ever since you moved to New Zealand, I feel like you've got the East to West, the West to East. So what, what would you tell somebody in this scenario? So basically what you need to do is a few days in advance of where you're going to go, just get one or two hours change in advance. So if you're trying to stay up later or go to bed earlier and your partner's cool with it, or if you're living solo, you know, if you're only going to bed at 10 and you can go to bed at midnight or 8 PM, it doesn't change your local schedule too much, but it will get you just quite literally like one day advance, less of jet lag. Then, uh, the day you fly out and the day you land, I would encourage you to train during what should be daylight and get light exposure and make sure that you only eat during the typical eating window you have of where you're going. Um, so shift your meals, uh, and then make sure that you are taking, and this is what I would recommend. This isn't, you know, this isn't medical advice. Uh, I would recommend taking melatonin, uh, in the kind of dosage range that you need, not the crazy ones that are out there, 500 micrograms, up to three milligrams, um, at the time of when you would need to sleep and try to sleep on the schedule you're going to. Um, it may or may not go well, and that's okay. If you don't sleep that much, that sleep pressure will help you the next time, but do your best not to nap during the daytime, try to stay up. Um, you can definitely take caffeine, I would say, you know, before noon, uh, kind of refer back to our old caffeine episodes of where you're going to help you stay awake and stay active, go on walks, get sun exposure. Um, try not to nap based upon where you're going. So, and then, uh, yeah, so the key things are eat in the right circadian, uh, rhythm, train in the right circadian rhythm, get sun exposure, and then take melatonin. There's actually the best data on melatonin is actually dealing with jet lag, um, for shifting where you're going and try to get a one to two hour jump before you travel. Uh, and that can quite literally cut one to two days of jet lag off of what you're experiencing. Yeah. If you talk to, like, I saw a talk, um, by, uh, Dr. Spector, um, who's a physician at Duke who specializes in, uh, sleep. You know, he works with a lot of people with sleep disorders. When you talk to somebody, um, one of these days I want to get them on the show, uh, cause he has a lot to share. Uh, but one of these days, sorry, um, one of the things that you'll see when you are talking to people who are like legit sleep experts, like people who diagnose and medically treat sleep disorders is when they talk about melatonin, they don't talk about it as a sleep aid. They talk about it as a circadian shifter. And like, just like you were saying it, that really is kind of the intended purpose of melatonin. It's not to be necessarily a day in and it's not to be a day in and day out sleep aid. It is to help shift or correct, uh, a circadian rhythm that is misaligned with, you know, what, what that person is, is trying to achieve in terms of their, their daily sleep and wake cycle. So absolutely, um, really good advice. And it sounds like the other thing you mentioned that, um, I don't think was clearly delineated in the summary is if you can get a head start on it, try to start nudging your sleep window, uh, in the direction of what you're trying to get to, right? Correct. So an example of this, um, when I was in Bali, uh, the disparity was four hours to London. Um, so when I was going to bed like at 10 in Bali, it was, uh, it was, I think it was more than that actually. Um, it was, I want to say like 4 PM. So the last night that I was there, I stayed up till midnight and I got to bed at what was 6 PM London time and that's better, right? So, and then on my flights, I had a seven hour flight from Jakarta to, sorry, from, uh, yeah. Yeah. Jakarta to Doha. And then I had a 15 hour flight or 16 hour flight from Doha to London or no, sorry, a seven hour flight from, from, from there. Um, I'm getting all discombobulated. I had two seven hour flights to get from Bali to London. Um, and I managed to stay awake on the first seven hour one, which put me in alignment with like 11 PM, 1130 PM. And then I slept on that next one as best I could. It was a great, no, but then I stayed up the first night in London and throughout the whole time period, I trained when I got there, I got light exposure. I only ate at the right times. I took the melatonin at the right time. And again, it normally takes me five days to acclimate from New Zealand to London. And on the second night I was on the right time zone. Did I sleep well? No, I was clocking like four to five hours of sleep, but it was at the right time. And I, you know, I laid in bed and I tried to get a little bit more and I was kind of in and out of it. And it's difficult to separate how much of this is me being shredded in on prep and just not getting quite as good of sleep versus jet lag. And they do kind of stack, unfortunately. Um, but it was the, I think the best I could have done given the circumstances and it's the best I've experienced having traveled. So I'm really glad I took it seriously. I did all those things. I ticked those boxes. Um, was it comfortable sometimes, uh, not eating in prep during phases where I was awake? Absolutely not. You know, were my energy levels jacked up that I feel like my blood sugar was all over the place. I had a few hard days, but I think it resulted in me when I needed to be on, which I did, uh, because we had this live streamed, uh, insider event at the McLaren center, which is really cool. If you're into F1 racing and we got a full tour, there are areas we couldn't take pictures. Um, you know, so we had this really cool high tech event. It felt like we're on the bridge of the Starship Enterprise. Every person in the room had like a little video panel where they could see the graphics, um, really high production quality. Um, and, uh, yeah, it, it, I'm just really encouraged that big brands like Technogym and Optum Nutrition are actually platforming education for education's sake. Um, and they're seeing that, uh, because, I mean, frankly, I'm the, I'll be real straight up here. There's money being, you know, made now in being science-based and there's a strong shift towards the kind of evidence-based sector. You know, you look at Jeremy Etia, you look at Jeff Nippard, you look at the RP channel. Um, there's a lot of questioning of science. Uh, there's a lot of pushback, um, and there's different silos on the internet, but broadly science is on the rise. And there are downsides to that, like we've discussed, you know, um, it can be misrepresented, but shout out to people like, you know, uh, the good doctor, Colenzo Semple, who is fighting the good fight and trying to show people the difference between, um, science marketing versus actual scientific claims. You know, we've, we've, we've been frustrated with some things that have been stated by people like, you know, an Andrew Huberman or been platformed at times. I mean, vocal about that. It's not about the person it's about the claim. Um, so as science is on the rise, there is going to be more CO science, charlatans, misrepresentations, people using it as marketing. So it's, it's, it's, it's a sign of the times though. And I try to reflect on the fact that this is a good thing. So the fact that big brands are not just platforming like who's the most jacked influencer or, you know, who, who is, you know, what they're going, you know what we should bring out people like, I mean, it wasn't just me. So like, I'm probably the most influencery of some of the people they invited and who became the quote unquote optimum insiders. Uh, but Stu Phillips, uh, Shona Helston, Kirstie Elliott Sale. I mean, these are top level academics who I was an honor and a privilege to present with, who have been asked by after nutrition to, Hey, will you be a brand ambassador with us and basically provide education? And we all look at it like, Hey, this is a win-win, you know, is there a minor conflict of interest? Absolutely. Are we willing to disclose that so we can further science and educate more people reaching a much broader population? Absolutely. So that's where things are. In the future, in the near future, if you were to come out and let's say undermine the importance of protein and specifically high protein diets for muscle growth, do you have any concern about your physical safety or any perhaps financial harms that, that might be brought onto you from the, using the full weight of international law? Oh, I would be sued into existence. So no, absolutely. I, you're going to see me. I think my contract really starts next week. I'll be wearing an Optum Nutrition hat and we're going to be doing episodes on each one of the products in the full Optum Nutrition product line. Probably starting with branch chain amino acids. No, we need to start with, I don't know if they still make these, but these were dangerous. They made these little like protein zebra cakes. Did you ever see those? I remember those. Yes. Oh my God. They honestly tasted like a, like a little Debbie snack. I don't know if that's, um, internationally recognizable reference I just made, but, uh, these little pre-packaged break baked goods that were just absolutely decadent and allegedly had protein. So, I mean, what not to like? You mentioned that internationally recognized one really interesting thing about Optum Nutrition. So it was a U S uh, based company until the mid two thousands and then Glambia Nutrition, which is an Irish company bought it. It actually owns a bunch of, uh, these, these nutrition. It owns BSN. It owns Think protein, you know, the bars. Um, it also owns Isopure. So, but Optum Nutrition is obviously its flagship, but Optum Nutrition UK, uh, has a very different product line than Optum Nutrition US. Um, slightly different demographic. And in Asia, it's a little different. In Australia, New Zealand, it's a little different. So I've gotten exposed to different product lines in different places. And, um, yeah, yeah, it's kind of cool. I'm, I'm just curious if there is a global or international understanding of the concept of like a hostess or little Debbie's type, what would you even call these food items? Uh, yeah, they are. I think people understand that the most iconic one of like the Twinkie it's like, yeah, yeah. Like it's an, it's an American, um, confectionery. I don't know if confectionery is the best. It's, it's a, uh, ultra processed baked good. Uh, we do quite well in the U.S. It's infinitely shelf stable, individually packaged. Yeah. I just, it wouldn't strike me if, if I, if I was like in a place where people eat food that, uh, has ingredients, uh, you know, where, where if I said, you know, it's like a, like a little Debbie snack, like little zebra cakes and people would just stare at me blankly saying, uh, what poison are you referring to? But anyway, uh, no, that's awesome though. So, um, so yeah, you were, you were saying, uh, optimal nutrition. So you, you talked with the lineup. So where do we go from here? Yeah. So that, that was a pretty cool event, but man, um, I got worked in techno gym, uh, the Bali event and, and in, in, uh, by, by opt nutrition. So, um, like there was like a hundred delegates in Bali divided them to five. So I had to give the same three hour presentation five times. So it was like a full, like three hour break, three hour, two days in a row, then a half day. Um, so I was very good at that presentation by the end of it. And then the event in the McLaren center, you know, we, we worked basically a full day. So we had a whole, you know, two session format started in the morning, stop for lunch. Lunch for us was actually doing a whole bunch of media sessions with the people who were invited. This wasn't like your typical fitness industry conference where it's just open to the public. They specifically invited, um, media groups and influencers who had large social media channels to have specific access to it and then live streamed it to a select group of other people. Um, and it was a content creation event and education event for quote unquote insiders and the insider advantage. So our lunch break, we did get a lunch, but it was also, Hey, here's your media schedule. Here's who you're doing interviews with. Um, and then once we finished at, at four, four 35, we did a little bit in the media break, quickly ate dinner. And then we did filming with the full film crew, which was pretty cool in the McLaren gym, which by the way, fully kitted out with tech by techno gym. So another connection there, but the often nutrition techno gym, McLaren gym, this is super high tech gym for all their like pit crews and drivers and also employees. Um, basically full media team in there, 20 people, five different stations, cameras, and we filmed until after 11 PM, um, content for social media related to education around, uh, creatine fasting protein, third-party testing. Um, and you know, differences between male and female physiology and when, and when it is not relevant. Um, so it was really cool getting to do that type of content with, uh, you know, Kirstie Elliot sales, Stu Phillips, and also some, some, also some really top practitioners, I should say. So, um, we had the, the Chinese teams, swimming teams specifically lead nutritionists that may have gotten more gold metals than, uh, than anybody. Uh, he, he was out there. Um, and you know, it was really cool to see him, uh, from the region, uh, as well as Jeet Salal, who is one of the biggest promoters of natural bodybuilding in the, in the Indian region. And we're talking 5 million YouTube subscribers, nearly 3 million, uh, Instagram subscribers, a great dude. He was there with his, his wife and, um, you know, evidence-based science communicator who is really good at making things, you know, simplified, which, which is quite cool. Um, so it wasn't just pure academics. It was a great group of people. Uh, it was a really awesome opportunity for me to, to simply meet them, which is awesome. Um, and I was just, it was like, I, it was a mixture of people who were familiar and unfamiliar with each other. Um, there was also, uh, Claire Farrell. Um, she is the lead performance nutritionist, um, for, um, geez, I want to say, I'm going to get it wrong. I don't want to say the wrong, the wrong soccer team. Cause we, we had no idea who the other person was like, I'm, I'm clearly not, as we've joked about, not out into sports that don't involve, uh, like lifting weights. And she is not, but yeah, this, this is true. But if it's not competing in lifting weights, it's not something I'm focused on. But she, anyway, she's the lead sports nutritionist for Liverpool. So Liverpool FC. So obviously, you know, they're, they just won, you know, the, the, the premier championship. Right. And I want to make sure I had it right. I actually did have it right, but I didn't want to say it wrong. So, you know, I'm, I'm rubbing shoulders with people who are working at the highest level of elite sport in nutrition, you know, Olympic swimmers, Olympic gold medalists, and the most competitive, you know, football club in, uh, in England. And, um, also the academics who were, you know, 10 years beyond my career. So it was, it was really cool as well as incredibly influential people. So like, it was a great cross section. Um, everyone was incredibly good at what they did. So it was a true honor. Uh, and then I got to bring it all home after I finished that event. First thing in the morning, I flew out to Limerick, Ireland, and I got to do the European powerlthing conference. Um, which was, which is like, it honestly, it's like coming home. I've been, I did that in 2017, 2018, 2019, and last year after they brought it back. And it's just, it's the IPF crew. It's people I see at worlds, Sheffield, at some other international events, you know, Mike Tushier was there. Um, you know, my own, you know, my own PhD student, Kendrick Kwan was there presenting, which was a really cool full circle moment, uh, where, you know, he, he started as my, my student and now he's my peer, if not, you know, a more of a leader in powerlifting nutrition than I am these year, these, these days. So, uh, really good experience. Um, and just a great opportunity to connect with people. And, um, I just feel so privileged and grateful to have been a part of all three events. So, um, honestly, my heart's full. I'm still a little jet lagged, haven't pooped in about a week, but, uh, but the body's. I was going to ask you about that. I'm glad you brought that up. I was going to, I usually, when we, when we get together off air, the first thing I do is kind of get a rundown of your bowel movements, you know, frequency, when was the last one, consistency, that whole deal. Well, I will say in all seriousness, people are, were looking at me like, how are you doing this two or three weeks out? This is crazy. And I'm like, look, I've got experience. I know how to do this. It's not a big deal. I'm on a diet break, but frankly, um, there are some costs to running around the world shredded. And, um, when you're switching time zones, there's a lot of systems which get, they get a little messed up. And while there might be like, you know, there's like a five day lag in total before you're like fully back to your sleep schedule and you stack the digestive stuff on top of that. Yeah. I think it would do a lot of people's heads in and even messes with mine now with the experience I have, but you just kind of have to accept like it's, you know, when you go camping for a week and you're like, nothing happened and it's fine. And then you don't think about it. You get back in prep that can't really get in your head. So it's, it's been a journey, you know, like I had two nights of good sleep the last two nights and that has made me feel tremendously better. And I know it will happen eventually, but I will also have a non-dormant GI tract pretty soon too. So, um, give me a few more days and just in time for me flying out to, uh, to Taiwan, I'll have a functioning body to, you know, display on stage. Awesome. Yeah. You've been, uh, around the world with, with all your travels and you got some more travel coming up for competition. So we're all, we're all pulling for you in the culture. Obviously, uh, we did have a question in the chat about your competition. So someone asked, are you going to compete in classic in Sacramento? I'm currently trying to convince a friend of mine to compete in classic at that show. He's currently planning to compete in men's physique. Yeah. So muscle mayhem doing it, man. I've been doing that show since literally 2009. Um, it totally depends upon what happens. So, uh, the goal of the muscle mayhem, the principal goal, as well as WNBF worlds, which is going to be in LA is to try to get as many of us 3DMJ coaches. Cause myself, Jeff, Alberto, and Brad right now, the plans are all of us to compete, to try to get as many of us on the same stage at the same time as possible. I'm not sure if that is possible. Myself, Berto, and, uh, Brad, sorry, myself, Berto, and Jeff, we are all WNBF pro bodybuilders. Brad took a long time off competing and he came back and he has not like re-established pro status. Um, he almost got his master's pro card, but the way he won the master's, there wasn't enough. So if he gets his master's pro card, we could all compete in a master's division. And if he's able to, you know, turn pro or get his master's pro card at the mayhem, maybe we can all do it at worlds. Um, but you know, for me, I have basically currently three divisions I can, I can and have a desire to compete in classic physique is an amateur, uh, pro master's bodybuilding and then pro open bodybuilding. Um, so depending upon whether or not it goes really well for me in Taiwan, you know, and I win my, my pro card and classic, which I think is actually a very low probability because it's an incredibly competitive show. Um, you know, they give the top three and the overall pro status and they have, uh, four height classes and they take the top two from each. So it'll be three out of the eight, you know, top two in each division and each division is going to have 10 to 30 people in it. So we're probably looking at a total like 80 to a hundred people. And I would need to be among the best six of them. So, uh, it's not impossible. And there are far fewer people over 180 centimeters tall in Taiwan. So I have probably the, the one I am probably competing in the, the least competitive of those classes, but that just means I'll get into the overall, if things go really well and then get smoked by the short dudes. So we'll see. So the question of whether or not I will do classic in the mayhem depends upon whether or not I turn pro in classic in Taiwan. And if the answer is yes, then I need to decide which pro division I'm going to do. Cause I don't think pro crossovers between categories, um, are allowed. Although the, you can do pro crossovers between age divisions within a category. So we shall see it is up in the air. Most likely not to count myself out. I suspect that will still be an amateur, uh, classic physique competitor come, come to mayhem and I will probably do both. Nice. Do you mind if we, uh, address some of the questions in live chat? Some no oriented stuff. I'm honestly tired of talking about myself, believe it or not. All right. So, um, we had a question. I'll keep it on theme here with bodybuilding, um, and a little powerlifting. So the question is, uh, do bodybuilders target the obliques or does it make the mid waist blocky follow-up question? Could powerlifters benefit from oblique training or long-term for long-term Valsalva strength potential? So oblique training for a bodybuilder, for a powerlifter, what say you? I don't think you need to do direct work in either case. I don't think like side bends are going to transfer to Valsalva or stability anyway. That's a pretty specific application of quote unquote core training. Um, and I don't think there's much benefit to trying to directly develop them as a bodybuilder. I don't think aesthetically it would help you. I don't think you need to try to avoid it either though. And I think you just kind of let that happen as a bodybuilder. And then if you are looking for more trunk stability as a powerlifter, I think things like anti-rotation, anti-flexion, or just more specific training of the main lifts is probably the more relevant application. Cool. And when people, if someone were to follow up and say, what do you mean by training anti-rotation or anti-flexion, what kind of exercises would kind fit the bill there? I'd suggest someone do some Googling of pal-off, uh, movements like, uh, pal-off presses as they're called. Um, essentially this is you trying to resist being flexed, extended, or rotated. Um, so this is specific to the sport because, you know, if you get a bump by a spotter, you clip the rack, or if you're trying to exert control over a squat, as you, as you put it there, you don't want to bobble on your sumo. Um, that is essentially holding a really, really heavy weight and trying to not let it jerk you around when there is a, you know, uh, a force applied to it. Uh, and a pal-off press is loading up the cable stack, but not actually necessarily moving the cable in the traditional way, but changing your lever arm so that that load that you're holding when it's close to your chest has a greater torque on you when you extend your arm, trying to rotate you that way. So you have to dynamically engage your core to prevent rotation or prevent, uh, you know, extension or prevent flexion, depending upon which way you're facing the cables. And there's various versions of that. There's things like, you know, Copenhagen planks, which are like a side plank and movement. There's a lot of ways you can, uh, train that. You can also just do heavy squats, heavy deadlifts and heavy bench, which require that dynamic stabilization. Um, but I think there probably are less fatiguing direct pathways. If you identify that as a weakness that needs to be trained as well. Yeah. On the topic of core training, got a question here. Athletes usually train rotation with explosive stuff like medicine ball throws, but does it make sense for them to include some more strength oriented stuff like Russian barbell twists in the five to 10 rep range? Should it all be high velocity explosive stuff or should they incorporate some heavier strength stuff in there? I think we just need to take a step back and think about this from the same lens that we would, uh, more traditional exercises, right? So traditional thought is that we would go through phases or emphasize things in different ways, whether it's undulating block linear, what have you, whatever you pick your periodization model. Um, but the general philosophy is that we build more contractile tissue, which has an opportunity cost. So when we think about long-term planning and training, we're going to have a phase where we focus on that a little bit more than other things. That additional contractile tissue should help us when we shift more towards a force production phase. Uh, and then as we get more and more close to competition or the in-season phase, or depending upon individual athlete and what proportions are relevant for them, we're going to probably do some S and C movements that are at a more sports specific velocity. So somewhere on that force velocity curve that is more relevant to that given sport and potentially the deficit of that given athlete, they may be a little more force or velocity dominant. And you may decide you want to lean into that, or you may want to decide you want to try to bring up a weakness depending upon the opportunity cost, how much you can get out of that and what you need to invest. And the idea is that if you can produce more force because power is force times velocity or work over time, that that will contribute to some degree. So there's this, you know, drop off as you go from being bigger to focusing on strength, to focusing on quote unquote power. Uh, and for the more force dominant athletes or sports that drop off is less for the more velocity dominant, it's much greater. And a simple way of thinking of this is to play soccer. You probably don't need a 500 pound squat, but if you are trying to be a, uh, a lineman probably can't squat too much, you know, uh, kind of perspective, even though they are both team sports that are heavily power-based. So going back to the question, if you are doing any movement that is explosively done and done for power, because that is more sports specific, then you need to trace back and think, oh, well, would it benefit me for those same muscle groups to be bigger and to what extent? And then would it benefit them to try to have a more direct kind of raw, slow force production phase as well? And the answer will vary depending upon the context, but sometimes the answer would be yes, it does. Like if you're in a scrum or if you're on a line or if you're a wrestler, you know, there's going to be times where you need to move slowly and produce as much force as possible or move quickly and produce as much power as possible. So different horses, different courses. Nice. There's a couple I'm going to take here. One person said, nice hat tracks. Thank you very much. That's one for me. Another question here. Is there any literature on P ratios for people who have lost a considerable amount of body fat and kept it off, then got into lifting seriously and trying to put on muscle? The short answer is, I don't think so. That's a pretty unique scenario. But in the interest of being helpful, or at least giving something resembling an answer without just being somewhere between speculative and wrong, my two cents on this question in general is, I'm not sure what you would do with that information. And what I mean by that is, in theory, a person who has lost a considerable amount of body fat, that tells me that they began with excess body fat. And so essentially that is, you could call it a fitness decision, but at the end of the day, that is a health improving intervention to lose a considerable amount of weight and keep it off. Then a secondary question after this person has done that, or a secondary choice is, you know what, I believe I'd like to be muscular as well. And we could, you know, kind of theorize, will they be at a greater advantage, a greater disadvantage, a completely neutral, you know, neither an advantage nor a disadvantage. But at the end of the day, they're going to have to play the cards they've got. And so a lot of times people might ask this and say, you know, is this going to be harder for me than the average person now that I've lost the weight and I'm trying to build this muscle? Is it going to be easier? Is it going to be neither? And my question always back to them is, so what? What are you going to do? If I tell you this is going to be 15% harder, you're going to say, oh, nevermind. It's like, if so, that's really not a good, we're way off in terms of how we're approaching this, right? So my not very helpful, but maybe kind of helpful answer is to, with this kind of question, kind of rethink where is this coming from and where is it going? And a lot of times I find that these questions come from people who are just kind of nervous. I think this is going to be really hard. And I will tell you, if you set ambitious body composition goals, you're going to reach the hard part. If you keep pushing it, it will get hard. And the fact that it will get hard eventually doesn't mean that it's any less worth pursuing. You know, if it's important to you, I encourage you to go for it. And whether you think it's going to be easier, you think it's going to be hard, it's probably going to end up getting hard, like I said. But if you're kind of pushing it to get more and more and more muscular, we all reach the hard part if we keep trying. So what I usually encourage people to do is just focus on what's in your control, focus on best practices, have goals that are ultimately realistic. And sometimes that balance between setting an ambitious body composition goal and a realistic one is an iterative process. You know, and so Helms, honest to God, when I was younger, and I was getting really into fitness and growing well and still staying lean, like, I'm not one of two, I'm in terrible shape Helms. I don't know if anyone's told you. You may have noticed that every time we post something where I show up on a mass thing now, people just say, why is Eric so fat now? So that's real. That's a thing that happens. But from the age of like 14 to like 20, I was like, really jacked the whole time. Like I stayed very lean. I parlayed, I went straight from wrestling shape into bodybuilding shape. It worked out well for me. But basically, you know, I forget where I was going with that. I got sidetracked and then you started shaking your head. What was I talking about? So you were talking about how challenging it is, but it is worth it to go through body composition change. And then you were talking about how anyone who I'm not actually not sure, to be honest, Rex. Yeah, I went on a tangent. I got lost. I got confused. But basically, the moral of the story is you're going to reach the hard part. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. That's where I was going. I knew there was a reason. So I was talking about how it's iterative, the tradeoff between setting ambitious and realistic body comp goals. Well, I was on this like precipitous rise in my own mind of getting more and more and more jacked. And I was like, Oh, this is incredible. I'm great at this. It's easy. And there was a time when I was literally thinking at the age of about 18, like, man, I think I need to decide right now if I'm going to go to like IFBB pro Olympia route, or if I if I'm not about that life, and I decided I wasn't about that life. Insane for me to think that I had the kind of like, I was really like, do I really want to be 280 and lean, right? Like on every all the gear you could think of. Thank God I didn't go that route, because I would have hit a wall pretty early and been like, wow, that's stupid. But here's the thing, man. When I decided, I don't want to live that life, which was never my choice to make in the first place. In hindsight, I said, you know what, I'm going to set a very humble, very realistic physique goal. If I could end up being about five foot seven. And let's say just a modest 185 at 6% body fat. That's all I need. Like just, that's it, you know, and it's like, in hindsight, you're like, oh, champion natural bodybuilder. Yeah, so you're just walking onto, you know, world championship stages and pretty much winning as long as you like you have decent proportions, right? So again, it was like, do I want to be a Mr. Olympia? Or do I want to take my foot off the gas and just coast until we're on a natural Mr. Olympia? Yeah, to be a natural. And so and so what that means is, I ran into the hard part. And I said, oh, okay, so it turns out you don't make linear gains your whole career, they slow down. And it turns out later in life. I'm not saying that there's, you know, some kind of mysterious metabolism, magic going on. But people tend to get fatter as they get older. The data show that it's a mixture of priorities, lifestyle things, you know, a million other things. So I'm not saying that it's like an inevitable part of age, but people do tend to get fatter as they get older. And so all that is to say, you're going to have to wrestle with when you get to the hard parts in that journey, you have this huge weight loss, maintaining it's going to be hard, you start building muscle, it'll be easy at first, then it'll get harder. It's not necessarily all that helpful to think about how hard it was supposed to be relative to the norm or the typical person at the end of the day, you're just going to have to be in it and say, here's how hard it is. Whether I like that or not, the goal is still what the goal is, we may need to adjust it in one direction or the other. But yeah, whenever I get those questions, my answers are usually, first of all, we don't have that data, because that's very specific. And second of all, try not to get too bogged down about how hard it's supposed to be, because you're going to find out soon enough how hard it is. And that's ultimately what matters. Helms, thank you so much for dealing with my dementia and reeling me back into... I tried. Sometimes in my conversations now in my old age, I just have to say, can you restate the last 90 seconds of what we were talking about? Where was I? What happened? You got there. And I will say it was all excellent information. And to the person asking the question, even though Trex might have given you a circuitous answer, I can tell you that when it comes to personal experience across the body fat spectrum, as well as engaging with at the highest level and also struggling with disengaging, tremendous amount of respect he's been there. And also, I'd say you're probably the most knowledgeable person in terms of the application, limitation, and actual limits of what we can know about P ratios and the typical myths. And the only thing I'm going to add is just to say even more, you should listen to Trex and actually read some of his work. There's a multiple part series on Stronger by Science, authored by Trex, specifically about P ratios, going back and forth with Meadow Henselman's that even culminated in some awesome podcast appearances where they discussed and debated. And there is still a large amount of lingering misinformation about what P ratios do and don't tell us. And even though it is some deep dives, has some statistics, and digs into some research, it's actually a fascinating read. And I've literally not had anyone dig into it who hasn't been like, oh, man, once I got in there, I couldn't stop reading the whole thing or watching these. So it was eye-opening for me. And yeah, it is, of course, difficult to kind of roll back something that's been well-established in a given industry space for a while. But it did culminate in Mike Isertel, who they had a whole handbook based upon P ratios, where they said, you know what, you know, here at RP or now RP Strength, we've decided that's not probably the way it is. And here's what's going on. And, you know, widespread reconceptions of it in the industry based upon your work there. So just, yeah, we can, I don't know if we can put links or we'll probably forget, but definitely just Google Eric Trexler, Stronger by Science, P ratio, a bunch of good stuff will come up and just gobble that stuff up. Because I think, to me, my first thought when I heard this question is they probably have some misconceptions about what can and can't be extrapolated from a P ratio on top of everything that you talked about for more of that personal, experiential and life phase element. Yeah, no. And it's, you know, the whole P ratio thing, at least my engagement with it actually started as a mass article in the mass research review. And then it kind of took on this life of its own, this whole back and forth. And, and yeah, you know, it culminated in, I think, a fruitful debate. And that is one of the things I've always really respected about Mike and everyone else at RP is being really, really open to engaging with ideas. And it's tough. Like there's a lot of people who are willing to stake a claim and then defend it to the death. You know, there's no shortage of that in fitness. There's also no shortage of people who are so terrified of being wrong that they'll never say anything interesting. You know, they'll always, they'll always play it like, it's, it's one thing to be responsible with your claims, but another thing to play it so safe that it's like, you're, you're not really bringing anything to the table here in terms of like furthering the conversation. You know what I mean? It's just kind of like, I'm, I'm going to be the last person to acknowledge everything that's like absolutely beaten to death and fully known. And I think that, um, you know, Mike and RP, I appreciate that they're willing to engage in things that are at least on the periphery of the cutting edge in terms of, yeah, I'm going to make a claim here because this makes sense to me. Cause if nothing else, it gets people talking, but then, but then they're willing to hear the people talking, you know, and then say, ah, those are good points. Nevermind. Or I'm going to tweak it a little bit. So, um, yeah, I thought that was, uh, the rare instance of an actual, like pretty good and ultimately constructive debate, um, where it wasn't just people saying, here's what the science says. The science was all done wrong. Uh, you're an idiot. No, you're an idiot. Okay. Let's keep believing what we already believed, you know? No, well said. All right, Helms. Um, there's a question here. I don't understand it, but I'm going to run it by you and see if you do, I'm not trying to be like a jerk. I don't get it, but it might just be a terminology thing I'm missing. So the question is, um, how much in terms of hypertrophy outcomes can we extrapolate from leverage data? I'm not sure what they mean by leverage data. Do you know what they might be referring to there? Uh, yeah, I'm assuming that they are specifically talking about data, uh, data, which indicate which muscle is in the best position to produce force at a given, uh, joint angle or portion of a range of motion for a given exercise. Um, so it's like the bodybuilding biomechanics world. Yeah. Yeah. So to, okay. Um, I'm going to do it, uh, to give some, some insight into where we were over the last 30 years and some of the speculation as to how do we take an exercise and stimulate muscle growth. Um, length tension relationship has come into this conversation. Uh, and where does a muscle colloquially have the best leverage? So basically where, when can it produce a lot of force? And, you know, there's a lot of discussions of different motor unit, motor, uh, motor learning theories and the way that the body works. And I think from a very, very general high level, I'm not going to go into specific theories. It is true that the body will find from a nervous system perspective, the, the path of least resistance, ironically, kind of the terminology there. So the idea here is that it's going to recruit the muscles, which are best positioned to do a thing. And this is why when you're doing squats, as you get near failure, you can try to be staying nice and upright, just like a Chinese weightlifter. You want to hit those quads, or you just want to stay upright because the internet says you should, or you're trying to get the transfer to a clean, whatever your reason is. And then as you get near failure, what happens? You shoot your hips back and it becomes a little more of a good morning. You see it on the third attempt squat and powerlifting. Uh, you see it on a max, uh, recovery from a clean and jerk and, and, and, and Olympic lifting. And you see it on people who are not doing something like a hack squat or a back supported version of something like a pendulum squat and bodybuilding. Let's say you're doing a split machine squat, feet forward, doing everything you can, try to keep it in your quads. You get near failure. You shoot your hips a little bit. This is just simply your body enacting that general principle of, uh, of motor learning. Um, I'm not here trying to grow your quads. I'm here trying to save you from getting crushed by a barbell and I'm going to shift you to a position where you're stronger. And that implies that your glutes got a bit more to give. And so maybe your lumbar as well, then your quads, your quads are tapped out. They call uncle. You find another way to get that bar up. And that is true across kind of various, uh, you know, movements. And you can extrapolate that general principle to a lot of things. So the question is, okay, well, what does that mean for hypertrophy? And does that mean that when we're in a position where a muscle group can contribute more force to a given movement, does it make it grow more? And the answer is not necessarily because the ability to produce force is not for a movement is not necessarily the same thing as achieving high tension within a muscle, which is what stimulates hypertrophy. Um, and we can try trace this all the way back to understanding what actually stimulates muscle to grow. And we used to think that it was active tension. And when I say active versus passive tension, uh, I'm talking about the actual physiology of the muscle tendon unit, which produces a force. So if you look at, um, length tension relationships and length tension curves, you generally see that in what's called the optimal length tension, uh, relationship, we produce the most active tension. This is when you can get the most overlap between active and myosin, the most cross bridges, and therefore the most force production. However, the actual external force production or torque production that we can produce is overlaid with what's called passive tension. And this is force production from the tendon when you're getting near a long muscle length and it is stretched and it's contributing, uh, or when you get the quote unquote stretch shortening cycle. If you have a short amplitude, quick turnaround from eccentric to concentric, you can leverage some of that kind of like an elastic spring or river band as a imperfect, but decent analogy. But in addition to that, we have intramuscular passive tension as well. So the Titan molecule, which anchors actinomyosin to the cytoskeleton at the smallest level within the sarcomere, it unwinds and becomes a little molecular spring during the eccentric. And then we also have, and it helps with longitudinal force transmission, kind of like a intramuscular tendon. And then we even have lateral force transmission from what are called costameres or sometimes called focal adhesions and, and older publications, which helped with that force production, that direction. And it seems, uh, that it is not just active, but also passive tension that can induce hypertrophy. And we've actually known this, believe it or not, from animal models going all the way back to the seventies, where you wait a wing of an animal for hours, weeks, months, and induces not just sarcomeregenesis and longitudinal changes in hypertrophy and the ability to still produce force long muscle lengths, um, due to, uh, that change, but also radial hypertrophy, your traditional hypertrophy and growth, uh, just general size. Um, and this is even observed when you de-innervate the nerve. So it can occur in passive stretching and it is a local phenomenon, which induces muscle growth. It's not just your ability to produce force and have active motor unit recruitment. Um, and some of the structures that I described earlier are mechanosensors in and of themselves. So the, uh, structures which contribute to intramuscular passive tension development are also stimulating MPS via, you know, mTOR and other pathways to create growth. And this is why longer muscle length training, if you were to look at it from a kind of performance-based biomechanics lens, you're like, that's a terrible position to put that muscle in to produce force. You're on one end too far of the length tension relationship. How can you get any, you know, cross bridging there? Uh, and you won't be able to get produced force. And this is actually trash. You want to be at a, a muscle specific region where the optimal length tension relationship is. And that was some of the old speculation, but we're not seeing that generally, uh, putting a muscle in a longer length seems to induce more hypertrophy. And you can also induce hypertrophy even without motor unit recruitment as shown by those old animal studies. And some of the studies on passive stretching, static stretching for long time periods has now been even extended to humans. Um, and the, the last thing I will say is that there are even more mechanosensors that we're still uncovering, uh, that get stimulated by being at a long muscle length. So my own nuclear flattening is one where you stretch that muscle out, the nuclei get compressed and that leads to signaling, which may induce growth from a mechanistic perspective. So it's not active tension, uh, only it is probably a combination of active and passive tension, which may be one of the reasons why at least stretching, if not also training at longer muscle length seems to induce more hypertrophy. So, uh, from a performance perspective, yes, you want to care about quote unquote leverage and the muscles which are able to produce the most force are going to be the ones that are, uh, emphasized by the central nervous system. Uh, but from a hypertrophy perspective, which is what the question is, uh, it is more about the local tension that is sensed and then mechanotransduced into signals for hypertrophy, uh, which sometimes means you're in actually a pretty poor position to produce force. Yeah. Perfect. Um, awesome answer. I'm glad that, uh, I'm glad we have our resident bodybuilding biomechanics guy on hand for those kinds of questions. Uh, Helms, I think this is probably a good time to wrap up. We've been going, uh, close to 90 minutes now. So, uh, um, since you're going to be gone a couple of weeks, is there, there anything you want to say to the good people, uh, before you go? Trex and I have resolved things, but if for some reason something happens while I'm not here, uh, Trex gets misinformation or he's misinformed, which I'm not blaming, him on that happening, I will say, you know, he, he trusts the sources. I don't know those sources because he's a good journalist. He doesn't share them with me, but if those sources lead him to believe that I have abandoned the iron, please be skeptical. That's all I would ask. Perfect. And, and folks, uh, obviously it's a shifting landscape. You never know when someone's going to abandon the iron or the culture underlying the iron, but, um, obviously we'll take that into advisement, um, as we move forward. And, uh, certainly people can check up on your socials and stay up to date with how your shows are going. I assume. Absolutely. I will probably in the next couple of days, I need to get on it and release my, uh, my next part in my YouTube series of my prep so I can cover what just happened, get a physique update and let people know, Hey, I'm going to be competing in 11 days. My God. So yeah, 12 days, something like that. Awesome. Well, on behalf of the iron culture, uh, I feel comfortable speaking for them and saying, we wish you luck, uh, with, with your string of shows here. So we'll be following closely. And if you, uh, text me some updates, I can relay them to the good people. Um, but, uh, yeah, good luck, uh, safe travels and folks, we will still be back here. Uh, you know, the drill Monday nights, 7 PM Eastern time. So we will be back in one week with yet another episode of iron culture.

=== FILE: Ep 349 - Elite Weightlifting： An Inside Look (ft. Wil Fleming) [n2HohN7zbgg].txt ===

 assisi-seings-saxel-axi-ax-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel-axel up with pretending to not know things. So we are joined today by Will Fleming. He is a Level 5 senior international coach with USA Weightlifting and was an assistant coach of the 2024 U.S. Olympic weightlifting team at the 2024 Olympics. Where were those? Those were in Paris, France. In Paris, France. Beautiful. So Will, thank you so much for joining us. How are you doing today? Excellent. I'm talking to you from FURTA, Norway, which is the site of the 2025 World Championships in weightlifting. And Norway is beautiful. It's a little bit rainy right now, but overall, it's been a great experience. Just got to watch a U.S. lifter, Olivia Reeves, set snatch, clean and jerk and total world records on her way to winning her, I guess, third world title now. So yeah, good day. Awesome. Fantastic. And you have one athlete competing? Yeah, I had one athlete compete already. She's a 58 kilo lifter from Belgium. And then I have a super heavyweight female from the United States who will be competing on Saturday. Nice. So just a couple days. Very cool. All right. So Will, like I said, it's a pleasure to have you here. We're going to pick your brain about Olympic weightlifting because, you know, for some context, usually the show is hosted by me and Eric Helms. He and I share the fact that we both kind of did PhDs related to exercise and nutrition. We both have competed in powerlifting and bodybuilding. He also basically hit for the cycle and then some when it comes to strength sports. So he did some stuff with, you know, strongman and, you know, Olympic weightlifting. And people are going to crush me for this. But what is the one where you wear the kilt? Do you remember the name of that? Highland Games. Highland Games. Yes. I'm going to get destroyed by the Iron Cult, our esteemed listeners of Iron Culture for forgetting that. But yeah, so Helms does a little bit of everything. But Olympic weightlifting, I would say, is one area where we do have some blind spots, some lack of coverage here. So it's really exciting to get you on here. So the first thing I want to invite you to do is kind of give us an idea of your background. So obviously, you know, it's not about establishing your credentials. If they invited you to be a coach of the U.S. Olympic weightlifting team in 2024, that speaks for itself. They know what they're doing. They care about what they're doing. So clearly, you know, a thing or two about weightlifting. But but how does one get there? What was that journey like? Yeah, I mean, I can I can trace this back to my involvement in Olympic weightlifting. I started in 1997. So right around this time, 28 years ago, I remember a very particular play in a football game when I was like a sophomore in high school. And we were playing our crosstown rival. And this kid just murdered me. And I was just horribly like just blocked me. I was five yards back down the field, watch a guy high step high step over my head for a touchdown. And I just kind of like I remember coming off the field and go, man, I'm not strong enough. And it just so happened that my brother, he was a two time Big Ken champion in the shot put. He was at Indiana University at the time. And he said, Hey, that that kid who, you know, ran for the touchdown, he lifts at IU's weight room in the evening after we get done with track practice. So you should check it out. So day after the season goes is done, I go over there. And I say, help me get better at football. Like I heard you can help me do that. And these guys said, we're an Olympic weightlifting team. So you have to compete in weightlifting. But yeah, you'll get better at football. And if they had said we're a bodybuilding team, if they had said we're a powerlifting team, if they had said we're a strong man, whatever, I would have done it. And so it was pure happenstance. Now I got really lucky. My first coaches, one was the president of USA weightlifting. The other one had been an Olympian in 1992. He went on to be the head coach for King USA for a number of years at the 04 and 08 Olympics. And so I was, I walked into this place with really, really good teachers, but that was just it. It was just that I happened, I wanted to get better at football and I happened to go into that place. And then since then, you know, it spurred me on to do a lot of stuff. I got to live at the Olympic Training Center when I was young for weightlifting right after high school, became a track and field athlete. So, and I did shot put and hammer throw and took that to the Olympic trials. But then weightlifting was always in the background and piece of that. And then, you know, got into the gym game where, you know, I started coaching, you know, I was all strength and conditioning using Olympic lifts, but I asked a kid who was going to quit playing soccer who had like, and he was probably 110 pounds, but he had 185 pound clean. I was like, maybe you should try weightlifting. And he got really good at it. And then I started growing a team and, you know, kind of dove headfirst into making sure I was the best coach possible. So that's been the last like 14 or 15 years that I've been like coaching weightlifting. But prior to that, I was involved as an athlete. Awesome. Yeah, I can totally relate. So you said you were in Indiana when you were playing football, right? Yeah. So I grew up in Ohio, and I got into lifting at the age of 12. Because I was like, listen, I football is the main religion in Ohio. You know, we're neighbors, Ohio and Indiana. So you get it. And yeah, I want to be good at football because like most young kids in Ohio want to be good at football, right? And so if you're not already big and strong, there's one way to do it, you know? So yeah, to me, that was the same kind of thing that kind of spurred my trajectory of, you know, you get into lifting, you eventually figure out either I like the lifting more than the sport I'm lifting for, or I'm just better at lifting than the sport I'm lifting for, you know, and you go from there. So that's one of the nice things about sports that I think is sometimes overlooked is obviously there's a lot to like with sport. With football, of course, there's always concerns about injury. But, you know, what you take away from it has so much, it extends so far beyond the sport itself, you know, in terms of, you know, building those social bonds, just the ability to socialize with your teammates, you know, all those things. And then ultimately, you walk away with a whole new set of interests in many cases. Yeah, sure. To all who are listening, if you got young ones, consider getting involved in some sport of any kind, and they may accidentally catch the fitness bug. So currently, like we said, you're very much deep into the coaching game as it pertains to weightlifting. And we're going to get more later in the interview into kind of the mental side of weightlifting, which is often overlooked. But before we do that, this is kind of fresh on my mind, I teach a weight in advanced weight training course right now. And we just covered the Olympic lifts. And so basically, you know, it's teaching the Olympic lifts to a group of people, some of whom are already quite strong, some of whom are not yet, that's just not where they're at in their journey. And so I've had a lot on my mind lately, more than ever, about kind of the whole idea of building up these kind of baseline capacities, and kind of working your progressions. And how, you know, how strong do you have to be? How comfortable do you have to be with all these progressions before you dive all the way deep into, you know, putting the full lifts together, you know, the clean and jerk and the snatch. So for people who are listening, maybe they're quite strong, maybe they're just getting started into lifting. How do you kind of explain that kind of, I guess you would call it intermediate to long term athlete development of taking someone from stepping in a gym to now they're proficient in the clean and jerk and the snatch? What's your general approach to that? Yeah, you know, I would say that there's like prerequisites, just like anything, any advanced subject. And I would consider Olympic lifting to be one of the more advanced subjects you would potentially get into in the gym. And with any advanced subject, you want to have these prerequisites knocked out. And they would look like, you know, a competent squat, right, that is, you know, you know, a high bar ish squat, there would be pretty vertical torso, feet can stay flat on the ground, ground, get a pretty good semblance of depth. You know, that that could be we could be concurrently working on that if somebody comes in and they already have some mobility restrictions, because they've done x, y or z. And so we may be concurrently working on this, this really good vertical looking squat. I definitely think that there's the capacity to hinge with like a level of competence, and understand that you like how to brace your midsection, while having soft knees, but your hips are going back that like, that is potentially if you've ever coached a kid might be the most difficult thing, like at some age, you just can't do it for 10 years, you know, like a 12 year old boy cannot figure out how to hinge, you know, the ones that do are magical, you know, they're like, well, where'd you come from? So yeah, so there's that capacity to hinge the like competent goblet squat, or front squat, or high bar back squat, or something. You know, there, I would always I always have like an exposure to plyometrics jumping, and jumping and landing mechanics so that I understand how to produce like some vertical force into the ground, and then resituate myself to land. The Olympic lifts are pretty similar to a jump in terms of the mechanics that we see like the top, where the body's kind of situating itself, like the hips and her the knees kind of moving back under so we can get some vertical force from a hinged position. So those would be the maybe the number one prerequisites of move of like specific movements. And then there's going to be some like capabilities where it would be all along the lines of adequate shoulder, external rotation, you know, just really like kind of competent shoulder movement that doesn't also involve the lumbar spine, because like you might take your hands overhead, but you have some compensation where you're, you get too much extension in the lumbar spine. None of those do we want, we want to have be able to maintain a pretty neutral spine position while taking the hands overhead. And once once we have, you know, those general pieces, then we jump into those like, what that intermediate level is. And that's like the pieces of the lifts. And that now it is a front squat, it's not a front squat, back squat, or goblet squat, it is a front squat, and it is an overhead squat. And, and then I'm like a big, then weightlifting, it's like the lamest argument in the world, like, should you teach somebody how to do it top down or bottom up or something like that? I always like start at the top, because I want people to see where they're going. And it seems to work pretty well. But you know, there's other people who would say, Oh, you should teach from the floor up teach like it goes from a deadlift up. And I think it goes from a front squat down. And so I think, you know, those sorts of things all come into play. And then, you know, if you're teaching athletes how to Olympic lift, you may never I mean, I would probably suggest you never go from the floor because the size of the of the the bumper plate, the disc is totally arbitrary, you know, it's like, the first disc loaded barbell was built in 1913 or something. And I don't I don't, I can't find any reliable information about who it was, how tall this guy was, why he built it that way, you know, and it's just like, but now you must lift it from the floor. And if you're not, you know, whatever, but if you're teaching an athlete, elevated on a box, do it from the hang, whatever, because he didn't care if you were if he I mean, and is teaching an athlete or yourself, he didn't care if you're six, five, he didn't care if you were five, two, like, this guy just built this barbell. And they're like, Oh, cool barbell, you know? Yeah. And and so I think that's totally arbitrary and pulling from the floor, unless you want to compete in weightlifting, or powerlifting or whatever. And then you have to learn to pull from the floor and have the requisite mobility to get to those positions. But other than that, like, if you're just using them to feel more athletic, get a little stronger, pull from the position that's most advantageous to you with the greatest range of motion that you're you're able to get. Yeah. Yeah. So and that's the thing I always kind of harp on with my students is, you know, because they, they're on YouTube, you know, they get content about lifting. And you know, they always, especially now the kind of flavor of the month is more range of motion is always better. And I have to kind of continuously tell them like, okay, generally, yeah, we love to have a nice full range of motion when we can, but it's really important to scale it to first of all, what are you trying to accomplish? What do you need to do in order to make this effective? And ultimately, what's going to be comfortable for you? You know, and so a lot of them are really surprised when I tell them, like, I fundamentally don't care when you're doing a lat pulldown if the bar touches your clavicle. Yeah, right. We really don't need that. And so a lot of them kind of expect me to be a stickler about that. I'm like, that's such an arbitrary thing to care about. You know, let's, let's aim for the clavicle. If we can get it to chin level, that's probably going to be plenty, you know, right? Yeah. So you brought up an interesting, not to do too much of a detour, but something that I think is a bit controversial in the strength and conditioning world, especially like I spend more time on the team sport side, uh, in the airport science realm than I do on the Olympic weightlifting side, uh, because any number is greater than zero and I'm not involved with Olympic weightlifting. Um, but there's always a lot of debate about how much should team sport athletes who compete in something that's not weightlifting. Yeah. How much should they be integrating the actual full Olympic lifts versus how much should they be incorporating some of the more simplified, um, kind of progressions, right? So maybe doing, uh, high pulls or, you know, all the various progressions that you might throw in there, um, which often kind of cut out some of the more technical aspects or kind of truncate the lifts a little bit. You know, there's, like you said, if you become a very good weightlifter, you're going to get good at sports stuff, but then there's always that question of, well, as a strength coach who has limited time with these athletes and needs to make sure we're not hurting shoulders in the gym and things like that. How much time do we allocate to some of these kinds of progression type exercises versus the whole thing? Where do you stand on that? Um, well, and you know, like progression versus whole thing. I, you know, I don't think any team sport athlete needs to do full snatches, full clean and jerks from the floor, catching deep squat or whatever. I don't, I don't think that that's necessary. I probably want every athlete I coach to be capable of it because they're probably a really competent mover, right? I talked to Tim. So, uh, Tim Saha, who had been the strength conditioning coach for Boise state and then Washington with some of their really good programs with Chris Peterson. And he said like, you know, I, my goal is that all of my offensive linemen can do full clean and jerks, right? Catch it, pull from the floor, catch them low. He goes, that means they got healthy hips. They got healthy shoulders. They got healthy backs. Now they don't all, all end up doing that, but if, if they can, you know, it's probably a good, it's fine, you know, like if they're moving well, but you can get so much of the benefit doing, uh, hang power cleans or hang power snatch, or I am a huge fan of like the muscle snatch, which is, uh, it may be a longer pole, no rebend, a pretty low impact on the shoulders. Cause you're just kind of turning it over. Um, everything I ever I've done. Um, I wrote a book at one time called velocity based training for weightlifting muscle snatch is going to have some of your highest power outputs of anything because, uh, you're moving a pretty decent load, a really long distance, right? So those like that velocity is really high and therefore the, the power outputs are really high as well. So if you just want to, uh, an Olympic derivative to help with power, I say, Hey, go do a muscle snatch because it's this long pole, huge power outputs. Um, and, and so, yeah, I think derivatives are going to be fine. You know, now that said, I don't think jump shrugs with the trap bar are comparable, right? Um, I do think there's, there's, um, just from everything I've done with like, uh, velocities and power outputs and all that kind of stuff. There's, you're going to, you're just going to hit a little higher peak velocities, a little higher power outputs when you're have the intent of turning it over. You know, there's a, maybe it's a high pole or, um, I did a bunch of stuff with a 10 to one point to like compare power outputs. And the only pole, even if it was a jump was kind of this like hand release pole. So you'd pull it so high and just drop like at the top. Um, and that would, that would get comparable power outputs to the actual lift at the same weight. Um, and so the derivatives are great. There's inherent benefits of turning the bar over cause you're actually reaching some of those higher speeds. Um, there's, you know, with lack of a better term, because I know that force absorption doesn't occur, like receiving the bar makes you create force in that opposite direction up into the bar. And if you look at, um, a lift, like you might see, if you look at a lift, it's like force curve. There'll be a little spike at the beginning. It'll go flat, a bigger spike. When the athlete finishes, it'll drop off cause they're weightless. And then bam, it like actually is when that bar hits like that's the highest stiffness moment that they're going to have. So receiving the bar does create a lot of force as well. Um, as the athlete is receiving a bar from space, basically, um, and trying to, trying to meet it really well. So, you know, I think there's, there's benefits, but I, I'm just like, Hey, pick the one you can do. And the, you know, the biggest thing on coaches aside, like if you're a strength coach in a, in a college or a high school, like it can, you can, if you, if you're going to spend time coaching in there, you know, like you would tell me, I don't want to do the Olympic lifts because, well, I, you probably, if you know how to coach it, you should do it. If you don't know how to coach it, don't do it right. Go take a course, see if you can feel comfortable with it. But if you do know how to coach it, you know, I'm a coach. So if I'm in the weight room, I want to coach people. And one of the best ways to get a lot of hands-on coaching experience is trying to teach kids how to Olympic lift. And so I've, you know, we've gone to little high schools and taught 40 kids to clean and hang snatch and stuff like that, or hang power, clean, hang power snatch. And, and it, and it usually turns out really, really well. You'll have a bunch of competent people and you might have three people in the room. You're like, you're not doing that. And then we switch, you know, and I've coached athletes from middle school to I had, I've had MLB players, NBA players, all that kind of stuff. I had a guy come to me who was in the minor leagues, baseball player, wanted to get faster, stronger, all that kind of stuff. We never Olympic lifted. He had never Olympic lifted in his life when he was 21 years old. And I had him from the time from about October to February, right? And we had to go to spring training. I wasn't going to teach him to Olympic lift. So we do the high poles. We do the jump shrugs. We do all that stuff. Right. And he, you know, broke the MLB stolen base record that season, you know, so he got faster and stronger without them for sure. And, but you know, I, you also just know your clientele, know the people you're working with, know the athletes you're working with. Can they do it? If, you know, get as many as you can to do it, you know, the ones that don't need it or, um, can't, can't achieve it, can't learn it fast enough. It will find, find other stuff. That's fine. Totally fine. Yeah, I know. I got my start, um, working with middle school and high school athletes, uh, as a strength coach. So I was actually a strength coach before I ever did anything, you know, one-on-one personal training type stuff. Uh, that's in the, in the, you know, that's like, that's like, yeah. And the, it's, I remember these kids how to do stuff, you know? Yeah, no, I remember one of my, it wasn't my first experience, but one of the first ones, um, you know, our, our football coach was really big on building a culture. This is a large school in Ohio, kind of division one, the, you know, the biggest school division. And so he was really big on like, when we do our first workout for the year, I want freshmen through senior in that weight room to, to build this culture from day one. So I remember walking in, seeing about 125 people in the weight room. Some of them were, some of them were still finishing eighth grade. And you know, like the fact that they could walk without tripping was kind of amazing. And so, yeah, you get in there and you're like, okay, I'm going to teach not just 25 of these kids to do it, but 25 eighth graders at the same time, how to do it while we have 75 other guys doing stuff. Yeah. Oh my God. Talk about growing up fast in the weight room, man. Crazy. You figure out what works and what doesn't work. Yeah. And you figure out quick, right? Especially because in that room, you literally, you literally have a kid who's 13 years old, uh, who can hardly move. Right. And you also have a kid who has a scholarship lined up to go play football at Miami. Right. And they're in the same room doing, doing the same template. So, uh, but, but my question was, um, when you're working with new athletes, um, and you're trying to, to teach these Olympic lifts to me, the hardest part, I don't know if this is your experience. I know you've done this a million more times than I have to me, the hardest thing was getting them comfortable, whether it's the clean or the snatch catching in that low hip position in that deep squat. Is that always the sticking point with you? Yeah. I would say, no, I was really fortunate. Like my teachers, when I was young, always were like, it's always a power clean. It's always a power snatch, but you, as it gets heavier, you take it down. Or once you get it, then you write it down. Right. It was the kind of idea. So you meet it. And so what that does is the best lifters meet the bar, right? They don't receive the bar. It's not hitting them. They're meeting it. They find it in space. They turn their body over and do it there. And that's like the piece of athleticism. That's kind of like, uh, you kind of got it or you don't. And then we had to really work on it if you don't. Um, but yes. So if you, if they're, what you don't want to create as kids who just dive under, you know what I mean? And so that's like that deep squat can be really a sticking point. Cause some kids go, Oh, I need to get down there. I'm just going to, I'm not going to, I'm not going to finish with my hips. I'm not going to get tall. I'm just going to kind of teleport to the bottom and the bar swings out or something or, or they let the bar crash on them or any number of things. So yes, it's, that's always like a really hard sticking point. It's a transition between, um, those athletes who can power snatch and full snatch or power clean and full clean. And, um, and, and it can take some time, you know, like, and I always say like with weightlifting, if I, if I get you to do like a hang muscle snatch, which I can probably do in 10 minutes, as long as your shoulder hands go over your head. Um, you're getting power output benefits. You know, I could probably load that with five, 10 kilos in each side. You're producing a significant amount of power. And so it's beneficial right this second, like within a few, you know, 10 minutes, 15 minutes, one session, whatever you want to name it. And then, um, and then I, then it's just countless, it's endless refinement. It's endless, like, okay, we've got to work on this. We've got to work on this. We've got to work on this. And, um, and you know, in a lot of weight rooms, you should just probably, as long as that catch is not getting wide, like a starfish and the feeder kind of stand underneath them, then we're pretty good with, with however, um, they start receiving it. And some kids get better going under and some kids kind of just stay catching high for the rest of the time they're, you know, in that weight room. Yeah. And so, I mean, theoretically, I'd imagine, you know, somebody starts with this kind of approach where it's just, Hey, meet the bar where it's at, get as low as you need to, but we're not just going to arbitrarily go ask to grass every rep. And so eventually the people who I assume stick with it, get good at it, decide they really want to start pushing it at a certain point. The only way to keep moving the weight on the bar up is going to end up being, you better catch low, right? Unless you're going to be able to throw infinite stacks of weight way up to shoulder height. Eventually you're going to have to learn how to ultimately catch that at a lower position. Yeah. And that's kind of like the fun thing about weightlifting and in my head. And I think like, it's kind of a popular master sport, right? Like 35 and up it's, it's got a pretty decent following, uh, because there's always this like kind of lever. You can pull this lever, you can pull the technique lever, which is get better getting under, or you can pull the strength lever. It's like, Oh, but my squat went up, right? Oh, pull this, you know, this. And then, you know, you kind of, these kind of keep climbing up. And, and so, yeah, you're going to either, you're either getting at some point you reach the bottom and that's called your max. And then you got to increase your max, you know, like you got to increase your max through the traditional means that most people think like, okay, you know, squats really highly correlated and weightlifting. We have this idea that, um, your, uh, backs, your front squats, 85% of your back squat, your clean and jerks, 85% of your front squat, and your snatch is 85% of your clean and jerk. And so that back squats actually kind of a driving number. A lot of times I can increase that everything just drags up along with it. Um, some people are more front squat sensitive and you just got to increase the front squat, not the back squat, but, um, yeah, we're always like chasing that, uh, pull the technique lever until it's like good and then get stronger and then keep fixing problems. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting. I'm glad you brought up that this has a lot of popularity with masters athletes. We like to tease the co-host who's not here, Eric Helms, about his advanced age. Um, we don't know the exact number. We're trying to raise funds for the carbon dating, but this is a very old man. Uh, and he, he got into Olympic lifting, you know, very late into life, I would say. So, uh, he, he definitely, he kind of fits that mold of, you know, had pushed the, you know, bodybuilding powerlifting stuff and started to get that itch of like, Ooh, I wonder maybe if I can push some other technical elements of lifting and, and yeah. So, uh, what's really interesting about that though, the way that you kind of lay out that long-term development is, you know, at first, you know, we're talking about doing fairly straightforward, pretty traditional stuff in order to build up some of those initial capacities. Then we start incorporating this technique and then you have this long trajectory of technique refinement, which never really ends for a lifter. Right. But you, you start with the massive refinements and then you get into the granular refinements. Um, and then you, you kind of reenter that phase where now you're like, well, I'm pretty darn good at this. So it's back to the basics, right? Like I need to be able to pick up really heavy things, squat, really heavy things. So, um, it's interesting how it kind of takes that, that arc, you know, in the long-term development perspective. For real, for real. Yeah. And I think, you know, that, I think that's probably also touching on the masters thing was like masters will come in with a basic level of strength and they might spend years just technically refining and they haven't even tapped into their strength. And then suddenly they're like, wait, I gotta get stronger again. Um, and maybe, you know, they might not have as much capacity to do so. But yeah, if you look at like, um, uh, you know, a newer athlete, um, who comes in, you know, it's like, okay, you know, they, they, they're just infinite potentials. You'd pull in the levers like this and there's going all the way up. Um, my female who I'm coaching here from the United States, she started weightlifting when she was 28. Um, she was a, um, she was a track and field athlete, was a five-time all American in the shot put, uh, but then had retired and was kind of living life, you know, and she got recruited to come to weightlifting because they had heard she was strong in college, but she hadn't lifted in four and a half years and comes in at age 28 and makes the Olympics five years later at 33. And her thing was, she just, she had such like this base of strength, you know, like she had squatted 500 or, you know, 500 pounds in college. She had hang clean 300 pounds. She had benched 275. She had deadlifted 500 pounds. So it was like, um, sure. She wasn't that strong when she started, but it was just all that potential was already there. It was real easy to get that strength really high. And then it's, it's just almost, it's very consistently technical refinement with her for the last like five years. That said, um, you know, where she hit a lifetime squat PR earlier this year, she squatted 250 kilos. Um, she like, uh, she clean pulled, uh, which is basically a deadlift, but finished with kind of a shrug. She did, she did 230 kilos for a triple and stuff like that. So, um, you know, just pulling on these. Now we're back into kind of, let's see if we can twist that strength thing just a little bit more to just get a little bit more out of you. Yeah. I always love when you, when you hear about athletes that kind of have like a, a second phase to their career. Uh, and you do see this a lot. Like I, uh, it's, it's really common, you know, where you'll say, you'll hear about somebody who was like really strong and really fast. And they're like, Hey, come out for the bobsled team, you know, and they, they untapped this, like this huge, uh, second career in athletics that often surpasses their first, you know, um, same thing, like, uh, something that's a little bit lesser known, but, uh, since I'm in North Carolina now, NASCAR is really big, man, they go find former linebackers and running backs and say, bro, get in the pit crew. Right. And so people have this whole second career where they're taking a lot of that kind of base strength and physicality and power output, and they're repurposing it for this other sport that they never thought about getting into. Right. It's just like somebody called him and said, you should do this. You know, it's really, like, that's actually what happened to my athlete. Um, our high performance director, his name's Mike Atone. He, he got, he was kind of sent a video of her hang cleaning, almost 300 pounds in college. And like, it was five, four years old or three years old. And, um, when he got the video and he just like called her up and was like, Hey, I got your name from somebody. Would you be interested in trying? She said, sure. And it was like, Oh God, you know, like she could have just as easily said, no, I'm good. You know? But she said, sure. That sounds good. You know, you're the, you're like in charge of it. Yeah. Okay, cool. And then, yeah, under five, five and a half years later, she's in the Olympics. So man, that's crazy. Yes. All right. Now, we'll, uh, appreciate you playing along answering some of my, uh, dumb beginner level questions, but, uh, you know, one of the big reasons that, that we wanted to bring you on, I know that you have a book coming out. Is it out yet? No, it's coming out. It's, it's probably looking at November first launch right now. My editor got a little behind. Yeah. Hey, it happens. But, um, so your, your book, do you mind giving us the title? Yeah. So it's called strong mind. Uh, it's a weightlifter's guide to resilience and mental toughness on the platform. Yeah. So I wanted to introduce the book and the title because, uh, you mentioned before we recorded, um, that weightlifting is the ultimate test for mental skills. And you said that, and I left it alone. I didn't pry, but now I'm going to pry. What do you mean by that? Why is weightlifting the ultimate test for mental skills? You know, weightlifting is super binary, right? I mean, it is inherently binary. Yes or no, you made it or you didn't. Right. Um, and in competition in particular, it's binary. It's you, there's no opponent. It's just a dead weight that, uh, doesn't want to be lifted. Right. It just wants to sit there and then you just go for powerlifting too. Right. I'm a weightlifter. So I talk about weightlifting a lot in the book, but this goes for powerlifting as well. And, um, you know, there's this, if I just think of meat day that from the time your name gets called to the time you get on the platform, everybody's experienced that self doubt, like, Ooh, you know, can I make this potentially? Or they have, maybe they have great self-talk and they're like, hell yeah, I'm going to make this, but everybody's experienced some level of failure. I, you know, I miss this and how do you bounce back? Um, and, and you know, the, the other piece that I always think is in training, as you go along, because we're based solely in numbers, there's this comparison game that is constant, right? I'm better than I was yesterday. I'm worse than I was yesterday or last week or a month ago or one year ago, I'm better than that person or I'm worse than that person. You know, they're gaining on me or I'm, you know, getting worse, all these different things, all these potential opportunities for negative self-talk, self-doubt, um, his spirals, all this kind of stuff. Uh, so I think that it just really tests us, um, when you get into the competitive side of things and, um, and, and it's always testing us, right? There's not really, um, you know, in baseball, you strike out, you come off. Okay. Hey, everybody strikes out two thirds of the time, you know, two thirds of the time you get out. Right. Um, yeah. Uh, you just strike out. Yeah. Right. Yeah. You're good. You're a good hitter. If you get on base, uh, you know, if you hit it every third time. Um, and so in baseball, but that's like just part of it. And, oh, you swung and missed at a pitch. It's not a failure. I got another shot, you know, weightlifting is like, I got three snatches. I got three clean and jerks. Um, there's, you probably only compete once every 12 weeks or eight weeks or whatever. Like there, there's a finite number of times you compete. So it's just, it's just always confronting. I feel like I always say that it's very confronting. It tells you like, are you weaker than you were? And that can mean a whole lot of things, you know, that can mean, am I weaker mentally in this, this moment or am I weaker physically, whatever, or am I stronger? Um, so I just, yeah, I just think that weightlifting strength sports, you know, those one-off kind of things where you have very limited attempts and you don't compete very often, uh, really, really challenge your mental game. Yeah. Big time. Yeah. And it's interesting because for better or for worse, you know, someone who's done powerlifting and bodybuilding competitively, um, with bodybuilding, the upside and the downside is that it's subjective, right? So when I show up to a bodybuilding show and my question is, will I win? Well, one of the big questions is going to be, well, who shows up, right? Like, I mean, you never really know. Yeah. Who else is going to be there? Uh, and so you have no idea until the day you get there and you understand like, Hey, if, if the number three guy in the world shows up and stands on the stage with me, I'm not going to win. And that says nothing about me really, other than I'm not top three in the world. Um, and then at the same time, the judging is entirely subjective, you know? So if you wanted to delude yourself into saying, Oh, that was rigged or whatever, you know, that might, might, I got, you know, they, they docked too many points because my tan was smearing. It has nothing to do with my physique and my, my skill in this sport. You can kind of give yourself those narratives if you like, but, uh, yeah, with power lifting gravity's on and it's the same every day, you know, the, the bar is going to tell you what you got and there, there's no hiding, you know, it just is what it is. Um, and one of the interesting things that you mentioned is you said that you've seen the mental game sabotage more athletes than their physical prep. So I'm curious what you meant by that and what is kind of the most common mental issue that you see that actually holds people back in whether it's weightlifting or powerlifting, this type of strength sport? Yeah. So, um, uh, you know, I wholeheartedly believe that a number of things is that, you know, I think there's like, there's a bunch of people who can write a good program, right? You know, like, uh, there's a lot of like good programs out there. There's a lot of, um, people who can teach you how to clean and jerk or snatch. Right. So like on the physical side, there's like a lot of good stuff, right? There's, um, your, your PhD, you could probably come up with a good program, very scientifically sound, and it would work really, really well for Olympic weightlifting. You know, uh, might need some refinement, but it largely is going to get people really strong. And so I, I wholeheartedly believe that there's like so many good coaches out there. There's good programs. Uh, people understand technique pretty well. Um, and, but I, you know, to me, like the difference on the platform is, is that mental game, right? Uh, you know, the difference between the person who you can see coming out, you know, or, or here's where it shows up. The biggest is after a miss, right? What does that person look like after a miss? You know, uh, most everybody misses in weightlifting for a six, you know, six people make about 60% of their attempts. So just a little lesson for them make four out of their six attempts. Um, is kind of the average number and you can see it. You see somebody after a miss, what they look like, Oh, I'm just heading the hand, shaking their head. Like, you know, like hitting their head, like, I'm in it, you know, whatever. Right. You can see their self-talk sometimes they're saying stuff to themselves or you see somebody who's like, yeah, whatever. Like, let's go next one, you know, like next one up. So you can see that kind of stuff. And, and the people with the crappy self-talk who were just like, you know, I suck or whatever. I got it, you know, or look defeated, uh, as they take that. I know, I know pretty well, they're probably going to miss the next one, but the people are coming off like, yeah, I got this. Or like, uh, that's on me, you know, like taking ownership because they're already processing that they made a technical error. You know, um, those people tend to come off and make it. And last, you know, to me last quad, I had, um, a couple of girls trying to, trying to make the Olympic team, one from Canada, one from the United States. Um, and both of them, the, the kind of qualification procedure last time is you had to be in the top 10 in the world. And, um, there was a couple other pieces. Both of them are top 10 in the world lifters, right? And, um, on, and in training, both of them did top 10 numbers, lots of times. And one was able to break into the top 10. Now they, they struggled mightily in training, comparing themselves to what so-and-so do. How am I feeling? Like, what about, you know, I'm, I don't feel as strong as I did two weeks ago or one month ago or, you know, whatever, uh, they would struggle with that. So that's that like comparison game that, that conflict all the time. The other one might've been a little better at that stuff, but on meat day, she would, oh, the self doubt, right. You know, one miss, you know, like almost like a physical change in demeanor and all that kind of stuff. Whereas, um, the one who struggled a little more in training on meat day, just a calm cookie, right. Had been in battles before. And, uh, this is Mary. Mary was like a calm, you know, she had been in battle. She had that experience. She built up that armor, all that kind of stuff. She'd been on, um, she'd been a great track and field competitors. She'd been in big track meets. So like the competition was a little easier. So I, you know, I think that, um, you then asked what's the biggest mistake you see. And to me, it's that reset after a miss, right? Everybody's going to miss, you're going to, you might miss a warmup. Weightlifting, missing a warmup is pretty common on powerlifting less so, but weightlifting might miss a warmup. You're probably going to miss an attempt on the platform. And it's like, what do you do to keep from spiraling? Like going down that, Oh, I sucker. Or I looked ahead and now I can't achieve this goal. So what's the point, you know, all that kind of stuff. Um, and just having some sort of reset, like kind of acknowledge the, acknowledge that you missed, like kind of acknowledge it, figure out why you missed, like, then stop it. Like I always say, like, take a breath, do something, like slap your legs. Like if you need to get a little more arousal, it's like, you need to get up, slap your legs. If you need to come down, breathe, but it's like, acknowledge it, reset it with something like physical. And then we would move on to like, correct it. Like what is the thing that's going to correct that next one? And it's just very black and white. Like I missed, here's why that's in the past. Cause I did this physical thing, move on. What are we going to do? Cause misses bad outcomes, all that kind of stuff. And you know, and that goes even then not after miss, you know, the, after a bad competition, what happens, you know, what, what's that look like? Um, and so like all these, these ways to reset, like misses that competition, they're just data. That's data. That's a data point gave you some information and you need to turn it into something. It's not a reflection of who you are, not a reflection of your identity, all that kind of stuff that people would just go too deep on that stuff. It's like, this is data. How can I use it to get better? Yeah. And you know, when Helms isn't here, we've already talked a little bit about American football. When he's gone, I talk as much as I can about American football. He, he resents it. So when he's gone, he can't stop me, but it kind of reminds me, you know, like right now it's college football season. I love college football, but like you're watching a team, you're watching a team, right? And so they, you know, let's say they're on defense first. The other team drives, gets a touchdown. Okay. No big deal. You're down seven, nothing. Who cares? Right? Yeah. You go three and out. You're about to punt. They block the punt and score a touchdown. Now, all of a sudden you're like, Whoa, it's 14 to nothing. And you start running the stats in your head and you say teams that give up a blocked punt for a touchdown lose more often than not. It's like 80, 90%, right? Then you start running the numbers. Teams that go down 14 tend to lose, right? So now you're, you're already locked into these narratives where you're saying, not only do I feel bad about what happened, but this is the beginning of a collapse. You know what I mean? Yes. And it's so, it's so easy to see as a viewer, teams that are well coached versus teams that aren't because the team that gives up the block punt for a touchdown, they're down 14, nothing. They take the field and it's just execute, right? We watched our film. We're making our reads. We're calling our plays. We're executing. And that's all there is to it. If a coach can get their team to go out there and say, I'll worry about the score. I'll worry about the time that impacts play calling. It doesn't impact you making your reads and executing on the field. Right. And you can physically see the teams that keep their head on straight and the ones that don't, you know, and the ones that don't, they start, you know, the quarterback every time is going for the deep ball rather than just playing in the system. Right. The defensive backs are going for the interception rather than keeping the good positioning and making the tackle, right? Instead of giving up eight yards, you give up 65 and a touchdown. So do you see a lot of that with weightlifters where, you know, sometimes they kind of have that early setback in a meet and now they start trying to like throw hail Marys with their attempt selection or they, or maybe they go the other way and they just crawl into a shell and say, I just don't have it today. Right. And so then maybe they just completely lay up their selections. Do you see people that have a tendency to do that? And as a coach, obviously your job is to say, well, no, we're going to go with what we think we can do. Right. Yeah. You know, it, that's a, it's a great analogy. Um, I'm a huge college football fan. And as an Indiana university grad, I'm a Kurt Signetti fan. And he's like done this huge turnaround in the university. And his thing is like one play at a time, like execute the play. And that's it. Like every play is six seconds. He has this whole thing. You know, we, we have a short-term memory, you know, every play is a life and of its own, you know, so like you're down 14, nothing. All you have to do is next play out there. You have to do what you're supposed to do. And if you do that enough times in a row, like you're going to be back in the game. Like you said, there coaches worry about that kind of stuff. So I see that. I love that. And in weightlifting, I am, uh, I do, I see like, um, a lot of times people come into me, they're like, I'm going to hit this total. Today, I'm going to hit a 300 kilo total. Right. And how are you going to do that? Well, I'm going to snatch 135 and I'm going to clean and jerk 165. And they go out and they make 125, they make 130, and then they miss 135. And then they're like, I should open at 170. Right. And the clean and jerk. And it's like, no, you know, that 165 was the top end. Today, you're going to total 295. Like you, like you, now you're going, I'm going to choose 290 or 295 or zero. Right. Don't go for zero. You know, like, so yes, a lot of times when you see that transition, um, from snatch to clean and jerk, it's like, okay, now I'm going to, I'm going to get my, I'm going to get my money back. Right. It's like, no, that's not how it goes. Right. Just like, so I always talk to my athletes about give me a solid opener. Tell me what you're, we're going to figure out what your opener is. Uh, maybe it's a hundred, you know, this 300 kilo total guy. Let me know that it's rock solid at 127 kilos. And then, and then we're in, and then I'll make the calls. What's next. Right. Based on what I see. Don't lock yourself into 135 is your top number, you know, cause it's like, uh, and don't lock yourself into 165 is your time. Let me, let me like, let me make the calls there. Let's go one lift at a time. And you've got to make your first warmup, your second warmup, your third warmup. People who think about their third attempts before the meet is done. They don't do well. Like if you think about your thirds before you've even opened, it's not happening. Cause you gotta, you gotta, there's so much you have to do before that time. So it's like, yeah, it'd be like in football. Like we want, I want to score 42 points today. We want to score 42. Nobody does that. Right. Like, like you don't, you never talk about the final score beforehand. Right. You want to say, yeah. Like, yeah. Cause then you think you're going to score 42. You don't score in the first quarter. Now what you're just going to run the hurry up the rest of the game. You're running a two minute offense. Like it's ridiculous. Yeah. No. Yeah. I mean, careful of that. Right. Yeah. Yeah. In my, um, I used to coach, uh, for about five or six years there, I was one of the coaches for a special Olympics powerlifting team. So I'm, I'm very familiar. There's so many variables, uh, working with that population that like, you don't even remotely get locked into second and third attempts, right? You know, your first attempt, it's pretty conservative. You're going to see what happens that day. You know, there's a lot of stuff going on. We competed once a year. Sometimes that environment of competing would really throw a wrench into, you know, what we would expect to see. So, um, yeah, it's really hard to, um, to convince, you know, cause let's be honest, man, the sport is to put up the heaviest number you can, right? So no one's all that interested in the first attempt. Everybody's thinking, it would, that was the most I can do. Right. Yeah. So you're thinking, okay, let's, let's play out this story as this beautiful thing that unfolds where I work up to the absolute 100% most weight I can possibly lift. And that is my third attempt. But if you get locked into that being the only way to succeed that day, uh, like you're getting at that, that's, you're setting yourself up for a big risk. You know, it could be the storybook ending, or it could be a really rough day if that's the way you're kind of priming your expectations. Yeah. For certain. Yeah. I just, you know, I, I, even, even that, like, yeah, you just gotta give me, give me that opener. Let's give me confident and then get in the game, right. Get that, that first thing going. Um, and then like, and, and we always talk about routines, like being some of the driving force of that is like, um, the way to make each of those attempts feel really good as these pre-performance routines, not rituals, not like superstitions, not like I got to do this or whatever, but, uh, you know, in training, practicing the routine that would go up to that so that I'm in that mode from the very start, whether it's, um, you know, like, uh, I would write out my routine and I have my athletes write out their routines. Like, oh, my name's been called, you know, I chalk my hands. I, you know, pull up my knee sleeves. Um, you know, I, I say an affirmation, like I'm, you know, whatever, like strong, you know, strong and chest up. Usually it's like a, maybe a two word thing. It's a power word and a cue strong chest up. And then, um, you know, then I chalk my hands, I walk to the platform and, you know, pull right. Or whatever. And it's like, I write it out every step with those words and I'm, I'm visually rehearsing it. Um, or, you know, kind of imagery based rehearsing it and I'm doing it in training. Right. So it's like, um, you know, cause I always think it's ridiculous if like, I see somebody who trains pretty calm, they get to the meat and they're getting back slaps, face slaps, ripping ammonia caps. Like, it's like, Hey, you're probably amped for the meat anyways, your arousal, you, you, you are good at a seven, but you're putting your arousal at 10, you know, like, right. And like, Oh, why did I feel jittery? Why did I crash out after snatches? Well, yeah, you were, you kind of, you kind of freaked out. Like, you know, like you're, uh, it's all, none of that's bad on its own. If that's your thing, that's your thing, but make sure you get like a couple of back slaps on a heavy day in the gym. Um, so that you, you know what that feels like and you hit ammonia in the gym once in a while. Like, um, so those routine I map, I think mapping out routines is a, is a big way to then make first attempts feel like second attempts, feel like third attempts, make gym attempts feel like third attempts. So you just, you've rehearsed, you know, I, one, one thing that I love the strength, the ignition side of weightlifting, you know, like that was, I was a strength and conditioning coach. I think that's really cool. I love manipulating variables to see different things happen and all that kind of stuff. Like all that's awesome, but weightlifting coaches are also sport coaches, right? So I need to do stuff like practice, you know, we say, how about another football analogy, like practice a two minute offense, practice a hurry up practice, like rushing the field goal team out there, right? You practice good football is not just tackling and running and lifting weights. Um, good football is, uh, situational awareness. Oh my gosh. I'm like, um, in weightlifting, you know, the clocks can get real varied. You know, you go out there and it's like, um, sometimes you can lift two minutes, rest, minute rest, eight minutes, rest, 10 minutes, rest. You like just manipulating those, try those things in, in training so that they're not unexpected and you, you get resilience. I always say that all the mental things I just call armor, you know, like, um, they're armor. And you know, one of the things, you know, kind of going off of that is a lot of people, um, a lot of people think like mental training, you know, sports psychology kind of stuff is if you've got a problem, right? Like I first saw a sports psychologist cause I had, I worked at the 2008 Olympic trials and track. And I remember just like my legs tingling, everything feeling foggy. I like got super anxious. My biggest meet of my life. Just crazy anxiety. And I was like, what is this? Right. And I was like, I got to figure that out. I went to a sports psychologist and we worked through that, but that's one thing, but we don't tell people that like, um, you should only squat because your legs are severely weak. You should just squat, right? Like if you're a weightlifter, you should squat. Um, if you're playing football, like you practice all those, all the different things. And one of the, you know, we don't tell people, uh, you need to eat well because you're severely malnourished only if you want to perform, you should eat well. If you want to perform, you should train hard. If you want to perform, you should sleep. If you want to perform, you should work on your mental performance. Right. And I, so I think that's like one of the things that I want to get across to like people in the gym. This isn't like, I got a problem. I get anxious. I do this. Yes. That would help. Uh, if you had low iron, you could eat foods with more iron and like, you could help yourself, but you, but we, if you want a well-rounded performance, you need to work on the mental game, uh, piece of things. Yeah. I have a hot take. Um, I could be wrong, but I honestly, I totally agree with the way that we view sports psychologists. Um, and I, I really feel like there was just a major branding issue. Like, I feel like if we, from day one decided we're not going to call it sports psychology, we're going to call it mental performance coaching. I honestly feel like people would have a fundamentally different relationship with it because we kind of have lumped it into the like typical, uh, kind of Western medicine approach, which is you don't go just chat with an orthopedic surgeon to just say, Hey, how, how are things looking? Right. You go where you go there when you got a problem, right? You, you typically don't go, uh, and get mental health services from a psychologist. Just until you have a mental health concern that you're trying to work through. And so I think a lot of people, um, kind of from the phrasing sports psychologist, they say, yeah, when you get the yips or when you have a massive mental block on performance, only then do you, you know, break the emergency glass, pick up the phone and call a sports psychologist. But yeah, I totally agree. Like there are mental elements of sport performance that ought to be viewed as proactive training the same way we do with anything else we do for our, our performance, right? Like, yeah, you're not going to, um, skip out on your walkthroughs when you're learning plays, you're not going to skip out on your physical training, but with, with the kind of mental side, I think it's, it often falls by the wayside. Um, now I did have a question. I really appreciated you kind of talking through, um, you know, the, the, the value of a routine, right? And it sounded, it sounded to me like the, the thing that came up to me was like a basketball player, right? When you're shooting free throws, I dribble once on the left, twice on the right, spin the ball, pull up my right pant leg and shoot, right? Like every basketball player you want, you see, I'm at Duke right now. I've got the, the five championship banner behind me. Um, you watch those guys practice the way they shoot a free throw. That means nothing in June is the same way they shoot a free throw. That is for, you know, three seconds left in the final four, right? It is exactly the same. And it's the routine they've been doing every single time, probably since they were about 17 years old, you know? Um, but the one thing I wanted to ask you about on top of that, that idea of throwing those realistic scenarios into your training to build that resilience, uh, building those routines that you can adapt to those different scenarios. Is there anything you do to preemptively train, um, like the, the reset or the cues that you might give after a failed attempt? Do you actually work with the athlete on what that's going to look and feel like beforehand? Or do you play it by how it looked, how they responded and kind of just go completely from scratch on that? Yeah. You know, weightlifting training, um, is probably more miss prone than other like strength sports that like I have powerlifter friends and I never see them missing training, right? Like ever, right? I've got a buddy, I don't know if he's ever missed a squat. It's ugly when you miss in powerlifting training, like it happens, but it's ugly. I mean, weightlifting, there is that such a technical demand that you'll miss, right? I mean, I I've heard of, you hear legends of, oh, this Russian didn't miss for eight years, you know, like stuff, something like that. But usually you're going to miss, right? Um, yeah, we're here at worlds and we trained this morning and my lifter missed a 90% lift or an 88% lift today. It was just technically it was out and it was wrong. So he, so when you miss, you want to be ready for that. So none of the stuff that I would say like, that I think is important on meat day should be implemented on meat day, right? It should be implemented, you know, like you said, in June. Um, and so it's like, yeah, we definitely talk about that reset. What's that going to look like? What's your reset? You know, we might as a team, we'll say, Hey guys, we're going to talk about this. Um, what's your reset? Um, you know, somebody, one of my lifters, she's like, I got to pinch my thighs. So it like brings me back to the present. Cause I feel like if, if I don't feel my legs and I'm not there, you know, or something like that. Um, uh, somebody else like, uh, pinches their earlobe or pulls on their earlobe. Somebody takes a couple of deep breaths, whatever that reset is. So yeah. And so we map it out. And then now I don't keep every reset handy in my head. Like, Oh, uh, Nicole does this. Uh, she does this, whatever, but I'm confident that they know what, what they're going to do because we practice it. And when they miss, Hey, hit the reset, let's try the re make sure you try the reset today. And maybe early on, it's just me urging them to, and there it's fun. They fumble with it and it's not natural. And it's like, Oh, it didn't help me do much. We just keep trying. And then it starts to become part of this new routine, right? And, and then on meet day, we're not pulling anything new out, right? It's the same old, it's the same old cues we've been working on the whole time. It's like hands close. It's get, you know, chest up. It's whatever those, those little things are. Yeah. So we'll definitely practice it. I think weightlifting lends itself to it because yeah, there's more opportunity. There's probably more missing in weightlifting than, than other sports. Um, otherwise I might, you know, pressure treat them where it's like, um, put them in a bad situation. Um, and maybe make them do imagery to be like, Hey, like, okay, Hey, it's your third attempt. You really need this one. Um, the second one kind of felt heavy. What are you saying to yourself? Like, um, how are you going to get out there? What are you going to say to encourage yourself? How are you going to get yourself present? Are you going to hit, like, do you want ammonia? What, you know, whatever. Yeah. And I assume, you know, speaking of ammonia, probably one of the biggest things you're doing on meat day, I would imagine is you, you build up this rapport with an athlete, you know, how they do their stuff, managing that balance of not aroused enough versus too aroused. You know, you already kind of alluded to that previously, but I mean, that, do you find that there's tremendous variance from athlete to athlete over where that sweet spot is if we put it on like a one to 10 scale? And, and so I assume you're just constantly kind of trying to steer them back to their sweet spot all day. Is that, is that right? Yeah, absolutely. You're, you're totally on it. And it's different from athlete to athlete for certain. I have, um, so, um, like a Marine who trains with me, who, uh, is pretty high level. He's like a national level lifter, top seven or eight in the country. And man, he's just in so intense. And it's like, I don't, you know, his eight arousal is my 25, you know, it's like, Holy, I can't like, you know, I'm going to do, you know, uh, he's so, um, and, and with him, you know, I think it gets overboard and we've been working on bringing it down. Right. And he is a caffeine consumer, nicotine user. Like, so he's physiologically mentally super aroused. So I'm actually like, Hey, you probably let's reduce your nicotine usage. Let's reduce your caffeine usage. So that like, you're not like, uh, heart beating, you know, out of your chest, uh, aroused, and you can still be that mentally focused and aroused and stuff like that. So just working with him to bring it down. Um, I have, uh, lifters who vary from meet to meet. I have an internet, like a very good lifter who one meet looks just, you know, focused, like going to rip your, your head off. They're very like into it. Other meets are kind of away and like maybe more timid and figuring out what that is. And it's usually the level of the competition and, or, uh, where they think that they're expected to finish, um, or anything like that, that can make them change there. So what's the optimal one? It's probably in between. So we've been working on, on those low days, bringing her up on the high days, bringing her down just a little bit so that she's a little more. And you can do that through questionnaires. Like what, what is that? They might not be able to quantify. I'm on a seven arousal or something like that. But what do I feel like, you know, I feel pumped up. I'm listening to this music. I'm, you know, I'm listening to like, uh, death metal and I'm pounding pneumonia and you're slapping my back. That's a 10 person, right? Like, uh, I'm calm. I have eyes closed. You'd lightly tell me, Hey, it's your turn. You know, stuff like that. There are two or something like that. So you kind of, you figure out where they are and try to make sure that that's it. And then if the, the other thing with weightlifting, if you don't compete enough, if the outcome doesn't match what you want, you can also watch them in training and you figure out in training, okay, actually when they lift best in training, they're, they're laughing with their teammates, right? They're keeping it really light with their teammates. Um, you know, maybe they're joking a little bit and then they're like, turn it on. It's go time. So you got to keep it light when they're in the back or something like that. But everybody's a little bit different. If you pay enough attention to yourself or to the athletes you work with, you'll kind of, you'll key in on what works and then maybe figure out how to turn the dial up or down. Yeah. A related question. Um, I have more experience on the powerlifting side, but for, for weightlifting between obviously this is going to depend, but what is the, the general setup of the sport in terms of like how many hours pass, for example, between the first time an athlete warms up for their first attempt and the time that they finish their final attempt for the day? Like what, what kind of duration are we talking for a lot of meets? I would say it's like an hour and a half. It's pretty fast. Uh, I bet. A typical, yeah, typical weightlifting session. I was just at a really great session with somebody setting world records and it was over and done with in, in like less than two hours. There's 10 women meet in a session. Yeah. Well the session. Yeah. And so like, yeah. Yeah. So your session is probably over and done within two hours unless it's a maybe, and that's like, you know, 12 people in less 12 people in theater that will happen. Um, but yeah, you're probably, and if you're like in that session, you're, you're doing your, your snatch and your clean and press, you're getting it all done. Yep. And, um, so what that typically looks like for them is I bet you have seven or eight warmup lifts. You do a general warmup, you're moving and stretching and all that kind of stuff. Maybe foam roll or whatever the thing is that you do, um, a dynamic warmup. And then you take probably seven or eight warmup, uh, sets. It could be doubles and triples at the start and then singles. And then you get your three attempts on the platform and the snatch. And they may be, um, if you're following yourself, like you are the last, cause in weightlifting, the bar only goes up. So like, right. I could take all three of my attempts after all of everybody else's attempts that happened this evening. Um, and so you might take your first, wait two minutes, take your second, wait two minutes, take your third. Um, but that's that the snatch portion is probably done in an hour and then have a 10 minute break. And then you do repeat the same thing for the clean jerk five, six sets of warmups. Then you go out and take your three lifts and, and it's done in another hour. But, uh, that's a, that's a beautiful thing. Yeah, it's fun. It's kind of fun. It's not, uh, it's not an all, it's not like powerlifting is powerlifting is like really a war of attrition. You know, like, did you eat enough eat again? You know, like we do, I tell everybody to eat between snatch and clean and jerk because it is taxing. They'll have, try to get some carbs and something in them, uh, in some form or the other. And, um, but yeah, it's not like that, that powerlifting like grind. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, cause that's what I was thinking about with arousal is like one of the things that is often people overlook it, but let's say you do identify that you perform best at a high level of arousal. Great. But we need you to perform well at nine in the morning and at like 6 PM and in between. Right. And so with powerlifting, I mean, these things will take all day sometimes. And so that that's kind of one of the big things is like you identify what is your right level of arousal on the platform, but then you, you have to turn it off. Like you, you, I think a lot of people, a lot of people go into it thinking I'm going to be just laser focused all day and be like amped up from nine to seven. And it's just like, brother, no one can do that. They're very, very few people on this planet can do that. So yeah. Um, it sounds like a sport more so with powerlifting than weightlifting. You have to think of how do we turn that on and turn it off? And what is the appropriate duration of cooling down before we have to ramp that up again? But honestly, the more I hear about Olympic weightlifting, uh, if not for all the coordination you need, it sounds like my kind of thing. I I'm, I'm always like annoyed, like sometimes bodybuilding shows will take 13 hours and you're like, how is this possible? What are we doing here? Um, you know, since it is such a short thing, uh, do you, do you get the sense that Olympic weightlifters go a little bit lighter on the water cuts compared to power lifters? Um, just because it's like, you're pretty much right onto the platform. Uh, you don't really have as much, as much time to kind of refuel and rehydrate and things like that. Yeah. On the water cuts. Um, you know, we have two, we're two hour weigh-ins. There's actually talks that we may become a 24 hour weigh-in sport, but that's not confirmed. Um, but in a two hour weigh-in scenario, if you cut much more over, I mean, if your total cut is much more than is like approaches 5% of body weight, unless you have this insane squat reserve, you're going to feel real performance effects. Um, so a lot of times I kind of aim to be two or 3% over and, and train there for a significant amount of time so that the numbers we hit in training are pretty real. Now, I, I think some countries, some coaches rely on bigger water cuts, but, um, I, I don't find them to be very reliable. The best lifters I know, um, I'm, I'm going to go back to this lifter. I was watching Olivia Reeves, who won the gold medal at, in Paris last summer. She doesn't cut a gram. You know, she just, she lives in training. She's lifted at 77 kilos. She's heading up. She like is trained at 73 kilos and she wants to get a little bigger, but like, you know, she just is what she is. And when she won the Olympic gold as a 71 kilo lifter, she was 70.9 kilos all the time. You know, she's never cutting weight. She was just kind of what she was. And that means that what you did in training really carries over to the platform. Now with a 24 hour cut, you could probably do a lot, a lot more, right? Or 24 hour way. And you could do a lot more. And, and I know that people do. Um, so that I think that would fundamentally change weightlifting if that were to happen. So I'm kind not for that. Um, but yeah, right now it's not, it's not a big, people will do it. People cut extreme amounts and be like, I can do it. But, um, you know, you, you can't IV rehydrate in weightlifting. So, um, it's just kind of almost impossible to bring it back enough. Yeah. Yeah. Even with wrestling, you know, that, that was what my, my main sport that I focused on when I competed, uh, and with wrestling, you know, we would have our, our way in about two hours before the, the meet starts. But if it was a normal kind of, you know, 16 man bracket, if you were pretty good, you kind of knew, okay, first match two hours after weigh in, I'm way better than this guy, right? I'm the one or two seed. This is the 15 or 16 seed. I could be half dead and I'm going to win this match. Right. And so like, yeah, especially as some of the smaller local meets, right? So, so even with that, it would kind of lean into these, um, kind of not super great habits of these really aggressive cuts, because a lot of people are thinking by the time I really need to be on, it's going to be my third or fourth match of the day. It's going to be 2 PM. It's going to be 7 PM. Like, yeah. So the two hour way, I think a lot of high schools, I think are going to, I think they're kind of going to mat side weigh-ins, or at least they've been kicking that idea around. I've been kind of out of the game for super long. I haven't been keeping tabs on it. But I heard rumblings that they were going to do walk up to the mat for your match, weigh in, and you basically have to maintain your, your same weight pretty much the whole day. Um, which I think for high school kids is probably a very good idea, you know, at the more elite levels. Sure. Let that be part of the sport if you like. But, um, yeah, I always thought it was a little, I mean, I participated. So hindsight's 2020, but now that I'm an old man, I look back and I'm like, it was crazy that as kids, we were doing weight cuts and stuff, you know? Yeah. All right. Um, well, Will, I don't want to abuse your time here. I really appreciate you setting some time, uh, to, to chat with us and teach us a little bit about weightlifting. Um, obviously you've got your book coming out. Um, so do you have like a, uh, pre-order link or anything that we can put in the show notes for people? Yeah, sure. There's, um, um, there's actually, I'll, I'll put it in the show notes. I'll, there'll be a, like a meat week, uh, mind mental prep, uh, kit for you kind of get you ready through walking you through imagery, walking you through the act of, uh, putting your pre-meat routine, uh, walking you through the idea of, um, you know, what kind of maybe identity you want to have. And, you know, here's a clue, like your identity isn't 150 kilos snatch. That's just a lift. You know, it's like, I want to compete hard. I want to like, give it my all that's identity kind of stuff. And so just walking you through all those things to set you up for a really good meat. Um, I'll, I'll give you the link you can put in the show notes. Um, but, uh, that's just a free download. And then, and then when you download that, you're going to get, you'll be put on the list for launch for the book. Awesome. Fantastic. And before I let you go, any last words of wisdom for people out there who maybe are thinking about getting into weightlifting, or maybe they have their first meet coming up, something like that. Yeah. You know, um, if, if you're thinking about getting into weightlifting, it's just, it's a really fun sport. I think it's like, um, not to knock anything else, but it's like a thinking man's, um, strength sport because it, it rewards that technical aspect so heavily. So, uh, you can really, really dive into the technique and become kind of a nerd over it and, uh, and get some, some really big returns. So, uh, yeah, I, I love it. I love, I still do it. I can, I like don't compete anymore, but I would did snatches two days ago and did cleans today. And I, you know, I will always, as long as I can do, uh, some, some level and they're just fun to do. Yeah. Awesome. Um, now before we go, we got to give a shout out to our good friends at elite, elite FTS. It's a Dave Tate's operation out there in central Ohio. They are friends of the show. Uh, we ask, uh, humbly that you will support our good friends. We got a nice little partnership So folks who are listening, if you need some new lifting gear, maybe you're getting into weightlifting and you're like, Hey, maybe I should get some, uh, wrist wraps, knee sleeves, uh, all sorts of various, uh, items that you may bring into the gym, uh, or just some good old fashioned apparel. Go to, uh, elite FTS.com. Use our discount code MRR10. That stands for mass research review 10, and you'll get 10% off most of the items in the elite FTS store. As always, if you like the show and you want to support, there's many ways to do it. Make sure that you like rate, subscribe, review, tell a friend, share a link, uh, get the word out. And of course, if you really love the show and want to give us the top tier of possible support, be sure to check out the mass research review over at mass research review.com. That is what keeps the show running. And, uh, if you become a member of the mass community, you will be absolutely on the cutting edge of the newest research and how to apply it as it pertains to exercise and nutrition. So everyone in the iron cult, thank you so much for joining us. Uh, thanks again to Will Fleming for joining us, everyone. Take care, and we will see you again in one week. Will Fleming for working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working on working working on working on working working on working working on working working on working working on working working on working working on working working on working working working on working working working on working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working working

=== FILE: Ep 355 - Mindset of a Bodybuilding Champion (ft. Oscar Moscat) [GIhxA1Z_Em0].txt ===

 riidezidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez, riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riidez riide of the show, of course, check out Mass Research Review. We've got an awesome, awesome issue that just came out on the 1st of November. And I say that because I'm a narcissist, because I was on the cover. No, but in all seriousness, I had a really fun time kind of reverse engineering what I do as a coach and also what I've done in the last few seasons of competing, of taking an auto-regulated approach to dieting and really trying to show both the art and the science of it and the latest issue of Mass. So if you want to check that out, that's something that the members are reading right now. And it's got a really good insight of not only my personal experience, but also the research supporting how one does go about doing that and the way you can coach and learn how to do it on your own in a far faster way than the 20 years it took me to really figure out how to do it or the better part of that. Additionally, make sure you go check out our good friends over at Elite FTS. We've got a great code and everything or almost everything that they have, you can get at a discount using the code MRR10. That's Mass Research Review 10 to help you remember it. And big shout out to Dave Tate and supporting us and doing the great work they do. So without housekeeping out of the way, I want to welcome 2024 Vice Champion in the middleweight division, placing second to the arguably the most well-lauded WNBF champion, Babakari Nyang, who is I think the only bodybuilder to have won three overall titles. And I will say this, I'm not saying everyone agrees, but I think Oscar Moskhead, who we have on, who took second in the middleweights last year, 2024, gave him a much closer run to his money than he even got in the overall. And I will say that he has possibly ever had on stage. And I don't think this battle is over because I think Oscar is not at his peak and seeing him in his peak condition against Babakar will be a great sight to behold whenever that does happen in the future. And as a fan of natural bodybuilding and a fan of this gentleman, I am very excited and appreciative of having you on Iron Culture. Welcome, Oscar. I appreciate the intro. My goodness. It's a pleasure to be here. Thank you for having me. No, no, the pleasure is all mine. And I think, you know, one of the reasons I wanted to have you on is because Babakar doesn't speak good English and you're the closest thing. So you're a really good second place option. I'm just kidding. In all seriousness, you get the bridesmaid award. No, no, no, no. In all seriousness, the real reason I wanted to have you on is not just because of your completely inhumanly impressive physique that I think stretches, uh, the some, for some people, the credulity of what can be accomplished as a natural bodybuilder, but hopefully for more people, the possibilities of what the human body can achieve. Um, but more so than that, I so much appreciate your perspective as an athlete. And, um, I think it's something that people would possibly be surprised that I connect with on a personal level, uh, even though, um, some things that you might state and I might state could appear to be polar opposites, but I think they come from different expressions of the same thing. So that is what I want to talk about today. But of course, I also want to make sure that a lot of the, uh, iron culture followers who are not familiar with you get a good introduction to who you are. Um, I will say that, you know, you're a WNBF pro bodybuilder. I want to say, and correct me if I'm wrong on your history, you turned pro in 2018 the first time. Yeah. And then you stepped away from the sport for a while. We all had, you know, COVID to prevent us from getting on stage for a bit. And then in 2022, I think at the monster mash, you got pro status again. And that was a big, at least in terms of the natural bodybuilding community, everyone was like, Oh shit. Who is this guy? You know, um, kind of made your splash. You came in great condition and you displayed one of the most impressive physiques on that stage. And then the next time you competed, was that at worlds that year or was it worlds 2024 in that season? No, I did monster mash for my pro debut 2023. That's right. Where I competed against Brian DaCosta who ended up winning worlds that year. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And then 2024, I did worlds for the first time. Yeah. So the people you've placed second to are, are, are pretty good. You know, just the, we're also a little world champion. Yeah. Believe it or not. And I, I didn't know this, but someone told me that the decisions between both were between one and two points. That does not surprise me at all. And. Yeah. I did not envy the judges in either one of those shows. Cause I think that would have been a very challenge. Neither do I. Yeah. I was not expecting second to either one. I didn't really. I didn't have expectations, but. Hey, whatever. We showed up and we did our thing. You're damn right. You did. So, so that, that's kind of my, um, you know, perspective as a bodybuilding fan, but I know you're a lot more than that. If, if you, if you want, share whatever you feel comfortable with about, um, you know, how you came to be a bodybuilder, your relationship with the sport and where you've been and where you plan to hopefully go as a, as a natural bodybuilder. Yeah. Um, I started bodybuilding, um, in 2009, I believe 2009, 2010, because one of my buddies who I known since forever since high school, I've always had big arms, always had a decent physique just because I did martial arts for, I think it was 16, 17 years. Um, and he saw me one time and we worked together for a while. He's like, dude, come to the gym with me one time. I'm like, all right, cool. Let's go. And I step into the gym. And on my first day there, I got accused of, yeah, I mean, you name it, it was ridiculous. Um, then he's like, man, you should really like consider competing. I'm like, you know, no, this seems stupid. I don't like, let's just keep going to the gym, whatever. Kept going, kept going. And I remember one time I was in the bathroom because it always happens in the bathroom. Uh, there was a gentleman there. He said, he accused me of steroids and I told him I was natural. And he said, if you were natural, you would compete in a natural show. Like, all right, that sounds cool. Did a natural show. That's 2018 when I won my pro card. And I remember doing the monster match because I wanted to do the most competitive show in WNBF or IMBF because that's whatever. And I remember Nancy Andrews, who used to run that show, weighing me in and she's like, are you Oscar? I'm like, yeah. And she pulled me aside. She weighed me in. It's like, I think you're going to do well. I'm like, all right, cool. Like I didn't, I didn't even know who she was. I just, I knew I found out later on. Um, whatever. I ended up winning my pro card and I was super excited. I actually cried on stage that day because to me it was more validation. Like, cause I, I mean, I've been here and I pretty much since day one, since I stepped into the gym and it was validation. Like I told you guys, like, I don't use steroids. I've never thought about it. I don't really care for it. Um, and it just kind of overwhelmed me, but yeah, then COVID happened. 2022 comes around like, yeah, let's run it again. Um, got my pro card again. And that one was because I was planning to do worlds 2023. Right. Um, 2023 comes around, I get on stage and I've only done the monster mash just because when I have a good experience, I'm super loyal to whatever that experience is. Um, and that's why I still compete WNBF. I have no reason not to. Right. Um, 2023 comes around, um, I compete against Brian again, close, close battle, close enough that the judges come back after the, uh, the results. And they're like, that was the closest decision we ever had to make. They had his, they had me and him posing just us two for like five minutes straight. And I didn't know what that meant, but my best friend, Hyro at the time was telling me, I think they, some people had your first, some people had your second and they couldn't decide. And I'm like, Oh, okay, cool. I guess that's what it means. Went home. I spent time with my family and I'm like, I don't really feel it this year. I'm going to skip worlds. I'm just going to stay home with my family and just kind of let it all die down and whatever. Lo and behold, I find out Brian wins worlds that year. And I'm like, I want to run it back. Let's just, yeah, I said, I'm a huge Rocky fan. And I immediately thought Rocky and Drago. And I'm like, we're doing this. Okay. Um, 2024 comes around. I shut off my social media and I'm like, all right, I'm just going to zone in and see how far I can go in terms of dieting. I went as far as I could did monster mash. I won. I'm like, that's not enough. I don't really care for that. And I looked at the stage photos and I'm like, I have to be leader. And I only had two weeks to prep for worlds. So I'm like, screw it all out, no carbs, just straight diet, like miserable. Three hours of cardio every day. I lost 11 pounds in two weeks. Oof. I, yeah, dude, that, it was disgusting, but we got on stage and I was expecting top five. I, you know, I really, I was just there for the experience. Um, and lo and behold, I saw Babacar. I saw all the other guys there and I'm like, I think I could beat these guys. Uh, like I I'm backstage and I'm looking at these people and I'm like, oh, I think I can beat them. And that's when everything just, I got rid of the weights that were on me. And I'm like, I'm just going to have fun. Who gives a shit? Like got on stage. I got second. I was actually super happy that I got second because for me and I, I don't share like my competitive nature, but it's almost like a shark when it tastes blood. It's like, oh, you guys messed up. You let me get too close because next time, like I'm, I'm, it's going to be my all time best. You know what I mean? And whether that's enough to beat Babacar or beat whoever's in front, I don't care. But I got so close that I, on something that I never thought that I would get close on. And that was enough for me to get motivated for five straight years, forget this next year that's coming up. And that's a personal thing that I have. I'll never brag to anybody about that. I'll never, oh, I'm better than I don't. I don't talk to people like that. I don't think that that's the right way to conduct yourself as a professional. It's an inner thing where I want to beat that 2024 version of myself that I thought was the most difficult journey that I've ever taken. And this next time around, I feel bad for that guy. Let's go. No, that, that is awesome perspective. And I think it's one that you thread a needle that I don't think is a needle to you, but it is to others of trying to balance and find how do I be my best and how do I still chase being the best, but put my chips, my cards and derive motivation from the former, not the latter. Yeah. Yes. Yes. Um, and I suspect not only is this maybe just part of like who you are and what you've come to as an athlete over time. Uh, cause correct me if I'm wrong, Oscar, you're 40. I'm going to be 40 in a couple, you're going to be 40 in a couple months. Welcome to the, to the, to the, the peaking years of bodybuilding, my friend. Yeah. As someone who, you know, started lifting at 21 and it took him that whole amount of time again, being alive to actually go, Oh shit, I actually look like a bodybuilder. Um, and to, to be competitive as a pro, um, on a lower level, but still farther than I ever thought I would take it. I can tell you, man, like the good news about natural bodybuilding is you get a long peak and you get to chill on that mountain and you don't know when it's going to be over. And I, I, I, it is scary in a good way that you're not at your peak yet. So I'm excited to see it as a fan. Um, and I love the mentality, but, but like I was saying, um, you do such a good job, whether it's due to your maturity as a person, uh, your background in martial arts, uh, you seem to have a perspective that a lot of others struggle with. Um, so I think I told you this before we started recording in many ways, I think it's also challenging for people, uh, with the level of talent you have for bodybuilding to develop this because a lot of the times they come out of the gate and they just win, win, win, and they don't know really what that journey looks like. But I think again, because you had that background, um, maybe that's helped you get there. But when I'm, when I'm, you know, I've done articulating myself, I'd love to hear it from, from your, your perspective, of course, but for me, I think powerlifting is a really good parallel. Um, because much earlier in my career than bodybuilding that I realize, uh, I'm only going to take it so far in powerlifting and the sport has only kept elevating and elevating and elevating and elevating. But very early on, you know, I had my pre-social media, you know, bubble pops in coaching Bryce Lewis and thinking, oh, like, you know, I'm, I'm, you know, I'm deadlifting 500 pounds back when that meant something. And then, you know, he's in his newbie gains deadlifting over 600. And then, you know, I realized, oh, this, this is what talent looks like for powerlifting. And I realized at some point in the 20 teens, like, man, if I was on every single drug on the planet and like, if, if I was even sneaking in like some single ply underneath my, my, my, my, my clothes and was literally cheating, I would still be a hundred kilos off of Bryce's total. Um, you know, this is, this is, this is someone who had nine 37 at, at one Oh five. And now there's people going over that, you know, like it's, it's just insane. So for me, when I compete in powerlifting, some people would wonder, well, why would you even get on the platform? And to me, it is entering the arena. It is saying, can I prep right? Can I stay healthy? Can I do everything so that these three lifts all show up on game day? And then someone else has to validate the refs that I've actually done this. I've made weight, I've lifted the standard, and I've shown that I have the skill and the will to put it together on this Saturday or what have you. Um, and then it is all about just trying to get the most out of myself on that day that I can and hopefully beat my previous best total and get a PR on the platform. Exactly. And to me, it seems like, and it's not that I don't care at all about placing higher nationals, but it's just like, that's not the primary motivation. And it's easy for it not to be the primary motivation because I am very aware and I have no illusions about where I stand as a powerlifter. I'm solid, like 80th percentile, which is great, but it is not what need, what you need to be, to be competitive. Um, so I, I see that perspective in you, which I think is quite rare for someone who has the potential to be on the greatest of all time list, in my opinion, as a natural bodybuilder. Um, I know that's not something that you may, you may struggle to take that on, but that, that, that's, that's just what I think. Um, so I'd love to hear your perspective. How do you maintain that balance between both being highly competitive, but not putting your chips in the actual competitive outcome? For me, it's, um, I know what's important to me. And for me, it's always been family. Like that's the most important aspect of my entire life, my wife and my kids. If I mess up that, then I feel like a failure training, competing, lifting. Those are things I enjoy, but not necessarily something that I tie emotionally to. I step on stage because of the feeling I get when I'm on stage. I'm there with my brothers, like people that went through it with me. They all know what it's like to get on stage and be dehydrated and feel like your bones are, like, we all understand that feeling. And we're sharing the stage, happy, smiling, knowing that once we get our medal, it's over and we get to go eat and we get to enjoy that. And look, I achieved this physique without cheating. I achieved this physique without help. I did it the hard way. That to me is enough. I don't, a $5 plaque or medal or the opinions of other people saying you're the best, you're not the best, you lost because of this, you lost. I don't care because in my mind that even since I was doing martial arts, a champion doesn't focus on other people. Champions focus on winning. I don't discuss others. I don't discuss, oh, what is he doing? I don't care. I go in, did I beat my last previous self? Yes, I did my job. And I want to beat him, not just by a little bit. I want to beat him by a mile. That's the guy I'm competing against because I don't know what anybody else is doing. I don't know what the judges are thinking. I don't know. Dude, you know how many messages I got after worlds? People saying, oh, you got robbed. I thought you won. I don't care. What am I going to do? Go fight someone? That's your opinion. Opinions don't matter to facts. I lost and that's it. I don't care. Did I beat my previous self? Yes. Let's move forward. Let's see what we can do next year. That's so interesting. And I think it comes from having spent a lot of time in individual sport and individual practice because to kind of look at powerlifting, a lot of powerlifters had that same language circa 2015, 2016 or earlier. And then we started to see powerlifting's popularity rise. And especially in the United States, a lot of the best powerlifters were inherited from football. You know, like if we talk about, you know, Taylor Atwood, he was just too short to be a really good football player. I mean, not to say he wasn't. I mean, this guy got a pro day, you know, in the CFL, right? But he's a 74 kilo, now 83 kilo lifter. Like he's just not going to be top tier, you know, and same thing with Russ Orhe. And then there's some legitimate like high level, you know, 120 pluses, like your Ray Williams or your Jesus Olivares. And we look at, you know, Texas powerlifting, because that's actually a high school sport and it kind of emulates the development of sports in other places. And it's no surprise that we see all of these amazing folks who love the weight room or didn't have an avenue to keep going in football, but were incredibly strong. And now we see like, oh, oh, oh, oh, that's good genetics, you know? And when you come from a team sport mentality, where ultimately you were saying like, what am I going to do? Am I fighting? It's like, well, they kind of do, you know, like, you know, uh, you know, like you're, you're actively beating someone else. There's an offense, there's a defense where in, and, and they kind of construct that and bring it to powerlifting. And they talk about getting in each other's heads. And somebody meant like me, I'm like, you really have no power over me. I mean, it doesn't matter. I'm totaling six starters, but as a coach, when I work with a high level lifter, if that speaks to them and that's their background and that's where they source motivation and makes them better. Awesome. But I also remind those who are negatively impacted by it, like, listen, you, you need to be an anchor in a storm. You need to let nothing that anyone else does impact you because frankly, on game day, it's all you, you're, you're, you're the one in the arena. You know, did you make weight? Did you get your, your cues right? Did you, did you hit your squat? Did you hit your bench? Did you hit your deadlift? Nothing anybody else does matters. And the little things that will matter, let me take care of that. I know your lot number. I can shift your deadlift. We know your max. All you got to do is go out there and execute. And if you're in tight battle in the end, all you got to do is pull three deadlifts, bench, bench three times and squat three times. You focus on that. And I think it seems like that is a much more deeply ingrained thing in you. So tell me a little bit more about your martial arts background. Were you ever involved in team sports or how is this kind of perspective manifested? So the only team sport I ever played was basketball, but that was elementary school. I don't, I don't really count down, but I'm a huge football fan. I've played football with a bunch of dudes and like, but mostly martial arts was the main thing that I did. Um, and the mentality was that, I mean, as soon as they say, go, you kill the opponent and it's, you see red. And I mean, I always tell the story and I'm, it's not because I'm proud, but because I want to show the mindset that they teach in martial arts, I had to fight a girl once. And she was the first female to fight in our weight class with boys. And it was, I guess it was a trend back then. They just, she was so strong. She was beating up all the girls and they wanted to put her in with the boys. And I remember when the, uh, the coach said, go, I one shot her in the head and it was a knockout. I felt off, but it wasn't, it literally took two seconds and she was on the ground. I had to turn around and her coach was actually the referee. So he went immediately to help her. I felt terrible, but that was the mindset. It doesn't matter who's in front of you. Go and kill. And for me, I'm not that type of person. I'm not the type of person that, oh, that's my target. Okay. I'm going to do everything I can to get to that person because now I'm fixated on that person. Yeah. My potential. And again, this is not something I say vocally to people. I mean, we're in a podcast format right now, so it's whatever. For me, my potential is limitless. I put it in my head that I am going to surpass my best every single time I step on stage. That's not sweet. That's not possible when I'm 55. You know what I mean? I know that, but it's so ingrained in my body that that's the only person I look at. Other people, oh, you, you have Doug Miller's arms and you and Babacar were so close. It doesn't matter. That future self that I look at of myself blows everybody out of the water. That's the guy I want to be. So when I step on stage and somebody beats me, I'm like, all right, whatever. What do we do next year to get to that guy up there? And it's not, I don't want it to sound like cocky or be interpreted as, oh, he's so full of them. It's that's that mental mindset that I have when I walk into the gym. That's the guy I see. It doesn't sound cocky because your, your language is about being an idealized version of yourself. And, and even if, you know, to go into a bit of the distinction between what could be argued as facilitative or debilitative mindsets as athletes, there's an interesting distinction, um, between perfectionist striving and perfectionist concerns. And this is kind of a cool area of research where you can find people with perfectionist tendencies and broadly it can lead to burnout and overtraining, but it's also presence and high level athletes. But when you try to separate these validated questionnaires into those different distinctions and the distinction is, am I striving to achieve something from a place of, uh, looking upward, outward and inward to, uh, to, to reach this idealized version of self? Because I'm, I'm seeking the pursuit of excellence, which is a different, but very related construct. Yeah. Or am I afraid of not being my best? Are there external pressures? Am I thinking about, I got robbed and I hate losing and I want to prevent losing, or am I striving towards winning? And you were such a clear example of someone who doesn't place a whole lot of value on losing. And if you do, it always just leads to, well, then what do I need to do to win? Um, and it is, I think, an example of a very facilitative perspective and it's, the cool thing is, is that you are active. It's you're cognitively aware. Like you just stated, I know this isn't realistic, but that is what I embody. And I channel in the moment when I go to the gym or when I step on stage. And I think a lot of people don't have that degree of agency or can't hold those two things to be true. They can't have a emotional drive while also having a cognitive understanding of something and hold them both at the same time. So I think that's actually quite impressive. I appreciate that. Yeah. It's, I've done enough losing in life to know that it's not everything. And I've done enough winning in life to know that it's not everything again. And it always goes back to when I get home, do I have my family's love and respect? Oh, I do. I'm winning. Yes. Like that's it. I won at life. I'm good. A trophy doesn't validate me. The opinions of a judge doesn't validate me. The opinions of followers doesn't validate me. I am who I am. And I'll go to the gym until I die because I enjoy the challenge of walking in and taking a step closer to that guy. That's it. I love it. There's no, there's no like magical. It, it's so simple for me. And I don't know. I, I mean, you articulate it a lot better than I do. I just, it's just so simple. I wake up every day and I know the guy who's posing right now and winning world titles. And I just want to be that guy. I love it. I, um, I, I, I love the perspective and I think it's the, the clear understanding of where your values are and where you're, you're, you're, where you make meaning in life and how you look in the mirror and go, I look, I've succeeded. And I I'm living the life that, that I care about and my values and my mission statement. It, it seems like it frees you to give your all to bodybuilding without, because there's no, when someone who has a really, really strong athletic identity, which can be a good and a bad thing, it's a double-edged sword. Um, you know, when they get hurt and they can't play their sport, it's not just the loss of their sport, it's the loss of who they are. Um, and you see this a lot in young athletes because they don't yet have a family. They're frankly, they're, they're not even done fully cognitively forming their brain if they're in their, their teens and their twenties and early twenties, even based upon some recent research. And you know, like they're still in college, right? If they're a U S based athlete in many cases. So an ACL tear to someone who is really only had the dream of making the NFL and being the football player, that is a loss of future self, current self meaning. And that can be disastrous. And the research shows that very clearly. Um, but when you look at masters athletes, or when you look at, um, athletes who don't have a strong athletic identity, but compete at the highest level, um, it's not like they aren't training as hard or they're not, or it's not like they, they use that as an excuse to be less consistent. I think it frees them to do this thing that is very much intrinsically part of the human experience. You know, like if, if we think of, you know, these modern domesticated versions of ourselves, the way I view it sometimes is, you know, back when gender roles made a little more sense from a societal functional perspective, you know, like someone's got to take care of the kids and we got to have 10 of them just to get two that live and someone else has got to go get food. Um, you know, the hunters took hunting very seriously, ritualized it. Uh, you would, you go through a rite of passage. This is almost ubiquitous across societies. You go out there and you're valued to be a good hunter, but the hunting has no meaning if it's not to feed the tribe. Right. Correct. So, you know, like, like, like it's, it's, your identity as a hunter is connected to something deeper. It's in service of a community. It's not the end all be all. And I think now that sport is kind of the ritualized version of many of these things that we used to have to do to survive, it's in our DNA for it to mean something. I get dangerously obsessive about bodybuilding, right? And I have to be self-aware, um, because it is, you know, I have a hyper-focus component. It's just in my DNA and I can push too hard. I can put too much into it. And it's only come with age and finding where that limit is that I've learned to, to find balance. Um, but what enables me to have a healthy relationship with the sport and honestly, what made us start 3d muscle journey was being on the other side of that because it, it's not necessary. So it's not as obviously connected to do something as silly as flexing in a speedo to life. But what I've come to understand as, um, and understand myself better is that ultimately, and big shout out to Viktor Frankl, a man search for meaning. This is, this is kind of a great way for someone to understand it and articulate it if they're interested is we have to make meaning in life. And whether you're a sushi chef, a painter, a bodybuilder, a martial artist, a football player, um, you find something to pour your all into as a vehicle for personal growth, meaning artistic, spiritual, emotional growth connection, whatever works for you. And, and, and for me, intellectual, artistic, and competitive, it's all bodybuilding. Because what I love about bodybuilding, because I do have a background in martial arts, not not, it was much more on the, I would say art side of it than martial. Like, uh, I started at five and I, traditional Okinawan martial arts, Ishinru karate. Um, I learned, you know, I, I don't think we first started sparring until I'd been doing it for eight years and I was like a brown belt. Wow. Uh, it was not a sport form of martial arts. It was kata's. It was, um, very much more kind of, you know, like Mr. Miyagi, if, if, if, if you want to put it to a, uh, more of a, uh, like an iconic, uh, cultural example, but you know, that I had that discipline until we moved and I did it until I was 12 or 13 from the age of five. So for like nine years, I did martial arts and that was, it never felt like sport and I never really was connected to sport. So, but the kind of like the idea of this hero's journey through something and the discipline sector always spoke to me and bodybuilding also connected to the fact that after, after martial arts, I got into hip hop. So I was a break dancer for a while, again, showing my age. Um, I did a little bit of MCing as well. And the, the cool thing about hip hop is that whether you're DJing, graph writing, MCing, or you're break dancing, it's an art form, but it's always competitive, which I think just came from the roots of it being, you know, a street discipline. Right. And it's the city grind capitalist nature of 1980s in this, in the city from, you know, a lot of people in low socioeconomic status in the time when being black and brown was even harder than it is now. It makes sense. It's a dog eat dog world. And it was especially at that time. So the blending of art and competition has always made sense to me. And I've loved it. Breakdance battles, you know, like, and like getting in the cypher and it turning into two, two dudes ripping on each other. And afterwards that, you know, they're boys. The best of you. Yeah. So like, but you just said some awful shit to each other. You know, um, you look terrible. Your family is the worst and you're fake, my man, you know? So, but I rhymed it. So it's okay. Um, but anyway, like I've always loved, uh, competitive art and I, I think as an academic and even in my little dabbles in sports philosophy, I don't necessarily think that the two cannot meet and someone can do it purely for the artistry. And there's many great bodybuilders who are respected, not because of how well they place like Ed Corney was a very good bodybuilder, but people know Ed Corney because he was a masterful poser. Right. Correct. And then there's someone like Frank Zane who was a multi-time Mr. Olympia, but some people are much more interested in the aesthetics of his physique and the way he presented himself than the fact that he was an Olympia. Right. Yeah. But then you have your Phil Heath who like people like do this, you know, these are win, win, win, and never stop. Right. Like that's he, so I think people can connect with bodybuilding in many different ways. You can be highly extrinsically motivated, interested in having the world tighter title, wanting to get that sand out, et cetera, and really just wanting to beat others. Or you can see it as an artistic expression. And this is me having a vehicle to, you know, show my art or anything in between or a personal rite of passage, you know, like, like I think everyone connects to, and that that's the thing you're right. And then what I love about natural bodybuilding, especially is that more often than not, because people are selecting this unnecessarily hard pathway that also gets less visibility, less money, less promotion. And it came after, you know, bodybuilding was well-established. Um, when, especially in the pro ranks too, I I've only previously saw this as a coach. And now in the last several years, I've seen it as an athlete competing in the pros. Everyone has been there, has been in the game a while, most of the time. Um, and they've pushed themselves really, really hard. It's, you know, you have some disguise who, you know, are just genetic freaks and they're there for the first time. But most of the time, it's a lot of dudes in their thirties and forties who crush themselves and been crushing themselves for a decade. And they just want to be like, yo, Hey guys, we did it. Let's go celebrate on stage together. Um, and I think that's a beautiful thing and why I love the camaraderie. And I think it's because of the crucible we all go through to get on stage. So anyway, that was a long kind of, uh, intro, but that is something that really speaks to me. And it seems like while you may be viewed as like the genetic freak who just kind of trains hard and it works out for him. And I may be viewed as, oh, the plucky underdog who uses his brain to compete against people who are, you know, just meatheads. I think those are drastically caricature versions of us that don't respect kind of the humanity and the, and the similarities between many natural bodybuilders, especially who are kind of in it for the long haul. I agree. And for me, speaking on that, when I see people that are less genetically blessed than I am, take a physique, maximize that physique and get to a point that the average person can't get to, to me, that is more respectable than someone like myself who just stepped into the gym with 16 inch arms and lifted a freaking barbell and exploded three inch. Like that's not bodybuilding is not hard for me. And it's because I was blessed by my grandfather who just genetically was a God, but I don't think that I deserve the praise and adulation and all these, because it's not hard. It's not a thing that I consider to be difficult. When I see certain people start from 120 pounds and build up to 185 naturally, that's impressive. That's like, dude, you studied it, you applied it, you, you went against something that would, the deck was already stacked against you and you still won. Like, that's awesome. I was dealt a pair of aces. Like, it's not hard to win. You were dealt to seven deuce and somehow got me out of the game. Like, that's amazing to me. Again, that's just my own personal thing. I get inspired by people who I feel are doing something that I could never do. Because if I didn't have the genetics I have, I probably wouldn't be bodybuilding. I would probably be just a regular dad who goes and spend three hours in the gym. Oscar, honestly, I, I, um, I don't fully agree with your self-assessment, but I think that that is such a facilitative mindset. And I think it is why you are going to be, and already are, one of the greats in the sport, because you apply that mindset to yourself. You know, like, you're, you're right. Maybe you wouldn't be a bodybuilder if you didn't have some talent. Um, but you're in it now and you are pushing yourself as hard as you can. And you're trying to reach the pinnacle because, like, you have the Rocky mentality and you appreciate that. I can't tell you, having been in the game a long time, how many people with incredible genetics are loathe to admit it? How, you know, and, and just don't have an objective view of, of where they're at. And, you know, the, like, you know, like, their view is, you know, I've, I've, I've overcome some, and it's not like they haven't worked hard. Don't get me wrong. Everybody who steps on a body stage is, is, is, is a hard worker relative to the norm, but they, they view themselves as, as Rocky when in fact they are absolutely right. Well, I've seen this so much. Yeah. Right. Um, and it's easier. It feels better, you know? Yeah. And I think the fact that that pathway, that door is open for you anytime. And it's easy to, to feel like, oh, I worked hard. You only, I only know my own experience and I've done well, so I must be working harder than other people because, you know, genetics are, are, are, are, are bullshit. That's for weak people to, to focus on. I think you can, you, you could do that, but you don't. And I think that's really respectable. Um, and you know, to me, I'm very grateful that I have been a coach, a researcher, and an athlete, because sometimes people will be like, oh, like they'll either underplay everyone else and act like they're cheaters and be like, oh, I'm actually the pinnacle of natural bodybuilding, which is such a clear thing about them trying to make themselves feel better about their own natural talent. Or they will see me as this, this truly plucky underdog who has average genetics because they're probably following a lot of people with insane genetics. Cause that's what, or on gear or both, because that's what the social media gives them. And I've, I think I have a relatively balanced view of like, listen, I, I let's, let's be frank. I would not be able to get a pro card and be reasonably have a chance at being competitive if I wasn't at least above average. Right. But there are levels to work of genetics. When I go to WNBF worlds, it is a different playing field than when I get recruited for a resistance training study, because you know, like I, like if, if you look at data on thousands of people, I look like I'm in the top tier 1%. But if you look at data on hundreds of WNBF pro bodybuilders, uh, I'm 50th percentile, maybe 49th, you know, something like that. I'll take that. Yeah. I think your physique is awesome. Thank you. You know? So, but I think a lot of people struggle with that and it's because they tie their identity, they tie their self worth and they don't have a strong enough sense of self that they're looking for it from others. And of course, that's very common in bodybuilding. Obviously there's a tremendous amount of people who at least at one point were insecure who came into the sport. I think we can both be honest about that. Not everyone, by any means, painting, painting with broad brushstrokes. But I think it is the, if you want to know what a shark is, in my opinion, and I can say this very confidently as someone who is trying to develop this mentality over time as an athlete, but knows what it takes from a coaching perspective, because I can be more distant from it. It is someone who actually knows their own limits and is trying to redefine them, but doesn't pretend to ignore them and doesn't put on airs of like, oh, I, I, you know, like I'm always just going to push it to the limit because that is a, it's operating out of a position of fear, you know? Uh, yes. Yeah. You have to have that rationality to know what is my limits right now? What can I do so that, cause the shark in the water is calculated. He comes at people, he goes, all right, if I, if I do this, this, and this, here's what I can realistically do. Um, not just got to push all your chips to the center, bro. Burn your, burn your, burn your boats and go in. Like you can do that if you, if that happens to, to, to, to land you in the best spot, but ultimately that's, that's, that's the one, one percent of the one percent. And for a guy like me, I need to be very clear and calculated about how do I get every bit of blood out of the stone? And then where do I place that effort and time? And then what's a realistic outcome for me? Because if I go like, yeah, I'm going to win the, uh, the heavyweight world title in WBF worlds, I'm setting myself up for an unrealistic outcome. And I'm not saying that's never on the table. I do need to have some of that kind of like crazy optimism, but I have to think of it from a stepping stone of let's, let's see if I can get top five. So all that is to say the fact that you're able to recognize your talents and also really focus on the work is what truly breeds like generational champions. Uh, because so many people, when I, man, we've had applications come through for 3d muscle journey for, for since 2010. And, and sometimes we get really, really high level athletes who come to us and we see what their training and nutrition is. And we're just like, how they're doing that. And they look like that. Like, my God, imagine, imagine if, or, or the things that I hear athletes do on their diet. Well, yeah, I started six weeks out and you know, I'll be honest between you and me. I had a binge on Wednesday before the show. I had a two large pizzas and I'm like, wow. Like if, imagine if you tried, you know, like, or if you, or if you knew, if you knew the kind of effort that you could put forth and what that would accomplish. So there are, that becomes less and less and less and less likely at the highest level. I think there's very few say WMBF overall world champions who can rest on their laurels to any significant degree, but the number of people who are high level kind of like regional champs or like in a smaller organization, they got their pro card and they just kind of stumbled into it. It's, it's immense. Um, and you combine drugs, social media with that. And, and, and you get, you get a lot of people who can get away with things and you are not one of those. Um, and I want to, I want to just give you a lot of credit for that. For one, I think that that's quite rare and it's respectable. And I also want to say that, um, yeah, I, I love your mentality in the gym, even though it, you are not necessarily trying to do what most people would expect, what Dr. Helms would value of being like scientifically optimal at all times, because I think you have the much more important big rocks in place. I'll take that. You know, I, it's funny when you were talking there, it brought me back to something I said to Sean Fury. I don't know if you know who he is, but yeah, but I just did an interview with him and he said, he thought I was one of the best bodybuilders on the planet. And I told him I'm not, I'm just one of the luckiest because I really genuinely believe that my genetics are the reason I am where I am. Yeah. I work hard. Everybody does. But to work hard means very different things for very different people. My hard is not necessarily considered hard to a power lifter or a power builder. My hard is just above average amongst the people that everybody's a lion amongst sheep in their circle. You put that lion with other lions, then you know what really hard is. And that's the, I mean, while you were talking, I'm thinking of these people that have come, Hey man, I work hard. I do this. I did. And I'm like, yeah, dude, you were, your quads are just built to grow. That doesn't come from squatting six plates. That comes from you're just genetically blessed with good quads. I don't say that. I just, I kind of let people have their, their moment. Cause I really, you know, everybody has their own idea of who they are, but I fully understand that. I fully understand that the gift that was given to me is the reason why I compete. I don't compete to look a certain way and force my body to change. I compete because I look the way I look like I didn't want to step on stage. Had that guy not said anything to me in the bathroom, I still would be going to the same gym, lifting weights and doing absolutely nothing. But the idiot in me, as soon as he said that, I'm like, okay, cool, man, let's do it. Let's just, and I ended up falling in love with just posing and the presence of being on stage. And again, I just always think back to what do my kids think when they see me on stage. And I, I know, like, I, I remember coming home from worlds and my wife was telling me that my daughter was on the couch screaming, like screaming for me. And that that's awesome. You know what I'm saying? Like, I don't care if I'm the best bodybuilder in the world. To me, I'm the best bodybuilder with four kids and a wife and a mortgage and that that's enough from me in their minds. I'm the best. And that's all I care about. I compete because I look the way I look. Let's see how far we can go with it. But that last piece is important. Let's see how far we can go with it. And I think because you're aware of the gifts you have and you respect them and what it means, and you also know that hard is subjective and you use the other people who you're competing against at the highest level or the people who motivate you, maybe they're not at the highest level, but they've done something impressive with the cards they were dealt. Correct. You are respecting the gifts you have and taking them as far as you can. And that is something to be respected because, you know, like is losing 11 pounds in two weeks, a good idea? No, the fact that you can do it and did it, it speaks to your ability to grind. And, and, and that's the currency in bodybuilding that, that, that, that should be driving respect my man. And, uh, and, and you, and you got, you got money in the bank regardless of your genetics. So I have a tremendous amount of respect for you. Um, do you mind if I share something that you posted on your story recently? Yeah, yeah, go for it. I love this book. So this was on your story. And like I told you off air, it made me end up doing, like I went off my program when I read this and I, I trained more. All right. My training split doesn't have to make sense. My exercise selections aren't meant to be analyzed. My volume isn't meant to be duplicated. I post my workouts to provide transparency, not to promote imitation. If your first instinct is to question what I'm doing because you don't think it's optimal, then please enjoy your superior training style and let me enjoy lifting. I do this because I love bodybuilding. I love pushing my limits. I love that feeling of being completely destroyed by a brutal workout. I don't give a F about stepping on stage. My thrill comes from dominating 45 seconds. The salute emoji rant over. So that speaks to me so much because as much as I, I feel that I have to optimize everything. Um, and I constantly analyze and monitor what I'm doing. And I read everything that is ever has or will be published on bodybuilding. And I also observe the sport. I read the history. There is, like I said, I've said this before. I turn over every stone, every rock and every grain of sand to the best of my knowledge. And then I ask other people, hey, do you think I missed any sand? And I have coaches. I got a team around me. Um, I talked to my wife about how did I stay in terms of my values and my humanity and as a husband, as a partner. And I still do it. Then I think as an educator, I won't sacrifice anything, but in the constraints of who I identify as, as Eric, I am maximizing bodybuilding at the best of my capability. But a key piece of that, that I think a lot of people lose when they're a little more analytical or a little more on the scientific side, especially if they're coming in from it, from a perfectionist concerns. And what am I missing out on perspective is that the engine behind all of that is passion and it's rive. And I, I could, I, it's, it's a small component of my program, not the entirety of it, but it's an essential component. I do things that get me frigging motivated about the gym and I step in there and I'm ready to kill every time. As an example, I wanted to see if under 83 kilos, I could pull two, 200 kilos for a triple conventional. And I'm, I'm not a good conventional puller. I'm much better built for sumo during this prep, because that is actually a, a lifetime PR at any body weight for me. And I have not been training the conventional deadlift. And I know like, listen, I think I've gotten a lot of size. I've done a tremendous number, a tremendous amount of work on my posterior chain. Generally, like if I've really built the muscle, I think I've built in my glutes, hands, lower back, uh, and back in general. And I'm so much more muscular and I made this progress since 2023. I should be able to do a little bit of strength focus and hit a triple. And it's not like it's not building, you know, my back. I'll just control the eccentric. Yeah. And back in August, I hit that 200 kilos for a triple. And then I went to do the rest of my workout. Is that optimal? Is that part of the, uh, of what is the best approach to a, you know, back by hamstring on paper, perhaps not. Maybe it would be better just to keep doing the RDLs, but for my soul, Oscar, hell yeah, that's optimal. And if I don't have those pieces in there that get me excited, that get that inner masochist and, and, and shark ready to smell blood and get in the water, I need enough of that to then direct myself to what is optimal, but without it, then why am I here? Right. Yep. So anyway, I would love to hear more of your perspective on your training, because I, there is the assumption, you know, you've got a lot of followers on Instagram, over 100,000. Um, you put out great content. People are, are a fan of you and a fan of you as an athlete, and obviously a fan of your mentality. Um, you're, you're public to some degree, you're on this podcast podcast. And, you know, you're a high level competitor. So I think there's the, the assumption that just by sharing that it's advice, or that it's you planting your, your, your, your flag in the ground, or this is how you could train. And exactly. I, you gotta imagine that I feel a tremendous amount of responsibility as a science communicator, a coach, a researcher, a representative, someone who's taken on some responsibility as being a leader in our space. Like, ah, should I put the triple of deadlifts out there? Do I have to contextualize this? I mean, obviously I do. I've talked about it for 20 minutes just to help people understand, but that, that must be hard to, to, to know that that's the implicit assumption people have. Yeah. And I, I get a lot of DMs anytime I post my workouts, it's, I mean, bro, that's not optimal. You're, you're ruining a Lamborghini by trying to go for a one rep max. It's like, I don't give a shit. My body, I, I don't care. Like people get so tied into the, how to get from point A to point B when we're all just taking different paths and we're all going to end up at point B anyway. Just for me, it's always been find what works for you and just do that a lot. The rep ranges, all that stuff. Yes. There's science behind it. And I take every little bit of science I can. I apply it to my workouts. I try it out. If it doesn't work for me, I drop it because I'm not like everybody else. I feel like science applies to a large percentage of the population, but there there's always outliers. Maybe I'm an outlier when it comes to leg training, but I'm not, when it comes to arm training, maybe I'm an outlier with shoulder training, but not chest training. I try everything and I only accept the things that work for me. And how do I know it works for me? The mirror will tell me within a month. Am I seeing different lines on my shoulders? Oh, okay. So I guess I'm doing lateral raises the right way or the right rep range. 40 reps is too much for people, but it works for me. I I'll take it. And when I post my workouts again, I, I don't do it. Like you said, for people to follow, I don't do it because I want people to think that what I'm doing is correct. If anything, I'll be the first person to tell you, do not do what I'm doing. I just, I trained my wife today. We didn't do anything that I normally do. I'm like, babe, all right, you're going to stick to the, between the five and eight rep range. If you feel good, aim for 10, but don't, you don't have to go past 10. Meanwhile, I'm freaking ripping 405 for like 12 to 15. Like my back hurts everything. I'm just dying. Meanwhile, she's just doing her thing. Optimal form. Everything's great. I understand that not everybody's the same. The people that train with me, they train their own way. We follow the same program, but they don't do the same reps that I do. They don't use the same form that I use. They don't stay there for five minutes, figuring out their foot position and whether you feel your outer quad when you tilt out or in. They don't do any of that. That's more of a me thing because I love that. I want to change my body in a certain way where I feel like this thing that I just did worked for me. Try this out. Let me know if it works for you too. And if it doesn't, please throw it in the trash. It's not, it's not meant to be the end all be all. It's a guide, right? You get directions, you get lost. Just find your way back and just keep going. I'm not a messiah of workouts. Like I don't care. Just information is information. Take the stuff that works, everything else, just throw it away. There's stuff that I've seen that you've posted that Steve, that Alberto have, and I try it and it doesn't work. I don't feel it. I don't feel anything between eight to 10 reps. I don't feel leaning forward on the seated hamstring curl. I don't, I don't feel that. Maybe it works for other people though. That I don't go and comment. Yeah, I tried this. This sucks. Sorry. It doesn't work. Like I understand I'm not the only human being on the planet. Dude, I just feel like a lot of people take this stuff way too personal and they think that because it's science-based, that means that it has to work for everybody. And that's not the case. It's providing information to give you insight into things that might work for you, but definitely work for the group that was tested. You know, apply it. If it works, awesome. If it doesn't, guess what? Try something else. It's not that crazy. That's how we get and move the sport forward. Well said, sir. No, I, I couldn't, I couldn't agree with you more. And, uh, if, if there truly is an area where I think individual differences are probably most obvious and least disputable, it is in like exercise selection and execution. Because I mean, we, you can just look around like, I got some long ass tibias, you know, I got some narrow shoulders. I have different range of motion, different joint structure than someone else. Um, you know, like bodybuilding, it's, it's a dog and pony show. Like the high, the higher level you get, the more you see homogeneity in, in the, the skeletal structures. And, uh, but the human race generally, man, it's like, you know, we got Chihuahuas and Great Danes talking to each other on social media acting like they should be training the same way, which makes a zero. Exactly. So exactly. No, I love it. And I think, um, ultimately what you're describing is the scientific method in action. And, you know, that, that is something that I think people forget a lot is, um, the, the methods behind science are probably equally as important to people who are interested in applying science to their bodybuilding journey as the findings in the scientific studies themselves, which provide kind of those broad brush strokes starting in the right ballpark. But then the refinement does need to come from the practice the art of it. Correct. Um, yeah. And, and I think there, there is just so much more art and style to bodybuilding training than people give credit for, because there is a very broad range of things that can result in hypertrophy. It's not a specific performance growing muscle tissue. It's like farming, you know, and to kind of carry that analogy out, you know, a subsistence farmer in a Savannah area and someone else who's doing, you know, hydroponics on a space station and someone else who's trying to make genetically engineered crops work in a, in a large farming situation, they're all farming, but they're going to be using different soil composition, different feed. Well, you know, whatever, I'm, I'm not enough of a farmer to know what the hell I'm talking about, but I think people understand what I'm saying. And that, that, that reality that we see in the research of you can grow muscle with sets of five sets of 25, uh, you can, you can grow muscle with different exercise selection. It's not the same as, okay, what do I need to do to get a one RM squat as high as possible? That narrows it so much. And you start to like, you don't see people who go, no, I don't squat. Like, like if, if someone has a, as a two, two and a half or a higher times body weight squat, they squat sometimes. Right. You know? So correct. But you can find bodybuilders. Or three times. Exactly. I don't know who it is. But, but you're going to find bodybuilders with tremendous glutes and quads who may never have a barbell on their back. And that bothers your sensibilities because you are dogmatically attached to something that is a worthwhile reminder of maybe you shouldn't be dogmatically attached to things. So I love the perspective, man. I think there's a lot of wisdom in what you share. And again, it's, it's such a rare thing for someone to have the degree of self-awareness you have, um, while having the gifts you have, and also having the drive and that Rocky like mentality with the gifts you have, and also to be highly competitive while not being emotionally or in terms of yourself worth tied to the outcome, but tied to your deeper values. And I think it is something that people just need to see and be aware of, which is why I'm so glad you are open to coming on, because I think it's a much healthier approach to the sport. And I do want to thank you for, um, for sharing all that both on the podcast, but in general, because I think it is, it helps people understand the possibilities and how they can make bodybuilding something that is beneficial and something they can do in the long run without letting their insecurities or self-worth or competitive nature burn them out, which is so, so common, unfortunately, with the type of personalities who are attracted to this very, very challenging sport, uh, that, that can fundamentally change your relationship with your body, food, and the people around you. Yeah, I agree. Oh, that last prep. Jesus. Yeah, man. Yeah. But 2026, man, we're coming back better than ever. I'm already pumped for it. I got one month to go and I'm excited. I can't wait. Wow. I, I, that's good. Cause I, I, I, I did the question for me after this season, cause I'm only, geez, I'm, I'm one week out from the mayhem and I'm, um, I'm, I'm a few weeks after that I'm doing worlds. It's a question of, do I take one or two years off? So I get to be a fan no matter what in 2026 and, and I'll be cheering you on. I'm excited for that. So yeah, I just want to say, um, enjoy the rest of your offseason. I know it's going to be finishing relatively soon. When, when do you plan to start your 2026 prep? Uh, early December. I need to get past my wife's birthday, December 4th. And then after that, it's like social media is going down. Everything's going off and it's just zoning in and he's coming. And this is the lightest I've ever been in my offseason. The strongest I've ever been in my offseason and arguably the biggest I've ever been in my offseason. So we'll see. We'll see what happens. He's coming folks. You will need to watch. Oh, let's go. Now let's go. I'm excited. I'm excited. I do honestly think that, um, the best is yet to come for you. And I know that you believe that and thrive on the mentality, which means you will manifest it. And I think you have quite the future, uh, in the sport and it's an exciting time. Natural body building is growing. There's new athletes coming in. Um, and, uh, there's going to be some true clash of the Titans moments in the future and you're going to be a part of it. It's going to be awesome. Yeah. Oh yeah. Well, I just want to open the floor to you. We we've covered a lot of things and I really appreciate your transparency, your honesty, and your camaraderie in this discussion, but I want to give you the floor. Are there any things that you feel we haven't covered or things you want to say? Also feel free to shout out anything you want. I know, uh, I think people benefit from following you. So if you want to share your Instagram or anything else, please feel free. Uh, Instagram is th three underscore professor. Yeah. Just like that. I couldn't put the, so yes, it's th three hate me for it. Um, honestly, I like having open discussions like this, because it's not something that I do often. I don't like doing podcasts, but we, I just, I get invited by bodybuilders, like people that actually have gone through it. And I feel like it's almost a disservice to not participate. Um, the longevity podcast that I did with Kenny, he's also trying to push the sport forward. That's my thing. Anything that pushes natural bodybuilding forward where that one kid right now who has crazy arms in seventh grade is watching and looking and thinking, maybe I can do something with it. Yes, you can. I was that kid. I've always been that kid. And for me, it's, it's about that. It's about someone in the audience sitting down and looking at people like us and saying, I think I can do that. And then they become to be the greatest of all time. And that's going to be a changing thing. Humanity is only evolving and we're only going to get better. And I don't know, next year it might be me. The following year might be someone else. It doesn't, I don't get tied to any of that because I know that we're moving the sport forward and everybody wins when that happens. So yeah, open discussions like this are awesome. I don't really have a lot of questions. I don't really have a lot to say, but I, again, I just appreciate you taking the time to sit with me. Um, I love your stuff. I love your perspective. I love how you communicate that. You guys are awesome, man. Like I can't even express that enough. You guys, what you do for the sport and what you do for athletes, I couldn't do. And I'm a huge fan, huge fan. I was geeking when I murdered when I met Alberto at, uh, at world. So I'm like, dude, and he's like, oh, what you're going to do for the sport is great. And I'm like, what? Like, do you know who you are? But yeah, man, I'm a huge fan. I love all you guys. You guys are awesome. I, I do. It's an honor to hear that. And I think, uh, I think sometimes people are surprised just how much of a fan of natural body I am more than anything else. Cause it, it, it blows my mind when I see like, what Oscar's a fan of me, you know? So, um, yeah, no, no. Yeah, man, I watch your training. I see what you do. Let me go. And you let me know if you ever, if I ever say I went to failure and I didn't, you know, like keep, keep, keep, I would never be that guy. Keep your boy on, except for I can handle it. You know, I could tell by the face, man. I could tell when you got to fail. I'm, I'm yeah. Yeah. Well, let's, let's, uh, we'll, we'll, we'll keep at it. My friend. I appreciate that. The respect is mutual. And I just want to say thank you again for coming on. Um, iron Colt, thank you so much for joining us on this, this, this, uh, interview. Definitely make sure to give, uh, three prep professor, the follow or the professor, the follow in all seriousness, make sure you stay tuned for, uh, the WNBF competitive season in 2026, because, uh, I know it will be a sight to behold. I'll be watching. And, uh, once again, thank you for listening. Uh, make sure to give us five-star rating, make sure to like, share, subscribe. Uh, if you're really interested in digging into, uh, not only the science, but also supporting the podcast, check out massresearchreview.com and for all your lifting needs, use the code MRR10 over at our colleagues and good friend David Tate's spot over at Elite FTS. And we will catch you next time in Iron Culture.

=== FILE: Ep 356 - Pain-Free Training (ft. Dr. John Rusin) [AaZLpmtknYs].txt ===

 aromasin, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren, sesiaren sesiaren, sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren sesiaren steak. We're 350 something episodes in. We finally rectified that. But John, just in case, I'm sure many people in our audience will be very familiar with you and your work. Some percentage will not be so. Do you mind giving us, you know, just kind of a quick overview of your background, how you got into this space, maybe some of your credentials and really what is your, what is your thing that you kind of bring to fitness? What is your area that kind of occupies your mind? Well, I'm a personal trainer, strength coach. I went to school, have a doctorate in physical therapy. And over the last 19 years, I've worked in a lot of different areas of the fitness in the sports performance industry. After leaving doctorate physical therapy graduate school, I didn't end up being a physical therapist. I went right back into sports performance where I actually got my start. And I ended up working for about a decade in high performance athletics with mostly major league baseball, NFL offseason, and then working with Olympic athletes as well. And that was super cool. And that's what I wanted to do, especially when I was coming up as an athlete myself. And then, you know, 10 years later, I find myself dabbling into the focus being health and longevity and taking myself from 99% of my client load being professional athletes to now 90, 90% of my client load being just general people that want to look and feel good, that want to be healthy, want to extend their lives and have longevity, and use training and nutrition and lifestyle management as a source to be able to do that. Awesome. So you mentioned your background as an athlete. What was your sport of choice? So in high school, I was baseball, basketball, and football, as every great American has come up on. And in college, I was Division I baseball player. Awesome. Where at? I did St. Bonaventure University was where I started off, and I went to University of Rhode Island after transferring in. Cool. Very cool. I mean, it's not Duke, but... Transfer at... You transfer at the wrong time. Nowadays, you get to transfer every year, do whatever you want to do. You can be all over the place. It's crazy. I mean, I love college sport, not knocking it. I'm glad that athletes have the freedom to kind of pursue what's right for their career and everything. But it is crazy. You're watching a college football game, and you're like, this guy is a redshirt junior at his fourth university. Dude, it is so tough to watch college sports today for that exact reason, because you see their list of schools that they've gone to, and you're like, holy crap. You know, back when I played baseball, where I'm really dating myself now, we still had the ability to transfer one time without having to sit out. And it was a lot different than basketball and football at the time. So I had a really good offseason. I went down to the Florida Collegiate League. I led the league in hitting, and then I was like, oh, I guess I can go to a better school now because there's no transfer policy. And that was as naive as I was back at being 19 years old. Yeah. No, it's wild. I mean, and it's fun because I root for a couple teams in college sports. I'm a huge college sports fan. I root for my alma mater, Ohio State. And football is the main sport that I really like. But I root for Ohio State, and then I root for Duke, which is where I work now. Understandable. And it's really interesting where it's like if Ohio State has a good football player, we're not losing them. There's nowhere to go from there, right? Like our biggest concern is they're going to be in the draft in the blink of an eye, right? But with Duke, we have had football players who transfer out into kind of higher tier football programs. But then it's the opposite with basketball, right? If Ohio State has a great basketball player, they may transfer out and go to a Duke or, you know, a comparable program. Whereas with Duke, with basketball, we're not losing anybody. We're not having people transfer up because there's no up. But it's interesting when you're looking at just different rooting for different teams at kind of different competition levels and different tiers of competition. It's just a set of problems as a fan that you've never dealt with before, where it's like, well, if my guy doesn't get enough play time, he's going to transfer to a similar school. If he gets too much play time, he's going to transfer to a better school. If he's too good, he's just going to go to the NFL, you know, a year early. So you're like, I just want to watch good players for three or four years and get to know him. And yeah, it's harder than ever to do that. But Helms is going to kill me. I'm talking college sports, I shouldn't be. But the last question I had, he hates any sport that doesn't involve a barber. Last question I had for you. So when you were working with all these, you know, high level professional athletes, I assume that was in the States. Was that at a private training facility? Was that like an Olympic training center? Was it with a team itself? How did you arrange that? So after graduate school, I ended up doing an orthopedic sports performance residency in physical therapy, even though I'd never planned on really working as a physical therapist traditionally. And that led me into a multidisciplinary center in Southern California that had athletic trainers, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, and then also sports performance staff. So we're talking about speed coaches, sports performance coaches, and then also strength and conditioning staff. So it was almost like this meld of everything that I wanted to do all in one spot. And that's where I got my start. And then very quickly thereafter, I ended up privatizing my services, being able to run a more hybridized model between injury prevention, physical therapy, and of course, strength and conditioning, which is my forte, and running that for about a decade privately. And it brought me a lot of different places because I ran my private training business. And then I also like dabbled into contracts here and there, you know, that brought me to working with the Chinese Olympic Committee overseas, working with their Olympians. It brought me on the the women's professional tennis tour, you know, going to the Grand Slam tournaments and managing a number of players and everywhere in between. So it was a wild ride. But I think the number one thing in that period of specializing in sports performance athletes was, it was really nothing to do with performance. It was everything to do with prevention. And it was making sure that they were healthy, making sure that they were feeling good, and making sure that we're just doing the base things, the foundational principles and practices of strength and conditioning and exercise science, that is the least sexy thing in the world. So everyone listening right now, if you've never worked in this setting, you're like, Oh, you're not making anyone faster or making them jump higher. You're literally just problem solving around how to make them feel good that day. And hopefully being able to compound a bunch of different days into weeks into months in their off seasons or in their training prep to be able to have them just go out and be at their best when they get to competition. Yeah, you know, we were talking a few episodes ago about just working with high level athletes. We were talking to a sports scientist with the Houston Texans. And that is such a big misconception is that you bring in, I don't know how many people still hold this, but some do. But you bring in a group of fairly normal people to one of these facilities and turn them into an exceptional athlete. Like you made them faster. You made them, you know, infinitely stronger. And more so with what the case is, is that, you know, we have athletics from this young age, all the way up to the majors or professional leagues. There's all these different kind of levels of sorting of figuring out who are the incredible athletes. Of course, as an incredible athlete, if you have what it takes to do that, of course, you have the opportunity to squander it, drag your feet with it, or lean into it and do the things you should be doing those basic strength and conditioning things. But yeah, it's such a misconception that there's these like magical facilities that just turn people into freaks. And usually whenever those facilities do exist, they get busted about 10 years later with the big DEA sting. But no, I mean, like you said, it's doing normal, high quality, rigorous strength and conditioning and sports science, but just doing it consistently and doing it in a very personalized manner. And, you know, he and I were talking about just the, it's so different when you're working with these people with elite capabilities, because they can push their body to things that bodies aren't typically used to handling. So there is a lot of when to put on the gas, when to put on the brakes, how to manage that on a day to day. So yeah, I'm sure it was really cool. The last question I had for you here was, you mentioned you didn't plan to do kind of conventional physical therapy practice. What went into that? Was it a conscious decision? Did it just not scratch the itch for you? Were you too drawn to performance? So what went into that? So I started my career as a Division I strength and conditioning coach, and it was my be all end all career. I had the most fun there. I loved the camaraderie of being on a team and trying to go in and get those wins and grab those championships. And that was good enough for me. And I grew up in a household of Dr. and Dr. Russ, and they both had their PhDs. My dad was an athletic director. My mom was a dean of health and human services. So we have like this high pressure to continue on education, especially in my household. And I always had really good grades coming through. I was able to finish undergrad in three years and be able to go on and to do some different endeavors. And then all of a sudden, you know, about a year into working, I was still living at home, Buffalo, New York. A shout out. And they were like, I think there's more for your academic future than what you're doing right now. And I didn't know what that meant for me. I didn't know whether I wanted to go in and do a master's and try to go out and do PhD in the type of exercise science and gnesiology fields. I knew I wanted to do performance, but I didn't know what that meant. And then it all came right to a head very quickly because I was driving down Main Street in Buffalo, New York one day, and I was going to see my mom at Damon College, a small, tiny liberal arts school in Buffalo. And I see this huge billboard, brand new billboard right in front of the university. And it had this lady and she had a Dodgers hat on and she was in the dugout with the Dodgers. And it said like, congratulations, first female physical therapist in Major League Baseball history. And I was like, holy shit, that's what I want to do. Like at that moment, I said, hey, I want to go work in that field. And this physical therapy thing, that seems to be the ticket because that woman just did it. Like, maybe this is for me. And in a six month period later, I was enrolled in doctorate of physical therapy, even though I'd never been to physical therapy a day in my life. And I never knew anything really about the curriculum or the field. All I knew is that I had a scholarship. I was going to go and chase down some baseball dreams three and a half years later, hopefully. And I got smacked right in the face in my first semester being like, hey, you can't be a full-time strength and conditioning coach and go to a doctorate level program academically all at the same time. And really just ended up being specializing in academics to get through, continuing on with my coaching career for that three and a half year period, knowing very well that I was getting through those academic classes in order to then again, launch back at my dream, which was to go in and work with athletes. Yeah. It's always interesting. I remember I went and did my undergrad degree in exercise science. We had a very selective major because it was so lab-based at Ohio State at the time. You had to apply to get into the major and it was actually a very tough bar because everybody wanted to do it. So at Ohio State, exercise science was the very popular pre-med. You could use it and get into just about anything, right? I mean, you could do it and do it a couple other prereqs to go to med school. You could go to dentistry school, you name it, in allied health or the medical field, you could kind of get there from it. And so it was very competitive to get into it. But the vast, vast, vast majority of exercise science students at the time, they would say, who wants to be a physical therapist after this, all the hands in the room would go up. You know, it was kind of this, this link of exercise science to physical therapy to whatever's next after that. And so, yeah, you get a lot of exercise science students who ask, how do I get to this kind of high performance, really fun, professional sport kind of trajectory? And the answer is not always super clear. You know, the one thing they will tell you, the one thing they told us, they said, I know, you know, we know you're all going to apply to physical therapy school. And we read all of your applications here. And it looks like every single one of you wants to be the head physical therapist for your favorite professional sport team. So here's the thing, go find 100 people who have done physical therapy, you're going to find that 98 of them are general population, it and it's going to be people who slipped on the ice, it's going to be people who have, you know, some kind of workplace injury, it's going to be your neighbor, your cousin, it's going to be anyone but an NFL, you know, NFL player, major league baseball player, unless, you know, you kind of, you know, carve out your own path. So it's always interesting to hear people's what directions they kind of take. And now there's, we talked to Mark Lewis, as I mentioned previously about sports science being the new kind of path to kind of get into that world. So there's no easy path, but there are many viable paths. So it's, I'm glad that it worked out for you and you got into that space. I think there's some unconventional paths as well. There's no linear path to success. And ultimately, you don't necessarily pick what you're going to be great at or the opportunities that you had. You know, 10 years after working with this selective population with pro and Olympic athletes, I finally made it to the point where, hey, an NBA team was offering me a head strength and conditioning position. And they loved my background and my licensing in physical therapy. They loved my expertise in sports performance and sports science. And I end up going, you know what? No, I'm turning this down. The whole thing that I was working for over the last 14 years, I'm turning it down because my focus just tended to shift. There's a lot of things going on in my mind at that point in time, but a lot of things move towards what am I really doing? What am I doing as a professional? What am I doing as a man? How am I helping people deeply, not only get into better shape or be able to get a pro contract, but how am I helping people change the trajectory of their lives? Because that's the kind of power that we do have working with people. And I remember like turning down that job and then going home and being like, oh my God, I have so much regret like two weeks later and going back and like, oh no, I'm just kidding. I'll go in and take it. And they're like, no, we've already moved on as they move on super quick. And then at that point in time, it was like, no, I need to do something more vocational. I need to do something that makes a larger impact than what I've been doing, even though I had a great time, some of the best memories of my entire life doing what I did, but I knew very well then and there that I needed to go a different direction. And that direction was already kind of carving its way out for me, which was working with general fitness population, working with people that wanted to optimize, working with people that were in chronic pain, working with people that had chronic health conditions that needed to go and rebuild their bodies, rebuild their systems and being able to have like a different trajectory for their life and their lifestyle. And it was hard to like almost start over halfway through like your working career, but it was the best possible thing that could have happened at that point in time, because that opened up the ability to go in and do a lot of the education that I now do today. And then be a true specialist in the populations that I work with, which are the aging populations and the ones that are highly underserved in our industry today. Absolutely. Yeah. I mean, it's as someone who I I've talked to the podcast audience knows about it. I dealt with a chronic pain issue for the better part of seven years. And I can tell you what, I've had a lot of coaches who have helped me on the mat, on the field, on the court, whatever. However, the medical practitioners who finally helped me resolve a seven year chronic pain issue. Those are the people that changed my life. Period. There is no question about it. It's like there is like if you were to list out the kind of day to day impact, there's them and then a massive gap and just about everybody else who's kind of helped out in those peripheral ways with performance and things like that. So I totally understand that. And yeah, I think the capacity to help, I mean, especially when you think about the demographics, you know, I work at a university and the big thing that no one talks about and everyone thinks about is the demographic, they call it the demographic cliff, where there's fewer young people and a lot of old people. And for a university, that's not great business. Yeah. But, but when it comes to, you know, there, there's this massive and growing population of people in their sixties, seventies and beyond who are, you know, dealing with pain on a regular basis. And a lot of people in the late thirties to fifties ish who are, you know, they're at that critical point in that, that inflection point where it's like, what are your seventies, eighties and nineties going to look like, you know, based on the things you're doing over the next couple of years in the next couple of decades. So it's, it's awesome to hear that you've kind of found your calling in addressing how to get people comfortable with movement, how to get them moving better, how to get them moving in a way that not only fails to contribute or cause pain, but also sets them up to have a more pain-free life than if they did nothing at all. Um, because that's the one thing that gets, I think, lost on a lot of people is sometimes people wonder, could doing exercise this way or that way cause me pain in the future? And no one really asked the question, what pain will I be causing myself by, by doing no exercise? And the answer is substantial pain, right? Um, so that, that brings me to, uh, John, uh, I really appreciate it. You sent me a copy of your book, which just came out just under two weeks ago called pain-free performance. Uh, the, uh, subtitle is move better, train smarter, and build an unbreakable body. And you wrote this with Glenn, uh, Cordoza. So, uh, I really appreciate you sending that. I was able to, uh, to read through it, really enjoyed it, really, um, extremely well done, high, highly professional, uh, really, really good stuff. And so I did want to take some time, um, on this episode to talk to you about some of the, the basic principles. Cause obviously, you know, the book is, it's not like you came up with principles to write a book. You came up with principles, you have this career, and then you say, I want to organize this in a way that's more shareable that can get out to people. So the first thing I want to talk about before we get too deep into those book concepts are, I think it's really important whenever you talk about pain to talk about it in a way that's, you know, extremely rooted in evidence. And, uh, the iron culture, uh, the audience knows I've gone on my, my rants about this before, so I won't put them through it again, but we've seen in the fitness industry, um, a real big shift in the way people talk about pain. And frankly, the way that people police talking, about pain, you know, so back in the day, it used to, you know, we go back to the eighties, no one's really given this a whole lot of thought in fitness, right? It was, everyone was kind of locked into this biomedical model or Cartesian model where, where it's pretty straightforward. And if I'm, if I'm straw manning, uh, this argument, it's unintentional, but, but for the sake of being concise, basically, if you have pain, it's because a tissue is broken. That pain will persist until the tissue is healed. Uh, you probably cause that tissue to break by moving wrong. Um, and the degree to which you feel pain will be approximately linearly related to how broken that tissue is. And that was pretty much it. Pain relates to broken tissue and you probably broke it. And until you fix it, you're going to have that same level of pain. Now that's a reductionist view of pain. Obviously it's very much oversimplified. And there was a correction, which quickly crescendoed and snowballed into an overcorrection in fitness, which is if you dared to suggest that pain could be related, uh, in some cases to tissue damage, you would immediately kind of have like 10 people kind of cornering you on the internet. You have to defend yourself and talk your way out of it and explain your case. Um, so there's this huge overcorrection where people started to embrace the biopsychosocial model, right? Which kind of recognizes that that pain is a really unique experience. There's a lot tied up into it. There's psychological elements, there's social elements. Of course there's biological elements. And so the pain that you're feeling, yes, you feel pain because you, you know, did something to your shoulder and you know what you did to your shoulder, but you also feel pain because maybe there is a, an expectancy effect going on where you were nervous about doing that exercise and then it started bothering your shoulder and that's amplifying your pain experience. Or you hang around with a bunch of power lifters and everyone's got seven things that they complain about every time they get up off the couch. Oh, my back and my hip and my knee. And you're in a social environment that predisposes you to look for some of that pain and perhaps amplify it in your mind. But, but John, we were talking about this before we started recording. Um, and I've written about this, uh, more times than I should, honestly, I think people are tired of me ranting about it, but we got so wrapped up. We, the collective kind of evidence-based fitness world that we got so wrapped up in the biopsychosocial model. We just turned it into the psychosocial model. And we started gaslighting people into saying there is no collection, no, uh, correlation whatsoever between the way you move and the things that happen to your body. And even if there were, there's no correlation between the things that happen to your body and the pain that you experience as a result. So John, after that enormous wind up and lead in, I just love to hear your experience as someone who actually works in this area directly. Um, what has it been like for you kind of navigating that sea change? Have you, uh, have you had any dustups where you've had to kind of correct the record? Have people kind of come after you in that camp or have you pretty much lived on the periphery of it? Early on, uh, you know, I'm talking 10, eight, 10 years ago. We had those dustups like you're talking to getting cornered in the internet, brought a smile to my face. Cause I'm like, yep, I've been there before, but I think the name of the book, the name of my company, the name of our certification education system says it all. It's pain-free performance. It's not pain-free it's pain-free performance. And it's a spectrum in which we live on. You know, we are going to have natural occurrences of pain and injuries and flare ups and ouchies and boo-boos that happen. It's a natural part of being human and the human experience, but what's not natural is just blaming everything on a model in which is not really highly controllable. So when we talk about, especially in pain-free performance, this is sub clinical chronic pain styles that we are going to try to train smarter around and be able to re-systemize the way in somebody is moving for a starting point being some sound biomechanics, cause that's a great place to start for pain-free and also for optimizing performance. And then honestly going from there and deep diving in on a lot of these different nuances that need to be addressed, not in one single session, but over the course of a client management topic, when we go, you know, weeks, months, years in the management of these people, but really what pain-free means for us is that as coaches, as trainers, as physical therapists, as physicians, when we train, we should not be eliciting more pain than when we came in. So we have a big tenant of trying to reduce a pain signal, trying to reduce a subjective pain signal and making somebody just feel better. You know, it's super unsexy to say, but Hey, being able to move, being able to move well, being able to be diversified in your movement system allows us to actually reduce the pain signaling. Whether that's coming from a mechanical model or whether that's coming from a neurological model and a pain science model, who cares if we're getting the result from it? So we'd like to start there, but we need to realize that everyone is individualized in terms of the way in which they're perceiving things. And it's not just a, Hey, you deadlifted like shit. No kidding. You blew out your back. It's your fault. There are so many different layers of things that we can point to in terms of injury risk mitigation that I don't think get a whole lot of servicing today in our industry because they're just not sexy items. You know, there's a breakout in the pain-free performance book that looks at the zone of neutrality in terms of spine. And that's a concept that like, yeah, no shit. We should be trying to keep a neutral ish spinal position. But what does that actually mean? It means that we have these buffering zones that aren't static. They're actually fluid and dynamic based on so many different biopsychosocial physical criterias. It's based on the sleep the night before it's based on your hydration levels. It's based on your macro nutrient partitioning content. It's based on the positions that you're in the novelty that you're in the load over the last day, seven days, 30 days, how much you're ramping that up. And also how much you're actually getting into it in terms of a movement mastery mindset. Are you going in with the volitional control of actually executing it with high quality? So it's not just like, Hey, this is the zone of neutral. If you break right or left of this, you're going to be injured. It's not that simple. And based on people's pain responses, this zone is extraordinarily fluid. So part of my job as a coach and as somebody who is educating a lot of other coaches and professionals in the field is to say that everyone is an individual and we are in the business of matching the two most subjective things in the world, in my opinion, which are human pain and human movement together. And we're trying to manage people an hour at a time and trying to get them strong and trying to gain muscle and trying to improve mobility and optimize performance transferability. Oh my God. You know, this is a far more complicated matter than just, Hey, the biomechanical model is King. Yeah, absolutely. For sure. Now in your book, there's, there's a few elements of this that I'd like to chat about. So first of all, you list in your book, there's a whole section on the six foundational movement patterns. So you put in squat, hinge, lunge, push, pull, and carry. Now, my first question is going to be squat, hinge, push, pull. I think every iron culture listener, because we do have a bias toward the bodybuilding powerlifting. They're going to be like, absolutely. I'm on board. Can you sell us on lunge and carry being foundational and worthwhile as including into a well-rounded program? Let's more clearly define what these two things are, and it will give us a better classification to have the conversation around. So the lunge isn't just lunging across the floor with a barbell on your back with walking lunges. The lunge is any type of lunge, split squat, or asymmetrical lower body directed movement. So that is going to be key because we spend 80 plus percent of our movement lives in asymmetrical single leg stances. This is going to be huge, especially for mitigating spine stress, increasing muscular trainability, and simply having a transference into being a real life human being that can move through space. So that is that pattern. And then carry is actually locomotion. Carry is carrying your body through space. So it's the reciprocation of the arms and the legs working reciprocally on the pillar complex, shoulders, hips, and core working together in spiral lines. So this could be something like crawling. It could be something like sprinting, change of direction, agility drills, all the way up into something as mundane as the aerodyne bike. You know, as long as we have the properties of moving reciprocally and actually moving ourselves through space or pretending to on something like the bike, then that is what qualifies there. It's not just heavy ass farmers carries. So those are the two misconceptions that we usually get in the six foundational movement pattern model. And very quickly, people were like, yeah, I could see having an asymmetrical stance every now and then with my lower body directed training. And then obviously moving through space, you know, you're not human. If you can't get up, walk, run and start locomoting. Yeah, absolutely. And, you know, you see this, I'm sure in high performance sport, if you're working with high level basketball players and every single thing you do is them pushing two feet into the floor at the same time, you know, with a completely square stance. That's just not how the sport looks, right? I mean, they're going to need to, to kind of build up that capacity and that, that dynamic ability to move and do single leg jumps and things of that nature. So it definitely makes sense, especially when you're looking, I think people from the powerlifting world, and I was there, not, not everybody, you know, people take a million different approaches to powerlifting training, but I do think that my training got very one dimensional. You know, I was very much, you know, squat, hinge, push, little bit of pull because I still liked having a, a wide back, you know, that was about it. Um, but it got very, very one dimensional. And, uh, I, I do think, um, you know, it's always hard to go back from a chronic pain issue and draw back to exactly what were the causative factors. Um, but I definitely think a more well-rounded program would have set me up for a little bit more success there. I kind of had some issues, uh, with my movement quality, but I was able to ignore it because I was strong. It was like, what could be wrong if, if I'm strong and for the moment pain-free, but then that becomes a little more pain than normal, which becomes substantially more pain than normal, which, you know, all of a sudden, seven years later, I'm like, I haven't done a squat in four years. What went wrong? You know? So I definitely, I, if I could go back and do it again, I definitely would have gotten out of that rigid, overly simplistic approach to training, I think. And, uh, and kind of broaden my horizons, you know, have some more, um, more variability in my movement, more single leg stuff. Uh, and, and it sounds like a lot of what I would have included falls under that combined umbrella of lunge and carry. Yeah. Working with enough power lifters and bodybuilders, there is a bilateral emphasis on almost every style of old school training. Um, when I left a professional sport and I was like, all right, I'm going to go in and work with people that are in pain so they can get out of pain and perform again. I was left in Madison, Wisconsin, where I currently live right now. And I'm like, okay, cool. We don't have any professional sports here. Uh, university of Wisconsin, you know, it is what it is with the strength and conditioning. So there's not a whole lot of opportunities there. Who are the best high performers in the state of Wisconsin? And very quickly I realized, Hey, it's going to be your power lifters. Number one, it's actually the second strongest state in the entire country. Second to Texas in terms of power lifting. We have varsity power lifting here in Wisconsin. And then also there is an old school bodybuilding culture here that is very strong amongst the Midwest. And these were the people that were hurt that started coming to me. These were the people that were plateauing. These were the people that were burning out. These were the people coming off of injuries, rehabbing them. And the rehab didn't work because they can't get back and they're still in pain. So that's how I started to get into this type of population. To be clear, I'm not working with people in like seventies, eighties and getting ready to die. I'm working with people that are in their late twenties, their thirties and their forties being able to optimize because they're at risk of losing what they love to do for the rest of their life. This is everyone's worst scenario. Imagine your life unable to train ever again. I know I wouldn't be a happy camper. And that's what many people are coming into me. You know, people that were squatting in the seven and eight hundreds, people that were going in and attempting a 900, if not a thousand pound deadlifts in competition. And these people were hanging on by a thread. And the first thing that we do with anyone, not only these power lifters, but anyone is look at auditing their entire system. What does their training program look like? And it starts with, are you actually training all six foundational movement patterns? Because I do believe that that is a complete movement system that stands up to the test of time, but also is able to layer on specialty on top of it as the foundation. And many times you'll be like, okay, I'm hinging kind of, because it's not a pure hinge because it's my competition hinge. I'm definitely pushing, but only in the horizontal plane and only with my back on a bench. And I am squatting, but only to 90 degrees out of a stance that hurts my knees, my hips, and my lower back at the same time. And all of a sudden you're like, holy shit, I'm up for it. You know, this is what we're dealing with. And many times the first line of defense in terms of a rebuild mode was just re-implementing the things that they had lost due to disuse or misuse. So that looked like probably more pulling pattern, more carry pattern, definitely more pure hinging, more pure squatting, and then the ability to then specialize into your sport specific positions with the barbell. So this was a enlightening, um, four to five years where that was like a vast majority of the people that I was working with. And at the time I started to go out and teach the pain-free performance specialist certification. We've done a ton of courses and a ton of certified coaches over the years, but very early on in pain-free performance specialist certification, we were having a lot of sports performance and power lifters come in because it was at about the time when I was working with Dave Tate as a client. So elite FTS did this year long thing where it was a rebuilding Dave Tate. And it was this big project. I'd fly in every three to four weeks to Columbus at the S5 compound. We'd redo his training program. I put him through a couple workouts. It was all on video. Dave would bitch and moan about how he didn't want to do split squats and how like he didn't need the vertical patterns. And I was like, all right, like, like, just, let's just get into this. And it was an awesome eye-opening experience because, you know, Dave is extraordinary and he has so much wisdom, but he was in rooted into what he wanted to do. And a vast majority of the power lifters, the bodybuilders, and then just normal people out there are very similar even today working with them. But it was funnier coming from like a more polarizing figure like Dave, because he would have these sound bites like, John, why are we doing this split squat? Single leg work sucks. It's half the amount of weight and it's twice as hard and it sucks every time and I never get better. I'm like, that's why you need it. Exactly. But it's an eye-opening experience to, hey, when you lose the thing that you want to do for the rest of your life, you need to do some things differently in order to protect that thing, in order to gain physical autonomy, in order to make sure that you can continue on your path to what drives you. And I think a lot of the people that come to me, they're not coming to me because everything's fucking awesome. They're not like, wow, it's a great day. You know, I'm super jacked. I'm tan. I'm as big as possible. My mobility is awesome. I'm just feeling perfect. They're coming to me when shit's going wrong and they know that they need a little bit of a left turn in order to continue on a path to ultimately achieve their goals. Yeah. And I do want to clarify for listeners, you know, I'm not, um, I don't want to lean into, you know, the, the classic, like kinesiophobia kind of stuff of saying, well, I trained too much like a power lifter for too long. And that's why I was hurt for seven years or anything like that. I never want to lean into that overly simplistic interpretation of my own experience. Um, but at the same time, you know, I, I do think it's, um, like you're getting at what I experienced during that seven year period. And even the aftermath, I'm still not back to training the way I like. Um, I simply don't want that for people that I care about. I care about my audience. There's, there's a reciprocal care there. Um, and so, uh, to the extent that my, um, you know, overly minimalistic training program, uh, very likely did contribute to some of those issues. My, my hope is that, you know, people will not view this as, Oh, you, you have this pain-free movement guy on. So now you're talking up all this stuff. It's like, not really. I mean, I don't gain anything from getting on your good side here, John. But, um, you know, I, I definitely think that it's, it's worth expanding your horizons as a lifter, um, and making sure that you're, you're covering these core competencies. Because I will say with certainty, I went to, uh, multiple physical therapists in person as I was trying to get back, um, and kind of figure out what was going on. And they were pretty stunned. Um, cause they were like, wow, you are a very strong person with some very weak muscles. I was just saying, and what I mean by that is some of my, you know, for some movements, you can imagine which ones I had a lot of strength, but as they were doing some of these assessments, um, in the clinic, they were like, Whoa, like you've got some very unexpectedly weak muscles that are mixed in with some very strong muscles. And this is highly atypical. And you also have some major range of motion limitations. Um, so, so my, my question for you is, um, if you were to think through and, you know, I, I'm not talking bad about powerlifting. I love powerlifting. I love powerlifters, but, um, when you get some of these serious lifters, whether it's powerlifting, bodybuilding, who kind of follow these kind of traditional programs that have some blind spots, what are the most common things that, that kind of jumped out to you in terms of maybe certain muscles that were just in the aggregate, really neglected or certain, uh, certain joints where there was just extremely limited mobility. Did you pick up on any patterns or was everybody just a totally different case? There's a lot of individuality when it comes to being able to powerlift at a high level for a long period of time. I think that people will dabble into powerlifting and they'll like go and do one or two comps and it's like three or four years in and then they'll transition to something else. Usually crossfit when they have a kid. And that's not necessarily the people that I was working with. These are like lifers. So I think that the number one thing was that not every single training session, not every single prep needs to be specific to your sport specific stances and setups in terms of squat, bench, and deadlift. People will be like, holy shit, what are you talking about? When I manage at a power lifter in their offseason training, my number one thing is to be able to reestablish their human movement system. So that means that we're going to go and squat for your body type and your anthropometrics and your limb lengths, not just for your ability to move weight. And we do that one time per week. And then we move them into their sport specific positions, a second exposure per week. But what they're missing is actually the squat pattern, not just the squat exercise for competition. The same thing can be said for bench press and absolutely the same thing could be said to a larger extent for the deadlift. So I think we don't have to reinvent things, but we need to just be able to diversify our exercise selection and our movement patterning just enough to be able to go in and reestablish close to full ranges of motion in movement patterns, compounding, but also at isolated joints. You know, that's one-on-one of strength training. And then being able to go in and specialize in rebuilding weak links, especially if they're around chronic pain points. We're going to distribute more volume there on compound and isolation-based movements. And we're going to try to get stronger because, you know, the science will point to a stronger person is going to be a healthier person long-term. As soon as I say that, people are like, well, I see the strongest people on earth can't even like tie their shoes. How are they functional? And how are they pain-free? That's not what I'm talking about here. The stronger you are relatively to where you were before, the better off you're going to be in terms of injury risk mitigation. But then from there, being able to just get at the things that the sport doesn't naturally give you. And this is going to be like counterintuitive. But when we look at the rule of opposites, not the rule of specialty, but the rule of opposites, that's what a six to nine month period of your off-season should look like. What are you not naturally getting from your sport? That is what we're going to specialize in training. And that comes down to just base general physical preparedness for a human movement system that stands up to the test of the volumes and the intensities that these athletes are trying to push at. Awesome. Yeah. Now, it kind of brings me to a concept. We were talking before we started recording and you mentioned that you're really big on six particular physical characteristics for a well-rounded program. And I kind of stopped you. I was like, wait, wait, wait, tell me all you. Like, let's dig into that a little bit. So when you talk about these six physical characteristics, what are they? And, you know, why do you think that they're so useful? Why do you think they're so critical for a well-rounded program? Yes. So the six physical characteristics of health and longevity are power, strength, hypertrophy or body composition, if we want to call it that, cardio and conditioning, mobility, and athleticism. And this is what completes a human movement system profile. So we have the human movement system and then we have the core characteristics. When we put these two things together, it's something that we run as the cornerstone of every one of the programs or the client management that I'll do is call it six by six protocol. We want to be always co-managing all six foundational movement patterns and the six physical characteristics of health and longevity. And many times it's very similar story in the characteristics as it is in the patterns. We are using, if not misusing many of these core characteristics that are essentially the thing that we just need to get a little bit of a minimal effective dosage at with our training and with some of our physical focuses just so we can withstand them because it is a symbiotic unit as human function. It's not just like get as strong as possible and that is all that matters because eventually something is going to have a weak link. Something's going to have a pain or a performance plateau and you're going to have to look elsewhere in order to jump that. But what if we already had all of that in our system already and we had a base level of competency with all these different things? That is what we're talking about with the six characteristics. But you know, for the average lifter out there, whether they're a bodybuilder, whether they're a power lifter, whether they're just used to doing strength training, I think muscle and strength are going to be the big two that people are super comfortable with. But when it comes to mobility, when it comes to athleticism, when it comes to cardio and conditioning and power in a more athletic realm, that is going to be a novelty effect that has huge positive implications if we can just start sprinkling this into a more well-rounded protocol. Yeah. And that's the, you know, I've talked to some power lifters who are really locked in this, into this idea that they need to do this really advanced periodization and stuff like this. And they do whole power blocks and things like that. Are you, do you view it that way in more of like a traditional, like linear block periodization kind of approach where you say for the next four weeks, for the next 12 weeks, whatever, we're going to focus on power? Or is this just a little bit that you sprinkle in kind of throughout most of the calendar year to just kind of keep it? We will maintain it throughout 12 months a year, but the way in which we emphasize certain characteristics over others is going to be individual basis, but also time of the year basis. Like how close are we to getting after whatever your goal is and then being able to backlog from there. In terms of like old school style block periodization, living in the real world, coaching real life human beings, even top performers, professional athletes, power lifters that are world-class, it's not conducive to staying consistent on a schedule and not mentally beating ourselves. I just don't see it being a great long-term strategy. There's a gym that I train at in Madison, Wisconsin here. It's the strongest gym in Wisconsin, mad town fitness, unbelievable gym. We have people that are world-class at bodybuilding and powerlifting in there. And then you got the college kids, you got the college kids in there and you'll see that they're like three weeks into like a 15 week cycle. They miss one workout and they go back to week one because they're like, Oh, I can't work all the way up to 15 weeks. If I missed one workout, I'd need to go back in and start it over. And as funny as that sounds talking on the podcast to you who knows their shit, that's where the average person is at. They think it's an all or none thing. And this is a big defeatist mentality. When I see, just so you know, I teach, I teach intro to weight training. So I get to see the exact, the exact population you're talking about. I teach it in a college setting. So I'm speaking your language. Yeah. Yeah. But what we need to be looking at is being able to have a little bit more flexibility, but I like having, um, 12 week waves of emphasis. So an emphasis will be whether we're working on mobility and athleticism on an offseason, whether we're pushing towards peak performance on strength and power. Um, I'll use, um, anywhere from three to four different 12 week waves throughout somebody's, um, you know, 48 week cycle. And I really like doing that because it gives a little bit more time and a more well-rounded approach to being able to have a core focus because it's always important to have a primary focus in your training. But then we just have to like, keep everything simmering. We have to keep it just good enough and a minimal effective dose. And you don't have to go crazy on this stuff. So when we're talking about minimal effective dose for some of these unsexy physical characteristics, we're really thinking about like maybe like 25, 30 total reps of power per week. We're thinking about maybe 15 to 20 minutes total of mobility per week. Uh, we're talking about having athleticism, maybe being 20 to 25 minutes total per week. And you're like, I think I can do that because that it's four to five minutes per characteristic per workout. And you're like, I can invest in that. And then the other 85 to 90% of your workout is going to be your core focus, which for most people are going to be muscle and strength. And this allows us to just slow play the neural skill development of many of these novel factors, especially moving like an athlete through space, especially not power, like power lifting or Olympic lifting, or just very bilateral based movements. We're talking about fluid, um, lateralized rotational based planes, and then also unilateral focuses using unconventional training tools for power. All of a sudden you're building these skills up and it's not just about the muscle and strength. It's about the neurological adaptations that you're building that you can start to almost naturally see a transference into your movement quality, your movement performance. And then that glass ceiling slowly starts to raise in terms of just your competency, even in sports specific positions. Yeah, absolutely. How much trouble do you have? And so, you know, when I think one of the things that without question drew me into bodybuilding and power lifting initially was I cannot chill. I have no, I, and it's not that I'm an intense personality. It's that I have no ability to embrace subtlety or, uh, for example, when I decided I wanted to learn about exercise science, I said, well, then I'll do a PhD. When I decided I wanted to get in shape, I said, well, then I'll try to go pro in bodybuilding. And when I decided I wanted to get strong, I, I immediately was like, well, what, um, state records would I like to circle in power lifting? Right. I just, there's no, I, I, I've, I really struggle. And in some cases it's been great in my life. In other cases, it's been a huge detriment to my life, but I'm old enough now to know it's there, whether it can be a worked out of me between now and the day I die. We'll see I'll work on it. But for people like me, which is a decent percentage of the people who get into bodybuilding and power lifting, these people who they can't just go halfway, they have to go all the way. How do you, do you struggle to convince people that the 15 minutes of mobility a week is going to do anything? You know, with these people who are so into going all the way with everything and being hyper specialized, do you struggle to get them on board? Not with the fact that they can, dedicate the 15 or 20 minutes a week, but that it's, it could possibly do anything for them. I don't struggle with it because they're seeking out my professional guidance and expertise because something's going wrong, very wrong for them. And they need to have a different path forward. And they know that I'll give it to them real and the investments of their time and energy, I take very seriously. So when I give somebody something, I want to have a results base with it. We want to see that it's actually working. And I think that speaks volumes for this type of mentality. I'm very, very similar. You tell me that I'm going to do something, I'm going to go all the way in it. And I want to do everything. And that only gets you so far. If I'm being completely honest, I, I'll be the first one to say that I've burned out. I've broken down. I've had catastrophic injuries. I've pushed too hard. I pushed too much and you learn from it. But I want to make sure that people aren't broken mentally. They're not broken emotionally. They're not broken physically because most people will push through the brink where they are at risk of fat. And that is a tough, tough day. You know, the deeper you dig that hole, the more dirt that you have to fill that hole in to get out of it. And it takes a longer period of time. So my goal is to be able to get people going in and just doing little things that can compound over time to make a difference. And when they feel a difference, they will stick with it. If the shit that you're doing doesn't work, nobody's going to stick with that. Going into physical therapy and getting a sheet of paper with three stretches that you're supposed to do at home. Nobody does it because this shit doesn't work. And they don't believe that it works. And they don't think that the system is going to help them get out of the problem that they're in. But I think that when we start to see that health is the biggest potentiator that we have for our performance, that is going to be that paradigm shift that clicks in for people and goes, Hey, if I not only want to compete at the highest level right now, but I want to continue on doing this because this is what I love to do. Then I need to make sure that I'm putting my health before performance. As cliche as it sounds, I am a huge believer that if you put performance in front of your health, you will eventually lose both. If you get the base health taken care of, then you have the highest ceiling possible in terms of your performance, because you're going to be able to withstand the years and continue to get better and continue to learn and mature and gain wisdom on how to essentially explore your body over time. Yeah. I mean, we see that all the time in, uh, you know, power lifting and bodybuilding. There's the people who go all gas, no breaks. They do, they treat their careers as if it's a sprint and three years into it, they've made incredible progress. And you say, Oh my God, if we project out 10 years from now, they're going to be unstoppable. They don't make it 10 years from now. Right. And then it's the people who have been doing it for, they've been doing it quietly, slow and steady for the last 21 years. And they're just freaks of nature. And it's like, I'm not a freak. I just did it consistently over time and didn't burn out. Didn't fly too close to the sun. Uh, didn't push my luck. Um, so yeah, and I agree with you, you know, as a coach, it was so, I felt like such a hypocrite because I know my own tendencies where everything is all or none, you know? And I think knowing those tendencies and knowing they're not useful or that they're ultimately counterproductive in a lot of contexts helped me as a coach to steer people away from that. And so it was very much a like hypocritical do as I say, not as I do kind of thing, but, but it did help me realize, Oh, I've seen what goes wrong when we go all in full blast, hyper-specialized without mine, you know, paying attention to some of these other things. And so I noticed the same thing you did, which is that with my clients, they would, because they sought me out, uh, for what I do, they would, you know, um, heed my advice when I say, you know, I think it would be good if we included a little bit of this here and never would they say, well, what, what would that possibly do? Right. So it's, it's, um, I definitely can relate to that. Now, the one thing I want to mention here, so we kind of talked about these foundational patterns, these foundational physical characteristics for, you know, um, health and performance and longevity. Um, another thing that you're really big on is movement, individualization and movement optimization. Um, and that sounds good, you know, in principle, I can get on board with the idea that when you optimize and individualize movement, you're, you know, you're probably going to be moving in a way that's efficient, a way that's strong, a way that should be about as pain-free as you're going to get. Um, but my question is a little deeper than that, which is what is your system for actual individualization and optimization? How do you, when you walk into the gym, brand new client, where do you start? How do you kind of systematize the process of doing that? Cause I think everyone would agree on paper. That sounds great, but, but what is the how more so than the why? You're holding the textbook, my brother. Um, that's one of the biggest reasons that I run the certification courses. And then I wrote the book is that I was able to get it all in one place at one time. You know, when you look at the squat hinge lunge, push, pull carry, yes, everyone should be doing all of those. Cool. That's a great auditing starting point. But what does that actually mean in terms of programming, in terms of implementation, in terms of exercise selection, and then most importantly, individualization of the core patterns. We need to be able to look at people as not all the same. I think over the years in our industry, we've been like, Hey, here's the perfect squat. Everyone's squat like this shoulder width apart at the heels, toe out 15 degrees at the toes and only go to parallel and hold the bar in a low bar position because it's mechanically advantageous and go. It doesn't work for a vast majority of people. And it could be that way for every single one of these patterns. So we go through and inside of my assessment protocols, they're quick hitting and they look at anthropometrical variables to be able to put us in the best possible position that is going to look at not the whole system, but one unique variable in which we can get the most data points. So the squat is an example. Yes, we have limb lengths. I think we've known that for a while, you know, shin length versus the femur length versus the torso length. There's a lot of really cool infographics on, on YouTube, but you can see that in action. But what about deeper than that? What about the anthropometrics of something like the hip type and the hip structure and that joint itself in terms of its angulation, its depth, its height, because that is going to totally alter the way that somebody is going to position their feet, position their knee to knee distance, have their depth from the butt to ground distance, and also positively or negatively impact the torso angulation at the bottom of the squat. So all of a sudden you're like, wow, by going through and actually spending two to three minutes and looking at your unique hip type and where we can get the most centration and the most freed up positions, that is where we're going to be the strongest through the most amount of range of motion that we possibly can. And that is the foundational pattern of a squat versus specializing a specific exercise for an activity. But every single one of the patterns has unique anthropometrical variables that we can look at from a common sense approach, gain a little bit of data from it, and then be able to go in and have them moving a little bit better. And I don't think that it's this huge biomechanical model, you know, that only goes so far, 20 years ago, I was working on doctoral dissertation studies, and I had the biomechanical model. And it was kind of bullshit because it didn't tell the whole story. But when you can look at somebody move individual for them, or if you're coming in with subjective problems or pain responses, and then you're able to have them position themselves, and then coaching cue around the neural dynamics of the actual execution, then it comes together as an actual movement that could most likely transfer into somebody's life. But, you know, we go step by step, pattern by pattern, with simple screens and also assessment protocols to get people moving for their body, not for somebody else's. And I think that core construct is so hard for people to understand right off the bat, is that there is no one perfect movement. There will never be a perfect way to squat or deadlift, or do a single leg pattern or push a dumbbell up overhead. It's going to be really individual to the way that you're feeling the way that you're functioning. And then the things that you can't change, like your bony structures. Now, do you ever have situations, or would you in a hypothetical, let's say you've got a powerlifter, right? And powerlifting generally, is going to reward people who go for a nice hip dominant, low bar squat, right? You want to get to legal depth, but no deeper. Absolutely. Would you find yourself in a scenario where you do an assessment with a powerlifter? You kind of figure out, okay, here's what we're getting with your hips. Based on that, you know, I'm thinking we should have, you know, this kind of torso angle, this kind of width with your feet, this kind of toe angle. You kind of, you know, deconstruct and reconstruct the whole thing, but you end up with them where, you know, their kind of most optimized individualized squat, you know, maybe it looks like this, you know, kind of Olympic weightlifter high bar, you know, do you ever run into a situation where you would say, well, for the majority of our squatting in training away from competition, we're going to do what kind of suits the way you're built in the way you move. And then we're just going to do like a quick specialization block of your, your kind of more powerlifting type setup, knowing that it's not necessarily optimized for your body, but it's simply the version that gets you the heaviest load on the bar. Like how do you address that or reconcile those? That's exactly what I do. If they come in with pain problems, we're going to go right back to their most authentic squat pattern. And we're going to go in and we're going to train that and we're going to ingrain that. And it's some of the most humbling sessions that you will ever see. The first couple blocks of a rebuild program is nothing sexy. People are going to be goblet squatting. Early on, I'd be like, I can squat 800 pounds. Why do I have this 50 pound dumbbell? And why am I doing sets of 20 with it? Because we're trying to rewire your system to simply go in and expose the joints, expose some of the soft tissues, expose your system to what it was meant to be able to do. And I think that if we can get strong out of that base position, the strong transfers, and we're able to callous the system in such a way that adds to diversity in terms of your patterning, being able to be a little bit more challenged and be able to be a little bit more complete. What I tend to do is I will cycle somebody in an offseason on a rebuild and I will little by little get closer and closer and closer to their end sports specialization stance. And that is awesome because it's not like, Hey, you have to goblet squat for nine months. Nobody would ever come in train with me if it was that way. But we'd go from goblet squats to being able to get into box squat variance, to be able to get into front loaded anterior load variance, to being able to get on a bar on the back into different positions and different stances and different ranges of motion. And then as soon as we get closer to that, what they were from a leverage perspective, able to compete at, at the highest level, then everything is stronger. When the system is stronger, when the pattern is stronger and it's more diverse because the foundation is wider, we have a better ability to withstand that sports specific loading stress. When we actually get to the point where we want to specialize back into it. And this is something that I do with every single pattern, but even in competition or in prep, I will keep that natural pattern, that natural foundational pattern in one time per week. And it doesn't have to be anything crazy. You know, if it's a squat, it could be, you know, three sets of goblet squats as a metabolic stress finisher on the quads, you know, at the end of a lower body directed day with a squat emphasis, it doesn't have to be nuts, but you just have to, from up here, keep it in your system so we can have the benefits. It's not just about mechanically loading these muscles and tissues. It's about the neural skills. It's about the motor control that we gain. And it's about owning your positions in different ranges of motion so we can strengthen the entire system. Yeah. No, that makes a lot of sense. And I, I'm sure that, um, it's, it's hard, you know, when you're, when you squat 800 pounds and now you're squatting 185, you know, as you're kind of getting into the, this flow. But, um, yeah, I, I think, uh, when I'm working with, uh, people who are learning to squat for the first time, you know, I always, you know, kind of encourage them and say, you know, we're not trying to get the, you know, biggest squat gains we can possibly get in the next four weeks. We're trying to get you a good, comfortable squat you can use for the next four years or beyond or the four decades. Right. And so, uh, sometimes, you know, you will find folks who, um, have already kind of gotten ingrained in a squat pattern and it's clearly not serving them well because they're reporting a tremendous amount of pain. And, you know, it is hard to, to kind of convince people, let's go ahead and take those two steps backwards so we can take 70 steps forward. Um, but yeah, but it totally pays off for sure. Um, all right. Now, uh, John, your book, uh, is close to 600 pages long. And, uh, we, we have two options. One is that we could do like a nine hour podcast or the other one is that I could get a good hour from you, which I appreciate. I'm sure our audience appreciates and kind of leave with, uh, with one final open-ended question, which is, you know, we hit some of the highlights of kind of your views, your philosophies, many of which are really central to this book. If there's one other thing from this book that you'd really want to highlight and kind of give to our audience as maybe a principle or a suggestion or kind of a perspective that you think would be particularly insightful. Um, I want to give you this kind of open-ended platform for the last little bit here. Um, cause yeah, unfortunately we can't get to everything because this book has a lot in it. Um, but once again, I do want to encourage people, um, if you found this, uh, this episode to be interesting, if you heard some things that you found to be intriguing and potentially, uh, worthwhile and useful to your situation, uh, the book is called pain-free performance by Dr. John Russon. Um, it is really, really cool. And, uh, like I said, very, very thorough and detailed. So, um, what would be the final thing you'd like to, uh, to get off your chest here after writing a 600 page book? The biggest thing that we wanted to accomplish with pain-free performance was to empower people with movement, but more specifically empower people with smart strength training. I think there's a lot of ideas out there today of people championing strength training, and they don't actually know how to do it. They don't know how to program it. They don't know how to coach it. And they don't know how to put the pieces together for an entire system that we can actually maximally benefit from the actual strength training happening. So being able to make pain-free performance accessible for people to safely strength train, that was the core mission. But there's a reason why it's 576 pages. The first reason is that the publishing house cut us off at that. Second reason is that we had to be able to have systems that were able to be utilized and able to scale for any individual that comes through. You know, we talked about individualization of movement that is core to being able to be pain-free long-term and be able to perform optimally. But we also need to be well-rounded in our training. We have to have protocols to be able to, get ourselves out of pain without having to go to the doctor or the physical therapist every single time that you have a flare-up. All those things are in there. And it's really my life's work in one spot where it's a one-stop shop to be able to run our entire pain-free performance system in one standardized resource. Beautiful. Well, yeah, I very much hope that some of our listeners will check it out. You know, like I said, I really got locked into, when I was a grad student, I was running all these studies. I had no time, but I still had very ambitious goals for strength and physique and things like that. And I got really locked into this extremely minimalistic kind of approach to training, which has a time and a place. But I went minimalistic, but awfully high volume and extremely high workout density and kind of layered all these, you know, contributing factors that, you know, like I said, if I could go back, I sure wish that I would have taken a slightly more well-rounded approach to my training and kind of been more mindful of my blind spots and my weak spots, just to kind of maintain that general athleticism, that general movement competency, because I got really good at about four things. And that was fine because I thought that's what I needed at the time. And no, I think there's a lot that people can, can really gain from the idea of looking at, you know, your training program as a movement system and making sure that it's comprehensive in nature and that there's no massive, massive glaring blind spots. Now, ironically, you did mention Dave Tate and I forgot at the beginning of the episode to, we have a relationship with Elite FTS. We have, we have a wonderful friendship with them. And so you reminded me, sometimes I get so into the interviews or the conversation of the night, I forget to do it and Helms gives me a hard time. But if you want to support our good friend, Dave Tate and all of his colleagues over there at Elite FTS, make sure you go over to EliteFTS.com. They have a great online store there. If you're looking for lifting related apparel, lifting related gear, if you want to go dig up some old videos with John, maybe they got them on the website there. But yeah, go to EliteFTS.com, use our code MRR10. That's MassResearchReview10 for a 10% discount off of most of the things in the store. John, once again, thanks so much for joining us. It is criminal that it's been 350 episodes and we haven't had you on until now because you've been, you've been a big name in the industry for a long time doing really great work. So once again, I want to thank you so much for making time for us and I want to congratulate you. I think the book turned out really fantastic. I was on my porch reading through it the other day with my cat and I got pretty far until my cat, it's a screen porch. She started climbing the screen, which is not good for the screen. So that disrupted my reading. But up until that point, I thought it was fantastic. Thank you so much, Eric. It's my pleasure. And yeah, I wish you the best. All right, take care.

=== FILE: Ep 357 - WNBF Champs Heitor Sousa and Adão Martins [VL3iCYnkBHI].txt ===

 narex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, aiarex, AI culture. We are coming off the back of WMBF World, so this will be a series of episodes in the next few weeks where I touch base with some of the competitors who took it all the way to WMBF World at the pro level, competing at the highest levels, who have unique insights so you can get a behind the curtain look in elite level natural bodybuilding, the people, the events, the experience, the practice, and also the community, which I think is an amazing one. And this will be the first of those series of episodes. So if you appreciate, if you like this show, if you like this type of content, please do give us a thumbs up, a subscribe, five stars. I don't know how the internet works. Whatever things that send off bells and whistles that make iron culture do better, please, we need your help. And if you want to be one of our top tier supporters, please do check out Mass Research Review for all you nerds who want to know how to capitalize on nutrition, training, psychology, health, and fitness. This is Iron Culture supported by Mass, presented by the Mass Research Review. So definitely check that out. And then finally, we want to give a big shout out to Elite FTS, Dave Tate and co, our friends there. If you want any top quality lifting gear, definitely check out EliteFTS.com and you can use the Mass Research Review discount code for 10% off. That's MRR10. So anyway, without further ado, I want to welcome Haider Souza as well as Adal Martins to Iron Culture. These two guys had a fantastic season in 2025, culminating in both of them winning their height class in the men's physique pro division. And before that, I got to meet them both competing at the WNBF Taiwan, where I think that was probably almost just as competitive in your guys' division as Worlds itself. I won't spoil the plot as to who plays to where and what battles went down, but they both did very well. And then I also got to see Adal at the Muscle Mayhem. These guys, I joke with them, with the amount of competitions they do, especially Adal. I think we've settled on somewhere in the 60s or 70s, is our joking number of competitions he's done this year. But I will say, more mind-blowing than how often these guys competed this year, is the fact that they've been competing every year since 2022, turned pro in the same year together, and have been having epic battles in their division. They're setting the current standard in drug-free men's physique, and they've been doing it while improving. So I think that's something that is quite rare in natural bodybuilding generally, that people compete annually and don't just look the same or burn out. So I think we're going to have a really cool conversation about who can do that, how to do it, which categories maybe it's better suited to, and the methods they use. So first off, Haider Souza, Champ, welcome to the podcast. Hey guys, thank you so much, Eric, for the invitation to be in your podcast. It's really, really a big honor to be here talking a bit about all these competitions that I've been sharing with Adão in the last couple of years. And 2025, as you just told us, we met in Taiwan. You competed in your category, I competed in my category. It was a great experience, probably one of the best experiences that I had in terms of level of quality of an event. And you also were there to testify that and yeah, we met again in the world and just a week or two ago. And here we are to talk a bit about like no more relaxed, not in diet as we always have been every year with Adão. So yeah, thank you so much for the invitation. And here we are to talk openly about everything, about our diets, our competitions, our time, really good time on the backstage together and everything. Yeah. And I, it's, it's a true privileged pleasure. Thank you guys for giving up your time. And, uh, and I love that you highlighted how you approach, uh, your, your experience and time backstage. You guys are beaming, you're always smiling. And Adão, probably the man with the best smile, um, in, in the WNBF. I think that's a title you can take, even if you don't necessarily have the overall title. Adão Martins, welcome to Iron Culture. Okay. Thank you very much. It's a great pleasure to be here with you. It's an honor. And sharing this moment with Aether makes it more, even more special because, uh, we've been battling each other since 2022, but the most important thing that we developed through all these years is our friendship. So many people believe that we are like great rivals. We say yes, when we are on stage, we are, but we are really good friends. And the way we met in Portugal, it was really fun because we met during the athletes meeting and we were like, oh, how tall are you? Aether told me, and I was like, oh, probably you're going to go short. I'm going to go medium. So let's win. Let's go to the overalls and then let's go to the world. And we just made it in the first year. So since then, everything was like this. So, uh, being together again in LA three years later was really good because our first experience in LA wasn't, uh, as good as we expected to be. But after three years, we kind of, uh, or is it too? Yeah. Four years now. Yeah. We kind of understood why it all, all went through this and instead of giving up, we just made the turnaround. Um, so it's a great pleasure to be here to share all these histories and experience with everyone and learn more and more with you. How would the rule? Oh, please. Yeah, no, no, it is truly my, my pleasure. Um, I think, um, people underestimate just how much of a fan of the sport I am. Um, and I'm always shocked when people are like, oh, Eric, it's great to meet you. And I'm like, what are you talking about? You're the champ. It's great to meet you. Um, and just, uh, seeing how much respect, time, energy, and positivity you guys give out to your fellow competitors, uh, and one another. It is just so obvious, uh, that you guys have a bond and an appreciation for the community. And I think you're both great ambassadors, uh, for the sport. And I'd love to hear more about this. So, you know, feel free. You guys could tell the story together and whoever and however you want to. But so you guys, your first competitive season, at least together was in 2022. And like you said, it ended up going really well. But did either of you compete before 2022? Yeah, I, I, I, I competed in 2019 for the first time in my life. Uh, I've been, and I was 30 years old when I competed for the first time, but I've been working out for years. Because just, I just enjoyed, uh, every single year to build muscle and to look at myself and to be into, and to be, uh, skeptical about what should I develop more to be, to be looking better, to have a good, nice beach body. And that is always my goal, you know? Uh, and then, and then it just like ended up working out in a gym here in Oslo where I live that he was like a old school gym where the owner of the gym is the biggest bodybuilder of all times here in Ori with 70 years old or more. And he just said like, why you don't, why you don't go compete one day in men's physique and you, you try. And then because of being surrounded by that environment, I just, okay, let's, let's give it a try. And then 19, I competed for the first time. That was my first ever. And then second time was when I met Adam in 2022, but I actually, I don't know if Adam has competed before. Have you, Adam? No, no, actually 2022 was the first year. Uh, I started, I started competing. Um, the thing is that I've started gym in 2027 when I came to Brazil to study. But by that time, my goal was more into functional trading, uh, because I was more into football, uh, basketball and things like this. So I wanted to look good, but not looking at the bodybuilding side. And bodybuilding would be something that I would, uh, watch or see randomly. I like, I like to see the guys and things like that, but I was, I was never into it. So I, I told myself one day I want to do this. I want to live this experience. So I don't know when, so let's, let's do it one day. Okay. So I decided to, to compete or to start competing, uh, after COVID because I was basically almost two years. We, without being able to travel, uh, as you guys know, I worked, uh, offshore in oil and gas platform. So I stayed offshore for almost six months. So then I came off and I had another one and a half year without traveling. So it was not being good for myself or my mental health. So I said, okay, I need to do something where I can focus 100% on my, in myself, where I can challenge myself. So I, I just decided to, to do it. Then the first thing I decided to do was like, okay, um, as I want to do it natural, let me, let me go through all the natural federations. So I've seen many, I've spoken to many presidents and affiliates. I was studying the pros and cons. The thing is that, uh, by that time and still now there were no federation in my country, uh, the country where I work or where I spend more time, which is Angola. Uh, basically there were no shows in Africa. So I had to travel to do any other show. This was when I found the WNBF Portugal, because it was easier because I have family in Portugal. My dad lives in Portugal. My mom now is going to live in Portugal, have siblings in Portugal and like Angolans and Portuguese people. They have like this bond that will never be like killed or things like this. So I spoke to the president, Ilda. And by that moment, I was like, okay, this is what I want from me. Then I spoke to Bob. Uh, he gave me like everything I wanted and more, even more. And I was like, oh, the president of the federation is talking to me and is like answering all the questions. I'm all, all, all, all the questions, all the doubts. And I was like, okay, this is what I want from me. Uh, other federations still kept talking to me, but I was like, okay, this is the one I want. So 2022, the first competition I did was in Dubai. Uh, I didn't know nothing about posing. Uh, by then I had, uh, coach, a Portuguese one, Mario. Uh, but we didn't have the opportunity to be together. So I had to find a personal life, a trainer. So I went with my trainer by that time. My trainer, uh, he's called Perola. He, he was already, uh, he's a bodybuilder. He was African champion. He was already also European champion in other federation. He didn't have much experience with, uh, natural athletes, but we did pretty good because I don't believe I reached to, uh, conditioning as we did on the first show. I was really lean, really conditioning at the backstage. People were asking me if I was about to do like bodybuilding or things like this. And I was like, no, I'm going to do a bench. So I did the show in Dubai. Uh, the placing wasn't what we were expecting. And we were like, oh yeah. So in the end of the show, I went to the feedback. Uh, I got, you know, sometimes you got feedbacks that you don't agree, but this is what you have. So I was like, okay. And by then, uh, the next show was supposed to be in France. So my plan was to go from Dubai to France, but I was called back to my company. So I had to fly back to Angola for a meeting. Then I had to go offshore and then I had to fly back to the capital to fly back to France. So I did my second show in France and I placed second. So I was like, okay, from not placing to placing second. I was already qualified for the world, but amateur. One week later, I think we had the show in Portugal. So, uh, by the WNBF page on Instagram, people were like talking even more. So I was looking to the guys from my division or for my category men's physique. So I found Aitor and other guys. So we keep talking. And on the day of the meeting, we met each other. So we realized that we wouldn't be at the same, at the same division because he's shorter than me. And I was like, okay, so why don't we just go there? We play, we win, and then we book our tickets to LA. And I was like, okay, let's do it. Then we found João, which is another guy. He was like a bodybuilder. And he was like, okay, I'm going with you guys. And we say, okay, let's create a group. We call this group, uh, Tuga. Is it? Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I think it is. Tuga is like a slang for Portuguese. Yeah. What is it? So we create this group. Tuga is like a short name for Portuguese. Gotcha. Like, okay, like Portuguese. Yeah. Like, okay, we're, we're from Portugal. Cool. Yeah. So we create this group. Uh, we played that day. Uh, I won, not Aether won his division. I won my division and then Aether won the overalls. And after that show, I already, I, as I, as we got pro card, the pro card, I did my debut in Germany. I placed third. Uh, by that time, the top one was the world champion and the top two was the vice champion. So I was really cool. I was like, okay, I placed behind the world champion and the vice champion. So we were like excited. Uh, so then we went to LA. We had a lot of fun, but on the day of the show, things were, were not the way we expected to be because there was supposed to be a two day show. Uh, there were some problem with the venue. So they had to change the venue and they had to do like two days in one. Yep. Yeah. And I think Aether can explain it. Yeah. No, in 2022, we, we were supposed to be exactly in the same venue as we were this year, but for some reason, like one and a half week before the, the, the, the, the show, the weekend, they, they have emailed everyone and they said that we need to change the venue and that they couldn't have like two days show. They had only Sunday. And, uh, and we, I mean, it was our first world ever. And we were like, like nobody in double NBF, nobody knew about us. You know, we were like just the guys that won our pro card two weeks before that. And we traveled to LA, uh, and then we competed there. And, and that year, Chris Elkins won, um, the, the, the, the world title, the overall, I was with Chris Elkins that year. We actually shared the same height class in the world. So it was, I don't know, maybe 15 people. It was Chris Elkins, um, Pedro from Spain, the previous world champion. Also, uh, it was Isra, another Spanish that, that was competing this year as well. And he placed fifth. Uh, it was the amazing class. And yeah, we were, we, we were just like, nobody knew about us. We just gonna go on stage, do our, our best. And we're gonna pray for the better, for the rest. And, and then we was like, yeah, it was funny. It was funny. Like I don't, I was a bit more luckier than I don't that day because I, I got to be kind of like called to the first call out in like, you know, some way. Yeah. I remember very, very clearly. Like there was like, everyone went to the front. They, I think they switched one or two and then everyone went to the back. And then, uh, I think Bob was the head judge that show, if I'm not mistaken. And then Bob called like five people. And I remember very well, like a judge, like close to Bob, like touch him, touched him on the, on the arm. And then, um, he like pointed at me. He pointed, yeah. I mean, he's like, yeah, you should call that, that guy. And then Bob called me to the, to, to the call out. And then we were six and then we were like switching around and Adão was on the back. And, uh, and then Adão went to the front and yeah, we were, we were like, yeah, it's our first experience. I didn't place even fifth. I placed sixth out of those six guys. And Adão also plays good. Yeah. Well, it wasn't my worst placing ever. It's my best placing. Yeah. Yeah. Everyone that here, Aether plays sixth. I played eighth. And because of the thing that they have to do two days in one, I think they only had two divisions, right? They had, they only had the short and tall. And as Aether said, like the first call out, they spend like quite a while. Quite a long hour. And then like, we were at the, we were at the back. Uh, I'm going to talk about me. And I was like, okay, five minutes. They're not gonna, they're not calling us. Seven minutes, eight minutes. And I believe, uh, they didn't do it for, it wasn't on purpose. I believe it wasn't on purpose because there were like many athletes. Just a few time. Um, they were just trying to do the best. And basically they focus on the top athletes by the moment, because we had the world champion, the vice, the vice champion. And we had the, the champion for the main, uh, championships, uh, during the season. So those guys, they were called into the, the first call out. And when they had the chance to look at us, mainly they had it done already. So, okay. They looked at us, but Hey, we were there. So we had like one and a half minutes or something, but, but even less than this. And then it was like this. So by the end of the show, uh, we have to confess, we were not happy because even though there's the, that was our first year, we believe that, uh, we took a great physique, maybe not enough to win because we needed to, to, to improve. Actually, there is always space to improve, but we like, I believe that if we had the opportunity to be seen a little bit more, we could have found a better place. By the end of the day, we were just glad to be there. Yeah. Because it was our first year in WNBF. We managed to get our pro cars. We managed to travel to us. We managed to be on stage. So in the end of the day, you just need to be grateful for all of this. You know, even though we didn't have the placing we were expecting, but we were in the top 10 of the world, which means a lot. It does. So I think, yeah, this, I think we, we, we, we, we, we learn a lot for, from our wins, but I think we believe, uh, I believe we learn more when we don't win or we don't have the results we expect to. And because of this, uh, I believe our friendship even got stronger and our goals or the way we, we fight for our goals just improved. Mm-hmm . And by the, even though by the end of the show, we went to get the feedback, most of the judges didn't have feedbacks to give to us. Uh, we have to confess that right now they improved so much. Like right now, when you go for the feedbacks, you just need, you just give your number. Every single judge will have, uh, the appointments. Like they will tell you what they think you should improve, what, what you, what they think you did. You did great right now is way better back in the days. There was like papers and writing and things like this. And this is one, one thing that you, we can see that, okay, we are going, we are growing, we are growing, fears are getting better. So, yeah. So one of, yeah, definitely. Like, yeah, things are, things are, things are improving a lot. And we, we actually, we leave what we lived four years ago. We were exactly in the same spaces, rooms, like the feedback is, was exactly in the same room as four years ago, but it was a completely different feeling just because they like, you know, the NBF is better organized and that's a good thing. Uh, I think. It's like a deja vu. Yeah. Completely. So much deja vu. Like even the polygraph, it was like almost a gassin. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And the thing is that on the, on the first year, I helped one of the polygraphers, uh, doing the translation and this year I helped the same guy doing the translation and the name of the athlete is just the same. It was João in 2021 and it was João again. So it was really, really fun. And, uh, another thing is that, yeah, I can, I have to confess, I was really disappointed because I was like, oh, I work out so much. I did everything I could and yeah, we just came all this far, let's be like this. And like, I was talking to every single judge and Katie, she, she came, she came to me and she was like, I know how disappointed you are. I know how sad you are, but this is the sport you choose. And this is, this is the first, but it will not be the last time things like this are going to happen. And like bodybuilding is just like this. And I just have to, one thing to tell you, don't give up and work out until your results become undeniable. Mm-hmm . That's a great message. So this was, yeah, this was the first message I had. The second message I have was like one year later in the world, they were doing kind of, uh, a quiz where you just go there, you put your name and then they would like, okay, number X, you have this gift. And I received a strap saying, never give up, but I didn't know I wouldn't. And they went to Katie and they said, okay, this athlete has won this. And then it was like, Katie found me and she got, okay, you want this? And I took it. It was like, never give up. So I say, yo, another sign. So let's keep doing it. Yeah. But 2022 was like a good year because, uh, all the experience, uh, all the people we met, uh, the family, the WNBF family, it was really cool because like, we have many friends that we met in 2022. Even though sometimes we just met in the end of the year at the world, it looks like we've been talking through all year long. Mm. Uh, it, it looks like we may, we know each other for ages and it is so grateful to, to feel this, to have this energy, to share the stage, the backstage, to share the experience with all these people. Even like newcomers, when they come to the world, to the world for the first time, like I remember in 2022, me and Aether, like, because of all those things, people were like, okay, you guys need to start warm up, uh, in 10 minutes. And then Chris Elkins came to us and was like, why are you guys working, warming up now? I said, no, they told us 10 minutes. He said, no, it's going to take at least three hours. And we were like, Yeah. And like, uh, for me, it was really good because when I found out, uh, WNBF, I start looking for the references and Chris Elkins was, and is still my reference, one of my biggest reference in the men's physique division and as an athlete. And when I went for the check-in, I had the opportunity to meet him in person. And he was like, he was so kind since the first day until now, he's a really good friend of mine. And I was like, wow, he's the, he's a champ and he's so humble. He's such a nice person. And I, till now, uh, 2023, when I placed, uh, third, he was so happy for me because I was like, wow, he, I think he was a fourth or something like this, but it was sharing so much for me. And I was like looking that and it was like, wow, Adele, let's go, let's go. It was like, wow. 2024, he didn't compete. And then we had the opportunity to compete again this year. That's an awesome, he's a really champ. Yeah. He's a great history. And, and I, I was at 2022 worlds. I was, uh, I was there just coaching. Um, and I remember talking to the WF folks about how they intended to have the same venue that we had. And last minute, the venue pulled out and they had to scramble to find a place and they only were able to book it for the one day, um, and how stressed they were. And a really interesting thing happened was that, uh, for those who don't know Terrence Howard, who's a relatively famous American actor, it was his little theater and he actually handed out, he came in last minute and handed out some of the awards. I remember. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember. Yeah. And it was, it's a good theater to good venue. The lighting was good for like a small production, but certainly it was, uh, it barely was, was sufficient to actually run a world championships there. So I remember that and there was a lot of frustration and I remember the stress that all the, the people had and another, you know, interesting piece of history that you may not know, um, about Katie. Um, she actually was winning world titles in her forties, 15, almost two decades ago. And so the, the mentality of never give up, I think she is an amazing athlete. And if you look back to the history of natural bodybuilding, she really didn't start to become a pro champion until she was in her forties and then had a run where she was the dominant, uh, you know, female bodybuilder and natural bodybuilding. It was incredible. And now she gives back so much to the sport, her judging, promoting, uh, being involved in different committees, um, which I've had the privilege of, of interacting with her a bit in that regard. And she's just so warm. So some of the, um, the leaders in the WNBF space who have been athletes for years, that kind of wisdom that they can pass on, even those simple words, and also the current champion, Chris Elkins being so kind. That's the type of thing that I love to see. And then I think is a little more common in natural bodybuilding. That is unfortunately a little rarer, um, outside of natural bodybuilding. And I think you guys are doing a great job, even though your baby's in the sport, you know, um, you know, having done my first show in, in 2007 and to see you guys, even though you're, you know, you're, you're, you've been training a long time, you're older, you know, uh, you're both in your thirties, a Dow, not for much longer, but, um, you know, a lot of the, uh, a lot of the best athletes in natural bodybuilding are in their thirties, forties, and even fifties. And I think that's something that is really cool to see because it takes time to build muscle. Um, a Dow, you mentioned you started training. Did you say 2017 where you're doing like functional training for sport? 20, 2007. 2007. Okay. Yeah. 2007. So yeah, you had some training under your belt, but training specifically for bodybuilding was a bit later. Yeah. So that's, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Got it. Yeah. You guys have done a tremendous job improving year to year to year. And I just want to emphasize to everyone, you guys went from placing, you know, six and eighth to then a Dow, you moved up to third in 2023, right? So, you know, 2023 was the first year I did worlds. I placed the seventh out of ninth, um, in my, in my pro debut, just seven weeks after turning pro. So I'll switch over. Haider, why don't you continue the tale? Tell us about your experience after the, uh, the 2022 worlds. Um, obviously you stuck with it. You didn't give up either. What was the next couple of years like? Yeah, no, just continue in that matter, like about giving up. I think one very special thing about me and the Dow is that although we, we had this very kind of like bad experience in the world's 2022, 2022, we, we really left that place unhappy with, with the result and with like, you know, like not giving, not receiving the best feedback or an organized feedback that we were actually expecting to. Like we, we left LA with like a bit of bittersweet feeling about coming back, honestly, but, uh, but we, we didn't give up and we just kept going. And, and just like now, four years later, we have a bunch of titles to only in four years that we have achieved, uh, a down itself. And then also me, uh, like, like, so 2023, I, I decided to compete again because you know, like what I, I've been telling this as if two times, like I come from a very warm place in Portugal, like sort of Portugal, Aldar, and I liked always to have a good beach body, uh, like always for summer. So like my goals was like to work out in the winter where I have more clothes on, get a bit more fat and like build up like the, the summer shape. And then from April, every, every year, since I was like 16 years old, I was like, okay, let's do it now for this summer. And every single summer I was getting my body into a good body, a beach body. So like, of course I don't feel good now after competing to have like too much fat in summer. So 2023, I decided to compete again. And when, when a down was, a down was an, in Germany, 2022, I didn't go there as a pro. So he was the pro debut for a down, but it's my pro debut was in LA. So 2023, I went to Germany because at that time we didn't have that many pro shows in Europe. I think he was actually only Germany doing it. So I went there and that's, at that, those years, it was called like a European champion because it was only the pro championship in, in Europe. So I went there and surprise, surprise, I won the overall, I won the, the hammer in, in Germany in 2023. Adam was there cheering for me a lot. We were in the same class or, yeah, we were in the same class. Same class. Yeah. 20, 20, 20, what's 2023, right? Three, we were in the same class. There was two classes in Germany. No, 20, 20, 24. No, three. I won, I won the hammer in 23, 24. I didn't. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I won the hammer. Yeah. In men's physique. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So like 20, 23, we were there again in the pro Germany and then I won my class. I don't, I don't remember your place, but you, you got a small match. Yeah. I played fourth. I played fourth. I wasn't there at all, but yeah. I mean, having a tour with the hammer was like a relief from the world. So yeah, it was, we, we had, we had that feeling like of eight, we deserve better. So yeah. Like eight or one the show, but I was so happy. We were so happy. Like, oh, it was like, okay, we did it. We did it because we both from WNBF Portugal and every win we celebrate like it's our win. Yeah. So it would, yeah. Yeah. So it was really cool to have in winning. I don't know if you've seen the, the small Instagram story that the Dom published like two, three days ago in Taiwan, when I, I came with the trophy and the Dom was like jumping and me jumping. And that has been happening every, every single time that one another is like winning. So that year, 2023, we, yeah, I, I won my class and then overall, I also won against, against, I don't remember his name, but then I won the hammer and then we, I didn't, I didn't compete more in the WNBF that year, but I don't, I think you went to Seattle. Yeah. I went to Seattle. Yeah. And you went three. Yeah. I placed top three. Yeah. It was good. I only did a good job. Yeah. And then Seattle has a great venue. Yeah. Two days. Excellent lighting. Great venue. Affluent lighting. The timing was perfect. So I, I saw people missing their category because they were like, okay, normally it takes too long. And it was like athlete died. They would call the athlete like three times and then the athlete were not there. Some athletes, they would just show up and that's like, oh, it's done. Really? Oh yeah. But it was, yeah, it was a great venue. It wasn't as cold as we expected to be. Yeah. So it was really cool. Uh, unfortunately, 2022, 23 and 24, I didn't have much time to enjoy the city. So I would do the show and I would just leave the day after one or two days after the show. Yeah. I didn't have much time to enjoy the city, but the show was pretty good. Seattle was cool. Boston was cool also. Yeah. It was also cool. So, yeah. 8% will always be in my heart. Yeah. Yeah. No way. Yeah. Dr. Burti Pater cried a lot. He likes to cry. Yeah. It was for a special reason. You know, it's not every day that you win overall in, in, uh, natural bodybuilding. Yeah. In, in, in the world, in, in the worlds, but you know, um, yeah, 2024, it was so far my best year and the year that I competed also several times. So, cause I, yeah, and you know, like, I, I decided like 2024 is going to be the year that I'm going to compete more in the Blend BF. So I competed in, and, or, or yeah, beginning of September in, um, Dubai. So I went to Dubai. It was good that I went actually one week before and Kyle from Dubai, he always says to me like, you know, Dubai show, you probably had your best condition ever. And, uh, I always tell him like the same, he was probably, or very likely because of the, the, uh, the weather, the heat of Dubai one week there sweating every single day outside when I needed to walk somewhere, you know? And, um, so it was good. It was good. I won the overall also in Dubai. So coming from a overall in Germany from the year before, won the overall, the Bush Khalifa trophy. It was, it was another, like, you know, for me, it's been, this has been a dream, like winning so many times that I never expected. I just worked, I just worked out for so many years, just for the passion of like working out and building and, and looking at the mirror and looking better and trying to look better every time and, and trying to adjust exercises to build a little bit more muscle here and there to be more rounded, to be more avid, like a bear, better upper chest or rear, rear delts. That makes me better 3d looking. And then suddenly I just get on a stage. I, every single, um, competition, I learn better posing because you get more confident. You, you look at the photos, you look at the videos and you, you see, even now from the world this year, I already know what I have done that I don't like and what I have to improve for the next one. And like it, this is like a continued progress and continue learning that we, we, we, we do. And that's, that's exactly from the conversation that we started. Never give up. Like if you don't, if you don't do well in the first one, you don't give up. You have so much to learn. Like, and I've been telling this. So now we are like kind of older, like we are in our thirties, but the, the youngest guys that are 20 something that comes to the world stage for the first time, and they don't place that well, they just have to keep working. And they have like, at least now they have like us, well, I consider myself, Adam and so many others that have a bit more years in in the world and Dublin BF. We are so happy to help like the younger athletes to receive them well in the backstage, to be laughing, to be talking to everyone, to be like sharing this passion for natural bodybuilding. And this is, this is so good. And I, just like you, Eric, like you, you, you, you love this. Like we, we, when we start talking about natural bodybuilding and the people surrounding, surrounding us on a natural bodybuilding, like the presidents of each federation, the judges, the, the athletes, everyone, it's amazing. It's like, you know, and so we, we have to improve every single time. Like Dubai was amazing. I managed to win the overall, the first biggest prize money that I've earned. And so of course that also feels good. And then I went to France the week after, just like one week after that show, I also won the overall there. Um, it was also amazing. It was kind of also for me, a personal experience to compete back to back, like one weekend traveled to Norway, actually. Yeah. Traveled to Norway on Monday. I left the show at 11 o'clock on Sunday. I had my flight at 2am that same night. So I had to bring the trophy with me to the airport directly. Then I arrived, arrived to Norway on Monday. And then I traveled to France on Thursday to, to be on stage on Saturday. So it was, it was an amazing experience for me also to understand how to manage my body in terms of food, because I did this car book the week before in terms of water, because I have like, I cut the water the day before the shows. Uh, so it was, it was a good experience to me. I didn't get so much lean as Dubai, uh, as I was, when I was stepping on stage in France, but it was enough to win the overall in France. So I was super, super happy. Then after that, yeah, in 2024, three weeks later, I think I went to Germany. I didn't manage doing the, the hammer in Germany again. Uh, I'm not going to talk too much about that, but, uh, but yeah, Max won the, the dammer Max that you know, Max, Max, maybe he's going to be on the show. You mentioned Max. So it's an amazing guy. I'm super, super, really good friend with him. And Max is an amazing guy, but he, he won, uh, the, the, the hammer in men's physique in Germany that year. And so he has two hammers. He has the hammer for men's physique 2024, and he has the hammer from this year in bodybuilding. So he has two hammers at this home. Um, is he, so is he going to get, is he going to get the hammer in classic physique? Yeah, maybe, maybe he's in next year. Yeah. He's a great athlete, such a great guy. He's very number all very nice guy. Yeah. Super, super cool guy. Um, no, but the, but he was good. Like the, the, the show in Germany, the, the, the, the good thing that I have to say about the show in Germany that year, it was that if he wasn't for that show and for that result, I wouldn't have brought the same package to the world in 2024. And I very, very likely I wouldn't have won the overall title in the world in 24 because I was not in my best condition. You know, Max puts it insane condition and he was super, super shredded because he did bodybuilding at that, at that day also in Germany. So he competed, he competed in, in men's physique. And of course he was super shredded on his back. My, my biggest problem or the last place in my body where I lose my fat, my, my water retention, it's on my lower back. And so I have to work so hard to get that lean. And Max was like peeled completely. And, and of course the, it calls the, all the attention. Um, so, but that pushed me so hard to, to brought, to bring my best package to the world's last year in 2024, those three weeks. I, I, I, you know, like as when I sat in the airplane from Germany to, to Norway, I wrote a note on my iPhone to, with all the times of each day that I had to follow my schedule. So it was like 6 AM, wake up, go to the, walk to the gym, do one hour cardio, walk to work, work, come back to the gym, walking, do my workout and go home. I had three weeks to do my best ever to try to bring the best package to the world's because honestly, I knew that I would have a big rival in the world's last year, which was and under from Spain. I knew he was going to be there. I knew that he's, he's very good athlete of course, and he's very shredded and very conditioned. So I knew like, it's going to be, it's going to be now that I have to do all the effort in these three weeks. So I did all my best. I don't know how, I don't know, actually, how did I, I survive and I didn't lose that much muscle, but I managed to have a very good pump and a good carb up on that those days and everything went well and probably was my best condition ever last year on the world's. So yeah, I managed to, to win like the, the title of my life probably. Uh, and it was amazing. And here I am again, this year was Taiwan. As you know, I won the overall in Taiwan. Amazing. And then I, I, two weeks ago, one week, one, one and a half week ago, I won my class. Adam won his class finally. And we got like exactly the same feeling as we got in Portugal. I, I, I go first because it's my short division. I come backstage, Adam is like waiting for me. We like make a big, big party because I won my class and I, I tell Adam now it's you. It's your turn. Now it's your turn. We did exactly the same in Portugal. Like in Portugal was like, I won my class. Now you have to win. And then we're going to book the, the trip to LA. I love it. And Adele, you had a really good 2024 as well. Didn't you? Yeah. Yeah. 2024. Uh, it was good. Like 2022, I had a couple of competitions. 2023, uh, less than 2022 because of my job. 2024, even though I placed second in the world, but I only had the, the, the, the chance to compete twice in that for WNBF because my, my goal was like to do six or eight competitions. But in the end of the day, uh, I couldn't because like, I had to choose my priorities and I just, I, I'm just able to compete because of my work. So I was only able to do two shows for, no, I think I, I, I, I, I was supposed to do Taiwan, France, Germany. Yeah. I think you only made one. Yeah. Yeah. I only did one, but I had the chance to do random competitions here in Brazil because here in Brazil, you have many federations like every weekend there, this competition every weekend, like it's crazy. It's crazy. Um, so I did some just to see how my body would respond. And I left, I had less than five days from the day I left the, the, the platform to the day, uh, I arrived in LA. So I, uh, and including the trip. So it wasn't as I was expecting, but yeah, the result was, was the, by the, by that time was the best placing, uh, I've had. And I was like, okay, we move forward. Like last year, we placed third, this year we placed second. So let's work for the first place in 2025. And yeah, luckily, we, and according to the, to the, to the, to all the, the work we put in, it, it just happened. So yeah, I was really, really happy. Uh, eight or eight or eight. Yeah. Eight or one is, is, is, is, is division and then he won the overall. So yeah, we, we made that party again. We were like really, really happy. Juan wasn't there, but he managed to call us. We spoke to him and it was really cool. It was really cool. Yeah. I, I had to, to help me to clean his tears because he likes to cry. Yeah. So you had a, it was, yeah, you had, you had an amazing season moving from, or amazing string of seasons moving from eighth to third to second at world. And then in 2025, you got the opportunity to compete as many times as you wanted. It seems like, um, and you had a fantastic string of, of shows. I think as much as 2024 was haters breakout year winning, you know, culminating in the, the overall world title, you've had a fantastic 2025. How many total shows have you done this year? Uh, this year, I believe I did nine, I believe I did nine shows. I, I did nine shows without, without counting. Uh, because in some shows I would do like two classes, like masters and, and senior, senior, senior, senior, because in, in some federations or organizations, they start the master from 35. So yeah. Uh, it was cool. Yeah. This, this season was cool. And the thing is that every time I compete, people ask, Oh, I, aren't you tired of competing? Don't you feel like your body's stressed and things like this? And I'll be like, no, I don't. And actually I feel like my body responds better competition after competition. Hmm. And I was really concerned to have the 2024 world as my only competition, because I was like, I don't know how am I going to look because this was going to be my first and only competition. So I don't know how is it going to be. And the thing I was, when I was off four, like it was like on the days that I have to have more rest, we were having a lot of issues regarding the maintenance side. And as I'm responsible for the maintenance department, we were like, okay, whenever we had the maintenance issue, we have to fix it. And then we rest. And so things were, we're not playing against, uh, uh, against life. Things were playing against me. So I was like, okay. So when I stepped off the platform, I said, okay, the only time I have now to rest a little bit, to pull down is the time I'll be traveling. So I had to fly from, I think I had to fly from Angola to Dubai, from Dubai to US or things like this. So it was long flights. I think I arrived in US by Friday or Thursday morning, something like this. Yeah. So it is what it is. In the end of the day, you just do what you have to do. But it's, it's like a constant learning. So, and yeah, we just do what we do. And as long as you love it, it's not painful. Oh, man, I'm dude, nine shows. Yeah. So, I mean, so I'm not even aware of all the nine shows you did. I know you did Taiwan. I know you did Germany. I know you did the Mayhem. I know you did Worlds. I think you did France. I did France. Yeah. France, Germany, Taiwan, Dubai, Sacramento, Worlds. And I also did another two shows in Dubai and one in Brazil. Wow. That's incredible, man. And, and if I recall correctly, you were, you were bringing home medals in almost all of those shows, weren't you not? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I did. I did. I did. Thank God. Yeah, I did. I left there all of them with my dad. He's like my garden. He takes care and everything. Yeah. Yeah. So it was cool. I can't complain. 2025 was like a very, very good year. I was, I was like feeling confident competition after competition. And just like Eitos said, whenever I finish a competition, I just bow, I watch the videos, I see the photos and I be like, okay, I should have done better here. I should have done, I should have posed better here. And I was talking to some guys and I was like, yeah, when I look at the photos and videos from the Worlds, I said, I was like, oh, this wasn't the best posing I did through this year. So I was like, okay, for, I could have done better. But you know, we are like this, we are always gonna expect more from us. But it is what it is. And this is what we have to do if we really want to move on to the next step. Yeah. I love it. Now you guys are true craftsmen. You, I think you treat your bodies like, um, like, like, like sculptures that you're trying to constantly refine and you have an idea in your mind and it's, it's awesome to see. I think there's a beautiful art, uh, that, that kind of sits with the sport of bodybuilding. And, you know, we, we hone it through the criteria and the judges feedback and our own eye. And then we, where we can't actually change our bodies, we change our posing, you know? So I can't make my, my shoulders any wider, or at least in the bones, any wider than I can. I can't make my waist, at least the bones, any smaller, but I can kick my elbows out a little bit on the ab and thigh and I can twist. And now I look a little more symmetrical. And there's a version of that in almost every single pose that you tweak every year. Uh, and that's on top of trying to get tighter, trying to perfect your peak, trying to figure out how do I do this while traveling? How do I do multiple competitions and peak? It doesn't make me better or worse. And you guys are both very aware of that and take a lot of meticulous notes. So it's, I think at the highest level, and I don't mean this to take away from any athlete, um, there are certain talents that people have that they are, uh, that, that they have inherently that enables them to be at the highest level. But natural bodybuilding is getting so competitive that if someone doesn't capitalize on the opportunity that their talent gives them, they won't be a world champion. And what I've seen from you both is that you are absolutely the type of people who capitalize and you're meticulous and you think about it. Um, and you're doing things that a lot of other athletes would scratch their head to be like, how do they do that? How do they compete four seasons back to back to back? Uh, and Heider, you're, you're talking about, Hey, this isn't anything new for me. I've been doing this since I was 12, since I was 16 years old. Um, and so I, I think I would love to hear from you guys. Um, what is it that enables you to successfully compete and improve on an annual basis? Do you think it's that you don't have to be quite as lean for the men's physique division? Are you guys more naturally lean? You walk around and you don't necessarily get too heavy in the offseason? Is it something about your approach? Uh, Heider, one thing that we talked about in Taiwan is that you take a really similar approach that, that I do, uh, with your long dieting history of auto-regulating your energy intake. You're, you're comfortable eating out. Uh, you know, roughly when you're in a deficit, how fatigued you should feel and you change your intake based upon what's going on. And I think that is something I've seen a lot in more seasoned competitors at a higher level is they don't lock themselves into a really rigid plan that doesn't have that flexibility and the ability for them to adjust, uh, especially those who stick with the sport for a long time or who can do it on back to back years because they can, they don't burn themselves out mentally. So I don't want to spoil the plot, but I'd love to hear more about how you see your capability of competing annually, successfully and improving. What do you think enables you to do that Heider? Yeah. Um, so like I am not a big fan of bulking too much, uh, honestly. So just to give you a very clear example of that. So my stage weight last year was around 72 and my heaviest weight in my life was this season, uh, like his offseason was 79. I never been 80 in, in a scale. And probably last year or two years ago, my, my heaviest weight was 78. I hopefully can go this year to 80, but I don't want to go above that because having eight or 10 kilos, some people go straight to kilos above stage weight. For me, that's insane. And for me personally, as I know my body that well, going eight kilos, 10 kilos above stage weight is already like reaching that limits that I'm, I know that is not going to benefit me in terms of muscle growth and in terms of like the control of the food that I have and how good I feel about eating the food that I eat in offseason. Because for, from experience, you have like Eric, you, you have all the studies and, and all the reading and also your personal experience in your body and in so many bodies that you, you coach. But my, in my own, in my experience, in my body and the people that I coach also said, we don't need to be, to be bulking so much to build muscle. We need honestly to have the correct amount of food to give us energy, sufficient energy to have really good workouts. Because if we really have that energy to every single day, force in seven days in a week, we go to the gym five or six days and we pull out very good workouts from the food that we eat because we have that energy from the pro from the carbs. And then we have also the protein to build all that muscle that have been like, uh, hammered in the workouts we do in a very good workouts. That's the key to keep building muscle every single year. Uh, because if, if we are too, too heavy, we will probably be going to be tired and we're going to have too much food to process and our body will not be optimal in the workouts we do every single day. Uh, so all that food, if it's in bigger amount, in bigger portions, we'll also like, uh, decline the performance we have in the workouts we do every single day. And I'm, I'm talking about like that because I am that type of a guy that I work out like six times or seven times. Well, I work out properly six times a week. I go to the gym seven times a week. The, the, the seventh day that I go to the gym is just like to, to be good in my mental health that I go, I do my abs, I do my lower back just to improve that lack of muscles that I know that I need to improve more than others. And I feel better with myself doing that. And because I, you know, like I, I, I'm okay to put that time to do it seven times a week. Some people don't want to put that time, but like I do it. And like, you know, the, the, the relief that I have in, in myself is the accomplishments and the, the, the, what I've been accomplishing with these results and being the world champion and, and so on and so on. So all the time, all the days that I've been there seven days a week has been like proven that I've been worth for me, you know, and more important, more importantly for that from, than that is, um, all the effort that I've been doing in my life. And I've been looking at that even more now that I'm 36 years old is the health that these lifestyle that I've been having for myself is giving me. So the, the health that I have today and the health, the good health that I want to have in 15, 20 years is what is going to push me towards like the living this lifestyle, like working out, building the, the muscle skeleton that I have in my body, because I, I hear a lot of podcasts and like in terms of health and workouts and stuff. And one of, one of the things that I liked to, that I heard and that I, I love to hear that was the, the second most important organ we have in our body, it's our muscle skeleton. The most important is our heart. And then the most, the second most important is the, our muscle skeleton. And because the muscle skeleton we have in our body is what is going to give health to all, all the other organs that we have in our body. If our muscles don't work properly, the other organs will also not work properly, even our, even our brain. If, and we, you know, like when you look at someone that is very fat on the street, it's not a sign of good health. But if you were, if you look at someone on the street that is very athletic and it looks good, and you can even see from the spirit that that person brings with him, you can see that that person is healthy because like that person exercises, I have a good muscle mass. It's like psychology well with himself and with the people surrounding that, that person, you know. And I'm a bit spreading around here about what I was talking about, but it's just to show that I'm very happy to, to be, to be a healthy guy to work out many times and to compete every year because I like to compete every year. I like to compete. I like to have a good body in summer. And fortunately the WMBF shows are always after summer, which is a good thing that I, I can have a good beach body and then I go competition. I have a question for you. How long after the season ends, uh, with you putting on a little bit of weight and eating in a surplus, uh, do you feel like everything is fully recovered and you're not feeling fatigue or too much food focus? How long does it take for your sleep to get back to normal energy levels and training to come back? End of January. Let's say a couple months. Yeah. End of January. Yeah. Two months. Two months. Normally, how much rate do you end up gaining in those two months? Probably I get, I gain three kilos. Yeah. Yep. So from, let's say, let's say very, very clear example of that. The last four years I've been competing and the, the last competition is always around the same time because it's the blend beer of Thanksgiving the week before that. So, you know, like, of course, I gain some weight in Christmas, uh, as normal. And, and then like after January, I guess I will be three kilos more and my peak on in strength and weight is going to be in April. Hmm. Like, yeah, April is April, April, April is here. I managed to, to, to do like a incline bench press with dumbbells, uh, 60, 60 kilos in for a chest. Uh, he was, he was, he took, he took me five weeks to get to that, but I'm like, I knew that if it had to be until the end of April, because may I would start cutting a bit the foot and I lost, maybe I didn't lose, but you know, like it's sometimes we are afraid to, to lift heavy when it's like free weight. You always careful about injuries. If you get a serious injury, you might gonna like cancel the season, you know? Um, but I, but I felt good. And so end of April was my, my peak this year, my offseason. I was like probably 79 kilos and I felt really strong in my exercises. Nice. Yeah. That makes sense. About 10% over stage weight when you're competing back to back years and within a couple months, you know, you've gained a couple of kilos and you feel better. I think that is a great example of, um, being able to recover quickly, efficiently, and not being afraid of putting on size, but also not putting on an unnecessary amount of body fat. Um, so, you know, I, I'd say your experiences map onto my coaching experiences, my personal experiences, as well. I, I, um, I mean, I compete a little heavier than you guys cause I'm six foot tall, but, uh, I get about 10% over stage weight and then, and then cut down. And I, you know, I, I, I diet a little slower. I get a little longer and, you know, I have to get, not that you guys aren't competing lean, but, you know, bodybuilding at the WBF world's level is there's a, there's an extreme demand. I got to stand next to max and not look, uh, soft. Right. So, um, you know, for me, I probably have to drop another kilo or two from where you guys get to. Um, but yeah, so Santa and I'm heavier, so it's, it's very similar. And as a coach, I can tell you that, um, that same, those same principles apply to everyone, but some people's bodies are just not, uh, as naturally lean. Like if someone maybe grew up and they came from a family where everyone was a little heavier, um, you know, or, or they just are naturally somewhat higher in body fat, they still should be as lean as is appropriate for them. But sometimes that does mean that they're 15% of her stage weight. And, you know, that's, that's an advantage that some people have and others don't, that they can stay closer to stage weight. Uh, a lot of it is behavioral, but I do think some of it is physiological. And I think I don't have all of the gifts that, that some high level competitive bodybuilders have like the, the skeletal structure that's perfect or, um, a really, really high metabolic rate to where I can eat a lot of food. But one thing that it does seem to play in my favor is that I do pretty well, um, at a low body fat. You know, I'm, I competed at, I think my morning weigh-ins around 81, 82. And I'm right now I'm around just a little over 84. And I feel substantially better. And it's only been like two weeks, you know? So, um, yeah, uh, obviously there, there's more recovery to be had, but I think that when I've coached other people, sometimes they're, they need to be 10 kilos per stage weight and they're a lightweight for them to feel okay. And that, that does make prep challenging. And it means they, they typically, it's a really big ask to compete every year back to back to back. And I think that is something, um, that, that is not for everybody to be able to compete annually. Um, Adal, similar story for you, or, or do you get the same thing accomplished, but by different means? Uh, for me, it's basically the same thing. So the first thing I do is like, uh, my approach for the next season will take in consideration the feedbacks I've been having. So if they tell me that I need more size, then I'm going to focus on this, this thing, but I'll try to do it as clean as possible. But the thing is that most of the time, most of my prep, I am, I'm offshore. So when I'm offshore, I have a lot of limitations. So I don't have any, any low, any lower body equipment. So I have to do three weights. I don't have mainly, I don't have any equipment. I have like three weights. My heaviest dumbbell will be like 20 kgs. Then I have a flat bench and an incline bench. Most of the exercise, I will do will be like three weights. I will do pull ups, uh, push ups, dips and things like this. But the thing is, I'm just like a eater. I don't like to look fat. So I hate the bulking process. The first thing I hate the bulking is because I don't like to eat, to eat that much. I'm not the type of person that enjoys food. And I don't like to look at myself and feel, feel like I'm, I'm soft. I'm, I'm fat. So I try to keep, um, as lean as possible. And the other thing is that I'm the type of guy that, why would I target the three digits? Because most of the athletes, they are really happy. Oh, I've reached the three digits of in my offseason. I'm 100, I'm 110, I'm 120. But, and then you ask them, like we are men's physique in WNBF. We don't need to, we don't need to reach to a certain weight, but most of the other divisions like classic physique, bodybuilding, classic physique in, in WNBF. No, but in other federations, yes. Bodybuilding. Yes. So if you need to be at a certain weight, weight, why are you going to increase like 30, 25 kilos and then suffer to lose all that? So I will, in my mind, in my way of thinking, uh, I would do something smarter. So, because the thing is that the limitations I have, I have through all my season, because I'll be like 30 days offshore, 20, 15 offshore, uh, onshore, then I'll have like 45, 60 days offshore. So I have to think now, how am I going to suffer or what am I going to do in the end of the season? So the thing about like, we, we've been seeing that men's physique nowadays are getting bigger and bigger. So it means that we need to put a little bit of volume, a little bit of size, but I think we can do it without exaggerating, putting like 20 kilos and then suffering to, to lose all those 20 kilos. Because everything you put in your body, let's say, if you put like 20, 25 kilos, when you try to get as lean as possible, things will change. Maybe you will lose your V-tape, maybe you lose your waist, like you lose things like this. So my goal is like to focus on the weakest point and make my stronger point even stronger. So yeah, this is what, what I do. So, uh, basically my approach will, would be like this. So these, this year, uh, I think I had the lowest, uh, weight, uh, I've had so far. So I was 72 and I was 72 in 2022. So, uh, this season, like the world's was the, the, the, the, the, I was like 72 in the world's all the other competitions. I was like 73, 74, sometimes 75, but in the world's I, I tried to push myself as much as possible to get as, as lean as possible and then start carving up. And I, I felt like, yeah, I was okay. Sometimes we cannot fight with athletes that are like, it's their structure. They are like this, like Dario, uh, under, and even the, the world champion, uh, David Moran, they are big, Metro naturally. They are naturally big. Their structure is bigger than mine. So it's not something that if I put like 10 kilos, I'll look like them because they are taller. They have a bigger structure. Like you said, I'm not going to change my bone structure. And if you see, uh, David Moran, I told him he's half a down half aater because that guy is huge. Yeah. So yeah. So if we, if we want to beat him, if we want to win, trying to get these size, maybe it's not the, the boss, uh, it's the most, the smart, the smart choice. Maybe we should focus on other things. So yeah, this is, this is what, what I do. So basically, uh, when I finished, um, the competition season, I will take like one month. I w I would be recommended to take one month off, but it's really difficult to do it. And during, when I start the workouts, uh, I would be suggested to do like four workouts a week, which is also difficult because all my life I've been doing seven workouts. I've been going to gym seven times a week. Sometimes I would do 14 workouts a week because I would do like two workouts per day. But yeah, sometimes we do less, sometimes we do more depending on the routine. Sometimes when I'm off, I'm just, I just can go to the workouts. So I try to adjust. And, uh, one of the things, uh, I've learned through this process is not to put too much pressure on, on, on you. One day makes difference. Yes, makes difference. But the way you deal with it, it's way more important because sometimes you can go that one day, but you will not take advantage of it because you know, you're mentally stressed or you're just tired or you're just not there. So what I do is whenever I can go to the gym, I just, uh, take the, the, the, the most advantages I can from it. Yeah. So I have like four days. Yeah. So I have like those four days that I have to work out. And then if I can take adventures of the other three, I just take, if I can't, I just done. So this is why. I love it. I just want to point out that we have two world champions here. One who is auto-regulating their, their nutrition in a similar way that I would, um, not, you know, hitting like not, not bringing a food scale with them everywhere and hitting specific target macros on a day-to-day basis. And the other has access to only 20 kilo dumbbells, some free weights, body weight training, pushups, cause he's offshore and he has built the physique and impressively and an awesome back, by the way, uh, like a dow, um, which is notoriously hard to train without really good equipment. Many people think, and you are auto-regulating your training. You know, you're getting in a, you have a minimum threshold and then when you can, and you know, it'll be a good session, you get in more training. And I think that's an approach that more bodybuilders and more physique athletes generally are probably not open to because they're a little too neurotic. They're a little too nervous and they don't listen to their body. They, they listen to their, their, their fears and their insecurities. So the maturity that you guys have and the perspective you have is a great one. Um, this guy's a little before your time, but Brian Whitaker, he was a top champion in bodybuilding. He had enough genetic gifts to be a WNBF overall champion. And he was the first that I'm aware of to unify the titles of the Jordan cup and WNBF overall. And he won them both in 2015. He has multiple kids. Uh, he was in his late thirties. He is a professor of economics at a top university. Um, and he would, he came on the podcast and he said, you know, bodybuilding is, is, is I think third or fourth in my life. I think his, his family, his relationship with his spirituality and his job were first. And then, then he focused on bodybuilding yet. He was able to achieve that result, not being this naturally huge, incredibly gifted athlete. Um, but through an incredible amount of hard work and tenacity, but opt, what he would say is he optimized within the constraints of his life. Meaning instead of trying to write down on paper, what is quote unquote optimal, he looked at what's my reality and how do I make the most of every single day and every single opportunity I have. And I think that is what you both do in different ways. And it is a huge testament to longevity, the lifestyle, and that you can do so much just focusing on the now rather than worrying about what could have been or what might be ideal, which I think a lot of amateurs get caught up in. Um, I have a flexible training schedule as well. Uh, if I'm trying to get a lot done, uh, I think about not only what I want to do today and how it fits in with the rest of my schedule. Um, but also what am I trying to get done in a week? So sometimes I train once a day, sometimes I train twice and I think about the overlap and I, I'm not the norm, but it's actually quite encouraging to hear from two world champs that it's also not that rare. Um, and it looks different for each person. And I think there's so much art to bodybuilding rather than, than science because science gives us principles. And then we just apply that through the individual life. And you guys are actually great examples of that. So, uh, sorry to interrupt the doubt, but I just, I just wanted to point that out to the listener because, because it's really, really important. And I think it's undervalued. Yeah. And, uh, you, you just mentioned something really important, which is like science plays a big role. Yes. We all know. But in real life, things are not always like that because when, when you make like those studies, when you apply the science, you apply the science in a specific situation. So you don't take in consideration many aspects that in your real life, there will be part of it. So like when all those studies, uh, they will not take in consideration your mental health, your emotions, the, uh, the, the time, uh, you have available, the equipment you have available, the time you have between one competition and other. So it is good for you to have this as like, um, let's say a reference, but just don't stay to stick to it. You know, sometimes we see like athletes, you say, okay, now you need 100 grams of rice and they'll be like, okay, 95. No, I'm missing five. And no, come chill, chill, chill. Okay. If you do those 95 during a year, maybe you will have this different, but not one meal. You can have 95 now and 105 in the other, there will be 200 anyways. Yeah. So, but you know, sometimes people, especially young guys, they are more stressed with it. And the other thing is that, uh, the new school, sometimes they don't respect the old school, even though most of the experience we have from the old school is not from the natural bodybuilding, but if they got those results and ancient or not, it means that something there's something you can learn from it. So yeah, like me and Aether, we discuss a lot about the peak week and we find so many similarities. And the thing is like, uh, this year I think we shared, uh, we spent time together in Taiwan. We've been together, we eat together, we train together, we diet together. Then in France, he was, uh, he was there as a judge, but we've been together for a while. Then in Germany, he wasn't there, but we keep talking. Even, uh, when I step out off the stage for my division, then he called me right away. Normally I don't have my phone with me. So we had time to talk and it was like, okay, you should fix this. You should do this. Or you have great chances to win the overall as far as I could have seen. Yeah. And we, we talk about this is like, we're not rivals as people expand. And the same, the same way I talked to Aether, Aether and I, we talked to to Chris Harkins to even other athletes, because the good thing about bodybuilding is not, it is different than football or basketball or jujitsu where you need to sport on the other side. You just need to do you. So if you have more water in your body, it's a new, you cannot, there is nothing to do with the other athlete. You just need to show yourself. So there is no point on hating the other athlete or do it, trying to do things so that he cannot have a good performance. So in the end of the day, we all want to win. Yes. But yeah, you don't have like that rival, that, uh, that rival because he's going to do his, his part. You're going to do your part. And in the end of the day, judges will decide who's going to win. Sometimes, uh, some guy is going to win. It's not because he's like way better than you, but because the judges have decided that according to what they want from the division is what they are looking at that guy. And sometimes it's just by one point, two points. Yeah. It is what it is. That is especially when we prove we are, especially when it goes to the overalls, uh, overalls is like gambling. You never know. Well, uh, I was talking to waiter this year, uh, the overall was the highest guy, the tallest guy last year, the overall was the shortest guy. That's right. But if you see a tour and, uh, the winner, they look, they, they look similar, but he's like a bigger version of a turn because they, they, they, the shape, but the physique is pretty, pretty much similar. So yeah, you could, you could have been, uh, any, any, anyone. Yeah. This year, the overall was super, super, uh, balanced. Like every athlete was so like good. Yeah. Eric from Taiwan was like a wonderful athlete. Yeah. Yeah. The, at the highest level, there are such slim margins separating the top five, even in a weight class. And then when you get to the overall, it's the, it's, it's the people who won the top five from three, four, maybe even five other, you know, height, height divisions or weight divisions. And it becomes, it's, it's rare at WBF worlds in the modern era where there's a clear cut winner in the overall. Um, it does happen, you know, I, I think in certain divisions, some years, especially if there's less, or if you just have a truly standout athlete, like a, like a Babacar. But even Babacar got pushed, you know, by Oscar in his weight class, even if the overall was a little more clear cut, but yeah, I, the overall for you guys was cutthroat, you know, like, like you said, um, everyone was so close and the slim margins having been a judge for a long time, you know, the first competition I judged was in 2005 or six. Um, and then I, I took some time off because we got a bunch of athletes in California. So there was a, you know, conflict of interest locally, but then I came back to judging, uh, in the, uh, the 20 teens. Um, and I've been doing that since and, you know, I judged it Taiwan the year prior to competing and I judged in Spain and Italy, I think two or three times each. Um, and of course in, uh, in New Zealand and, and in Australia, a good bit as well as the States. But when you're judging at pro level events that are well attended, it is, it's the hardest thing to do is to figure out the winners. And then it's also really hard to figure out the middle placings, you know, cause there's like kind of these, these tiers where it's like, okay, I know these guys are the top three. I know these guys are probably the bottom three. Sometimes that's the easiest to do is figure out who's the guys who are, who are, who are still early in their careers or, or are still making pretty clear issues in their posing or, or, or they're not lean enough. But even at the pro level, those guys look amazing. So it's, it's, it's an amazing accomplishment, um, and great perspective from you guys. And there's a reason why I study the history of bodybuilding as well as the science. And as well as I pay so much attention to the data I get as an individual and for my athletes, as a coach, because it's all relevant. Um, and there is so much to be learned. Um, and I think you guys are great ambassadors and teachers. You're both humble. You're open-minded. You look for a lot of places to improve from, and you don't think that, um, you're above learning. That that's one thing that's super clear. And I think your attitude of going, listen, there's no defense. I can't get on stage and kick this guy. I I'm just going to have to do the best version of myself that lends to better performance, you know, because when you're thinking about other people, um, and what they're doing and what you need to be doing, you often miss out on a lot of opportunities to not only appreciate what you've accomplished, but also to improve your own, uh, your own process. So, uh, I just want to thank you both for such awesome perspective. Um, I don't want to keep you guys too late because I know you guys are in a much later times than myself and we've already been chatting for almost an hour and a half, but I do want to open the floor. Is there things that, uh, first I would love to hear what are your future competition plans? It sounds like you're both going to get back on stage next year, which is incredible. Um, and after you tell me your future competition plans, is there any final messages that you want to leave the lifting community with, uh, before we, before we wrap up? Heider, why don't you start? Yeah. Oh, well, um, in terms of the next season, I am not sure yet if I'm going to compete. Okay. Some people, no, no, like I, I always say that I'm not going to compete and then suddenly like in my, I give some tips here and there that are okay. Maybe I'm going no, but the next year, very likely I'm not going to compete. I think I'm going to be asking. The one, I don't, is not really. Yeah. No, I don't, is not believing in my words yet. I don't only believe. Let's wait and enter the world. Yeah. I might decide in October to just like pop up in, in the, in the world. No, but, uh, let's see. Uh, no, but, uh, I don't know, like a message that I love to give, like, first of all, thanks Eric for the invitation coming here to, to speak freely and openly with, with Adam and you. It's, it's, it's a really big pleasure. And, you know, we, we met personally in, in Taiwan. It was very good to have, have a dinner with you, uh, there in Taiwan, enjoy that food. And then also meet again, like basically seconds before you went on stage this year. And we, we unfortunately didn't have too much time to, to meet afterwards, but, uh, but it was amazing. And it's just amazing also to be here sharing like, like this body, natural bodybuilding passion that we, we all have. And also with the listeners that are going to, to listen to this podcast and, and, you know, like me, Adam, we are, we are friends for life. It's something that natural bodybuilding is giving us both. And, and for everyone that is really passionate about this is like, we have been making friends, uh, in so many places in the world, basically. Uh, I loved this year to be in Taiwan with the friends that I've made, for example, from 2022. Uh, and the, that's the thing about natural bodybuilding is that like, we are playing a fair game and we are always all in the same kind of boat. Like we, we, we have such a big passion for these, like enjoying the backstage, enjoying like the, the, the, the meals, the foods after the shows with people that we just met, uh, on, on that show or that we have met before. And, and that big passion is what has brought us together here. And, and, uh, I'm so grateful for that, honestly. And most importantly, like we are all healthy and that's what it matters in the end. We really hope that in 20 years, we're going to be here talking about natural bodybuilding and how, how good we feel, you know, uh, and that we're going to keep growing our like friendship and people that we got to know around these. Yeah. I'm very, very thankful to, to all of that, that has been happening in the last few years and since, since 2022, honestly. And yeah. Thank you again. Well, it's my pleasure. Thank you. Adal, what do you got for me? It's something, you know, you know, you're getting on stage and you think Hyder is Siri. Okay. Eric, uh, first of all, I would like to thank you again for the opportunity to be here and to allow me to be your friend and to get to know your family and all those moments that we, we shared in Taiwan and then in, in the world, uh, luckily we didn't have, we didn't face the same experience in the world that we had in Taiwan. You didn't knock your head anymore. And I wasn't stunned by a bee anymore. Yeah. Yeah. Taiwan will be forever in my, in my memories because of that bee. But yeah, it is life. Uh, so, uh, a message to, to every, everyone, uh, no matter if it's like, uh, newcomers or old guys, I would just say no matter how and what, just do as much as you can from what you have. So if I was expecting, uh, me to be 100% under the proper circumstances to work out, to compete, uh, I don't know when it would happen, it would have happened. So I just decided to start working out at the platform from with what I have whenever I'm on shore. Um, I'm like a gym rat and I spend most of the time in the gym, trying to take, uh, advantage of the equipment and things like this. Uh, never forget your family, never forget what is really important to you. And even though we do natural bodybuilding, it's important to state that whatever you do in your life for high performance is not healthy. So it is important for us to leave this notice that even though we do the natural bodybuilding, we do it with um, we do, we do it right. So we have the, the regular season, we have the time off, we need to balance our body, our, our, our hormonal systems and all this stuff. So it's important for us to state this because sometimes some people, they think that just because of the fact that we are natural athletes, we are like are immortal. We're not. So yeah, we try to do the most we can, uh, regarding next season. Like, um, I believe, uh, one of my role models is, uh, Cristiano Ronaldo, uh, Ronaldo Phenomenal, Spele and Michael Jordan. And I believe all those athletes, they are what they are or they were what they were because they've been doing it year after year. Uh, I don't know any football player. I'm not saying that I'm not comparing football with bodybuilding, but I don't know any good athlete. Let's put it like this, that took a year off to come and get better. Of course, if we're talking about bodybuilding or classic physique, according to the feedbacks you have, uh, you need to gain some weight, you need to come bigger. Okay. So you need, uh, maybe, uh, offseason. But the thing is that when people talk about offseason, some people don't take the offseason as they should, because it's like you have 100% of your time. If now you taking 30% for bodybuilding, when you do the offseason, you are doing the offseason for competing purpose, but you still need to keep doing the 30% even in the offseason, but you still need to focus on this 30%. The thing is that people when they take the offseason, they take those 30%, maybe they take it 10 or 20% and they focus on other stuff. So the offseason won't be a offseason at all. Like they were expecting it to be because they will be focusing more on other things. The only thing that in my, this is my, the way I see things, the only thing when, when you say, okay, I'm doing offseason, you're just not competing, but you need to train. You need to diet. You need to take it serious because this is where you shoot, where you do the most of things. Stepping on stage means like less than 10% of the bodybuilder's life because you stay there for less than one hour. If you put together the backstage plus the stage, and if you put it into, into percentage, it's just, just this because the offseason, if you take it like serious, you, maybe you don't consider like offseason, you will consider like improvement season. So this is why I don't like, I don't really like this name, like offseason, I'm doing offseason. Or you can do the barking, but I would, I would call it the improvement season where you focus on what you have to focus and then you just come back. And another, another thing that I would suggest athletes to do is like, okay, even though you're not competing, you can simulate a competition. And then you can simulate the carb up process to see how your body responds. You don't need to step on stage. You can do all this, all the simulation, because as we said here, when you step on stage, you don't touch Eric, you don't touch Aitor. It's just about you. So if you want to, if you want to know, how do you look like without competing, you can do this experience. So you can see if you can put more water, less water, if you can do one or three competition, one after another, you can use the offseason to do all those tests. And then when you decide to come back competing, you just do, because when you stay away, especially those days, like, uh, the physics, I'm talking about our division, the physics that we saw in 2022 are way different from the physics we see now. So if I decide to step off now, 2025 and come back by the end of 2027, I'll be surprised. Things will change a lot. And you can see like, uh, many athletes that they, the, they, they, they debuted here in this world. There is one from US, uh, Raymond, the one that competed also in Sacramento, the young guy. I don't know if you still remember, he was in my division. Mm-hmm. And he also competed against me in Sacramento. He placed second. Bro, this was his first, his first year competing. And he looks like pro that has been doing this for ages. I believe that in three years, he is like a potential, potential world champion because he's really, really, really good. He has such a nice physique and he's like complete. He has legs, abs, tiny waist or shoulders. I believe it's just a matter of time. And if he keeps working the way it is, yeah, within three years, he will be the world champion. And the thing is like this, I believe if you step in the game, it's way better than when you step out and you just try to turn and catch up the bus. Uh, I, I don't trust this. No, I think these are, there's a lot of good perspectives and, uh, I completely agree. Like bodybuilding is a lifestyle. Um, and it is requires, uh, consistency, focus, and being on. And I think, uh, as someone who's been competing since 07, lifting for 21 years and, um, trying to improve constantly, the, the stage is a divergence from everything that is, that is, that is building you up. And, uh, that means that you need to have, um, a true environment that, that cultivates the physique you're trying to develop. And the stage is just your opportunity to show it. And I do think a lot of people, they have a really big difference between the way they live their life in contest prep and the offseason. And many things should be the same. Obviously you shouldn't be getting fatigued and dieting and doing a bunch of cardio, but in terms of the lifestyle, it's the same. And if you're eating like a typical person living in the West and training haphazardly and inconsistently, um, and then only bringing a little of focus during contest prep, uh, you're, you're not going to get very far in this sport that, like you said, there's up and comers who are crushing it. Um, so I think you guys brought some really great messages. Uh, one thing that I both love that you guys both focused on is the fact that there's so much to be taken from the community, um, and from the relationships with others and, and health, um, that, you know, that we're going to be sharing this, uh, commitment to this art, the sport, uh, long after we're no longer competing. Although I'm probably going to be getting on stage in the, in the masters 50, 60 plus until I, they're going to have to wheel me off. But, um, even if I didn't get on stage, we would be benefiting from the hopefully healthy approach that we take to bodybuilding and that we are always trying to optimize within the opportunities that we've been given at the moment. And I think you guys are both great examples of that and, uh, you've achieved amazing things. And I know you're just getting started. So I want to say thank you both for your time, your wisdom, and a huge congratulations on both finishing your season as world champions. Uh, and I love that you guys celebrate each other's wins just as much as your own. So with that, I just want to say thank you both for coming on a huge congrats. And also thank you very much to all the listeners. I think there's a lot of wisdom here for how to handle the offseason, appropriate body compositions, and the fact that your training is where the changes are done to your physique, uh, not trying to force feed gains and that it is eating an appropriate amount to fuel and stimulate growth. Uh, and, uh, rather than trying to quote unquote bulk. So I wish us all a very effective improvement season. Uh, it's a great title for the Thou and we will see who is competing next year, but I wish you both the best, whether you get on stage or not. And for all the listeners, uh, make sure to give us a subscribe, a like a five-star rating. Don't forget to get all your lifting needs over at elite FTS with the code MRR10. And if you really want to be a superstar supporter of the show, this is iron culture presented by mass. If you want me to be able to pay my mortgage, please consider subscribing so you can stay up to date with not just the science, but how to apply those principles to your individual situation, uh, from the lens of all four of us over at mass research review, who are not only coaches, but also athletes and scientists. So thank you again for listening to iron culture. And we'll be back in another week with another really great interview with some of the WNBF champions from 2025 worlds. Awesome.

=== FILE: Ep 358 - WNBF Champs Christine Reinhart and Sarah Oase [6Oj0W1qQSdg].txt ===

 zisedibia, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit, sewnahit sewnahit, sewnahit sewnahit, sewnahit sewnahit, sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewnahit sewn WNBF Worlds where I got to finally meet them both in person for the first time even though I've been following their journeys and their impressive transformations not only this season but over the last few years as they have been really coming into their own and just kicking major bouté. We're going to have a cool discussion today not only about their competitive seasons, their own journeys in the sport but also their experience in this category which has shrunk and contracted unfortunately over the years. For those who don't know when I first got into bodybuilding it was the mid-2000s or my very first show where I guest judged which is the process in the WNBF where you see how closely you match the panel to see if you're judging is good enough to be a judge. The figure division had just come out and prior to that in the mid-2000s there was literally only bodybuilding on both the men and the women's side except for a few other divisions like fitness which we'll discuss. But since then we've had the explosion of divisions or categories as I should say and we've seen shifting levels of participation but they've been championing their category and we're going to talk more about that and hopefully show more people how awesome the bodybuilding category is. But without further ado let me just please ask everyone before we get into this conversation to support the show because without your support the show don't happen. Daddy got to pay his bills. So please give us a subscribe, a like, a five-star rating. Now of course be honest with your rating but I would just ask you that if it's not five stars are you really being honest? Look in the mirror. Ask are you the type of person who wants to give a rating that you haven't really thought through yet and then just think about it more and then once the answer is five stars then you can give that rating. If not just keep reflecting. Reflection and gratitude is a good thing. Additionally if you want to become a super supporter of the show it is Iron Culture presented by Mass and I am a nerd but I'm also a nerd with a mortgage. So I would be greatly appreciative if you consider checking out massresearchreview.com and if you really want to understand the latest science that applies to fitness, health, bodybuilding, powerlifting, nutrition, all of that. Check it out because it is myself along with the rest of the crew dropping that on a monthly basis and we would more than appreciate your support and I know that you will take something away from it. And finally if you need any lifting gear our friends over at Elite FTS Dave Tate and Co. They have amazing equipment highest quality stuff and you can use our code massresearchreview that's MRR10 to get 10% off any of their stuff at checkout. So with that done with the corporate sponsors appeased with capitalism made sure that it lives on in the intro of Iron Culture at the very least I would love to welcome Christine and Sarah. Christine let's start with you. Tell us a little bit about yourself and first thank you so much for coming on the show. Well thank you so much Eric for the invite. It was kind of a pinch me moment when you sent me the message and asked me to be a guest on the show. So I'm a big fan. I've been listening for a long time. So yes my name is Christine. I am a mom. I'm a wife. I'm a healthcare practitioner. My husband and I own a small multidisciplinary clinic. And yeah I've been lifting for a really long time. I've been in the gym lifting weights in some capacity since 1998. Yes I'm a masters athlete so I'm 46 years old. So yeah I've dabbled in resistance training of all kinds for quite some time. And had my first competitive season in bodybuilding in 2022 where I competed as a figure athlete. And then made the jump to women's bodybuilding this season 2025. So that's kind of a very basic background. But I'm sure we'll get into more details. Well we are going to get into it. And you're anything but basic Christine. I have been inspired by your progress. If anyone doesn't follow you on Instagram. Which of course we'll share you guys' links towards the end of the show. They really should. Because seeing what you went from being in the figure division to now the bodybuilding division. And then in the last couple years how you've continually leveled up. And just your attitude of I'm here to put in the work. This is under construction. And you can tell that you are pushing yourself to the best of your capacity. But it doesn't need to be a production or a moral high ground. But it is just awesome to see. And as someone who is trying to compete at a level that I'm not sure I'm capable of. Watching you do the same and succeed. And bring a package to the stage where I'm like oh damn. Is awesome. So you got absolutely peeled this season. And you've also put on a tremendous amount of muscle. I see you dedicated in putting in the work in the offseason. Talk to me a little bit about your journey. Because I also want to. I don't want to go to dive too deep before I also give Sarah the opportunity to give her background. But what brought you to the sport? And what made you jump from figure to bodybuilding? And was that always the plan? Yeah. So I've always just loved lifting. I was. Got in the gym when I started university. And I just got hooked and never left. So at a certain point. There was a trainer at my university gym. Who I was at the foreground of CrossFit. So like when it first came out. He was one of the very first coaches. And he would just throw workouts up on the board. He'd throw a wad up there. And I would do CrossFit workouts. I was a guinea pig. And I was like this is cool. This is really hard. Did that for a few years. Then I went to chiropractic school. And it was hard to still keep doing that. But I still kept lifting. Just not super intensely. When I got finished the bulk of my schooling. I started dabbling in powerlifting a little bit. I'm a pretty tiny human relatively speaking. So powerlifting was really fun. To just work on the big three. I never competed. But I really enjoyed it. And just always kept busy in the gym. And then COVID hit. I was like training at home in my basement. And when the gyms opened up again. Just one of the trainers at my gym. And says why don't you try bodybuilding? So this is end of 2020. And I remember the very first day was August 18th 2020. And this trainer. He actually told me about Lane Norton. And so I came across Lane. And I started on Lane's nutrition app. Carbon Diet Coach. And I started using that for all my nutrition programming. And I did my very first bulk. And this guy at the gym wrote me a program. And I started like intentionally putting on weight. And this was the first time I'd done that. And I was like this is cool. I'm seeing some really good changes. So once I started doing that. I found 3MJ. I found Steve on Revive Stronger. I started consuming everything I could about bodybuilding. I was like this was just when I go into something I go all in. So I was reading things. And so I'm like Berto says we should practice dieting. So I did my own practice prep. And I did an 18 or 20 week cut on my own. Just to see what that was like to diet for a really long time. And I'm like that looks pretty cool. So I just did a little photo shoot at my gym. I'm like okay we're going to run this back. And we're going to do it again. So I did another building phase in 2022. And then I'm like okay I'll do another practice one prep in 2022. I got 16 weeks into it. And then I actually won a contest that paid for me to do a local show. It was just a draw. It's not that I was great or anything. But they said they said go pay all the expenses for a local show. So I'm like okay I guess mock prep is going to turn into a real prep. And I looked at the different categories. I went to a show to finally see one in person. And you guys it was you, Brad Loomis and Andrea actually answered one of my questions on your 200th episode of 3MJ podcast. And I said how do I know if I should compete? What category do I pick? And you guys just said just go for it and pick the one that speaks to you. And so I was like figure. I know I'm small but bikini is just not for me. It's just not suited to my personality. So I'm like okay I'm going to go. I'm going to try figure. I went to that show in 2022. Fall 2022. It was a 32 week prep. I did most of it on my own. Except for the end. I didn't have a good coach. But I found James Johnson who is now my current coach. And we've been together for over three years. And he actually helped me land the plane. We worked together the last four weeks of my prep. And I had an amazing experience. And I was hooked. I did novice figure. And I won first. So I did open figure. I got first. Which earned me a figure pro card in that federation. It was the MPAA. Which used to be the amateur affiliate to the IPE here in Canada. I did masters. I got first. And then I was able to do the pro show the same day. And I got first. And I went in with zero expectations. I just I had no idea how I would do. And it went great. And then after that show day I told James. I said I will give you as much time as you need. To build me as big as I need to be. To never have to wear the heels again. Because I hated the heels. And so he said okay. It's going to be women's physique or bodybuilding. And I said yeah. You build me as long as we need to. And we'll prep when you say the words. So I really love the posing of women's bodybuilding. I found out that I'm pretty good at getting lean. And I can get pretty shredded. That's not too too hard for me. It's just the size thing. So that'll always be an issue for me. I am a smaller human. So that's kind of how it all evolved. I know that's a lot of talking. No. No. You're going to do a lot more of that talking. So I hope you got used to it. That's amazing. It's an honor that we play a small role in that journey. And a big shout out to James. Natting News Daily. And also him and all of his clients. There's a lot of really cool athletes out in Canada. And I'm glad to have some of you on. And it's just cool to see. I think what's really cool is you said you've been lifting since college. So you're 20s. Right, Christine? Yeah. Yeah. I always played sports throughout junior high, high school. And then, of course, you leave. And you go to post-secondary. And it's like, well, what do I do? So, you know, I played some soccer and floor hockey intramurals. But I found the gym. Me and a friend, we started lifting. And I would just follow magazine routines and lift. And then the one trainer was like, let's do some CrossFit stuff. And I was really good at it. And so, yeah, it was just I've had that base of muscle. I've been in the gym consistently anywhere from four to seven days a week since 1998. See, this is awesome to see. Because I would say probably the most striking visual changes that I've seen you do are in the last few years. And even though, you know, you probably built the majority of your base of muscle before that, I think, let's just say everyone watching. None of us are in our 20s or 30s. We don't need, I mean, we probably will share how old we are. But all of us are not spring chickens. And we're all making good games at this stage in our career. And I think that can be incredibly inspiring to a lot of people who sometimes get messages that it can be too late. Or, oh, you know, I'm postmenopausal. I'm just trying to not lose muscle and bone at this stage. Or, you know, what hope is there for me? Or I tell you what, even on the men's side now, the messaging that we get, you start in a modern era, you hit 30. And it's like, by the way, did you know that you have low testosterone? It's the cause of any and all depression, sadness you have. And here's my affiliate code for a gray zone TRT clinic. And I get questions from people like, hey, I just hit 30. Can I still build muscle? And I'm like, get out of here. So there is a tremendous amount of encouragement that I hope you will get from both of these awesome athletes. But, no, Christine, that's incredible. We'll talk more about your specific season after we get a little bit of an introduction from Sarah. Podium finisher at Worlds brought an incredible physique to the stage this year. But you have been bringing it for a bit now. Welcome to Iron Culture. And please tell us a bit more about yourself as well. Oh, my gosh. I am. I'm honored, too. This is crazy. I actually was really excited just to see you at Worlds and have a conversation because I followed you for quite a while. And same thing with Christine. We just what I really loved about 3DMJ this year is that many of you were prepping at the same time. So your struggles, I felt, were like exactly like mine. So it was it was really neat to to just talk to you and be a part of that. So Worlds was pretty crazy this year was seeing all these like the flash people. I had to get autographs and things like that. But yeah, I'm Sarah Ose. I'm 48. I have two teenage boys who are 15 and 14. My oldest is almost 16. I'm dealing taking him driving today. So that's kind of where I am at. I am a full time social worker for child welfare. I've been doing it for 28 years. I. I have been an athlete my entire life. I have two sisters who also were very much the same way. I've been a runner. So I've spent high school. I did some gymnastics because I enjoyed the floor team, which kind of plays into why I I love the the flex dance and bodybuilding so much. There is an art to that that I love. Um, so just I've always kind of lifted weights on and off. Um, but my focus really most of my years, especially when my kids were young, was running like I just it was easy. I could get out the door and run and come home and have babies. And so I spent more of my time with them, um, when they were a little bit younger. Now their dad gets to step in and kick their butts out the door and get them to school. And, um, so it, we have a really good kind of system with our, our children. And so that we've kind of found that balance, I think, because most of my training is done very early in the morning and my running would be the same way. So I ran marathons up until 2015, um, I qualified for the Boston Marathon. So I got to do that in 2015. And that was kind of my last, my last significant race. I did some, uh, Spartan races, the half marathon Spartans, um, and that's when I kind of was like into starting to get even more into weights. Cause I really loved, um, kind of the CrossFit classes like Christine was saying, I loved climbing the ropes, jumping around, just like anything that could get my heart going. And, um, so I, and I'm super competitive. So, you know, I raced to win and I love winning. Um, so just super competitive, I think. And so I've always had some sort of goals and something for me throughout like all these years. So, um, I really got into lifting for just, I think for just a stress relief, um, because work was pretty intense. Um, I was starting to feel some aches and pains from marathons. Um, I did some trail running, but it was still pretty difficult. Um, so started lifting and then same thing that Christine said, I had a trainer coach owner of the gym who said, Hey, have you ever thought about competing? And I'm like, I don't even know what that means. And then he showed me a picture of, I think it was the figure winner at Olympia. And I'm like, and I've talked about this before. I'm like, the muscles are really cool, but I'm not so sure about the face or the voice because there was very much, you know, some extra things added into that physique. Um, and I was like that you go on stage and you get naked and these people judge your body. So it was very awkward and, and for quite a while it was weird. Um, but I did my first show and it was figure, um, with the heels. I did master's figure for Iron Man, which was, I think a natural show at the time. None of us were tested. They just claimed it was NPC natural show. Um, and I think I got third in master's, but I was able to see the women's physique. My very first show, I saw the women's physique and their, their routine. And it was terrifying for me to see that. But at the same time, I'm like, that's what I want to do. I want to create the routine. And so what you're, this was 2016, I think. So from 2016 and I was, I think 39, 40, I started competing, um, around that time. So I started late. I didn't compete when I was younger. I've always been active in an athlete, but that, this wasn't what I did when I was younger. So, um, that's when I started. And I think it was like, yeah, 38, 39. Anyways, um, yeah. So my second show that year, I switched to women's physique and I just made up a routine and I wanted to do the flex dancing. And that's, that's really why I did it. It wasn't so much for the mandatories. I just enjoyed the, you had mentioned in one of your shows about the art of this sport. And that's, I think what drew me to it more than anything. I love lifting weights, but I'm like, if I can lift weights and dance and flex to music that I love and entertain people. So for me, that was kind of what I found attractive about the sport because I loved lifting in the gym. That was the easy part. Um, so it's been hard for me a little bit to not want to compete all the time because I love that part. And so for, it's not like getting shredded. Like I, it's hard for me to get shredded. It's hard for me to get stage ready. But what I really love is that part. And so being okay with not competing every year has been tough. So, um, I competed in the NPC until around 2000, what was it? 2018, 2020. And I had heard about natural federations, but I did not even know what a natural federation was. NPC was it. I had talk about going to nationals, but I also was very aware that trying to compete in women's physique at a national level against people who were using substances, I probably wasn't going to win. And it would have been an uphill battle for me. So when, when the WNBF promoters, some, one of them had reached out to me and said, can you come and just sit in and listen? And so I went to one of their seminars and my first show was the Northwest Royal. And then I went and did the Washington State Natural in 2021, got my pro card. And then I competed at Worlds in 2021 and got third. And at that point at Worlds there, I think we had a class of like 10 or 11 girls. There were quite a few. Yeah. Um, so that was my first, and I haven't gone back. I mean, I've done an NPC show since then, but I really have a love for just being a natural athlete. I want my boys to see that, you know, your mom has earned everything she's done in running. You work hard for what you do. And that's what we talk about at home. I'm like, my oldest is a baseball player and my, my youngest is more of an art guy, but he loves basketball and I'm, but he doesn't want to practice. And I'm like, so, and that's okay. Just where do you sit in this? And so, you know, you got to work for what you get. And, you know, I've spent years, I mean, older years, but, you know, working really hard for the things that I love and it's paid off, you know, like it's, I'm really happy about where I've, my journey has led me. And I've been through many coaches. I also, Christine is my teammate. We have the same, we call him the unicorn wizard coach. I feel like I am now connected with a team that is very kind of, I say normal, like we all have children. We have busy lives. Like I'm not 19 and get to spend all my hours in a gym. I've got other responsibilities. And so what I really enjoy about this team is that we really can relate that way. Um, and my coach, our coach, from what I haven't experienced before is it's just really nice to feel like he works with me as a team. Like we, he doesn't tell me what to do. We make decisions together. Um, and I think he respects my experience as much as I respect his, um, knowledge. And I'm just really grateful that I got to work with him this year. And it, cause it was really like, even if I didn't win my physique this year was the best I've ever seen it. And I can't, I can't complain right about that. So, no, I, I hear that internal competitor there. Who's like, I was my best. Could I have placed better? Of course. And it's fine. But yeah, I, I, I, I hear that. So, um, so let's, let's talk a bit more about your, your journey into bodybuilding. And I, I, first off, I just want to say, I love that there's something for everyone. Um, maybe not for everyone. In fact, probably for almost no one, but for those of us who do. To decide to compete in physique sport. Um, I think there are multiple ways to, uh, connect with it and express yourself. Um, you know, like on paper Trex and I look very, very similar in terms of our academic pursuits, our history with powerlifting and bodybuilding, but our motivations to do them couldn't be more different for him. It's almost like getting to be a living science experiment. Um, which I guess it's not true. They could, it's not, they couldn't be more different because I do love that aspect of it, of the physiology. But, um, I love the game. I love the history. I love the art of it. Um, you know, I, I used to be a break dancer when I was, uh, young and, uh, similarly the, the flex dances, you call it, love it. Uh, you know, appeals to me as well. Uh, the artistry in the craft and it is also, you know, a competition that's very similar to say like a breakdance battle. And, um, those things kind of make a lot of sense to me, but I know a lot of other competitors would be like, I'd be fine if they didn't have a routine. Um, can we just get up there and, and just get compared once, chuck me in adex to scan and then let me know if I got a trophy and you can mail it to me. I don't want to put on tanner. I don't want to shave. That stuff is not interesting. I just want to lift weights and then compete. Um, and you know, fair enough, but I think it's great that, uh, there are things that can appeal to each of us. So that's cool. I'm glad you spoke to that. Um, now let's put some respect on y'all's names. Talk to me, Sarah, about the, the, the progress you've seen as a competitor. Um, some of your placing, some of the shows you've done, um, leading up to the season, uh, what was some of the, uh, your, your most proud accomplishments. And then let's start actually going through 2025, which was, I would say, I don't want to put words in either one of your mouths, probably a pretty big breakout year for both of you. Um, yeah. And I'd love just to hear about that. And I think it's a pretty impressive season you both had. Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, I guess leading up to 25, um, I've had, like I said, a few coaches. Um, I am, I have, this year was my fourth time at Worlds. Um, I have been in the top five for Worlds every single time I've competed. Um, however, the competition has been, I mean, I compete at Worlds because I know there are going to be women showing up there. That you will have, you're guaranteed competition. You're not going to be standing on a stage with one other person. And so for me, the reason I've done Worlds so many times is really because that's one of the best shows where I'm going to get talent show up. And, um, last year, 2024 was just significant. I, I placed fifth and it was for the first time that I was like, holy crap, like I might not be able to do my flex dance because I got fifth and I'm like, wow, I, I've just never placed fifth. And so it was hard for me. Um, and I also didn't, my physique wasn't where it needed to be. And so there's been many years leading up to this year where I know I could have been better. And I think that is a hard thing to leave. I think I've done fine for myself. I've had many wins in the NKC last year. You know, I won women's physique at the Sasquatch and I, you know, I got to do Mr. America last year, which kind of exposed me to other federations. You know, I haven't stuck with the WNBF. I've done ANBF. I've done PNBA, NPC, you know, like I really just want to go where there's going to be competition. And unfortunately, there's not one federation that can guarantee me a lineup. Um, and you have to qualify for all these big shows like Worlds. So I have to do a qualifier. So I'm spending money to do a qualifier where I'm going to be with one or two other women just to get to Worlds. So, and that's a bigger conversation we'll have down the road. But, um, yeah, I mean, Worlds is the biggest state. One of the biggest stages to get competition. So, um, so last year was really frustrating and right before Worlds last year, I could have brought myself in to Worlds, but I decided to, I just needed to, um, do something different and talk to a different coach. And I also own very much my part in how my preps have gone. I take control when I get worried that things aren't going the right way. If my body wasn't changing the way it needed to change. I have lived my life with a lot of cardio, with endurance training. And so that's where I would go to. I'm like, oh, this isn't working. I need to make this up. And I would do things behind the scenes. So I can own, I accept that and I own that. So it's not totally my coaches. Like I did some of that, but just trying to find that body that I've been waiting for. And so it's been like 10 years. And so I look back on it and I'm like, God, you know, all these years and I finally get to see what I've been waiting to see. And it said so much about, I'm 48 years old and I look the best I've ever looked. When I could follow my coach's rules, when I felt respected as an athlete with my coach and we could come up with a game plan together. It was the first time I was totally honest with him about, hey, I struggled here. Stress is high. This is what's going on. And very open with him. And I did what I was supposed to do. So I think my part in his together just made for a successful year this year. And like I said, I mean, I look at my physique when I started and I just look little. I have genetic back and shoulders. I have that love, right? Um, but so much bigger and I want to look big. I don't want to look little. I want to carry big on stage. And I think that's where you, the confidence and what you want to own and who you are on stage really reflects that. Because if I don't win because I'm too big or I'm not as lean, I will tell you what, like I walked out there this year and I'm like, I'm a beast. And that's how I want people to see me. You know, like I'm not trying to look like anybody else. I'm not trying to do everybody else's thing. I, of course, like will try and get into what the judging criteria is. But bodybuilding is about having more muscularity. And, you know, like it takes years to get here. Um, so anyways, I'm taking up a lot of time, but it, yeah. So all those little things I think added up into this year being successful and, and the balance, you know, like my life is not all bodybuilding. I have to balance that with my family, with the things that, so when prep's over, I was like, thank you, baby Jesus. I can get back to, um, some normalcy. Um, but it's nice to have a team that has the same kind of, um, situation that I do, right? Like family's really important and don't get too lost and caught up in it, you know, but I love it. My heart, I'm a bodybuilder a hundred percent and I'm, and I love it so much. And I just wish like younger girls knew how amazing it was to show who you are on stage and not just wear the heels, but there's so much of yourself that you can show out there. So. Sarah, I love it. And, uh, we're going to have to get you two Canadians to be a little less polite and realize that this is your platform to speak. And, uh, the no such thing as talking too much when you're the, the, the people I'm asking to come on to talk, but, uh, but we'll, well, I'll coax it out of you. That's my role here. So first off, um, you competed in the, I believe it was the, the ANBF, uh, Washington state this year and you won that show and that had, I think what nine or 10 competitors in it. Am I, am I wrong? No. So that was, that was just one. So the only show I really wanted to do that here was the monster mash. That's right. Thank you. The monster mash is notorious. I mean, Nancy Andrews, she is the bodybuilder queen. Right. So, so when I got ready this year at Willie was about me just proving to myself that I could come in how I wanted to come in. So that's how it started. I wasn't even going to do worlds. I was like, I want to do monster mash. This is about women's bodybuilding. I'm going to, that's going to be my big show. Um, and so, yeah, so I did. You guys, you guys did the ANBF and the monster mash and worlds together. Those are the three shows you guys did together this year or that were there more? Or am I just Calgary, Calgary, WNBF Calgary. That's right. We did the monster mash, ANBF monster mash, and then we did worlds. Okay. And part of my reason for doing worlds was Christine. Hmm. I got to watch Christine get her pro card in Calgary. And I like almost, I'll start crying just thinking about, cause it was, that's what it's about. Yeah. It was, it was pretty neat. And so, yeah, having, so going to worlds was more like I did it too, because she was going and we were a team and we got to do this together. And there's something really magical about being on stage together. So. There, I will, I will step in and give you some space just to, to, to feel your feels because, um, this is something that I think is a beautiful part of the camaraderie among, uh, bodybuilders generally. But I will say having had athletes on the other side of the fence who are my friends and having done one back in the day NPC show that was quite big. It was a national qualifier in California. Jay Cutler was, was there hundreds of competitors that, um, there was not the same type of camaraderie among everyone. There were certain pockets for sure. Don't get me wrong, but it was a little more of a, a disconnecting kind of cutthroat environment to some degree. Not, not to the, I don't want to overpaint it. It's like, oh, it's totally different over there. It's not. But, um, really big shows and, you know, where people are trying to qualify and maybe something about the personalities who are drawn to the enhanced side of the sport. Uh, on average, I find it is, it feels less like a community and it's less like, Hey, the judges can sort it out, but we're all here and we've shared the same experience. Let's, let's, let's really connect backstage. But, um, I just had, you know, Haider Souza and Adal Martins on. And I think listeners, you will listen to them last week. They could be the biggest rivals in the world. Um, and they've battled it out so many times, but they celebrate it. And, um, you know, I getting to experience the stage with Brad, Jeff and Berto over the years, it's some of the greatest joys I've had in my life and getting to have this finally be the first season since 2007 where I got to be on the same stage at the same time as Berto was a true gift. Um, so I very much understand where you're coming from and especially, um, when you have someone who is pushing so hard and each person has their own individual struggles and when they're able to achieve something that, um, helps them self-realize their own potential and their capabilities and, uh, to derive a certain level of self-affirmation from it, I think is a transformative thing. It's beautiful. And I, I get your tears completely because it's so awesome to be there. And I love that you're, you're supporting Christine and her journey. And that was something that there's that picture that you guys did. I think it must've been the monster mash where you're hitting a back double bicep, you're hitting a front double bicep. You both look incredible on stage. And it's like, uh, it's, it's like the dynamic duo, you know? Um, so it was, it was really cool to see. And that was one of the reasons where I was like, you know what, let's get you both on because I think there's, there's a shared journey to talk about there. But, um, you're right. You know, like, I think this might be a good time to transition a bit to the challenge of being in women's bodybuilding, um, because even if you were to look at, say, the biggest shows that are out there, WNBF worlds, the York and cup, um, the, the Mr. America, uh, and, uh, the PNBA Olympia, INBA Olympia in the pro women's bodybuilding division or physique. That's, that's the closest thing they have to it. Um, sometimes at the highest level, we're looking at five or six athletes, maybe 10, um, if the show is doing a really good job of recruiting and promoting, and there's a good kind of funnel to it, you might have five in each category, weight category, and you might have three if there is even a weight category. And don't get me wrong. There are no slouches like placing fifth at last year's worlds. I mean, a more is, is, is just ridiculous. Um, I remember it was, it's actually been quite cool because, you know, in 2023, when Natalie Hayes at her young age, you know, won the amateur title and then came over and won the pro title the next day and had a pretty good field in both on both days doing so. And then also, I think she won the Jordan cup. She won the Mr. America. And I want to say she placed second at the Olympia. I was like, yo, this is, she's going to be dominant. No one's going to touch her for years. And you know what? The next year I was like, oh my God, Amor Fernandez. I went to Spain. She came out on stage and I looked across the panel like, what is happening? You know, like, who is this person? Uh, kind of coming out of the woodworks too. And probably the most impressive natural female bodybuilder I've ever seen. And I got to see her in person, but this issue, it's regional too. So she actually had to compete when she was in Spain. I think it was either the figure of the fit body division, there was not an opportunity to get a pro card woman's bodybuilding. And then, you know, so she had to do it at worlds and then boom, you know, dominates and in, in, in very clear fashion won that title and actually, you know, beat Natalie. So among others, like, like there, there are some, while the, while the numbers are sometimes small in these shows, the talent is there. And that's why I want to showcase that talent because you guys are incredibly inspiring. Which I think is something that maybe like, I, I, I know for me, you know, you brought up Lane Norton earlier, Christine. Um, I'm a very different person than Lane, but I don't know that I would be here doing what I do without Lane because there's no clear pathway. If we roll back the clock 20 years ago that says, Hey, do you want to be a coach and science communicator for strength and physique sport? Here's the degree program, the career path you apply here, you do this. It's like, what do I do? I'm a bodybuilder. I'm a personal trainer. I'm really interested in this. I kind of need some type of template. I need a representation of what my future could be so that I can think of the open possibilities for the future and how I can express myself. So Sarah, are you sharing that, seeing the flex dance, you know, Christine, you, you, you, you getting to see the female bodybuilders and, you know, tell your coach, Hey, like, what do I need to do to take the heels off? Um, having these examples is important and, you know, like I'm jumping around a bit too here as well, but Sarah, I think something to connect with what you said, you are trying to be big. You want to dominate the stage. You want to be seen as a beast, a freak, just like me as a bodybuilder. And I think I have mixed feelings. Let's put it this way. When someone, you know, approaches me and they're trying to do, you know, advocacy for women to start lifting weights and they go like, well, one of the big myths is that you might look like a man or get too big. And, um, you know, let, let women know that that's, that's not a risk. And on one hand, I'm like, well, like if that is a barrier for someone, then I wanted to let them know that's probably not possible, but also like muscle is not a masculine trait. Like we're all born of muscle. We all move by contracting our tissues. You guys are not floating around on clouds of estrogen. Like we, we, we move our bodies with muscle. It is a, a gender free tissue. Um, and it is not inherently male to be muscular in my opinion. Um, and yes, on average men have a little more, but listen, if you want to look as big as you possibly can be like, please do. And I think there are more, uh, women than, than, than maybe even they realize who would enjoy trying to get as big, as ripped and as muscular as they can be. And that's a hundred percent fine. And there should be a place for that. Um, and I think normalizing that, or at least not necessarily normalizing it because nothing about bodybuilding is normal, but letting people know that that is a viable option. It's kind of cool. It's in, it's a different experience and there is no, there's less you have to worry about from a category criteria division perspective. It's like, yo, who came in the biggest, the most shredded. We have a lot of poses for you to display what you have. And it's not a T walk. It's not an eye walk. It's come out there, put on some music and show us how freaky you can be. And I think there's a certain level of, uh, rawness to the bodybuilding division that I've always appreciated. And, you know, I, I, this is just probably a little submission of what you guys have experienced as female bodybuilders, but me seeing the rise of the classic division, like on paper, I should like it and I should go for it. Right? Like it's, it's supposedly a throwback to the old school. I love the history. Um, it's about posing and it's about symmetry, which some people have told me, Hey, your, your physique is probably better suited towards it. Um, and, but I just don't get as motivated about it. They take a few poses away from me. Um, and it is a little bit like it's different between different divisions. I'm, I'm actively involved in the WNBF's criteria for it. So I'm trying to do a good job with it and judging criteria is a very important thing, but, um, it doesn't speak to me the same way, uh, that just the bodybuilding division is, and that could be an age thing. I don't know, but I think you guys are, are doing a great job advocating for, um, a division that's, that's, that's fallen out of favor. It's been kind of wavering a bit. We've seen some amazing champions, but what we don't have is kind of those participation levels. Um, and it is, it is annoying and it's frustrating and it's kind of a, a, an unfortunate thing to where you're at risk of entering a show, putting in all this effort and standing alone on stage and getting a participation medal, even when you're an amazing athlete or not. So it's not just about, um, giving you the competitive opportunity, but giving the actual experience of being a competitive bodybuilder rather than just someone who is doing kind of a physique display. So, um, that's, that's, that's from the outside what I see, but I would love to hear both of you guys talk a bit more about that. Um, you know, Sarah, I'm, and, and Christine, feel free to jump in where you want. Um, what do you think is, how much do you think seeing others compete in that category and promoting that category does as far as opening up the possibilities and the minds and making more women feel welcome to actually try that out? Well, I'll let, I want to let Christine, you know, pop in here too. Um, but I think unless you're going to take a concerted effort to put it as a promoter to say, we're going to highlight this division, we have an extra, you know, prize amount or like something to bring it, like there has to be an effort around it. Um, I mean, to, and there just isn't, I mean, if you look at all of the federations, the majority of the focus is on bikini on figure. It's not, you mean, there's not even a mention of women's bodybuilding in many of the shows. I mean, just as it, you know, I go in, oh, I can, you know, sign up and be a, do women's bodybuilding. But like, I would start calling different shows and saying like, is there anybody actually going to show up to this one? You know, cause you're right. I mean, you hit so many branches just in that conversation right there. I mean, so many ways we can go. I mean, there has to be an effort to make it highlighted again. I mean, we are in bodybuilding. That means you have muscle. And so I'm just not sure how it was. And I think even in the NPC, like you don't see a lot of women bodybuilders there, you know, I mean, especially in those shows, because you have to be some probably enhanced. Um, but you know, in natural bodybuilding, like you don't have to be huge. You know, you can have, if you are lean, you can get lean and just enjoy the art of it. And these, cause every young girl that I talked to at the gym is like, I want to do what you want to do. When I finish shows, the bikini competitors are coming over to me, touching my shoulders, touching my back, going, I want to do what you're doing. And so I don't understand. Um, and, and, and it's always, I'm not big enough. And for me, like, I want to be big. Like I have been gifted in some respects with a bigger, like, I just have a lot of lean muscle mass. And so I have that and I have to own that. I don't get to do figure. I don't get to do bikini. I wouldn't do well there. Right? Like, so this is where I have just, this is what I own. And so I've told a lot of women, like, if that's what you want to do and you have passion for that, you know, sign up and step on stage and just see how you feel. The second I did that, I was like, I will never do figure again. This is where I need to be. And I, and I love that. And so if you're going to do the sport, like you said, like you want to have this love for it because it's really expensive. It's super time consuming. But I just get a lot of feedback after shows and throughout my career, I say career, but my time doing this, I want to be just like you. And it's like, well, why aren't girls trying this? I just don't understand. And so I think it needs to be promoted. And so what was so great about Monster Mash is there was a very specific, they were very specifically highlighting women's bodybuilding and Nancy Andrews was behind that. And just to see us, you know, put more of that out there, I think it needs to happen because there's just, you have how many classes of bikini competitors and then you walk up on worlds and you've got six on stage. Yeah. So you don't have to be big. You don't have to look a certain way. You just have to say, I'm going to try this and try it. And then I don't know how many times they've come off and said, I want to do that. You know? So the Monster Mash, how many were there? Was that a 11 or 10? There were nine. Wasn't there nine, Christine? Yep. And they were, they were really good looking athletes. This wasn't like, I was shocked. I'm like, holy crap, you know, like we're going to do this. And I, we got into that line and it's like, we all looked at each other down the line and you could feel just the excitement to step out there, like being able to be together. I think I cried probably five times just because I was like, we never get this many women on stage. And then to do like, when we're all done with our mandatories and, you know, the pose downs and just listening to music, there was, the music was so long. I was like, I'm running out of poses. It was so great. And I'm like doing mandatories and literally like losing my shit when I'm doing mandatories because I'm like, this is the most emotional. This is like going back to 2021 worlds where we have like 12 girls. Like it's been how many years I can't even get in line with this many girls again. And that's what I was afraid of when I was done with that. I looked at, I talked to Christine and many of the girls and I'm like, I'm just so afraid this won't happen again. Yeah. Because it, it should and, and the empowerment and how they feel and how beautiful they are. Um, it, it's just not like any other division. And I just think people are missing out by not, if you want to do it, I think trying it because it's, it's pretty phenomenal. Like how close we are, um, because we are a small group and I know bodybuilders all over the world. So it's like we connect and we'll find each other, but we need more for sure. Yeah. The, um, the, the, the camaraderie, the sisterhood, the brotherhood of, of, of bodybuilding when you've been in the game for a bit, there's people you would never meet if it weren't for the iron, which I think is a beautiful thing. And I love that, that you guys have fostered this, uh, international, uh, sisterhood of, of badass bodybuilders. So the, uh, the monster mash, those pictures were incredible. I would say this year that show was probably as competitive as any, as any world, world-class show. And the fact that you guys both did it. Absolutely. Um, so Christine, you turned pro at Calgary and then you competed as a pro with Sarah. You guys, I think got to compete together, like right after getting your pro card. I know that must've been a really cool connecting experience. Um, and then your next show was the monster mash as a pro. Is that right? So that was your, that was like your, your big coming out party where you got to be against eight other, uh, top level female competitors. What, what, what were those two experiences like for you? Um, and, and also what are then all your thoughts on, on kind of the, the, the waxing and waning of this category and, and why you do it, why you choose it. Um, and, uh, just kind of giving us more of your thoughts on this conversation. Yeah. So just with the first show, um, my intention was to be better than 2022. Of course, as bodybuilders, you always want to improve on your previous package. So my goal was to be bigger, to be leaner, to have better posing. So I drilled my posing like daily for probably two years because going from figure and exclusively quarter turns had a lot to learn. Um, but yes, as we've kind of alluded to throughout this conversation, um, one of my extrinsic goals was I'd really like to earn a women's bodybuilding pro card in the WMBF. What show can I go to where I'm even going to get a crack at that? Where will there be enough women? And traditionally Calgary is a place to do that. And fortunately it's only a two hour drive from where I live. So it was the perfect show to do. It's my home turf. I know everybody. I volunteered at that show for years. I have really good connections with the local people there. So that was a very special show for me to do. And for me to duke it out and, and earn my pro card there was incredible. Having Sarah there, having my posing coach, Lauren there. Um, it was an incredible moment for me. And I just, I didn't know if that would ever happen because I am not a large human. I am a tiny human. And I still remember thinking about, well, what hand have I been dealt? I can get lean. I'm pretty symmetrical. I've got good posing. I can work on my stage presence. Those are the things that I have. I don't have a lot of mass. When I got on stage in 2022, I was 102 pounds. And when I stepped on stage in Calgary, I was about 108, 109, which I was like, wow. And I wasn't peeled, which was hard for perfectly peeled yet. But you know, we, we knew we couldn't be a hundred percent for that show. So that was a bit hard for me, but to see that I could earn my pro card, have that much more mass. Um, I thought that was really cool. I thought it was, I'm an older female. I'm a tinier human, but I brought a really good package that was able to stack up and, and, uh, earn that pro card. So that was really, it was, it brought me a lot of joy, but also a lot of relief. Cause I was like, this is my shot. Like, I don't know what other amateur show I could even fit into my season to even have another opportunity to try and earn that pro card. So it was awesome to get it there on home turf with Sarah there and then get to step on stage with her the next day was incredible. Like we had talked about it for months. What if I earn my pro card there? And the next day we get to this flex together and have the best time. And we did. And so that was really amazing. Um, so yeah, to, to go off to Monster Mash. That was a big deal for me. Um, once I found out who some of the competitors were, like I, we all look, you say you don't, but you look to see who's coming. We had two of the top three Yorton cup finishers from 2025. So that was a big deal. A couple of the ladies had been competing in women's bodybuilding for a really long time. Um, some of them had finished in top three at worlds of previous seasons. So for me to come in there as, as the new kid on the block, it was a little bit intimidating, but, um, my attitude going into that show was try hard, have fun. And let's just find out that I would, it would kill me to know that I didn't give it a go and give myself a chance to show up and just see where I stack up. That's what I wanted to do. And so I went there with Sarah, our coach was there, which was incredible. It's the first time that he's been at one of my shows, which was a big deal for me. Um, so yeah, just to, and we had another teammate there competing in the show in a different category. So just having that team together, um, to be on stage with that caliber of women, to feel the chemistry that we had backstage, it was just so supportive and collaborative. And we were all just so genuinely happy to be there and then to finish third. And that, like, it couldn't have got any better. It was, it was amazing. So that, that sounds like an incredible experience. And one that I think is, I'll, I'll speak for myself here. Cause I think I do have a bit of an insight into this because I've been at shows where there haven't been enough to turn pro and I've, I've won them, which is a frustrating experience, uh, in some ways. And then I've also earned a pro qualification in a show that was small, that had a lower standard, which was also kind of not a great experience. And, um, it's kind of a, there's no good outcome when you have a low participation show for, for a given category and, and the promoters in a rough spot. So I won't, I won't share names or the name of the Federation, but I had a competitor who had an amazing first season. Who I was coaching. I'm very close to a great guy. And, um, he, he did so well, everything from the actual execution of the prep to handling it, to the perspective, to focusing on the journey. And this is someone who doesn't even like, didn't even care about placing at all for the first season because they wanted to just get the experience and live in the moment and see how they handled it and kind of, you know, enter the brotherhood. Right. Um, but in this very final show that they did, uh, the, the specific Federation's rules, as long as there was three in the class, you can get a pro card, which is kind of, kind of too few. In my opinion. Uh, they didn't care if there were novice or debut crossovers among that class. So long as in the open, there's at least three. And he was in a class of, you know, when you get four, there's no guarantee that there, there's going to be any really standout athletes, but he was, he was the best on that day. Got his pro card and won. And it was almost, it, you'd think that'd be a really, really cool, positive experience, but not going into it with any expectations and coming away and going, oh, now I'm a pro. Now he's like, hold on, am I worthy of that? So now, you know, I get my, my coaching report and I want to respond to him. And what I wanted to just be a purely positive experience. I almost wish like there'd been no pro card. There'd been no placings. It'd just been him getting to experience, bringing his best, getting a good comparison, executing on game day and, and getting the, the, that, that, that first timers, you know, bitten by the bug kind of love that all of us who stick with it get. And, and, um, it was clouded by, do I, I, I, I feel like I didn't earn this pro card. I don't want to be seen as a pro, but I should be kind to myself. Maybe I have earned it. What does this mean? Um, and I think I experienced that in 2011, uh, when I won a relatively small show in the INBA and I got PNBA qualified. And then I experienced the flip side of it, of trying to hunt for my pro card, allowing myself to focus on my extrinsic goals a bit. Cause I had the maturity of, of having a lot of foundation of my internal goals and entering shows where I'm like, I would like to give myself the opportunity to pro card. And I asked the promoter and they're like, well, we'll see, you know, like they don't want to say no. Cause then you don't sign up and it's definitely not going to happen, but you come into the show and there's five people or you come to the show and there's three. Um, and you need, at least in modern times in WBF, you need eight in the open division and men's bodybuilding. I think you need five and women's because of the unfortunately low participation that, that we're currently dealing with. So I'm so glad that you got to not only get the pro card and knowing that you weren't at a hundred percent, still knowing that you're good enough for it. And then getting the opportunity to get on stage in a highly competitive lineup of nine pros and to actually place as you did, that must've been an incredibly gratifying experience. So talk to me a little bit more about what it meant to you and what it was like to be in that lineup and then come away with some hardware. Yeah, that was, it was a big deal to me because I kind of had a similar experience when I did do figure in 2022. Like they, they awarded me a figure pro card, but it was me and one other person. And I was like, yeah, I was definitely the leanest person there, but could I even compete in a pro lineup? I don't know. I don't think I could just, I ran my own prep for the majority of that prep. And I was, I was way over dieted. Like it, you know, I, I wasn't full. I was like, I was shredded, but compared to everybody, but it didn't feel like I really earned a proper pro card, if that makes sense. So similar fashion, I didn't really celebrate it. I was just like, yeah, I did good. It was my first time prepping. Great. So yeah, to actually go through a proper offseason with James, to have him prep me all the way through. And this prep was 46 weeks. I, we went very low and slow because as a smaller person, we could not afford to lose even a gram of muscle mass because I'm already fighting against the big girls. Like Sarah, like honestly, like really, she's got 20 pounds on me. Yep. So, and that always sits in the back of my mind. Like some of these girls have 15, 20 pounds on me. So am I, can I do anything? Am I going to stack up? Am I going to look like a, like I fit in? And so that was very much a concern for me. And so I think that having that low and slow approach with James, we dieted down about another three pounds, three, four pounds from Calgary to come into Monster Mash. It was the best I'd ever looked at that point. So that was awesome. And I just knew I had worked really hard on my posing. I had, this was the best I'd ever looked. And it was just reframing everything. I work a lot on mindset and so not being nervous, but just being excited to have the opportunity and curious. Let's just find out. Get up there, do your best. And let's just find out. Like I would, like I said earlier already, I would have been very regretful if I didn't just give myself a shot to see. I want that data. I'm very much a scientist too. Like I have a PhD in neuroscience. I, I've published research too. I've got that background of academia. So I love tinkering with the variables. I want to find out. I want the data. Even if I fell flat on my face, well, what did we do wrong? What are we going to fix for next time? So we figured out some things about my peak. We figured out some things about how I need to be backstage for pumping up. I need more sodium. Like we found out all of these little pieces of information that contribute to how I can bring my best package. Of course, there are still more posing improvements that I can make. So I'm just really glad that I took the leap and I went out east. And yeah, like Sarah said, we got to meet some new people, make some connections with some east coast people because we're both from the west coast. So just to be in front of different judges, be in a different federation, meet some other athletes. Like the whole thing was just such a valuable experience just as a competitor, as someone who loves and has such a strong passion for women's bodybuilding, to build connections. Like, and all of it led to a lot of good data collection for taking that final step going to worlds this year. Amazing. Yeah, you guys. Oh, man. Christine, you're in so many ways. I don't want to like make it seem like I'm taking ownership of your experience. But I relate to you. I feel like I relate to you so much. And I love watching your journey as someone who has just kind of had to put one foot in front of the other, see what happens, believe and fight for it. And then manifest those changes and be like, oh, shit, this happened. Like, I don't think people get when you talk about being, I think in your first show, you're, you know, five pounds lighter than when you came in and not even in your peeled peak condition in the next one, but probably as lean with more muscle comparing, you know, first season figure to being on stage as a bodybuilder. When you won your pro card, putting on five pounds, people were shocked by with me doing that. But that's five pounds on someone who goes from 175 to 180. That's a much smaller percentage. You added 5% to your body, you know, like that, that is a lot. And the visual striking difference was noteworthy. You brought, you know, you say you're a small human. You don't, you don't present on stage as small by any means. And I think while there are certainly other bodybuilders who are bigger, I mean, this gal right here, Sarah's pretty, pretty frigging huge. You bring a razor shredded condition. And that was something that I've been loving seeing in the, in the women's category in the last few years is that the conditioning standard has gone up. And it's so cool to see multiple women on stage hitting a back double bicep with top to bottom strided glutes. That was something that I did not see even five or six, seven years ago. So it was rare. And like, like, for example, I did not anticipate that Natalie Hayes would improve upon her condition so notably from 23 and 24. But when I, when I saw her on stage at Worlds, I was like, oh, damn. Like, she's not just bringing the same impressive package. She's as lean as the dudes. Like, like this is sick. And she wasn't the only one, you know. The entire top five were, were incredibly conditioned at Worlds. And that was something that struck me when I got to see some of the pictures of the Monster Mash is just how the depth of the lineup. So you getting to, to test your mettle against some of the best in the world and be a podium finisher, I think that's the type of thing where when you're, when you're competing in relatively small shows and you kind of just eke out your pro card, the validation you get from being against the best and doing well, it, for me, it was a shock, you know. Um, and that was this season, you know, like I, I got, you know, the hair on my chinny chin chin pro card when I, when I got it in Australia, I was this, the second guy for the two pro cards, the optional second pro card that they gave out out of 10. And, you know, I've been around the world judging. And when you go to places where bodybuilding is really, really popular, um, men's bodybuilding, I should say, there's, there's no women's bodybuilding in Asia as much as here's the one downside about Asia guys. Cause I've been singing the praises of WMF Taiwan and talking about how it is in India, but there's very few women. Um, culturally, it is not really a thing to be big over there. It's quite rare. There are some countries like Hong Kong or a few others that have a bit more of a Western influence where that's, that's, that's a bit more of an option, but there is pretty much just the bikini division. If you do some of these shows in Asia and they're well populated and the show is huge, but the people try to be muscular. It's, it's men's physique, it's bodybuilding, it's classic, and there's a tremendous number of guys. So it's, that's something that I think, like as much as we'd like to see a change in North America, it's, it's, it's even a bigger problem in some other areas. Like I mentioned, Amor couldn't even find that category category to compete in, in, in Spain. But anyway, I digress. We can't, we can't fix the, fix the world, the three of us in this, this two hour conversation at most, but I think we can start it. Anyway, what I'm saying is though, that when I get to be there as a judge and I see quite literally a hundred people compete for three pro cards. And I think of myself as I got, you know, two pro cards out of 10, that's like 20% of us versus 3%. Am I worthy? And getting the opportunity to find out, um, and go like, Oh wow. Like I'm actually competing and I'm beating some of these people who did go through that crucible. Um, and I'm up against people like you guys said, you know, top three finishers at a world-class show, you know, prior world champions, like you were at worlds. And I'm in the mix with them and I compare well, that experience can be incredibly validating. So it was so cool, Christine, to watch you have the season, to see you come into your own, to see you at your peak. Um, and, um, yeah, what was your final stage weight? Like when you were in that razor shredded condition, where you felt you were your best, where were you at? Mm-hmm. Um, so I actually was about the same stage weight, uh, monster mash and worlds. But as soon as we finished mash, the first week, James increased my calories by a hundred, a hundred calories per week. And then the next week after we added another hundred. So I started eating up and my weight was stable for those. Cause it was three weeks between mash and, uh, worlds, but I just kept getting sharper and sharper. And, uh, yeah, my, I mean, I was not feeling as good. My sleep was starting to crash a little bit, having a bit of the digestive issues, which I, I'm sure the three of us could have a whole podcast about digestion. Um, but yeah, I was just getting sharper and sharper even, and the food was coming up. So I, I, on worlds, I was, yeah, about 105, 106 in that range. Um, but the day before the show, um, I'd done an afternoon update. Uh, set of pictures for James and Sarah was in the room and our good friend, Dan DC hyper strength from Natty News Daily. They were in the room and they're like, dude, your glutes. Like what, what is that? And I was, you know, you're just so tired. And I'd done so many progress updates. Like I hardly was even looking at the pictures. I'd just take them, send them to James. And we looked at my glutes and we're like, wow. Like I didn't even know that was back there. So it was, it was really exciting just to be eating up and be there with my friends and knowing that I brought my absolute best. And as Jeff Albert says, I met my current potential. I feel like I truly met my current potential, the best that I could be for that show. And, uh, yeah, it was just, it was such a good feeling. And, uh, I know I can still get better. That's the fit. Like we, we've collected all this data. We know, um, you know, where my strong points are. We know where I need to, uh, grow. Like surprisingly, I'm, I'm lower body dominant. I thought I was the tiny human with small legs, but my legs look pretty big. So, you know, like it's so much fun to feel like you met your potential. You got to see what was actually there, which this is what Sarah had been looking for for 10 years. She wanted to bring forth her very best package and see what was there. And she finally got to see it. And now we just get to go back to the lab and build and make it better for next time. Well, and I think it's things like too, I think what was really cool about having this coach and where I was sitting is that I trusted him enough. So when he would say things like, cause I had obsessed about certain things after being in it for so long. Like my scale isn't moving. Like all the things that are so frustrating. And he's like, it's not about the scale. It's about the look. What does your body look like? And I'm like, okay, I'm, I'm trusting you, but this is like horrifying. And sure, sure enough. Like I did get to the lowest weight I'd been. I mean, I think my lowest weight was like 118 when I first started and I weighed in at 126, I think for worlds. But 123 was the lowest, the lowest that I'd been in years. Um, so at Calgary, huh, I was the lowest weight, but it was weird because I'm like, I still look big, but I'm leaner than I've ever seen myself. And so it was just so much of the, my thought process about bodybuilding was so ingrained that I, and I've talked about this, like literally having to pretend like I didn't know anything about bodybuilding. So that's how I went at this, with this coach and with this prep is like, I really had to just pretend like I had let go and you, this is my first time. And that's what I did. And I stuck with it for the majority. Every now and then I rode my Peloton at night and he caught me, but outside of that, it was, it was, it was a game changer. And like, they're, they're looking at how shredded you can get. And I think that's the other thing, like people get nervous about bodybuilding because quite literally, you're right. Like the standards have gone up and like, that's the other thing I hear all the time is I don't know how you can get that lean. I'm starving. I'm a bikini or figure competitor. This is like, that's a whole different level. So I think there's some fear in trying to, you know, step on a bodybuilding stage and not be as lean as you can, because that's my weakness. And it's hers is muscle. We are like yin and yang. We both have our own love bodybuilding, but we go in very different paths to get to our end result. Right. So she would get all this food and I'm ready to stab our coach. Cause I, he's like, I don't understand. You're so big. You have so much muscle, but you just can't eat as much. And I'm like, and she's getting fed like all this food. I mean, it's just create it just, so we're all different. And so it was great as having a coach that could see that and be like, this is what we're doing for you. This is why we're doing it this way for you and explaining it. Um, and then again, like teaming instead of just saying, well, this is what you're going to do. I'm not going to tell you why, but this is how we're going to get you where you need to get. So it, so many different levels of a different experience getting ready for this season. And, and the sleep was on point. My stress was really bad. I don't know if you saw that post he did about like the bloat where I had so, I had such a horrible week at work and I carry my stress with water. I always have. And I've like woke up one day looking one way and the other day. I'm like, I have monster mash in a week. And he figured it out and I trusted him. He fed me more things that I would, I would go opposite. I'm like, no, we need to do more cardio. And, um, and we came into monster mash. I think my best look, um, but he may say something different, but you know, it's, we're all so different and how we respond to things. And I was getting messages like, well, you ate all this shit or, you know, I'm like, no, no. And it does happen and it's crazy and stresses stress on your body does weird things. So just a miracle that happened. No, Sarah, I, I had the, uh, very, very similar experience that was, you know, travel induced stress and just on a day to day basis, seeing my, my body go from looking ready to six weeks out. And, um, and then, you know, I, I gained one week. I went from 80.1 to 83, you know, so that for the, for the, uh, the North Americans, that's almost seven pounds in a single week while I'm in a deficit knowing, you know, like, like what my numbers are. Um, and that, that can happen. And the solution is not what the bodybuilders internal driven perspective is as well. I just got to diet harder, get this off, like eating up, chilling out, trying to sleep, focusing less on your body. Uh, for me taking a antihistamine, um, and, uh, all of those things, it's something that if you haven't seen it before as a coach, it can also be quite confronting and you may not necessarily know how to handle it. So you guys did a fantastic job. Um, you know, turning that around and having been in the, a very similar spot, Sarah, when I was able to peak well at Taiwan after all that, and also deciding that I needed to go to an emergency room and smashing my head in the middle of the night. And just, you know, not having the on paper ideal lead up into that show, the fact that I presented well on stage, it gave me a certain level of trust and confidence in myself and also my coaching relationship with Berto and Brian that I know you probably were able to forge with, with, with James. And, you know, you're talking about the collaboration. I'm the same way. I'm, I'm a good soldier, but I also need to understand my orders, I guess. Um, and you know, so Christine, you know, like I'm also, you know, I'm data driven. I'm a scientist. I, I, I'm really good at trusting and putting faith in people and being an athlete, but I can't turn off my, my analytical brain, um, my need to see, you know, logic and, and, and, and things. And I think when you have a coaching relationship where you fully understand one another's needs like that, and you could state them, um, it is such a, uh, an, uh, an important thing. When, when, even when you're relatively experienced, when you've done as many seasons as I have, you're on your 20th show, that doubt is always there. And it's a question of how much effort do I have to put into managing it? Um, and when I have someone in my corner, I'm just like, listen, I'm not, I know that I'm only partially sane right now. I can get through this. I can do the right thing, but it's going to take a lot of willpower and effort. But if I can just trust that Berto is also going to come up with something that is at least as good or better. And he knows my body. He knows my mind. And I'm just going to send him the pictures. I'm going to do the thing. I'm going to share with him how I'm feeling. And he's going to give me that space and reflect back to me. And it's just my job to report what I see and provide my intuition. And the best thing will come of that. I know all that, but now I really know all that because I was like, shit, I was in a, I was seven pounds up and bleeding out of my skull like, like a few days ago. And now, Hey, I just had the best showing of my life. So I know that experience is, it's so important. And I, I think what's cool is that for very different reasons, the two of you are coming into your own and you have really bright futures. Like Sarah, I, I, when I look at your physique kind of as like a judge and as a fan of the sport, I thought I've, I've thought for a couple of years, like, man, like if she can just improve a few things and come in diced, she's world champ material, or at least in the mix. And we saw that, you know? So like I mentioned earlier, the monster mash this year, especially was a world-class level show for women's bodybuilding and you want it. So like, I think that speaks to, to, to, to your potential as an athlete. You looked incredible. You know, like when you were fully dialed and peaked on stage, your quads, the sartorius, and also the, the glutes that you have that are so well-developed, they had some striations in them as well. You brought the heat and I was like, God damn, like that, that is a sick physique. So, um, you guys have such different physiques, but also both of them, I think are not at their peak. And I think you guys did like, like, like you mentioned, Christine, that, that feeling of it being your best this season and fulfilling your potential. Um, there's no better feeling than that. I, in my opinion, um, being able to look back and be like, there's a certain satisfaction and a weight that comes off. And it's like, you know, I, I couldn't, I couldn't have, what else could I have done? You know? And now, like you said, back to the lab and we'll do it again. So to see that you guys both got to taste that, but in different ways with different journeys is, is really cool. Um, so yeah, I, I, I just want to give you guys both a huge commendation, um, on, on your performance. So, Monster Mash was incredible. Worlds, um, you guys both did really well. Christine, fifth place. Sarah, third. And this was a no joke lineup. You had former world champs in there. Um, and, and it was a, uh, just a very, very stacked lineup there, even though it was a slightly smaller division compared to the Monster Mash. Talk to us about, uh, about that experience. Christine, you go first. Yeah. Um, there was a little bit of stress going into show day, um, just with appointments, um, like, uh, hair and makeup stuff. So I, I didn't quite feel as calm and settled going on stage as I would have liked to. Um, sometimes those logistical things get to you, but that's also something I need to learn how to navigate as, as a competitor. Um, the world was only my fifth show ever. So still learning some of the, the things to be wary of. Um, yes, I controlled all my controllables, but there's some other things that I needed to, uh, get in line as, you know, a little bit better. Um, so I was a little bit frazzled getting on stage. I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna cloud that. But, um, I felt like I was, I was very grateful to be there. Um, I wanted to have a little bit more comparison. If I'm being honest, I was kind of thrown onto the ends. Um, right away, I would have liked to have been compared and put beside other competitors a little bit more frequently. Um, at Calgary, when I earned my pro card and at Monster Mash, they worked me specifically very hard. I'm the new kid on the block, so judges haven't seen me yet. So they worked me really hard in those first two shows that I did. And they, they were, I was moved all over. I was put beside everybody and I fought like mad with my posing to earn my spot. I felt like I really earned my place. I felt like I didn't get to duke it out as much as I would have liked to, um, at Worlds and get a few more comparisons between other individuals. But that's okay. That will, that will come with time. Um, I know the judges are doing the best they can. And, and, uh, I still had a great time being up there. I was just really grateful. Like my goal was to finish top five. I really wanted to be able to do my, my posing or team, um, at Worlds. Cause I knew only the top five got to do it. So that was important to me. I got that opportunity. Um, and just, yeah, just to be a part of, of that global community was just so valuable and getting to meet some of the other ladies, um, within the women's bodybuilding category. Super valuable. So, um, so yeah, Worlds was, it was, there was a lot of lessons that I learned and took away from that to, um, you know, implement for future competitive endeavors. Cause like I said, I haven't done a lot of shows yet, so I still got to learn how to keep my nerves in check and, and that kind of thing too. So yeah, it was, it was a great experience. Um, and again, just so, so happy that I got to be up there with Sarah. Yeah. You guys had, uh, just a sick class of, of six. Like, um, Natalie Hayes, I mentioned already won frigging everything at some point. Uh, Marie Seton, uh, she had just won the master's title earlier that day. And she is a kind of perennial top female natural bodybuilder over the last couple of years. Also coming in diced Sarah, like I mentioned, just won the monster mash and has won many titles and competed at the highest level. Uh, Zoe Leeming Watts, um, she is a former WBF world champ, I believe. That's great. Yep. Um, Christine, you know, like that, that's awesome. And, you know, like getting more comparisons, always a good thing. And, and, and, um, I, you will get that opportunity moving forward. And I think as you improve, you're going to be in the mix at the highest level, which is so cool. Also, Jennifer counts. She has won, uh, I want to say it might've been 2017. IPE world championships. So you legitimately had three world champions in that division and everyone who was not a world champion was a no joke competitor. So yeah, that was a joy to watch the depth of competition in that, in that category. And you guys both did fantastically well. Um, but yeah, no, no slouches among that crew. So it's, it's, it's, it's, it's a tough thing. Um, you know, when, when, when you get tight placings in a, in a, in a, in a small group of elite competitors, because the difference sometimes between fifth and second is a roll of the dice, a change in lighting, someone peaking slightly better. Um, and, and, but it feels very different to be all, I was in second, I'm in fifth. You're never going to touch me, but that stuff changes, you know, like at the, um, the WMBth Mayhem, uh, Berto placed second. And the guy who beat him was Eddie Saldana, who won the overall. Um, and then he went to worlds and in the middleweight division, I think there was 13th. And I think he placed either eighth or ninth, you know, like, and Sergio placed second who he beat at the Mayhem. And both of them improved from the Mayhem. Both of them felt they, they, they, they did better. And it wasn't like Sergio improved way more than, than Alberto. It was just that Sergio needed to be just a little bit tight, a little bit better peaked. And then he was really able to, to step it up and Berto improved. But the, the, the people who were in that lineup, I mean, we're talking hair on my chinny, chinny, chin, chin separation level of, of competitiveness. Uh, so it's, it's a tough thing, uh, in our sport that is subjective. And so dependent upon who shows up, you really have to be able to self-assess. How did I do relative to me and relative to my prior competitions? And then I, of course, I'm going to put some weight into the outcome, but I have to anchor my satisfaction, my drive, my appreciation, primarily into my own self-assessment and try to be that objective about it. Or it can really become a, a resentment building, sour taste in your mouth kind of, uh, relationship with the sport that can become quite bipolar. And, and I've seen that be just, just not sustainable or enjoyable. Um, and I think it takes maturity. And I think one thing that I love about both of you guys is you're, you're both interested in competing. Like you both want a good look. You want, you have extrinsic goals. You want to compete and you, you do want to win and that's fine, but you also are mature humans. Um, and I think I look back on my own career where I was just as competitive, but far less mature. And I, I'm almost glad that I wasn't good, you know, uh, back in, in the mid two thousands, cause I wasn't ready for it. I wasn't ready to be in those types of lineups where this is a roll of the dice would put you in fifth. And I'm also really glad that not only was I not that good, that social media wasn't around at that time. Cause I would have been acting a fool if I didn't do as well as I, I felt justified in doing, um, on social media. And I think you guys are both fantastic sports women and, uh, and professionals and in a true sense, cause there are things that don't go the way we want. We have, you know, things that could be improved. Um, there are, you know, our, our supportive natural bodybuilding is very mom and pop, very old school. It's growing and the participation rates are growing faster than in my opinion, the capability of many of the, uh, the people who are running the sport. And I have a ton of gratitude and understanding and respect for what they've built and what they're trying to do and that they are trying to adapt. And that there is major competition from bigger entities with more money. So it is by no means a easy thing to, to, to improve, but it does need to improve. And, um, I think, um, there are, this is one area where I think there is a lot of opportunity to improve. And I, I just want to thank you both for, for taking the time to share your experiences and, and, um, also hopefully try to recruit some of those bikini chicks who are out there looking at your delts. Like, Oh, I want that. It's like, you can have that, you can have that, you know? It just, it does take time, right? Like when you talk about the timing, there's a reason I started doing this when I was around 40. Like there's a reason why I was running at a period of time in my life and why I was doing things. I think things happen for the right reason at the right time. I would have never thought that I could be this good starting so late. And then I watched Jeff and I'm like, dude, I'm going to be bigger than him. That's my goal. That's good. He's doing it right. Like he's doing it. And, you know, I mean, I think that's, what's so wonderful about this sport is you have to love doing it every day. Um, and I walked away from worlds just like my posing was the best I'd ever had. I felt comfortable. My transitions were great. My dance was probably the best I'd ever done. And it's like, that's all, that's what, that's all that mattered, you know? And I got to compete against some of the best in the world. And it's like, who gets to say that, you know? So it's, it's pretty awesome. But yeah, more girls for sure. If they could just feel how great it is out there to flex on other people, let's flex on them. There's nothing in it. That's right. I love it. Yeah. No, that's, that's so well said. And, um, you know, I think there is a lot of, you know, self-perceived barriers that, that people from different backgrounds and, um, you know, categories of humans will put on themselves. Whether it's age, whether it's gender. Um, and I think it's, it's really good just to see people prove that it's possible because it can ignite something in someone who, who maybe didn't think that was the case. Uh, when I saw Joe Ferresi was on the, the, the, the, you guys aren't, I know who that is, but, um, as, as one of the competitors in my division, I was like, oh shit, Joe Ferresi's still competing because he was a bodybuilder. I was following in the mid two thousands. And then in the mid two thousands, I want to say he was like late thirties. Um, and then I come to see, he wins the 50 plus men's and I'm like, okay. Yeah. Yeah. I think he was 56 on stage with us and he plays like eighth or ninth, you know? Um, and he looked just as big as he did back in the day, you know, and, and bringing the conditioning, bringing the heat. Um, you know, like I, I'm not, he, he, I would let him state whether he thought it was his best or not, but this is a guy who was a competitive pro natural bodybuilder at the highest level. Um, quite literally 20 years ago, still doing it. And at the very least, very comparable to how he was. And I, I think the light heavies were, were pretty damn competitive class this year. And in the mix, you know, I'm, I'm in a dog fight with him getting bounced around and, and to, to have that on stage, I think is something that hopefully just takes some of these self-imposed barriers off people. And lets them know like, well, why not me? Right. And in that same lineup was, I think, Ido Marco. I think he's an, uh, Israeli, uh, bodybuilder. He, he was 21, you know? So you get to see the potential of some people who are, you know, gifted at this and others who, um, maybe they have a strong potential or not, but if they stay in the game, they stay healthy and they stay hungry, motivated, and they have the right perspective that I think you guys embody. You got a 20, 30 year peak in the game that you can keep doing this and find new ways to keep improving and tweaking. So I love it. Um, I, I think, uh, there's a lot to talk about. I mean, I'm curious about both of your guys's future plans. And I also just want to give you the space. If there's anything more that you want to talk about in terms of, uh, advocating for female bodybuilding. Uh, if there are, uh, things that you guys think need to be done or places or, uh, you know, websites or anything that you want to encourage people to go to or topics that you think need to be explored more. I just want to give you guys the floor. So let's first start with, um, future plans. So Christine, Sarah, we'll start with you, Sarah. Um, what is your future competitions, uh, after 2025 and future plans? Are you taking an offseason or are we getting back on stage? No, no, no. I competed last season, um, and the season and it's a lot and my family's ready to kill me. So, um, and I need a break. Like, I just want to enjoy lifting again. And Christine and I have talked about this, like at the end of prep, it's just, everything is really rough in the gym. Everything's difficult. And I just really need to enjoy it again. Um, so there's definitely areas I, my weaknesses I need to work on specifically my legs. I'm hoping for like a three leg day week. We'll see what he says, but, um, need to get them, um, get those hammies up and quads bigger. So I'll be doing that. I, I would like to compete internationally, um, when I'm 50. So that would give me a year off and then I could come back again. Um, because I think I, like for me and not anybody else, like I, I have mass. So, you know, my struggle is getting really shredded. And so I think if I give myself a year and then kind of see what is going on, that I'll be ready to compete. But I, my focus will be like, where are the bodybuilders? And I will go where they're at. It doesn't matter what federation. I'm not tied to a federation. I just want to compete with the best. So that I'll be keeping my eyes out for that. In this offseason, I am teaming with Suzette Montero, who is also a WNBF pro. I met her in 2021, uh, at the world stage and we saw each other again at Monster Mash. So we have put together an Instagram page for women's bodybuilding because we definitely, there's some thoughts going around about having just a specific bodybuilding show for women. Um, and, and just trying to bring our girls together and unite. And so I did create an Instagram page. I am sending it out. So if you can send it out, I think it's women's. What is it, Christine? What did we call it again? What women's bodybuilding united or something? Yeah. Worst promoters ever. You don't even know your own Instagram page on the podcast. It's like a week old, right? I mean, I'm a mom. I have other things happening, but, um, that's what I want to do in offseason too. I usually have something going on in offseason. I went and I got my NASM certification one year and I just kind of have to have some hands in the game. I'll help out at the Washington state natural, the ANBF this year, and hopefully just worlds, maybe in Calgary. I love Calgary. So I'll have to go visit the Canadians. Okay. It is women's bodybuilding united iron culture listeners. Make sure to go give them a follow on Instagram. There's all one word spelled normally women's bodybuilding united. Um, we'll put it in the show notes. Make sure to give it a follow fierce women, natural, big muscle, bigger presence, united in iron and unapologetic for our division. We rise as one in the world. We'll hear us cross swords, fire emoji. Let's go. So, uh, yeah, that's, that's something I think, honestly, that that's the way it starts with things like this is where you get people around it who are within the sport, who care, who are passionate and never underestimate, um, the power of a small group of passionate people with skin in the game. Um, you know, way back in the day, 3DMJ, actually, we played around with the idea once like men's physique came out, the bikini came out and they were really, really popular. Like we should just do like a 3DMJ bodybuilding only show, just women's bodybuilding, men's bodybuilding and nothing else. And then we talked to promoters and we learned what, what went into it and we saw how they were stressed and we went, uh, we'll just, we'll, we'll just coach. But, but no, I love it. I think, um, I think, uh, it's a great attitude. And I, I think the more, uh, shine we can get on the category and the more we can get connect connections between the athletes. If the athletes all send a group email to a promoter saying, Hey, there's 10 of us, we want to do your show because it works with our dates and our geographical location. What can you do for us? And can you help us promote it? And maybe you give us a group discount or something like that, or make sure you got the prize money. They'll come to the party because some of this is a self-created problem. A promoter sees, I don't get people in this category. I'm not going to promote the category. And then people don't know the category exists and it's kind of this negative and positive feedback loop potential. So I love it. The more I, I, I, I, I guess I'm just encouraging and I want to support you guys to get connected because I think that's the type of thing where you do start to get a really good circuit. And, um, and you guys get to have those, those battles that you deserve. So anyway, I'll, I'll shut up now though, but carry on. No, that was all. I, I think I'm good. I just wanted to make sure people knew about that. And yeah, so we're hoping to connect with other women and, and do that. So. I love it. Well, I, I, I, I can't wait for people to, uh, to, to, to not only engage with that, uh, but also to see you fall back in love with hard training and be able to train the way you want. And hopefully bring that improved package with those bigger quads and hammies. If people do want to follow you, Sarah, and follow your journey, where can they find you? Um, I'm on Instagram at wazoo99. And I have a Facebook page, but that's more of my family stuff. So Instagram is kind of, if you're looking, that's Robbie. Perfect. So make sure you guys follow women's bodybuilding united, as well as wazoo99. If you want to follow along with an awesome athletes, just incredible, uh, journey, honestly, huge fan of both your guys' physiques. And Christine, your future, uh, it's bright. Uh, you're, you're a new pro. You you've realized that you can hang with the best and, uh, it's only looking up from here. So, so what was in store for you? Yeah, it's moving on to climb the next mountain. Right. So, um, my gross goals are like the opposite of Sarah's. James already took away a leg day from me. Um, I need a wider back and bigger chest. So we're, we're going some upper, uh, emphasis. So I'm already very sore, more volume than I've ever done for chest. So it's really fun. It's, I'm such a creature of habit at a robot. So I usually get mad at him for changing my programming, but I think this is going to be amazing. It's, I feel like I have the potential for some newbie gains because I've never trained my chest this much. And I've always loved training back. So I know I'll just throw everything into, to getting that back volume in. So I'm excited for my new split. And hopefully I can grow enough so that I can join my, my teammate there maybe in 2027 to compete again. And we can take on some international shows. I think it would be like an amazing experience to travel and do those shows. And, um, but we got to see, I got to make the improvements because you can't show up looking the same. So, um, I'm excited to do that. Um, yeah, wherever we can find the ladies, that's where we're going to go. Um, so it, it, it's going to be good. And I'm sure I will be kind of a quiet assistant in the background with the, the bodybuilding women's bodybuilding recruitment efforts. And, uh, I just try and get out, uh, when I'm not competing, uh, to shows and volunteer. I'm quite a, um, a big proponent of WMBF Canada. The community here in Canada is amazing. Um, I'm super excited that Worlds will be here next year in Calgary. So I hope, I hope you guys can come. I'd love to see you in person again. Um, but yeah, I will be helping Sarah as much as I can to promote women's bodybuilding, encourage women to, to get big, to grow, to eat the food. I mean, I hate to say it, but like women from our generation, we were told to be small and not to eat. And I did that for a lot of years. Um, so I, I just want to tell women, it's not scary. It's good to, to give yourself the fuel to put in the time to grow. And even if you don't think you're big enough, just still give it a shot. You don't know. Um, like I said, I, I play the cards that I have. I got some symmetry. So it's all about your proportions. You don't have to be an absolutely large person in the absolute sense in terms of body weight. You know, you can still hold your own and, and just give it a go. Especially if that speaks to your personality, like it, women's bodybuilding, it's me to, to my core, everything about it. I just love it. And so, um, yeah, just excited about training, making improvements and, and just seeing how much we can improve this category, uh, moving forward. And, uh, I honestly really do think the future is bright, not only for women's bodybuilding, but natural bodybuilding as a whole. Um, you know, I mean, when I was talking to Heider and, uh, and Adao, there was one pro show in Europe for them to do. Now there's SNBF, Germany, UK supernaturals, Spain, Italy, and there's also growth in, in Asia, which is, you know, a little closer for, for them, depending upon what part of Europe they're from to go to Dubai, Taiwan, Korea, Japan. And, uh, you know, it's, it's not on the immediate horizon, but I'm working even in Oceania to hopefully, uh, maybe get a pro show out here. So we'll, we're going to have a true international pro circuit. And then honestly, it's just a matter of when it comes to pro shows, the pros getting together, contacting the, uh, the promoter and saying, Hey, we all want to come do this show. What do you think? You know? And, and you guys will be able to, uh, to, to do that. And I think to see a good thriving pro circuit with women's bodybuilding being represented internationally will be really good. I talked earlier about how it's, you know, it's an uphill battle to change the game and a place like Asia, but imagine, you know, WMBS Taiwan, just, just putting it out there on Saturday. It's all the amateurs and, you know, nary a single female bodybuilder because it's mostly the local competitors from the broader Asia. And then on day two, what are these 10 amazing women doing these pros? I think that's the type of thing that'll, in a very positive way, break the brains of many of the people in that region and open up possibilities and you'll start to see some, some things. Um, so, you know, you guys, I have, I have, I have a, a heartwarming vision of you guys running around the world shredded, um, you know, showing everybody what's what. And, uh, hopefully, uh, you guys get that opportunity. I know you will both be working so hard in the offseason to improve, and maybe I'll even be joining you guys in 2027 because I have a, Christine, you, like I said, I don't want to co-opt your experience, but I feel like in many ways we have a very, very similar trajectory. So I, I'll be following you and taking inspiration into my own training as I, you know, summit the peak of even more volume that I've been doing previously and trying to find a way to move forward. Um, but I want to thank you both sincerely for being the amazing humans you are. Um, it's exciting to see WMDF worlds go international for the first time in 37 years of it going on, believe it or not, folks, it's been like, like the quote unquote world series of baseball, uh, you know, that's, that's always in the U S and then sometimes we have a couple of Canadian teams, but know that the WMDF is truly becoming international. Um, you know, it is, it is going outside of the U S starting with Canada has been amazing. Um, the WMDF Canada team is just a great group of people who are very positive and moving in the right direction. And I know that in the coming years, it'll go even further than that and travel around the world. And the future is bright, um, not only for natural bodybuilding, but because of people like you for women's bodybuilding. So thank you both for being on iron culture. Um, and I really hope that this translates into some increased participation, curiosity, um, and, uh, and women willingness to, to get out there and be like, you know what, I'm going to do a proper bulk. And even if they are in, in your guys' generation, like you said, what you were told, like if you've never bulked, if you've never actually tried to put on size and intentionally gain weight while doing hard and resistance training, I don't care if you're, if you're 45 or 55, you're going to be surprised. You will put on some muscle. Your body has been waiting for decades for you to let it do this. Um, yeah, I've seen it. Absolutely. Yeah. I've seen it time and time again as a trainer. Um, and, and as, as just someone who's, you know, uh, it's obviously always been more acceptable for us dudes to get big and try to grow muscle and, um, bodies work the same way. So enough of that. I will say thank you one final time to you both. Um, make sure to give them both a follow. Christine, your, your Instagram is, is, is what for people to give you a follow if they want to follow your journey? Yeah. So it's just, yeah, I'm on Instagram. I, I probably overshare. So if you want to follow along, I'd be really grateful. Um, C Reinhardt. So just C for Christine. And then my last name, Reinhardt five, the number five, um, on Instagram. So pretty easy to find, always willing to answer questions if people are curious and, uh, yeah, thank you for the opportunity, Eric. It was really an honor and a privilege to be here and be able to share my story and my, be here with my teammates and just pump up women's bodybuilding. Get jacked. That's how it is. Get jacked. Let's go. No, no. You, you guys are both amazing ambassadors for the sport and especially for your category. I want to thank you. And I also want to thank the dear listener for hanging around until this point. And if you want to help this episode get more shine and hopefully, hopefully help us, you know, spread this message, please give us a subscribe, give us a thumbs up, give us that five star rating. Uh, and of course, if you want to support the show more broadly, definitely check out massresearchreview.com. And again, another shout out to Elite FTS, use the code MRR10. And thank you all for listening along. Big thanks to Sarah and Christine. Give them a follow on Instagram. Also follow the, we're going to say it again because, because they didn't even promote their own thing. Women's Bodybuilding United on Instagram. That should be in the show notes. Follow that on Instagram as that grows. Um, and make sure to tune in every week to Iron Culture because this is just the second of several interviews we're going to be doing with some of the WBF Pro Champions. So you're going to hear some more stories from the trenches next week, and I will see you then on Iron Culture. Thank you. Thank you! Thank you.

=== FILE: Ep 360 - WNBF Champs Eddie Saldana and Max Melchard [XwAw1ifXqhM].txt ===

 sq, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe, mishe champion i have max melcher and eddie saldana on iron culture today uh these two guys i got to mix it up with on stage um i got close enough to them to feel the heat of the flames of the fire of their of their physiques but but not close enough to actually be in the top five with them but it was a true privilege to watch their battle uh and more importantly it was a true privilege to watch their individual seasons arguably um these two guys probably were two of the most successful natural bodybuilders in uh the 2025 pro circuit if you look at the accomplishments they had uh the shows they did who they faced and the titles they won and the titles they got close to winning um so uh it is a huge privilege to have these two champions on and i personally as a fan of the sport i'm a fan of both of them but not just because of their physiques because i think they're both excellent humans ambassadors of the sport and also display a lot of qualities that i think are important to the spirit of natural bodybuilding so we're gonna have a great conversation but of course we got to do a little bit of housekeeping especially since i'm not joined by my host eric trexler uh he he's he's allowed me to to do all the natural bodybuilding stuff and he's sneaking in comments about college football every time i don't do one of these so this this is this is his punishment is that we're having full episodes not just his first five minutes of banter talking about uh bodybuilding or powerlifting full episodes dedicated to natural bodybuilding because he dare speak on college football and iron culture but uh we'll give him the pass this time uh but he's allowed me to conduct these interviews and that means i got some host responsibilities so please if you are listening give us a like give us a follow give us a thumbs up if you're feeling good about the show give us a five star rating it really helps us it helps us get out to more people share good information and help people learn more about iron game as it is uh and also hey if you're interested in becoming a super supporter please check out massresearchreview.com uh that's how i keep the lights on here that's how i pay the mortgage that's how i have an internet connection so i can uh i can actually interview these guys not you know on the street out of my cardboard box but via the internet via the interwebs across three continents what we're doing right now um and then finally if you're interested in any lifting gearhead over to our friends at elitefts my man dave tate has been so generous to offer anyone who follows iron culture a 10 discount use the code mrr10 if you need to remember what are those letters for it's mass research review so now that i'm done being a salesman and a shill and trying to maintain my my lavish influencer lifestyle of sexy science communication um let's actually talk to these champs first i want to welcome the 2025 wmbf overall pro bodybuilding light heavyweight and overall world champion eddie saldana it's iron culture thank you for your time man no thank you eric for having me uh you know just hearing you introduce me in that way it's it's starting to settle in now you know it's been long enough now that it's kind of starting to sink in but uh i battled a lot with it the last couple of weeks to accept that like that actually happened you know because i didn't have those expectations going into that show or even starting this season i really didn't i know i know like some people like to walk around and say that oh i know like i saw this coming or you know this is mine whatever it is i never had that attitude uh i was just going in there whatever happens happens leave it to the judges whoever they put me next to i'll pose as hard as i can and uh that was the result so it's it's really more than i could have ever asked for so thank you for that introduction eddie no problem man and i have to say um even though i i was sixth in the lineup um i relate to that so much because i am still struggling to to kind of accept that i was reasonably competitive in that lineup and the physique that i displayed this year it was more than i knew possible um and the outcome was better than i anticipated um like i like i know we're competitors and i set the goal i did sit state you know i want to try to place top five at worlds that would be a stretch goal for me and ironically i didn't even get there i placed sixth but i still look back i'm like no way you know because i think part of me really felt that that was a stretch goal and um i think a lot of people who are really good at the work ethic side of the sport regardless of how much talent they have and whether they can capitalize on it they view themselves as maybe not quite as good as they are uh or or it is difficult for them to accept that um and that's part of the reason maybe why they're able to focus on the work and putting in the effort and the consistency and that's what drives them um and they don't let the external outcome distract them and i think that attitude you know it's not always good it's a bit of a double-edged sword you know it can make you feel maybe not as satisfied or appreciative or you can have self-doubt and i know i've experienced those things but i think also it's a good fit for individual sport in my opinion because if you get too caught up in the outcomes which are very much in the hands of the judges subjective who shows up um and a lot of things outside of our control it can lead to a lot of frustration and ultimately when we get on stage i mean there was some dudes throwing some elbows on stage but honestly i think that probably hurts you more than helps you the judges don't like that all you can do is be your best you know get lean peak well like you said whoever you're next to pose as best you possibly can and then put in frankly years and decades of work in the gym and that's it so i think you display that so well and i think it's such a great example to see that that's the same attitude whether you are you know a first-time novice competitor or if you happen to be i know it's hard for you to kind of accept that a world champion so i think it's a great perspective no definitely yeah um no i agree with all those points that you made uh definitely um i think always have like always put holding myself to such a high regard it definitely has helped me get to where i am you know when i started lifting when i was like a teenager i knew then and there that if you were to fast forward five ten fifteen years into the future i was still going to be doing that i knew then and there i was like i'm not going to stop you think about the people that you meet over the years in the gym or just training in general how many how many of them are still lifting to this day not a lot of them yeah you know and like that's one of those things from the start i was like i'm never going to stop i'm never going to stop doing this so i think just that love and that pursuit of wanting to get better is what got me to where i am i didn't even think about competing when i started i just enjoyed the the process you know so i owe a lot of it to just having that really strong like uh just passion for it if you want to call it that i love for it from the very start i just wanting to get better and then obviously you know i learned about competing and i did my first show and i was like oh cool like now i have something to kind of work toward you know because as bodybuilders we we love progression that's we chase progression we like way to the gym and training because of how it makes us feel but you go into the gym you feel like you're in control when you have you know when you when you're gripping the weights it's a great feeling you're like you feel powerful you know and then on top of that you get to build a physique with it that's just like come on it doesn't get any better you know so you just you keep going after it so you know those things paired together i'm like man cool let's just see how far we can take this and to be where i am now you know it's like it's crazy man i i'm telling you i'm like i i just didn't imagine it would end up like this i love to hear it you speak to my soul and i uh i love to see just how much i love to see when good people do well and it surprises them because i i know it's going to motivate you to push even further and honestly it's super well deserved so i know huge welcome to the podcast and then not to be outdone we have uh someone who had an incredible season we've got max melcherd on not only is he the vice world champion uh for the light heavyweight division at worlds um but you had a string of competitions and folks believe it or not this is just his second season which is mind-boggling to me um but you won almost every damn show that exists in europe this year um and you weren't even just restricted to the wmbf circuit i think if i recall correctly you won both the classic and the bodybuilding title in a npc natural regional show in austria where you are um if i recall correctly uh you won the evo classic um which is a an independent natural um you know pro bodybuilding show that actually pays out prize money you did a great job with that and that's a really cool well-run show um on the wmbf side of things uh you won the always top league contested uh wf germany's valhalla title probably the most competitive european wmbf bodybuilding show specifically because of just how popular in your region in germany and austria uh bodybuilding is and that always has a lot of shows a lot of pros come out who are highly competitive and it typically is towards the end of the season so people are looking for that wmbf pro qualifier so huge congrats on winning the hammer now i know you've you've got a few of those uh from your last season as well i think you won the men's physique title last time so you're one of those unique competitors who has a physique that does well in classic the new division we have uh in wmbf uh men's physique and bodybuilding known for your conditioning and i'm not done you know you went and won the wmbf uh uk supernatural show you crushed that one and then arguably when we talk about top titles world championship level international titles across the sport uh we have to give a huge shout out to the shirt you're wearing the anbf show which is hosted out uh in austria man this show probably i haven't been there i will say uh but what i've heard uh is that it is probably one of the most well-produced uh shows that that that period we're talking like you know when i talked about wmbf taiwan being up there i think anbf is as well i remember there was drones flying around our client uh dirk emrich's head uh there are hundreds of competitors who do this and you managed to come away with the uh pro uh overall title there which is a huge accomplishment because this is a show that is open to anybody it's invitational meet for pros they reach out to people all over the world and ask them to come and then you know you get displayed on the big screen behind you it tells you which which pro cards you have in which organization which titles you won and then you battle it out to see who uh the best of those pros are so to win that title is truly like winning a world title uh it is you know uh in a very impressive feat and a big shout out to the promoters of that show for doing that for natural bodybuilding um they're they're setting the standard as far as um high quality shows but i really love to see what they do so then i think the the only shows you have not won i have been to some pretty respectable uh competitors there there was the snbf um which you know another great wbf circuit show and you i think you lost to someone named babakar he might be like the only three-time overall pro world champion so i'm gonna allow you to to get a pass on that and then also you you lost to this gentleman who were both we both lost to uh at worlds eddie saldana so the only two people who have beaten you uh this year in just your second season are overall wbf world champions so max melchard welcome to the show the shredded man himself thank you for joining us on iron culture thank you for having me um thank you for the amazing introduction uh now it finally pays off that i did so many shows because you get to talk about me uh which always uh is like honey on my soul um and i have to get back to your your sales talk in the beginning and now finally understand why you invited me you wanted to have an austrian bodybuilder speaking english in your podcast i would try my best um to fill the big man's shoes even though if he's not on the natural side um i still consider him the big austrian bodybuilder i would try my best um to match my dialect with the sterian dialect and talk more like the way you are used at austrian stock english oh man yeah um and and talking about the season yeah um honestly um i i still can't believe um how this season uh went how this season uh played out um because as you said it's only my second season um i have the same approach towards the sport as you guys have even in a more extreme way because um i've been lifting weights um for 20 years now um and i never had the drive to um compete um because i'm i'm not the character um who who um usually seeks the competition with other guys because either um i talk to someone and i like them and i think they are amazing or i talk to them and i don't like them and still leave them um to themselves um and and therefore i think either everyone uh is is unique in in his in his or her own way um and i never had to drive to um battle with um other people because i think everyone has their uh bonuses and minuses and positive and negative aspects um so my my approach um to the competitive side wasn't um about the competition itself uh back in 2022 um but about the uh prep because i uh fell in love with um different kinds of sports lifting weights swimming running marathons um um muay thai brazilian jiu-jitsu um but always for the reason of um feeling myself um and feeling pain um and uh working through pain um and that's why i wanted to do a show because i wanted to do a prep uh rather than a show um itself um because a couple of my friends always told me um uh bodybuilding prep is the toughest thing you can do and you can't compare it to running a marathon and you can't compare it to anything else um so that's why i said maybe i should try it um up until um i entered the stage the first time which was the um pca first timers i don't know if you guys know the show or the federation the pca um it's an untested show um but also very um well um managed um they have a clear structure um and i entered the stage um not knowing because i was 30 years old um i was already a dentist for a couple of years um i was um i think engaged back then to my now wife um and i up until i entered the the stage i wasn't sure there were two possibilities um either i entered the stage and think to myself max what what the hell are you doing here you are uh smeared in some brown color wearing not even your underwear it's rather a a tanga um you're a dentist for a couple of years and what the hell are you doing um or i would love it and the the second possibility was the case so um i entered the stage and i fell in love with being on a stage um and presenting myself um i always had now you can tell i i like to talk even if it's not my mother tongue um i always had problems with uh talking on stage because i got nervous um but uh through bodybuilding i found a way of um presenting myself um leaving the energy i i i have got given um and and giving it to an audience and giving it to the judges and honestly now i have to say i also like the battle with other competitors um it wasn't there up until in 2022 um but from then on uh i fell in love with comparing myself and comparing different physiques um and seeing uh what results the work i put into myself and the food i put into myself and the sleep i put into myself um bring on the stage um and what mom and dad's given genetics uh uh produce um finally yeah yeah max i love it it's been a journey already even though it's only my second season yeah yeah no no i think um what stands out to me about you max is a couple things one is that um you appear to be just such a positive person who loves what he does which i think is a great thing to see and um how much that you enjoy your your time on stage i think is apparent and i think that's a beautiful thing um and just how much you love training the lifting the process um i think that is something that i think all three of us share which is which i think is great um it's something that draws a lot of people to the sport and the competitive side the fact that you're learning to love that i think i have i have two things i want to say about that is one it's good if you're anchored in loving the iron and lifting weights which you both are you know eddie spoke about feeling powerful and what it's like to hold the iron and focusing on progression and then oh wow it also is changing my body and what could be better um and you were talking about how you've been you know enjoying pushing yourself through pain for 20 years and competition has come later i'm very confident that even though now you're starting to focus on the competitive side of it that you'll always have a love because sometimes younger uh competitors who get into competing early they don't yet have that strong attachment to the iron yet and they can get a little too caught up in the competitive placings and the outcomes and it can actually take away from their underlying love of the game which i think is a tragic thing when i'm and when i think it's just how amazing the iron is so um that's that's so good to hear and the second thing i'll say is that i'm a fan of the sport um and i think it's really interesting because pro bodybuilding at the highest level like you have to have a certain level of genetic aptitude and and the right shape you know it's like a dog and pony show like if you're true like if you're seven foot two and you have like really really you know small bone structure or if you are just not built right you just can't get there at all but even at the highest level because the sport is so demanding you know some people just can't get shredded some people just don't have the size some people just crack up mentally and never are quite able to bring the right package to stage because they can't stay objective in the end you know some people like you said they have traits from their parents some people take different strategies with training and i think it's really interesting as a fan of the sport to see the different pathways that people can try to get there and then when you finally get them on stage and you know oh this guy's very different from that guy this guy's very different from that guy i think it's really interesting to see you know what happens so i always enjoy hearing about different athletes like some are just huge but really struggle to get shredded some i'm not going to call any names here but maybe they're only two pounds up from stage weight and they're already struggling to uh to eat more um and making other people who might be in the same room with them virtually a little jealous of uh of the low body fat settling point but maybe they don't have the same size or shape so like we all bring different things to the table and we all know how hard it is to to get on stage uh at our peak but um that makes it a really interesting thing to me i think the the competitive side of it so i really enjoy kind of going back to the lab thinking what i can do pushing hard and then trying to bring something unique or improved the next time and then seeing whatever what everybody else do so that possibility that hope and that unique variety i really enjoy so um yeah i i i think i relate to to your perspective on the sport now what i would love to do is hear about your guys's history because there's a lot that has gone to you guys getting here um eddie you've had several seasons and you have maintained that kind of focus on the process and wanting to be your best for a long time um and uh and max like you said you have a long training history but you're relatively new to the sport so eddie let's start with you i'd love to hear about how you got into training how long you've been training and then your entrance into competitive bodybuilding and how that led you to this moment where you actually came away as the world champion my first introduction to training goes back quite i must have been about 13 years old there was something about being jacked just like you know like big arms that fascinated me my brother used to have this friend who uh no he had like big arms at the time i was like 13 i just thought it looked cool i was like i want big arms so i used to just walk around the house looking for anything that i could lift i used to like go to the garage and look for things to curl um my mom used to use these like uh you know those five gallon buckets or however whatever they are i used to fill them with water and i just curl them just curl them you know and uh that was kind of my introduction to like lifting and then eventually i ended up getting some dumbbells and uh when i was about 16 years old is when i fully committed to like like actually lifting like okay i'm gonna start and i'm not gonna stop because i had taken a break before that and that was kind of my introduction to i didn't i didn't know what i was doing i literally had no idea what i was doing i was just lifting in the garage just curling for an hour doing lateral raises whatever it was and how old are you now um i'm 30 so you've been training for almost 20 years if we count since you're 13 well it was 14 years uh four it's been 14 years uh since that day it was like i still remember the day it was like it was like july 21st 2011 something like that my first start yeah yeah yeah it was a very conscious decision me and my brother were like you know what we're gonna go to gnc we're gonna go buy a tub of weight protein like we're gonna start from that day forward we still we're still going so that was kind of like my real start to to lifting and like from that day forward uh then i remember when i got my first actual job and i was about like 18 like out of high school first thing i did when i got my first paycheck was i hired a coach the first thing i did and uh it's this guy that uh that i have i was following him on instagram at the time this was in 2011 so it's not like today where everybody's a coach everybody's a coach now back then back then even just being into fitness wasn't even like that common on instagram so i i was following this guy he was a t nationals competitor like you know obviously enhanced but i stumbled across this page and i was like i don't care i just want this guy to coach me so um and it was like 100 bucks a month and he prepped me for my first show uh and that was like it must have been like AI think like four four or five months that we gave ourselves to get ready for that show and that was my first time ever like actually competing you know that there was a show going on locally here in my town and i don't live in a big town so for them to have a bodybuilding competition here i remember like even though i knew nothing about competing i was like i i have to do this show like why not you know i have nothing to lose it's in four months i thought that was plenty of time and that was my first show i ever did i uh i was like 19 years old when i was uh when i started that prep and then i competed at 20 and i won i actually won that show and it felt felt good to win like to know that all the work that i put in actually resulted in something like i got something i got the fulfillment that i was looking for out of that prep i just wanted to know that my hard work paid off you know i didn't like cheat on my diet well i must have had a couple of nibbles here and there but i tried to stay as disciplined as i could i did my my second like actual uh i did my my following show that i did after that was in um i must have gave myself an offseason of about let's see 2015 about like two or three years and uh i did a low a show here in washington the washington state natural which is a show that i've done pretty much every prep since then and i was coached for that show uh by jeff nippard at the time he was still you know doing clients and stuff and whatnot so i won that show and i remember that was the first time i won my wmbf pro card but i didn't i didn't use it you know i was like i just wanted to do this show like i'm not trying to compete as a pro i was you know i was like 23 at the time i was like you know so i won the junior class and i won the overall but i was like i'm not good enough to do like you know like a big show like i already knew what worlds was and all that i was already aware but i was like i'm not good enough to do it so i literally did one show i had so i had done two shows by this point i've done two preps and i've only done two shows it wasn't until uh 2021 where i did my first actually like string of shows or uh i did that same show the washington state i won it uh what other shows that i do so you got your i don't remember you got your pro card again yes i did i uh yeah because if you don't use it within like they changed the rule now with wmbf where you could just pay your dues and you got to keep it at the time if you didn't compete i think it was every two years you had to requalify so i got it again and uh i competed at uh so ipe worlds was the other thing that around anymore i think the wmbf kind of like emerged or something like that but i did ipe worlds that year and i got fourth place and i had people telling me do worlds do worlds it's in three weeks you know just hold it on for three more weeks and i was like i'm not good enough i'm just not good enough to compete at worlds look at these guys look at me i was like nah i'm not gonna do it i don't care what anybody like nobody's out into my head and i have so many people telling me to do it i was like i don't feel like i'm good enough so i'm not gonna do it but i'm gonna take an offseason and i'll tell you what when i come back then i'll do it and uh this year was the year that i came back and i did it and uh you know and i won but that's kind of a like you know so i've had about four seasons i've had about four seasons but i haven't done like i think max has done as many shows in one season that i did than i did in all my seasons combined you know so yeah this this year i did the most shows though than i've done i guess that i uh i did it was the washington state natural i did a an npc show the muscle mayhem and worlds the npc show that i did that was a two-day event so i did two shows i did one i competed on friday and then i competed again on saturday so that was a two-day event so that's i don't know if you want to count that as two shows but you know that was a something interesting something different and correct me if i'm wrong they had the the the tested on on day one and the untested on day two is that right correct yeah so i did the tested and that show was very spontaneous like i i wasn't i was like i just signed up for it and i was like it's in the middle of my prep i was like whatever happens happens i don't care i'm just gonna show up i won the uh natural one and then uh the untested one i i won my class but i i got uh i think it was like second in the overall because i asked the judges for the scorecards i was like i want to know i want to see the scorecards and it was like second in the overall and the guy who won the overall he was a big guy he was he probably had like 70 pounds on me you know it was you know big guy big guy it was like 250 on stage so but it's cool to like i just wanted to be up there with somebody of that caliber i wanted to see how i looked on stage next to somebody that big that was kind of it was it was more so for the experience to compete in an untested show and uh like i i got out of that show what i was looking for like i was not disappointed with the result i was satisfied i left happy uh it was it was a good experience and then obviously i did the mayhem after that and the mayhem was probably the most fulfilling show that i had this entire season is in terms of like i wanted to um what i really wanted this season is i wanted to do a like a natural pro show with good competition where i felt like okay uh i actually beat some credible names and that's what the muscle mayhem was for me so prior to that show i didn't have a lot of like confidence uh to do worlds but it was after that show you know against you obviously and burdo you know sergio was there all these other guys and i was like this is this is a good lineup but you know i was like whatever happens happens but that was a that like i said that show for me to actually leave and be like oh shit i actually won it was it gave me the momentum that i needed and the self-confidence too because uh that's something that i was lacking um during the prep a lot was like am i good enough am i good enough am i good enough i i would ask myself that all the time but regardless whether i am or i'm not i just kept putting in the work man i just you know what else is there to do i love it yeah i just want to point out the listeners that this is a man who got his pro card in his 20s said no no i'm not good enough came back got it again placed fourth at ipe worlds said no i'm not good enough to do wbf worlds comes back and uh sweeps the entire season that he did this year i mean i guess technically you you did have one one loss to to a 250 pound competitor in an untested show did did he turn pro in that show is that a pro qualifier i don't think it was a pro qualifier or it might have been a pro qualifier i'm not honestly i'm not entirely sure because i know that he didn't compete after that i know that he started his soft season after that so i don't i don't really follow the npc very closely like that but i don't i'm not entirely sure if it wasn't pro qualifier so you might have lost to it to a now ifbv pro which which which like max getting the pass for for losing to babakar and you i'm going to give you the pass for losing to a a potential ifbv pro 250 pound competitor so let's just say you had an incredible season and i think that uh that humility and focus on hard work is a huge part of of why um and yeah it's it's pretty cool uh and you've been working with uh cliff wilson for how long now yeah that's just 2018 uh so it was right around the time when i uh when i got my wmb at pro card i was working with jeff nipper at the time and he started to focus on other career ventures and uh so he told me he wasn't going to be coaching anymore and he referred a cliff to me actually he said you know check out cliff he's somebody who will actually admire look up to you know funny thing is that i had already emailed cliff like two years before that trying to work with him but i was like what kind of for that this time however it was a little bit different the conversation went a little bit different uh cliff took me on and yeah we've been working together for ever since ever since 2018 it was like march or april of 2018 so it's going on for like seven years now that's awesome yeah it's really cool to see when an athlete and coaches collaborate together for for a long time period they often really get to learn one another's tendencies physique they get a good working relationship and and one thing i can say is that you peaked really well at all the shows you did you looked fantastic so huge congratulations um yeah i feel the same way about the mayhem um i've been i've either attended that show coached at that show or competed in it as an amateur every year since 2007 um you know i got into the overall once in 09 early in my career um you know and the washington is also a show that is very close to team 3dmj's heart that's where brad loomis and jeff alberts won their pro cards um i was in the overall there in 09 as well and got stopped by the other guys um when i got to do it with jeff in uh 2019 which was which was pretty cool um but yeah it goes way back uh i remember when kevin and denise uh ran that show and now aaron orton's doing a great job with it but um no it's it's really cool there's there's so the pacific northwest there's there's there's two big shows in wmbf that have always been highly competitive and those are them and then for the pro side of it absolutely the mayhem has had some epic battles um i still to this day the most impressive non-worlds competition that i've seen uh was actually the 2010 muscle mayhem where you had uh five world champions battling it out across multiple different federations you had philip ricardo jr kiyoshi moody cleveland thomas panics pierre and moji alua and that was your top five in order and among those guys there's probably 10 natural olympia titles three wmbf worlds three or four yordan cups um um uh team universe titles uh and now an eventual pro card and panics pierre so it that that lineup was it was just stunning uh and then six seventh were also really really good like after that so now you came in there and uh yeah you were you were battling it out with you know sam okanola former world two different feds obviously birdo form you know wbf universe who who you uh who you beat in second and one of the best bodybuilders out of spain sergio who played second in his weight class this year and has won the overall spanish title so and then he's just a ball of muscle so yeah i'm glad that that you finally built that confidence that i think was um probably overdue my man you know based upon the physique so but no fantastic season huge congratulations and um yeah it was incredible to watch and it was also a huge honor to get to share that stage with you so no well it was great thank you of course max let's talk about you my man so you've been in the game lifting swimming running 20 years but competition is a new thing for you i have two questions yeah one what the hell is in the water over there in germany and austria because some of the bodybuilders that come out of there especially at a young age are just incredible some of the natural bodybuilders in austria and germany are so impressive um i mean each each time i have done worlds i have i've been faced with with just also the conditioning especially is something that i just love to see um it seems like the conditioning standard over there uh in europe too i got to give a big shout out to the uk like uh very very impressive um like people know that when they show up they they bring it they need to show their their best physiques and striated glutes top to bottom one of the motivating factors i had to try to get into the truly peat peeled well leanest condition i could was knowing i'm gonna have to stand next to max well hopefully i get to stand next to max if i've not just kept on the outside the whole time and i did and and one of my i'll be honest with you one of my proudest moments was getting to look at my pictures and hitting back to all biceps and most musculars next to you because i did get some pretty decent looks with the top five and not looking soft i was like okay i'm hanging with max on conditioning i did something right this guy is peeled out of his mind so i think uh i my yeah let's start with my first question before i just adhd myself into uh talking about nothing um tell me about the bodybuilding culture in austria and germany and especially the natural bodybuilding culture because it seems like it's it's very very strong and people get into it at a young age like um like benjamin schuster when i was talking to him you know the the middleweight champion from 2023 who won my class um i think he was 21 at worlds maybe i have it but it couldn't be much older than that and he was just looking no no like he was in his 30s i was very impressed so so talk to me about the your bodybuilding culture over there yeah i think um firstly um the thing you mentioned uh just at the end before you switch back to a question um i'm listening to a lot lots of podcasts um from austria and german germany from different cultures um and the difference um from the us and canada to europe is also discussed uh in the european scene um because it's um imminent to them as well that in europe there is this strange drive um towards um conditioning um whereas in the us um there are many athletes who have absolutely amazing muscle balance absolutely amazing volume um with a little less preference on uh conditioning so i think um the reason why many european athletes bring the the certain looks um is because um um am i still here you are yeah yeah wait i'll switch down here my my best friend's ring light um is is leaving um so i'm looking down on you guys now oh no no that's not my character um is that um many athletes um choose um to do a prep with a coach um and as the european culture um and also european judges um prefer um conditioned looks um the coaches have specialized in produce producing the um conditioned looks um and so um the the prep usually i think is also longer than in the us um so we we don't start prep um the year we do the competitions but we most coaches um start prep the year before like in summer of the year before you want to compete um and enter the prep with a pre-prep cut um in order to um um be in a position um that allows reaching uh the conditioning you desire um so so that that's that's the first part of the answer um and the second part um what's in our water um i think we have uh quite a good drinking quality um but um i think we don't have the uh long tradition in natural bodybuilding uh just yet um so i think the the talent pool um especially germany because austria is such a small uh country um but uh germany with around uh 100 million uh inhabitants um they uh discovered natural bodybuilding i think only over the last um let's say eight years or seven to eight years uh and ever since then it's growing and growing and growing um and the genetics we bring um and the talent we bring um is only being discovered by now so um extra nor extraordinary athletes like benjamin for example um um wouldn't have been discovered um back when eddie had his first season because um natural bodybuilding simply wasn't a thing uh in europe um so i think that's the reason why more and more talents are are coming um the trend with younger and younger guys competing is also something i am not too certain about uh in benjamin's case um i just saw his updates from his coach a couple days ago um i'm not sure when he will compete again but if he competes again he will be a bomb hitting the stages um because i remember back in 2023 um his off-season look what i don't want to step on his toes but his off-season look wasn't that impressive to me um his stage look was brightening because he had um uh an immense muscle volume um for his age and not even for his age for any age um combined with elite conditioning um and now i saw his his his pictures from the off-season and he already looks bombastic yeah so so i think uh the next time he enters the stage um yeah pooh he's coming for for for all um and yeah so i think i've answered both for the questions and i appreciated benjamin's physique because i'm i'm also a huge fan of of of his yeah yeah there's there's there's a few pockets around the world where natural bodybuilding seems to be growing a lot um asia is incredible right now and the champions who keep coming out of the woodworks there is is really impressive um and we're also seeing a some some great champions coming out of europe you know obviously spain is always killers so it's it's really cool to see and it creates a really competitive worlds and it's been since 2019 that we have had far more uh international entrance into the wbf worlds than just americans as it used to be for a long time you know i've been going to wmbf worlds for a long time i think the first one i attended in person was 2014 in boston so it's been over a decade of me seeing worlds transform and um the last few years uh it's been really cool to see i was at 2022 2023 i wasn't there last year and obviously i was competing this year with you guys and it's just great to see and now we have our first year next year where it's actually going international it'll be in calgary um so yeah big shout out you know people all federations have work to do natural bodybuilding is very much splintered across many organizations and um there's a lot of room for improvement but one thing that i really do want to state is that i don't think the wmbf and the people behind it given how few of them there are and how much responsibilities they have are given enough credit for what they've done to develop the international side of the wmbf um most of the u.s federations even that have quote-unquote world championships or even they have they have a few international affiliates are truly just basically u.s based it's kind of like you know baseball we got the world series and it's like oh yeah who's in the world series i think we got a couple canadian teams you know it's not like that the wmbf really does have very strong international presence and um you'll see world champions from all over the place and it gets batted around a lot which i think is great for the health of natural bodybuilding so anyway um i think that's really cool to see obviously max i i'm assuming that bodybuilding itself even if it's not natural bodybuilding is pretty popular in your region probably because of the influence of who you were joking about sounding like arnold schwarzenegger uh so it seems like that's a rich cultural tradition is that accurate is that just a perception i have as an american who you know watched his action movies growing up but his bodybuilding understood respected and part of the culture there or no i wouldn't say so really i think arnold yeah i think arnold's influence of course every austrian is proud um having produced this international star um but i think arnold's influence was uh rather um bringing some kind of acceptance to the sport worldwide um in austria we are uh proud of the character arnold schwarzenegger and him being born in austria um but the sport itself is rather being viewed as something uh dumb people do so um it's it's it's always um yeah because there are i know many guys from the not many guys because many of them already died of for different reasons but i know a couple of guys when i entered the sport um who were competing in the late 80s to mid 90s um not naturally of not of course but not naturally um and i think that firstly um um austrians have the prejudice of someone who uh is bringing muscles to the table um of having to be um not developed uh in the brain aspects um and secondly um there are every now and then certain characters either in natural or in in enhanced bodybuilding um who um fulfill the prejudice people have and sometimes some of them are uh successful and known and yeah the prejudice keeps growing um so i'm still often confronted um with surprised patients uh who simply don't get that their dentist um is also um having the passion of doing bodybuilding and still they don't know uh what natural bodybuilding is so um yeah um either they think i'm only bodybuilding when i'm lean and my shirt is uh not long-sleeved um or they uh ask me if i still train because you you've lost some weight right you've lost some weight you've gotten thin over the last couple months uh have you stopped training um so yeah natural bodybuilding is not something uh the gen pop uh knows about wow bodybuilding is is still um enhanced bodybuilding and the bodybuilder is viewed as uh the the optics a bodybuilder brings um are the optics natural bodybuilder can't bring i see well you know that's an interesting thing because from the outside when you see the success of a show like the anvf or the evo classic or when you see das gym uh it makes it seem like from the outside that oh there must be a rich natural bodybuilding culture and some degree of acceptance and commercial viability but i think that speaks the fact that those three things exist and they're so successful it speaks more to how passionate uh individuals can be and if they're business savvy and truly love the game that they can do very well so you know what in many ways uh it's unfortunate to hear that of course we're all just perceived as is is dumb meatheads and if we're natural then we're dumb meatheads who are not even big enough so we're just stupid and small um but it's always good to it's always good to fly under the radar you're not wrong and surprised with cynic and intelligent comments no i i i fully agree i i do like subverting expectations that's for sure but um but no i guess a huge shout out to everyone over there who like yourself is uh doing the good work promoting and being a good ambassador for the sport and man considering uh what you just told me the fact that the anbf is doing so well the dubbing beth vahala is doing so well the evo classic is doing so well and that if anyone hasn't been out to austria and gone to das gym i have not been there yet but seeing the pictures and the videos it seems like a true mecca uh to to the to the love of iron game and uh and also arnold schwarzenegger like you know they got like a little literal terminator there and like you can stay there like it's a hotel and you can train they have every piece of equipment you could ever imagine um the guys who own it you know brothers powerlifter bodybuilder you know so it's just very cool so so the four names you you just mentioned so the wmbf germany the evo classics or the the the whole corporation evo uh per se um the ambf and in in austria the ambf and dust gym are um the four names that drive the sport forward in the german-speaking area so so especially in austria i have to say that um the cooperation of of ambf um as a competition and dust gym as an institution or or gym or however you want to name museum um is the one single thing that made natural bodybuilding explode in in austria i think it was back they opened up in 2016 i think um and there was this um intertwining of owner um one of the first uh popular uh natural bodybuilding coaches in austria uh shout out to valentin danbozzi um and uh athletes um who are working out in the gym um and they uh made a season together i think in 2018 and 2019 uh and that's what put natural bodybuilding really on the radar in in austria and helped helped it grow yeah that's so that's awesome yeah yeah beautiful well and you have to visit uh both of you have to visit at least us i would love to it's i think yeah i think it's worth the trip you have you have people um changing their life and uh moving to vienna uh from all over the world with the only reason uh of working out at dusk which is uh beyond my my grasp but there are people who are moving from their old lives just in order to work out at dusk gym uh yeah no dude i i i know people who i know competitive bodybuilders who lived in la and vegas who went to das gym and said doesn't even compare hands down best gym in the world like um like without any qualification you know and then when you if you actually anybody just go online you've got to check it out you'll the videos and and and the pictures alone are probably enough to convince you but it is truly it seems like a mecca of bodybuilding so that's really cool um i want to give people a little more insight into your your personal lives before we started recording max we got to meet uh you know your daughter your wife eddie uh you mentioned that you started training with your brother um so talk to me a little bit about to the degree that you're comfortable eddie what does life outside of bodybuilding look like for you um so i i have a full-time job and uh apart from that i uh my wife and i we run a meal prep business here or mostly we actually just started it this year but it's congratulations it's more more local based but it's uh we're also like and we're we have like kiosk locations and gyms throughout town where we go in there we set up like uh we set up like a self-serve kind of like grab and go um system you just grab it you scan it there you pay for it we have that kind of like in different gyms throughout town so like even right now my wife is uh we have like a we have like our own uh we have a commercial space that we rent out like a brick and mortar kind of use it as like a production hub she's there right now actually they're prepping meals so like once i get them with this podcast i'll eat a meal i'll probably go over there and help them out you know and then as i said i do have a full-time job i work in sales and i sell we sell like uh food food products um a lot of like energy drinks beverages things like that so that's what i do and then it's just i don't have any kids not yet that's something that my wife and i are that's something that we talk about being next for us you know especially me being i'm 30 years old my wife is my wife is 26 she's about to turn 27 i think we're at that point now where we we see that as the next you know step in our uh in our journey whatever you want to call it you know but i do i do want to be a dad so i do think about that i do think about things like that and it starts to like i even think about like well i want to prep again and this time around but i also want to be a dad you know it it does kind of put you into a position where you start to think about your future and the choices that you make and you know it's i do think everything is it's like it's doable that we can mitigate it but obviously it isn't until you're actually in that position that you start to see like okay how is this gonna change the course of everything like it's it's all situational yeah um yeah and uh you mentioned uh my brother yeah my brother him and i we started lifting together uh we he he was like you know he used to pay my gym membership when i first started going to the gym uh to this day we like i said he's still training also training that he got his wmbf pro card this year actually uh a local show here in washington you know he's always uh kind of he hasn't competed as much as i have um but it's he tells me all the time like oh you know you inspire me motivate me uh it's it's cool you know it's cool to hear that from your older brother that he tells me that he looks up to me you know he likes to tell people like oh my brother won worlds things like that so it does feel good to have that and then i actually um i skipped right over this but my wife also uh she's also competed with me before this year uh we tried doing our prep together it just with uh the business it was just too much to handle um she you know she couldn't focus on both at the same time so we did the washington stay natural together but after that she ended her she and i i actually have to tell her like hey step back because she wanted to keep prepping but i knew that she wasn't going to come in at her best but she also earned her a wmbf program i believe in 2021 we did a show together the washington state no that wasn't the washington it was a different show we both did it it was a wmbf pro qualifier and we both won our overall sand daughter pro card so that was a pretty cool experience experience to have that with my wife uh you know to kind of have somebody that understands the the life and the requirements and the sacrifices because it's hard to man everything that goes into bodybuilding i mean at least for me it's always been very like challenging to kind of balance everything out because when i get into a prep i get very very like i get very invested in it extremely like tunnel vision focused and you know i look at somebody like max and he's like you know it seems like he's having the time of his life and i'm like man why can't i be you know why can't i be in the same spirits while i'm in prep it's just it's it's always been hard for me to be in a prep especially like near like the tail end of a prep when your food is slow and you know like i want to be i want to be like the same old version of myself that i normally am but i just it's so hard for me to find that when i'm like tired i'm hungry but obviously having a partner who understands like has been through it and can be there support me and encourage me even it's you know i feel very blessed eddie i really appreciate that perspective and i think it it also goes to show that um even when you see someone who has done multiple seasons been competing for you know several years uh and even is at the top of the sport that they're still striving to improve not just their physique but also their approach um the goal of mine you know i've done 0709 2011 2019 2023 and now uh you know 2025 i'm not sure i've done as many shows as max he managed to do like 13 in one season but i've done now probably more seasons than max so i'll at least give myself that and 20 shows um i've obviously been trying to become better and improve and i've done that from a competitive standpoint but the biggest focus i've had is trying to make the lifestyle of competitive bodybuilding become more and more integrated and so that i don't have a impact on the people around me or at least i can minimize it and i can tell you that is something that even with intention and focus and doing everything right or as right as i can at the time i'm doing it to my best of my knowledge it takes time and i'm 42 and i just did like i said my 20th show in my sixth season and my proudest moment was not placing sixth in the world don't get me wrong that was huge and i'm very proud of it but was sitting down with a couple of my clients and friends after the taiwan show with my wife at a sushi restaurant i'm still on my diet you know i got i got mayhem coming up in five weeks and uh one of my clients and friends and also wmbf pro asks barb my wife who's traveling with me so how do you deal with his irritability and his low energy and how is he during prep and she said you know to be honest it used to be pretty pretty rough but um i can't even tell the difference this year sometimes i notice that when we walk to breakfast i look and he's behind me because he's walking so slow but but that's about it uh you know he gets a little brain fog but he um he's fine and i didn't say a word i wasn't gonna speak for i wasn't gonna interject and barb doesn't pull punches my wife tells it how it is you know she's she's honest um someone asked her questions asked and answered you know and um so when she said that i almost i almost started crying at the table i had to kind of just keep it together because that was something that i've been trying to achieve for decades you know um so it takes time man and and you definitely will get there and the fact that you think about it is a really important thing because a lot of competitors don't they just expect the world to change for them they expect their partner to cook for them they expect everyone to feel guilty if they order pizza and they forget that we're choosing to do this crazy thing so i think um that's just for everyone listening just know there's always something to try to strive to improve for even if it's not your physique on stage uh and even even world champions so and i think that it's your character no absolutely um i'm self-aware enough to know how i act during prep like if i'm being very irritable i'm i'm aware yeah i would bring it up a lot and i would tell my wife like hey if i acted like an asshole today i'm sorry you know you know how it is and she was very understanding she was like you know she got to a point where um she would just ignore me if i was being like a prick you know she would just ignore me she wouldn't like uh cause any conflict or she was just like if i was being if i was just acting a certain way where i was very like like my tolerance for things and preps is just like in the gutter like i'm just you know like i said i get very irritable she knew she was just ignore me she would just she would just that would be her way of dealing with it like okay i'm just not going to say anything you know like i know what's going on here and uh it you know we like i said man we got through it really well um she's like i said very understand and understanding supportive and even like it's funny that you were saying like well like near the end of prep it's funny because when i started to get like really rough probably like like three four weeks out i was actually doing more for myself than she was doing for me like uh prior to that meaning like um you know my wife she's uh like if you want to use the word traditional she like will help me prep my meals and stuff like that but i started kind of taking those things on myself like near the end because i felt it was weird it was almost to the point where i started to feel guilty of like how much she was helping me so i was like i was like you know what i'm just gonna step in and i'm gonna start trying to prep like my meals like peak week i would prep all my peak week meals because those are like very the portions are very strategized like the olive oil and all that so i started prepping those myself just because uh man i was getting just so much help from her that i was like you know what let me let me uh try to step in and do some things for myself now and it's weird because you know you would think that at that point of a prep when you're feeling the worst you don't want to do anything for yourself if you don't have to but i don't know it's just something in me that i felt like i had to take on that responsibility at least to you know to a certain degree so i think kind of helps out no it's understandable and i that self-awareness is so critical it's it's it's a such an important thing in life and of course in bodybuilding and speaks to your character so um i another thing i wanted to state is i think it's so cool that you're able to have a a healthy relationship with your brother who's also competing and your older brother looks up to you in that way there's a lot of sibling relationships that wouldn't be like that you know the rivalry between brothers is too strong or they wouldn't be able to give props to their the younger brother so that that's super cool and um yeah i think last question for you eddie before i asked max and we start to close this out and i you know respect your guys's time and let him get to his family is you just want a world title so we running it back is it an offseason it's it's a tough thing when you're this successful to decide well what what's next so i would love to hear what what are your competitive plans man uh well i'm definitely going to be taking an offseason i will not be competing in 2026 so just clear that out of the way i was when i was um in my prep i want to say maybe like uh like at the when i started to get lean and i could start to see like the improvements in my physique i was already thinking about the offseason i was already thinking about what i'm going to bring up what i'm going to work on what like how i'm going to structure my training what i'm going to focus on when i was like four weeks out i was already training like the office that had started i was already doing extra sets of like lateral raises uh i was already hitting the muscle groups that i thought were lacking like if i was in the offseason so i was from even before the season closed out i was already thinking about the offseason now uh as far as the plans moving forward i'm gonna so since the show ended since the season ended i've just kind of been going to the gym letting the body recover having fun with training feeling good and then i will get with cliff we'll put together a structured plan for the offseason and this can be like the next like what we're going to focus on the next uh you know like six months eight months whatever the next year what we're going to bring up probably do spend maybe like two years kind of like you know going through the bulking and cutting cycles building on black and body parts and then start a prep again compete again in 2028 is what we're thinking i think that's pretty good um i think the two years of offseason and then giving myself about a year to to get ready for the stage sort of like how max was saying earlier like you pick out your shows uh like probably like a year and a half in advance which i think is it's actually a good amount of time like if i'm going to compete at worlds in 2028 we're thinking about that now we're not thinking about that you know late 2027 no we're thinking about that now like okay i'm going to compete uh at this show on this date so this is how we're going to structure the next two and a half years and we kind of go through that from the start so that's kind of where me and cliff are at you know as far as structuring the offseason and when we're going to compete again uh that's the goal i would love to come back and do worlds um you know maybe jump it i mean i really can't predict the future but i've always thought it would be really cool to uh do like a yorton cup or something too you know i don't know if i don't know if that conflicts with anything like any regulations with the wmbf i don't think that it does it's not you know yeah it would be cool to try something like that you know um i guess it's just a matter of being having a physique so good that it's undeniable where you know it wouldn't be a conflict of interest you know so that's kind of the goal just continue improving come back better and uh you know see see what happens uh yeah just just for the record there is there is no conflict um i'm on the volunteer committee to improve judging standards conflicts of interest professionalism and transparency and judging with the wmbf and one of the things i'm really happy to see was how they got rid of the any of the cross competition rules you know obviously babakar he came back after competing in the ifbb and that was no longer an issue after initially was um you know you've got multiple competitors who did very well at worlds who also did very well at at other world championships this year and natalie hayes did the orton cup natural olympia npc shows and she won the overall world title uh and so um no that that's something i've been pleased to see um obviously we talked about max doing you know anbf and a few other other unaffiliated shows and you know he did quite well in the wmbf circuit as well so that that's i think it's a really positive thing that needs to be maintained in natural bodybuilding and the the actuality of not having that kind of conflict of interest and also the perception because sometimes you hear oh but i heard they don't like that um and i think one thing that i really do like about the wmbf and one of the reasons why i support it is there was like 10 judges at worlds being rotated and out from all over the international federations of all 60 so i i there's very few decisions i disagreed with in terms of the wbf world's placings and i think they do a a pretty good objective job because almost all those judges compete and there's one thing that i think all competitors really hate to see is when politics gets involved in our sport because it it makes it feel like what we do is not real it makes it feel like our pro status doesn't mean anything that it's all just decided in backgrounds and i i think um nothing demotivates and depresses me more when i hear stories of uh misconduct in terms of the actual competition and bodybuilding makes me like like well what's the point you know so that's that's that's that's probably honestly the biggest reason why i i do what i do and i support like uh the wbf it's it's for that uh because i feel very good about it so anyway no it's great it's good yeah well that's exciting man um when you come back with with your focus in the offseason my man's doing extra lateral raises four weeks out because he's trying to improve uh i can't wait to see it because i think we were all really disappointed uh that that babakar wasn't able to compete this year um and that would have been an epic battle and i honestly don't know how it would have gone because the package you brought was truly impressive so um yeah i i i'm excited to see there's there's a lot of names out there who are building things and when they come together you know we talked about benjamin schuster doing ridiculous things we talked about uh you know your plans to come back in a couple years we're gonna have one of these years where just the stars align and all these incredible natural bodybuilders on stage together and i'm not even going to be all want to be on stage i'm like i'm not doing this season i want to watch you know because that was one of the downsides to being on stage with you guys and what i thought was arguably one of the most competitive of uh the pro bodybuilding divisions i didn't get to see it you know we also had um you know andy chapelle on stage with us we had a bunch of other really really impressive athletes and it was an honor to share the stage but part of me as a fan wanted to watch it so eddie thank you so much i wish you the best um i think your attitude your humility your work ethic are things to aspire to and inspire others and i love that you are working on not just building your physique but also your self-awareness and trying to take more out of the sport than just um getting huge and jacked so thank you for what you do and you're a great ambassador i'm so glad you hold the world title oh thank you no thank you eric thank you for having me as well and it's always a great chat and i always take something from it i always like to learn uh hear from somebody who's already walked in my footsteps or kind of already done what uh you know what we're all doing at the end of the day that's whether it's competing or whatever it is you know it's always great to sit down and chat it up with you guys and learn something and take something from it so thank you as well it's it's an honor you're very welcome max you mentioned uh and i i'm i'm i'm at them off camera you you've got a wife you've got a daughter and relatively young early days with the family which is awesome you are uh technically doctor melcher as a dentist uh you work in a clinic you've only been competing two years talk to me a little bit about your life outside of bodybuilding and then what does the future hold for you what are your competitive plans first thing i have to uh direct to eddie or towards eddie um becoming a father um is a challenge in a prep but i think it's also um a challenge i didn't become a father in prep but um having a little child back home is a challenge but i think it's the same thing as every other thing you can name in a prep i think it's all about your perspective um i i entered the prep um back in 2022 and i said to myself um i'm in the luxurious position of being possible to actively choose to eat less than my body needs um to compete on a stage and present myself um and that's important in this phase but um the most important things um are my work because the work is actually the thing that's putting food on the table um and on first place always family um and with having my daughter now in my second prep um i even put family on a higher podest um and i told myself if anything i do um affects um either my wife or especially my my daughter um i would stop prepping um because um competitions fade um the experiences um also um they could become even more glorious in your memory but they also fade um and even titles um no one remembers or maybe our scene remembers um who was world champion uh of the wmbf but yeah it's it's our small bubble um and we appreciate it and should be appreciated um but the thing that stays is your family hopefully um so um i entered prep um with the intention if anything i do um would affect the joy my daughter um has in the first years of her life um i would stop and cancel my prep um and that way um um i found the immense benefit of having a small child and a wife back home because your wife um is not uh limited by certain structures in life um and wives can be spontaneous and wife can have spontaneous ideas which is absolutely something you or at least i don't like in a prep uh spontaneous ideas um but small children's children don't they have the certain structures um every day has the same structure um and i managed in this prep to build my prep um around my daughter's uh daily structures and it made my prep way easier because um back in 2022 there was always the fact of why can't we go um into the city center to sit in the uh setting sun and i'll have a cocktail and you drink your diet coke and uh uh water with lemon um and i told i told my wife because i'm too tired or i don't want to i already reached my my step goal i don't want to uh uh insert extra steps um and now in this prep with the small child certain structure we wake up at six o'clock in the morning we have our breakfast at 6 30 a.m um and then in the evening at this time the the evening routine starts um and we found a perfect way um to handle it um but um i think my wife would say the same thing uh your wife said eric um that this especially in this prep um i was even easier to handle than in my last prep um but internally um after the two weeks of not really looking what i'm eating and and already feeling um more vital um um it's still different um because i did all the things a father um wants to do a father is expected to do um and a father is doing um i but still the feeling i have inside now um is different um i i i i did the things i did i also appreciated the things i did um but now i'm back into um really enjoying the things i'm doing because uh especially in the in the in the final phases of the prep um everything gets way too uh structurized um and even the daily routine even if it's the same now um um it's like check i did the breakfast check we uh woke up check we changed the diapers check we made our uh evening structure um but now with uh enough macros or enough calories uh to be in a surplus um i check the boxes as well except today um because today i managed to skip the evening uh tradition um um um but i enjoy them way more so that's that's the difference i think i think having a child and prepping um depends on the way you manage to really direct yourself into not being an i'm not sure if i'm i'm allowed to curse um yeah yeah yeah i think i think you you really have to to tell yourself um um family first a wife a wife is important and and we all love our wives um but having a child um um is like like you said it's the way i see it having our child um was maybe in the in our relationship it was our next step um but in in the way i see life having a child was not a step uh on a stairway it is like a a rupture of the way you uh were life perceiving beforehand um and a new it's like not a new chapter you write um the second part of of your your book um having a child because it's not changing um this or that it's it's literally changing everything sometimes in most times in a positive way um but also you have to um you have to um you have to dial yourself down and that's i think that's something uh especially um solo uh sportsmen or sportswomen uh actively have to work on because we we are doing a really ego-centered sport um and being parents is truly something where being ego-centered um should not be on the on the table um so yeah that's that's my my my my views on becoming a father and i i think you would be an exceptionally good father so um go for it the process is joy no no thanks thanks max thanks for sharing that i appreciate the wisdom you know you obviously having gone through something here that i haven't gone through uh it really i like to always hear insight from others especially you know being a bodybuilder you have a career and you're able to manage all these things you know i i respect that i think it's very commendable i think it looks like you know you have a beautiful family and it seems that you do a really good job of like you said structuring it in a way that you're able to just you know you you're not being so selfish about it and that's the way i'm trying yeah so yeah i i really like that i respect that uh thank you for sharing your insight on that yeah yeah i think i think that's the most most important thing um beforehand like like you said you're already paying for 2028 um i think the best thing you can do is actively telling yourself what's truly important in life um and and that's in at least in my case um it's not the luxurious passion um i chose to love um but it's the the people um that surround me and the people i have in my life so they are always um on on the first place um and and bodybuilding um yeah i'm happy that they accepted the way i'm happy that they are some kind of intertwined in the journey i i've chosen um and they i think they are also fans of of of myself which which makes me truly um proud um but yeah i think it's a luxurious um passion we have um and i'm in a luxurious position that my my business is absolutely um not dependent on on on the way i perform or if i even uh have a stage presence um so it's truly um uh passion yeah i i simply love the sport and i'm i'm i'm super happy that uh in my in late days being 33 yeah um i'm not not the youngest athlete anymore um um but i'm i'm super glad that i found this passion um being 30 years old um because i as i said before i did so many sports and i love the sports but i never found joy in competing um and now having found this passion um um i have to i honestly have to say that um also loving the competitive aspect of the sport is feels like a cherry on top um it added something to to my my passion for being active for my passion to um not only try and train my psyche but also my my physique um having this extra um of competing and and and loving the process of competing and enjoying shows and enjoying uh as we were talking about family um i entered the sport with my father um and uh he turned 66 this september um and he uh took the uh coaching side of like the on hand coaching uh uh or at the worlds so my father did my color my father helped me with the pump up in the restricted areas he was allowed to help him with my pump up um so yeah it was amazing and it and it's also the the memory we we now have together um is uh super special um it's beautiful because yeah we we've been training together for 20 years now ever since he introduced me to the sport uh and now 20 years later um he's standing in our airbnb um on the other side of the atlantic ocean uh and uh coloring his son uh with a paint uh roller um or like coloring his almost 34 year old son uh being 66 years himself with a paint roller uh in an airbnb um first time in the us for him um yeah something we both i think never will forget so yeah that's a beautiful thing that i drifted off i drifted off but um yeah yeah no i did i think the main point it's a great place to drift the main point is that i'm passionate yeah that i'm passionate about the sport and i think my passion um is also pulling my family into uh understanding why i keep doing what i'm doing um and they all accept it i love it yeah you know it's a family affair you you're keeping what's important at the top of the list and it sounds like you're making it so that everyone's benefiting from what you're doing rather than detracting and that's what it should be um so for you my man what does the future hold are we taking an offseason are you getting back on stage or or what's going on for the future for max the bodybuilder yeah i'm uh i'm definitely taking an offseason um even though i'm in a really strange situation um of not feeling super exhausted um so um i'm glad that i'm not a really young competitor because i would um that would be the possibility of making the unwise choice of immediately dieting again in a couple of months um but um there are two factors like first factor as we mentioned before is my family um so the next couple years will be um more family focused and more um on collecting memories together um besides bodybuilding um and secondly i'm uh far uh enough down the road in life that i know that um development takes time um and rushing things never um or seldom turn out to be a wise choice um so i will definitely take an offseason i'm not too sure about when i will compete again um it's also either 2027 or 2028 but um i think it will also be 2028 now that i know that eddie is competing 2028 there's almost no question that it will be 2028 um no but i i think the the the this three year time spans um are a wise choice um because they are uh it's close enough to not really lose the focus um and it's far enough uh in the future um to actually have the possibility to to improve yeah i'm not sure if i can improve the way i did uh within the last three years because i made the newbie gains of someone who's coming from all different kinds of sports are now focusing on bodybuilding um but still i think in in three years time um it's it's a good time spent to actually improve um and appreciate the journey appreciate being able to do it again um and yeah so i'll probably be back in 2028 as well awesome there you go no it's exciting stuff gentlemen and and i i may be there with you i have an open-ended offseason where earliest they'll get on stage is 2027 and potentially 2028 depending upon how well things go so who knows we may get to all run back but i just want to say a big thank you to you both for sharing who you are who you are as bodybuilders and insight into your life a look back at your competitive season and most importantly sharing your values uh with us uh because i think that's something that sometimes top level competitors don't get to focus on um at least externally people all want to know like what do you do in the gym what do you do with your diet how did you get so big etc etc but i think one thing that people shouldn't forget is that to get to your level takes like you guys have talked about more than a decade of hard training of consistency and you're only going to have that if you have your values uh and your uh the the important things in life as max said are in place so i just want to offer on behalf of the whole cult congratulations to both of you on a hugely successful season uh best of luck in your coming off seasons and all your personal endeavors and to all the listeners i want to thank you for tuning in to another episode of iron culture we've got one more of these coming up where i'll be speaking with the uh one of the division winners in the classic physique new pro wbf classic physique division who i had the pleasure of competing with uh twice uh wbf worlds as well as the mayhem um and uh after that we'll be getting back to our regularly scheduled programming a little more science heavy it'll be the two erics talking and again please do support the show by giving us a light uh giving us a subscribe giving us a five-star rating heading over to mass research review if you want to nerd out with us every month and really support the show and keep me off the streets and then finally if you need straps lifting equipment bands all the good stuff head over to elitefts and use the code mrr10 and you can get that 10 discount and i will see you all next monday on the next episode of iron culture

=== FILE: Ep 362 - WNBF Champ Shreenath Ganesh [by0VCZwsRXg].txt ===

 srcecacabergoline, What's going on everybody? Welcome back to Iron Culture. This will be the final interview series that I've done with some of the 2025 WMBF pro athletes who had an amazing showing at Worlds. Today it is just me, no Dr. Eric Trexler, but I am joined by Srinath Ganesh, who is your new, short, tall, classic physique, world champion from WNBF Worlds, which is pretty cool because there's a new division in the WNBF. It finally decided in 2025 that the demand was high enough and that there was a way to potentially create this class. I've had the privilege of being on a committee for the WNBF that's tried to clarify the rules, and we're working on that. And I think this year was overall pretty successful, and we got to crown our first world champions, which was an honor to see. So today I'm going to have a great conversation with Srinath, and the reason why I wanted to specifically speak to Srinath is because we had the privilege and honor of competing together at the WNBF 2025 Muscle Mayhem competition. And I actually talked about that a little bit on Iron Culture previously, and you might have remembered I referred to him just simply as Ganesh. I forgot his first name. I only remembered his last name. But it's appropriate because, as you guys know, Ganesh is an Indian god, and my man was on stage looking like a deity, so aesthetic. So I gave him that godhood early, and I was just simply predicting that he would maybe end up winning a world title. So my loss to Srinath for not getting my pro card in classic has aged very well. Now I get to say, well, I've only lost to a world champion in classic Zeke. So no, thank you, sir, for not only coming on the podcast, but also for doing so well, because it makes me feel better about myself, which is the only thing that's important, as you know, Srinath. No, thank you, Arit, for having me on this podcast. It's been an honor. It's an honor and a privilege, mainly because I looked up to the Team 3DMJ altogether, looked up to a lot of your studies as well. A lot of the science I knew is partly because of you and the other people. And yeah, overall, you guys are the pioneers of natural bodybuilding from the place where I'm from, which is India. So I'm honored, privileged. There's a lot of gratitude which goes into you, even inviting me onto this podcast to talk about everything. So yeah, thank you for having me on here. You're too kind, buddy. I appreciate those kind words. It's always gratifying to hear that we've had that kind of impact on the community. And I have some shilling to get out of the way, since you said science. Folks, if you want to support the Iron Culture presented by Mass Podcast, do us a few small favors. Give us a thumbs up. Give us a like. Give us a five-star rating if you feel like rating. If it's not a five-star in your mind, just think about that more, ruminate, and wait until it is, or don't give us a rating at all. But in all seriousness, please do consider giving us a like rating, subscribe, review, share it with your friends. And if you really want to be an all-star supporter, if you want to follow the science and my best attempt to use my experience from coaching as an athlete, and also my experience as an active researcher and science communicator, check out massresearchreview.com. That is what keeps me off the street, able to pay my mortgage and able to keep recording these podcasts, is being able to share that research review with y'all and give you the best information possible. And finally, big shout out to our big friends over at Elite FTS, who supply the best, most reliable lifting gear. And you can use our mass research review discount code, that's MRR10, over at Elite FTS to get a 10% off most of the items in their store. So big shout out to Elite FTS. So with that out of the way, I've appeased our evil corporate overlords, which is me for my own podcast. I am really excited to talk to you, Sreenath, not only about your background, your journey this season, the experience of becoming the first inaugural world champ in your height class for the pro worlds in WBF, but also to talk about the rise of natural bodybuilding in India and what that's like. Because I've had an opportunity to see that in a few ways. I had the opportunity to meet Yuva Prakash when I was speaking for Techno Gym when I was in Bali, who is a very successful coach and athlete who has been bringing a lot of competitors to the stage, competes naturally, and has been trying to promote natural bodybuilding in India and abroad, who is also now part of WBF India, which has now been launched for the first time in 2025, had a big, really big first show. And then only a few weeks after that in Taiwan, I had the opportunity to compete. And there were a couple athletes there who I got to meet who were just awesome people. There was Mangul Arambam, who was there with Yuva, who's his coach. He ended up having a very tight battle with Sho Sigara, who ended up taking the overall bodybuilding title. But Mangul has a pro card in all three men's categories and is competitive at the pro level, classic, men's physique, and bodybuilding. He plays second in bodybuilding. He plays top three in men's physique. And, you know, this is a guy who just is one of those rare athletes who has the symmetry and the size and the ability to display his physique. And it was pretty cool watching him come home to Manipur, his region, and be celebrated as he was. But I also got to meet another men's physique competitor, Alex. I met him at the airport, or sorry, just fresh off the airport at the hotel. And he was like, oh, man, I need to find my food. I need to peek. What is the, like, help me out here. And I was like, hey, man, here's a cheat code. I judged here last year. I know where you can train. I took him over to 7-Eleven. I was like, hey, man, they got chicken breast here. They got this. So we hooked the boy up and he looked really good. He peaked very well at that show. And that was the most competitive men's physique lineup, I think, this year. Any show, I would put forth that in the WMBF besides Worlds. So that was a rough spot to do his pro debut, but he held his own. He looked great. And so, yeah, just a big shout out to him, to Yuva, to Mangal, and every single person I've met has just been really kind and very respectful, and I think a great representative for the sport, which has been really cool to see. So, yeah, I just want to give a shout out to WMBF India and everyone else, and you've been no exception to that. So I would love to hear more about your background. So you're currently living in Vancouver, but you are originally from India, and we got to compete at the Mayhem, and you represented hard for your country. You also became a double pro. And I want to give you a shout out here because amateur and pro are not clear distinctions in natural bodybuilding. Like, as an example, I won my pro card as the second pro card of only two that were given out in a moderate-sized show. There's about just under 100 athletes in WMBF Australia, and the panel decided there was a good enough field of bodybuilders to give out two pro cards. But there were 10 total open bodybuilders, and they gave out two pro cards, right? It was a very high-caliber class because it brought out the best in Australia and Asia and New Zealand. So I don't want to downplay my own accomplishment. But as an example, at Taiwan on the amateur day, there were close to 100 total bodybuilders, and they gave out three pro cards. So there's levels to this. And Srinath, you went to the Muscle Mayhem, which is one of the most competitive shows on the West Coast that's gotten more competitive now that it's moved to November because people are seeking that last opportunity to qualify for worlds. They're in better shape. And you didn't just beat amateurs to get both your bodybuilding and your classic card. Shout out to my man, Josh Bradshaw. He is a WMBF classic pro, and he was looking to try to get his bodybuilding pro card. He won his class. You faced him in the overall. And you did it right after facing me because I won the tall class. You won the short class. And I said to Josh, I gave him a fist bump because we know each other. He's done his master's degree. He's an active researcher. He's a great guy. We competed together at the Washington in 2023. And it was really cool to see him get his pro card in classic. And he has great lines. And I was like, hey, man, I'm gonna try to get him. But if I don't, you got you got to do it. And then after you beat both of us in two back to back overalls, I went up to Josh and I was like, well, we tried, buddy. So you actually beat a pro bodybuilder to get your classic card and you beat a pro classic athlete to get your bodybuilding pro card. And then you went on to worlds, got tighter, and you actually won your weight class at the world championships in the inaugural classic division. So, and you, and you, and you looked substantially better. Like you, you did some hard work in those two weeks and I think it paid off. I don't know that you would have been able to clinch that title if you presented exactly the way you had at the Mayhem. So big shout out to you. Big shout out to Yuva, who I believe is your coach, but talk to us about the season's journey from your perspective. I've saying your praises because I know it's hard for you to do so, but you absolutely deserve it. And athletes like you have a story to tell and you know what, Iron Culture wants to hear it. Thank you. Thank you, Eric. Kind words there. I think, yeah, this, this season, there was no season. To be honest, I started off as a mini cut because I was, it was, it was a, it was a patch of life, which I was going through, uh, the peaks and valleys. And, um, I was at my lows, um, in that time. Um, I, I also felt like I was, uh, hitting a point where I was starting to get insulin resistant as well. You know, you know, you go through the motions and you're not getting a pump and you feel like you've reached a certain level of body fat and you're looking at yourself in the mirror and you're like, okay, something has to be done. Something has to be changed. So I started mini, I started a mini cut basically in the beginning of May. And I said to myself, let me get down to 165. 165 is my sweet spot. I was at 174, 173, 174. Let me drop nine pounds. Let me get down to 165. Uh, then I had a cruise, which was booked up a while ago by my father-in-law. Um, thank you. I mean, I can't ask for a better human being. Um, he does a lot for me. Um, so he, I got a cruise booked up in July, um, the June, July, and I had a European trip in June. So in this, uh, started off in May and the seven month prep had two vacations. Um, so I, uh, yeah, as far as he started off in May, um, lost about nine pounds before I went on that, uh, vacation, uh, to Europe, um, visited my brother. I had a lot of fun. It's Germany, no shortage of sweets. Um, everywhere you go, there is food, um, really good, really good desserts as well. So, um, what I did was I tried to balance it out and, and worked out of my brother's gym. Uh, I was trying, uh, when I came back, I was at the same weight, which was, couldn't ask for a better result. I was 165 when I went, I was 165 when I came back home and I kept up with all of my supplements and my creatine and everything like that. Um, just mentally tracking, not really in the sense of going to my fitness pal and stressing over it. Um, so it's just mentally tracking, Oh, this is this, and this is this, and I should be at 3k and I'm doing this many steps and, um, glad I was able to maintain it. I didn't check my weight for two weeks and I was pleasantly surprised when I maintained it. Uh, so I came back and then I told myself, well, I'm, I'm getting somewhere here. I look good. I'm getting somewhere here. So let me just get in touch with, uh, you are because you are, I've, I've, I've known him for years. Um, ever since he got up on simply shredded.com. I don't know if you know the blog it's back in the day. I've been on simply shredded, man. Yeah. I've seen you too. I've seen you too. I've seen you too. I've seen you. I've seen Aaron Curtis and all of those OG, OG, Natty bodybuilders, uh, on there. Um, so you had an article there. So I've been following him since then. Um, and he was initially being trained by Aaron Curtis as well, who I used to be a big fan of. So, um, so I followed him for, uh, years and then he was bringing in athletes and he, and he brought, um, Golup, his other athlete, uh, from, uh, from India, um, with shredded glutes. And I was like, man, an Indian coach? Natural? Bringing in athletes with shredded glutes? I was like, okay, now we are talking. Let's go. That's what I said. I said to myself, let's go. Finally, someone is doing it properly. And then I had a conversation with him two years ago. Um, I probably pissed him off because I gave him the feeler that I was going to compete and it didn't really compete. And then two years later, I reached out to him and I said, Hey man, let's do it. Let's, let's do this time. Let's take it. Let's take it slowly. Um, let's see where we can go. And, and, and if we are able to do a show, let's do a show. Um, and, and that's what happened. Uh, we started off in June. Um, I took, um, three weeks of diet break, um, just going up to maintenance and, and, and I was hovering around 165 as well. Um, and then I started my cut. I came back down to 159, 158, 159. And I had to go on a cruise to Alaska, which was booked a year in advance. So I can't really cancel it. Right. So I, I don't, I mean, I don't want to cancel it. Not like I want to cancel it. Um, it's just that, um, it was with family as well. So I wanted to spend that family time. Uh, it was quite comical on the ship because, uh, you really have to wait for the ship to dock for you to measure your weight. Otherwise the, the weight is all like, like that. So nothing was, uh, uh, it was, it was a very, very, um, and there's a lot of things I learned in, in, while on that ship, my resiliency, I chose the foods where I knew the macros for, I still follow the macros. I still was able to get off of a, you know, get off the ship, go to a grocery shop, get chicken and everything like that, come back. So I saw myself having a lot of discipline and my, I actually dropped, dropped a pound that week. So overall I was really happy. And once that was out of the way is when I really started getting serious about, um, the prep, you can call it a prep. That's when the real prep started. So, okay, there's muscle mayhem coming. Um, and he told, uh, you are, it's the biggest, second biggest, apart from worlds, toughest show to, to go, uh, and what better way to make a debut than doing the toughest show for amateurs, um, you know, on the West coast. Um, so we decided to do it. Um, yeah, I came back down from, I lost another 10 pounds. Uh, sorry, I lost another, uh, seven, eight pounds, got down to 151 before the mayhem. Um, and then, uh, realized that I had more weight to lose. Um, I would consider it, we were talking about the, using it as a trial show to see how we had zero data, zero data to go with. I had zero data about myself. You, I didn't have anything to go with. So we were just like, okay, let's use this as a learning opportunity. Um, we learned quite a bit. Um, we had two refeed days after getting down to 151. Uh, I was, yeah, I had 400, uh, grams of carbs one day, 400 grams of carbs the next second day. Peaked really well. Um, ideally one day would have been great because, um, the Friday, uh, of that, uh, the weekend, um, I was looking insane on the mirror. Um, and then let's just do one more 400 day to test it out, to see how, whether you spill or whether you hold water, whatever it is. Uh, the next day it was still looking good. Um, but then once the stage shots come, came in, we realized that, okay, we have to drop another three, two, two to three pounds. Um, and then, uh, you know, I went on to win the pro card, which I was, I was there just as this fan boy in the backstage area, looking at people and, and being like, Hey man, I used to follow you. And looking at Eddie in person was sick, man. Eddie was brutal. Like I've never seen someone like that in my life before. Um, yeah, I was, had a great conversation with Eddie, um, and, and, and just meeting people, just going around walking and meeting people. I was this guy who was handing out the water bottles. If you've seen a cricket match, you go in between and you hand the water bottles. That was me. Um, but, um, it was, it was just humbling and it was great to experience that backstage. And then finally to go on stage and just experience the camaraderie. Cause that's not some, that's, that's something which you don't experience anywhere. Um, and, and it is difficult for people to understand that who have not gotten on stage. Um, so that was very, very cool. Uh, I went on to win the pro cards again. Um, and, uh, uh, wife was also there, which was really cool. Um, she got to see her first bodybuilding competition. Um, so that was, uh, it was really good experience. And then, and then, uh, going back to the drawing board, because we had zero time. I had one Mexican meal for show. Um, I made, I made sure it was Mexican because I didn't want to binge. And that's the only meal I had. That's the only cheat meal I've had at that point. And since I started prepping, even in Germany, I wasn't really doing anything out of the norm. I was just still being disciplined with what I ate. Uh, so it was really cool to get that mental break for lasted five minutes, but, um, had the Mexican food. And then we went back to the drawing board and I came back down to one 47.5 from one 51. So it was a 3.5 pound loss in, in about, uh, two weeks. Um, the hardest phase of my life was those two weeks. I would be lying if I said that I was just chilling. Um, the, the other side of it, Eric is also, I think a topic which needs to be touched on is, is doing a nine to five transiting and managing people at workplace and, and, and managing the diet and doing a depletion phase and then peaking and, and keeping the cortisol levels to a minimal was, uh, was quite the experience. Um, it was possibly the toughest, um, uh, phase of my life. Uh, there were a lot of people who helped me during the phase as well, even at the workplace. Um, the workplace was also kind enough to, you know, be more flexible with how I was. And, and this is me being grumpy all the time. And, and those two weeks were really rough, barely any food. I was getting angry really quick. Um, not angry. My, I was getting triggered really quick. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, and then, and then going towards again, um, no expectations, you know, like it's, I don't even, I say it's worse. Hey, I'm just this kid from India. I don't know much about it. Uh, went there and the caliber of athletes was just insane. I gotta say the, the bodybuilding was on another level. I don't even need to talk about it. Everyone can see the photos. Um, and when the official photos come in, that's when you will see the caliber of athletes on there. I'm almost glad that I didn't get into bodybuilding. I listened to Bob. Um, and then I went on to the classic, uh, I competed in classic and backstage, these guys are insane. I was like, what did I get it, get myself into? I was telling my wife, I don't even know. And I was going through the typical, you know, sports person anxiety backstage where it's like, Oh, I'm going to lose anyway. So, you know, that kind of a thing. Um, so a lot of, uh, me playing with myself with my mind and, and going and ruminating, uh, that was happening a lot, but, but my wife and my father-in-law played a pivotal role in keeping me level-headed. Uh, but yeah, these athletes were insane. Um, and I had no expectations. I was, I went on stage and I was dead center and I was like, okay, something is happening here. Um, and then, and then I went on to win it, which was, uh, which was amazing. And, and it still hasn't sunken in yet. Uh, and I think it will sink in once my hormones kick back in. Um, and I am starting to get a little bit emotional, so they are coming back. Um, so, um, it's, uh, yeah, it's, it's a surreal experience, uh, for someone, you know, from India. Um, even though I'm in Canada right now, I'm still an Indian at heart. A lot of the values I, um, um, showcasing is, is because of how I grew up and my parents and everything. Um, and just from that part of the world where 2010s, there was no natural bodybuilding. There was zero natural bodybuilding. Uh, and I took that way. I put the belief in myself that, and I took the right calculated decision that natural bodybuilding is the route I want to take. Uh, and, and I am okay with delayed gratification. And I'm okay if I achieve something 10, 15 years down the line for a 23, 22, uh, no, I was 19 years old, but I took this decision at 22, 23. Uh, I'm super proud of that particular decision I made regardless of all of these different, you know, things I'm winning right now. That one particular decision I made at that time being kind of immature, like 22, 23 is still not really knowing what the world is. A lot of people make rash decisions. I'm super happy about the fact that I made that calculated decision and now I'm reaping the benefits of it. Um, there's still a lot of work to do, but, but winning the world is, is possibly winning. The mayhem was a dream come true. Winning the world is one of the biggest achievements of my life. Um, yeah, so, uh, that, that kind of summarizes how the season went. Uh, yeah, it's, it's, um, it's a surreal experience, which I'm gratitude, I'm still in gratitude, a lot of, uh, a lot of happiness. Um, and not a lot of people get to do this. Um, but I am doing this. Um, and I have a wonderful family around me who is supporting me through this. So I couldn't ask for a, a better scenario than just show gratitude that this is, and live in the moment that this is, this is happening for me and I'm going to enjoy it to the fullest and look forward and, and apply the principles of what I've learned from this to the, to life and, and move forward. So that's how the season went for me. What an amazing journey, an amazing message and, uh, a well-earned perspective and an outcome. Um, I'm so happy for you and I, I, I love how grounded you are and how you can reflect. So you, you said you, you made that decision in your early twenties. How old are you now and how long you've been training for now? So I'm 34 years old. Um, it's, it's not that difficult to say that I'm 34 years old because I don't feel like it, but I am on paper. Um, I started, uh, lifting weights when I was 18 or 19, uh, somewhere in there. Um, so it's been about 15 to 16 years that I've been lifting. Hmm. And that's possibly the only thing that just stuck with me. Yeah. And I think that's, that's a great perspective for people, you know, um, for those who are not familiar with, with natural bodybuilding. And like you said, the late gratification, uh, it takes a monumental amount of work to, to build this. And that's probably why backstage, especially at natural bodybuilding shows, but I would say in bodybuilding generally, but I do notice it a bit more, uh, especially in, in the natural side of the sport. Um, the camaraderie is huge. Um, and people can look at each other and they know like, man, this took a lot to get here. Um, and, uh, that's something that immediately attracted me to the sport when I did my first season all the way back in 07. So, so you've only done a total of three shows. Is that right? Yes. Uh, so I did one, uh, local show here. It's called the Vancity Showdown. Um, that was also because I, it's not like I wanted to go on stage. My coach was like, Hey man, like you look good enough. Just go on stage and see what you can do. I was a watery mess. I was, I was still hurting a lot of fat, but, uh, you know, it was a good way to test where I've come so far. Um, zero posing practice, nothing. It was a first show post COVID. So there was nothing to really do or there's not really any room to do anything. So, um, I did place first in my novice class and then, and then I placed second in the division, uh, open division. So, uh, and then I placed last in the overall. So it was, there's not a lot of people there, but it was a good experience. There was no one in the crowd. It was very weird. There was just a commentator sitting there. Uh, it was live streamed as well. So, um, and then, um, yeah, this is my first, uh, you can call it real show mayhem. Uh, and then the world. So total three shows I would say. Yeah. Yeah, man. So you had that just, just post COVID experience on stage and obviously it was enough for you to be like, Oh, I'm going to do this again. You got bit by the, the, not just the iron bug, but the competitive bodybuilding bug, which, which means you are one of us crazy few folks. Um, and to achieve this in just your second season, obviously, you know, 15 years plus of lifting under your belt, uh, dedication, desire, you know, and, and, and planning and thinking ahead, um, goes a long way, but I think it's just, uh, commendable that you were able to achieve what you did and just your second competitive season. So, uh, no hats off. No, and, and, um, obviously you're a student of the sport. Um, I was, I'm always honored when people talk to me about having an impact because when you record content, when you jump on podcasts, uh, it's not like it was 15, even 20 years ago, where if you are reaching a lot of people, you actually physically see them, you know, and, and you, and you do it in a, on platforms that are a little more engaging and kind of the proto social media these days. And sometimes it's kind of feels like I'm yelling into the void and just hoping it has an impact. So to see some of those things, I really, I'll put it this way. I really relish the opportunity anytime I can go physically to shows because I get to interact with people who I'm attempting to help. And often I am pleasantly surprised that I have made an impact. And that's something that, um, it feels better than any title to know that I've been uplifting the community that has given me so much. So, um, I, I get emotional to seeing folks like you who do well and even attribute a small amount of their positive experience with the sport, not even their success, but just that they found balance with it. It's sustainable. And it's been a force in the life that at least for the most part, most of the time has been a good thing. So, um, for you to say how much of these achievements mean to you is a really cool to hear. So, so thank you for sharing that. Now I do want to transition and talk about kind of the, the, the rise of India. So I'll tell you as, you know, as someone who grew up in the States and has now been in New Zealand and who has truly gotten to travel around the world only because of bodybuilding, I've had a lot of conversations and I've also coached people from all around the world, um, with people from, you know, the Indian subcontinent and they've had some really interesting perspectives that I, I want to talk to you about. And we talked a little bit about this off air. So, um, it seems like there's a lot of push pulls in your culture to where, uh, there's high expectations, you know, kind of like we see on like television or we hear from our Asian friends. If you're white, like me, like you don't know the pressures I get from my parents, you know, like if, if, if I get an A minus or why was it an A plus, if I get an A plus, they say nothing and go, yeah, you should have gotten that, you know, earlier or something like that. Or, um, but at the same time, it's also a, a crowded, you know, uh, it's, it's a, it's a challenging place to grow up. Uh, you have to stand out. It's a, it's a capitalist country, uh, you know, in which, which I relate to to some degree coming from the U S you, you feel like it's, it's crabs in a barrel. You've got to be able to, I don't mean capitalists like in a bad way or the, that's a, or a purely economic statement. I mean it more kind of philosophically. It's like, we're all in a rat race together. And I think it's probably more true and there's greater wealth disparities there. And I, I've seen kind of this need for self-promotion, but at the same time, this underlying sense of you need to be humble. Um, you need to not be arrogant and needing to stand out, needing to promote yourself and also kind of operating in almost this business transaction like way of, you know, if, if I'm going to promote someone, I need to get something out of it because it's a dog eat dog world out there. And I have to be humble and I have to achieve high and I have to be respectful. And there's a certain degree of a hierarchical community. Um, which again, this is all stuff I'm repeating secondhand. It's not just me judging or, or saying, I understand a culture that I've never been a part of. And I've seen that when I, when I teach fitness professionals, you know, when I was in Bali, there was a huge disparity of levels of education. I had people who had only lifted weights to people who had MDs and who were physical therapists and 20 years of training under their belt. And they're explaining how difficult it was to foster critical thinking because most of the time it's like, you find your guru, they tell you what to do and that's it. You don't question it. Uh, coach is the boss or the educator is the boss. You memorize things in school. So to be able to challenge someone else, it's, it's more about, I have to exert myself as being the higher hierarchy. And then what I say is just true and you have to accept it. And if you ask me a question, it's, it's disrespectful. So it seemed like it was a big challenge for some of these educators from the region who were coming to the educational events to pass it on because they weren't just passing on information. They had to pass on, um, some things which didn't connect to their culture, which, you know, was rooted in a caste system or, or, or had, you know, certain regions having different influences, uh, religious and cultural divides. And it was a really eyeopening thing for me to see, uh, and, and the push and pull. And I also had the opportunity to talk to Jeet Salal, who about 10 years ago was really trying to push natural bodybuilding. Like you said, coming out of an era where it didn't even exist four or five years later and having everyone doubt people's natural status. And also having a lot of people who weren't actually natural trying to claim and be natural because the assumption was, okay, natural is just something we say. So our mom and dad is proud of us or community accept as it, but really we're all on gear. And just how easy and commonplace access to anabolics and PEDs are. Um, I can't tell you how many trainers told me, look in my gym, someone signs up and they go, okay, cool. Here's your cardio plan. Here's nutrition plan. Uh, and here's creatine and here's some clean like, like just like a, like it's just that common and that it's accessible. It's not something that's a legal issue. Um, and so I, I think it's, it's a really important time in India where I, it's important to platform true natural bodybuilding. So people know what's possible. I'm so glad that Dundee with India is there. And I'm so glad that I've seen natural champions like yourself, Mangal coaches, like Yuva athletes, like Alex and the growth of the sport. And again, because I, you know, all due respect to Jeep, but, um, when we were talking, I could tell just how burned out he was from the efforts he made and how cynical he had become, which is completely understandable. And I really hope that, um, he can look up and see, Oh wow, it's been 10 years. Things have changed a little bit and there is still hope and other people can take it forward, you know? Um, but that things can move in the right direction. So, uh, but basically I just want to give you the opportunity is, are the perspectives that I've shared, is that accurate? Am I, am I, am I giving too much of a Western view and tell me in your own words, what, what, what is it like? Yeah. Yeah. No, you are, uh, you, you hit the nail on the head. Um, you were bang on about every single detail. Uh, it's actually very unique, uh, for someone to be bang on about every single thing. Um, it's a very hierarchical approach. Uh, unfortunately, um, everyone, it's a fight. Everything is a fight. Um, the, the coaches are like, I'm the better coach. I'm the better coach. I'm the better coach just to get business. Um, it's been like that for the longest time. Um, although the, the environment I grew in, the people I was surrounded by, it was not so much. Uh, and, and a lot of, there was a level of that in existence, but they don't talk about it. You just see it. You just see it happen through people's behaviors, right? So, um, this is my student. They use the word student and I've never been a fan of that. I'm not your student, right? Um, I don't like to be called a student because you're not really, you're just giving me a training program. You're not like teaching the scientifics behind it, right? Uh, so they call, they call their, uh, clients. They don't call them clients, which is a very Western term. They call them students. The coach is the teacher. It's, it's similar to how things operate in a school. The, the, the teacher has to tell the student, if the student doesn't follow it, the teacher will reprimand the student. It's the same approach in, in, in, uh, it's still being followed today to some extent from what I'm seeing. Um, so it's a very hierarchical approach. Um, you have to really shout yourself from the rooftops. If I can use the term both thing, you got to do some level of that that you had to stand out in the crowd because, um, a, there's a lot of other coaches who are misleading. So you want to make sure that, um, you, you are, there's also a little bit of the help factor. You want to help people, but in order to help people, you have to, you have to promote yourself. It's like, you have to do PR for yourself. And unfortunately it's turned into something where people have to talk about themselves, shout, shout, shout about themselves from the rooftops to do that. Um, because there's a lot of crap. It's a billion people. There's going to be a lot of people who don't know what they're doing and they lead people into these unhealthy states. Some people have died. Um, it's like drug overdose. And then all of this stuff happens. And, and it's, it's more like you want to help them. But at the same time, if you don't promote yourself, um, or behave in a way where you get out there, you're not going to help these people. So it's like, it's a very, very unique, peculiar situation to be in. Right. So that's, that's the one side of, um, the, the hierarchical approach. So you are not wrong about that. That's absolutely true. Now with the natural bodybuilding side of things, um, a lot of that is, uh, from the, the, the area where I grew up in, I was surrounded by a lot of people. I've been to different gyms. I've been to at least 10, 15 gyms in my five years of being back home and lifting weights. Um, I didn't find one single guy who lied about using. Everyone was very honest about it. Um, everyone was open about what they were using. They were talking to me about what they were using. So, um, I wouldn't say there were a lot of, I, I couldn't find a single fake nadi. I, I personally couldn't. I feel like in today's world, it's just a matter of people complaining about other people because they can't focus on what they want to do. This is a big problem in Indian community. Focus on what you can control. Don't focus on the things which you can't control. If someone is lying out there, let them lie and let them figure it out in their own way. You focus on your own thing. If you want to promote natural bodybuilding, which is what I love Yuva. Like I, I really like that particular attribute in Yuva is because he doesn't focus on the fact that someone is using and honing on them and create a negative conversation about it. It doesn't do that. He used to be like, let them figure it out. I'm going to do what I'm, what I can control. This is what I can control. I'm going to promote natural bodybuilding and I'm going to promote it to the best of my ability through my athletes, through, through whatever platform I have. Right. I'm not going to focus on that. I feel like we, we don't have many people like that. That's the path we want to take, which has been missing in the Indian subcontinent control what we can control and let's let the chips fall for other people the way one, where they are meant to be, uh, falling in. So, um, there's a whole lot of bashing which happens. Like if you take the Indian natural bodybuilding community, this person bashed, this person, this person bashes, this person, everything is for cloud. Because if you're going to earn money in the online space is a big deal. So everyone bashes everyone. Um, there's barely any uplifting for, uh, upcoming young talents. Uh, there's a lot of talent in the natural bodybuilding space, uh, in India. There's no doubt about it. Um, and, and unless the, the, the mentality is more like, I got, if I'm giving you something, you need to provide me something. And that has been since the time I started lifting because there was no sponsorships. There is no sponsorships. I in fact sponsored a couple of my friends when I came to the States, I bought them supplements. And when I came to Canada, I sent money back home to these guys to whatever I can, like a hundred bucks, 200 bucks, which is a lot of summer money. So I sent them this money, not to say that I did it. It took someone like me to recognize the talent in them and be like, let me uplift them. That is not there. A lot of the supplement companies, a lot of the supplement shops, they are going to, they have that mentality that business, if I'm giving you business, I need to get business in return. Otherwise I'm not even going to pay attention to you. So it's kind of the mentality, which, which is still a lot, uh, a lot of it is still in existence, unfortunately. Um, and, uh, yeah, so it's that that's, that's the other side of the equation is a lot of the talent, um, natural bodybuilding talent or just talent in general. Um, don't get the recognition they deserve because it's always this, is this dog fight, or this is this, um, business kind of a mentality. Um, so the uplifting piece of it, unless someone who is like, uh, you know, where, what we term as private investor or a venture capitalist coming in, uplifting a company, someone has to step in and uplift these people, um, with no, uh, expectations. Right. And that is how, um, things can, um, things can move forward. Um, and, and I know you, I have done a lot. Uh, I do a lot, whatever I can, wherever I can. I see people, I identify people. I, I still talk to people back home and ask, uh, if they, if they need help. Um, so unless we do something like that, there is no, like, there's no sponsorships. Unless you have a contact, you're not going to get a sponsorship. So you got to spend your own money and it's very expensive. It is super expensive. The amount of income you're going to get versus the expenditure you're having, the ratio is way off. Um, so it's a very, very, um, uh, a difficult natural bodybuilding is, is, is even more difficult because, um, because of the amount of money you have to spend, um, and, uh, and the lack of sponsorships. The, the dark side of bodybuilding has a lot of sponsorships, um, because of the, because it's more prevalent, you know, natural bodybuilding, there's no trust. There's no trust that someone is natural. Um, so that, that, all of that is what summarizes the Indian natural bodybuilding community. There's a lot of talent, but there's very little help. Um, very little exposure to these people. It's, it's, it's, uh, um, but WNB of India is coming there, which hopefully, and if I, I've seen the standard they've held themselves to, which is very, very good. You are doing a great job as well in holding the standard. Um, so I'm hopeful that it propels forward and more and more of these companies sponsor these athletes, provide them with some level of a platform to, to, to grow the sport and, and keep it, keep it a lot more healthy than what it is right now. Now that's, that's, that's such great insight. I really appreciate you, uh, you sharing that perspective because I think, um, given that you are now like a representative of the world champion from that country, I think your, your voice is probably going to have a lot of impact. And, um, if we can get that message out. Yeah, hopefully. Right. It should, it should. Let me say that. Um, so hopefully we can, we can get that message out. I think, um, one thing I am actually pretty confident in stating because it's something I've experienced as a coach of some people from India is that, and also having moved from the States to New Zealand, which is still, you know, a Westernized, you know, a country in a similar vein, and then also traveled around the world is that sometimes people from the mainstream bodybuilding community in the West don't understand how, how much privilege there is and the, and, and the ease of approaching it, the cost of gym memberships, the ubiquity of gym access that is open at reasonable hours that is easy to get into. Um, that is affordable. Um, the cost of living relative to the income for what you simply make, and that someone who is from a, even a lower socioeconomic status, like if you're lower middle income and you're, you're blue collar in the States, it's, it's not hard to find an affordable gym membership and it's not hard to eat healthy, but man, some of the challenges, like the first time you try to give just a basic, if it fits your, if it fits your macros approach to someone from another country and you go, yeah, let's hit, you know, 50 fat, 200 protein in LA coach. That is almost impossible here. Our entire diet consists of like rice and curry. And you know, there's, there's a day where we, you know, nobody eats meat cause it's too expensive. And the meat that we do eat is really high in fat and it's cooked in this way. And you know, I, I can't get reliable access to, um, you know, really like not, not even just clean foods, like clean and dirty. I mean, like actually clean hygienic foods is, is something that I think a lot of Westerners just have no concept of. And I am very fortunate that bodybuilding has given me the opportunity to travel and to try to stay on track while I'm in places like Indonesia and, and, uh, you know, some parts of Asia are, are, you know, first world countries for sure, but other parts are not. Um, and so I, I feel fortunate to have had those, those opportunities and to see. And I've got barriers that too. Yeah. Right. Because you, you lived in the States, you lived in Canada. You're like, oh man, this is easy mode, right? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I'm in easy mode right now. And I keep telling people that the, the amount of, that, that leads me into the thing, which I mentioned earlier on. I wanted to say the story behind it. Um, if I can, um, please. So yeah, 2010 is when I started 29, 2009, 2010. I exactly, you hit the nail in the head again, no access to proper food, right? It's rice. And I come from a vegetarian family. Non-veg is like a strict no, no. And this is why, sorry to interrupt you, but this is why, cause I think a lot of, uh, like a lot of Americans might roll their eyes and just like, oh, you gotta, you gotta, you gotta buy supplements. I'm like, dude, whey protein is like a godsend over there. Cause the only way you're going to be able to hit your, your protein targets if you, if you're eating locally and people don't understand that a, it's really expensive. And a lot of the times that the local supplement companies aren't there, you can't necessarily trust what they're giving us. If you want a high quality, reliable weight protein, which is probably the only way you're going to get over a hundred grams of protein per day. Um, then it's actually critical. And you know, the average Americans is like, well, just get some boneless skinless chicken breast at Safeway. I'm like, dude, that's not an option, you know? So anyway, I'm sorry, I'm sorry to interrupt, but like when I had some athletes who got a, a, uh, like an international sponsorship for protein and they're getting protein shipped out, it was like, all of a sudden they were like, oh, I can finally like actually get to like 1.5 grams per kilogram of protein per day. But anyway, I don't want to interrupt you, but I just, I know just because of the, the, I know what American thinks when they hear that and they don't get it. And hopefully that helps them. But anyway, you go ahead. Tell you. Yeah. Hopefully I can, I can paint the picture of how much struggles, how much struggles I went through. Um, again, you were right. Um, in the sense where I had zero access to supplement shops, there was maybe one or two supplement shops in 2010 in the entire city of nearly 15 million people. Um, what? 15? Oh, Chennai was a city of now it's, uh, 18 to 20 million people. Back then it was around 15. There were only like two or three supplement shops, which are trusted, right? And, uh, they were nowhere close to my home. And I used to, and I, well, no money as well, and there's no chicken breast. So what I did was, um, I put up a contract. I put up a contract back in 2011 and 2012 with this, uh, chicken shop that every day they got to deliver me one kilo of chicken breast, 750 grams to one kilo of chicken breast. They got to deliver me that. And I put a contract. I talked to him verbally and I put a verbal contract with him. So every day he will come and deliver me. That was the only chicken shop which had chicken breast in the entire area. There was no people. And even if they have chicken, they won't cut out the breast and give it to you because, uh, it is like that they don't have that much of a, uh, supply. So I put this deal with this guy and he delivered it to me continuously for three years between 2011 and 2013. That's three years of every single day, 750 grams of chicken breast. And I had no idea of macros and anything like that. So I just went on a leap-reast kind of a bulk. Um, so I had some free grams of chicken breast and then I had to have whey protein and creatine and a pre-workout. Those are the three supplements I had. Multivitamins, I just go to the medical shop and get it. They were cheaper. Um, so for getting the whey protein, it was a monumental task. Zero money. And they were super expensive. So my mom, who's no longer with, uh, uh, with us today, um, she used to spend half of her salary on this because we aren't, we aren't as kids, we are not allowed to work. If I go and tell my dad that I want to work and make my own money, that will be like, nah, you can sit down, son. If you go out and work, you're gonna do whatever you want with that money. So you better sit down and, and obey the rules, right? That's how it was back in the day. Um, so my mom spent half of a salary on my bodybuilding passion because I said, this is what I want to do. I want to be a personal trainer, which was a mindless thing to do at that time. Um, so, and I had to hitch a ride halfway across the city to get a box of protein, to get a box of protein. I had to hitch a ride. I used to take an auto, uh, which was monumental. Like you, you, an auto ride would cost, uh, nearly 300 rupees or something like that. When the protein box in that fight up of protein is like 3,200 rupees. So you spend 10% of the cost on just the transit. Um, so the, uh, I had half the time I have to talk to my friends or hitch a ride, go to get the supplements and then come back on a Saturday. Um, that would itself said, you know, 10,000 rupees. It's very expensive. 10,000 rupees is a lot of money back in the day. Um, and then, uh, chicken breasts, which is another 10,000 rupees. So 20,000 rupees monthly was spent on my, uh, just the proteins alone. And apart from that, you would have the multivitamins, the, all of this stuff to supplement. And, uh, that was another 200, 300 rupees, 400 rupees, something like that. Uh, so yeah, nearly half of a salary she spent on it. And I'm glad to, um, in a way I'm, I'm, I'm glad that I'm able to provide the results of that to her. She's no longer with me, which I know she's watching, but, um, it, it, it's a full circle for me, full circle moment for me. And, and my brother also played a role when I came to the U S when I came to the U S I was like this kid. Um, and I came alone, uh, which was first time in a flight. I came alone to the U S Clemson university, which is a big university, love Clemson. Um, and when I, I, before I came, I started mapping out where the grocery shops are. I started mapping what is in Walmart, what is in the local store and all of that stuff. I marked it on maps and all of that stuff came here. The, I didn't even go home. I went straight to Walmart from the airport. It's the first time in the U S I went straight to Walmart, got a gallon jug of, uh, zero fat milk because there is zero fat milk. Oh my God. I got an entire box of way. And then I got a bunch of pop tarts and all of this stuff because I was watching a lot of Matt August and team 3d MJ back in the day. And, uh, Matt August was a big on pop tarts at the time. He was also big on Chipotle. So that's the other thing. He always used to have the Chipotle burrito. So here is me in the U S getting all of this stuff, not even going home, just going to Walmart and then going home. It was like a brand new world for me. As you said, um, people don't realize the amount of hardships that generation and the previous generation had to go through, uh, to even make it anything in natural bodybuilding. A lot of people started using drugs because they can't do this. They, they can't afford, you know, 750 grams of chicken breast a month. Uh, and, uh, you know, a month supply of testosterone was only 3000 rupees back in the day. So drugs are cheaper than protein. I think people, people need to understand that as, as kind of the reality that, that is going to be so foreign to them if they come from the West to understand even just some of the, the culture that, that you're dealing with because of the, because people don't get this stuff. So I'm so glad that you're, you're, you're sharing this on the platform. Yeah. It's yeah. So basically to summarize this, drugs were costing less than protein and chicken breast. So a lot of people ventured into the dark side, primarily because they can't afford this. Who would like couple of people who I talked to as a chicken breast is too expensive. Testosterone is three, a 250 mix. You take a week, you're going to spend 3000 rupees a month. And I'm like, okay, it's, it is what it is. Um, so it was very, uh, things have improved quite a bit. I think, um, there's dramatic changes in how the city has developed. Um, in, in, in terms of, uh, Greek yogurt, there's Greek yogurt. Now there is a zero fat cottage cheese now. And I am like, why was this, uh, five, six years ago, 10 years ago? Um, so yeah, it's, it's grown leaps and bounds, but that, that was the amount of difficulty. Um, well, we have to go through and that generation, even you have, you are, you are, you are, have to go through, um, you know, to, to, to get to this point. So yeah, it's a full circle to reap those rewards a decade, decade and a half later, uh, delayed gratification. It brings so much joy. So, um, that was how that was, that was environment I grew up in. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you so much for sharing that. You know, I, um, as someone who comes from a very, a very different and, and, and thankfully easier background, uh, you know, like I have, uh, actually really enjoyed my time making it work in other countries cause it's made me better. Um, so for example, I share one of my guilty pleasures is everywhere I go, I figure out how would I live the bodybuilding lifestyle if I had to live here, you know? So when I was in, when I was in Taipei, it's not that hard, you know, they got world gyms everywhere. You can find some places like it's basically a first world country. The language barrier is, is the hardest thing for America. It's not even basically a first world country. Taiwan is a first world country. It's medical care system is, is better than, than, than the U S uh, for, for on average for people, but it was, um, certain things were challenging. Uh, you know, like Chinese food is, is hard, just like, like Indian cuisine to make work. So you kind of have to go to specialty places, but then once you figure out that seven 11, you can get like sweet potato and chicken breast, it's just, you know, a little higher in sodium cause it's a package. You're good to go. Once you learn a little bit of the language, once you figure out where you can go, which gyms are what, like, I was good. I was like, Oh, I'm solid. Easy. Um, being in like rural Spain was a little different. Um, you know, traveling into Indonesia was, it was a lot different. I'm glad Brandon Kempter showed me around and he showed me how he goes and gets local fruit and veg. Yes, he is a good man. Um, so seeing how he's made it work in Indonesia was actually really cool. And I love going into crappy gyms and I say crappy with all due respect, but like these, like these, these gyms that are operating on operating on a shoestring budget, they've been around forever. They're not air conditioned. The people who are there, they look at me when I come in and they're like, who is this six foot white dude training here? Um, and, uh, and, and where did he come from? Like, am I looking at YouTube and they're all training with like mismatched dumbbells? They've got a mixture of, of like the standard size barbell and not, and some, some, some like machines that barely work. And some machines I'm like, Oh shit, that's a Nautilus machine from the eighties. And I'm like, I, I get excited because trying to figure out how to, how to have the best workout possible within those constraints, how I would support my diet. Um, I really enjoy that because it makes you more resilient and other environments and it ensures that you can function anywhere. But I think there's a lot of bodybuilders who they're like, you know, they're, they're used to having the best equipment available. They're super snooty, like, Oh, not, not this stuff. And they don't want to read what I Yeah, exactly. Everything's Panetta gym 80 or, or, or prime equipment. If it's not that, like, are you even a serious gym, you know? And they expect to be able to go to the grocery store and find something that is 70 calories, but 15 grams of protein, no problem. Um, and that fresh fruit and vegetables that you can reliably get anywhere is, is, is just normal. And it is in the States and that's great. And I'm not saying that anyone is, you know, like a bad person for having access to it or taking advantage of it. I do. But, um, but knowing the kind of physiques that come out of Asia and the kind of physiques that come out of the Middle East, certain, certain, certain regions, like I hate this. Like, I don't want people to think like Asia is one thing, like, it's incredibly diverse. Like if you go to Vietnam versus Singapore, you're going to have a very different experience. Right. Yeah. Um, but anyway, my, my point is, is that there are certain regions throughout the world, that, uh, the bodybuilders who come out of there, you look at them and you're like, oh man, what a freak. Um, you need to have a healthy level of respect for what they've achieved, given the constraints in their lifestyle. And you don't know what they've gone through and they don't know what you've gone through it. I'm not saying it isn't hard, but, um, I am really impressed by the growth of natural bodybuilding in Asia as a whole, and also the respect that it gets in certain communities. Like, it was really cool to see a Mongol go back to Manipur and get like a motorcade procession of celebration. And he became the prodigal son of his, uh, of his region. And it was really cool. I won't keep harping on it. But when I was in Taiwan, just seeing how bodybuilding was natural bodybuilding was almost like a mainstream sport and how people wanted me to sign their autographs who never knew me. There weren't someone who followed me for 3DMJ. And it just makes me so hopeful for the future, not only in Asia, but for natural bodybuilding as a whole. So thank you so much for sharing this experience, because I think truly, um, natural bodybuilding as a global community should come together. And I think it can uplift itself. And there's so many opportunities for companies in the West to uplift some of these athletes in, in, in this region, uh, and for collaboration and a big shout out to the WNBF for being able to expand and have 60 regional affiliates. And now to have a true world championships, that's actually going to Calgary next year. Um, and I know that long, I know you will, and I'm sure you'll, you'll be, you'll, you'll be, you know, promoting and all that stuff. So it's, I'm really excited for the future. And I think that's the final question I want to ask you after you've so generously given your time, Srinath is, so you've won a world title. You've had a breakout season that I know is still sinking in. Uh, I know your background and I know that you not only want to succeed as an athlete, but also to support the community. You've been sending money back home. You've been giving props and respect to other people. I think you're an incredible example, incredible ambassador, and you're the exact kind of person that I'm glad has won a world title to do that. What does the future hold for you? Um, interesting. Uh, well, I've been thinking about that myself as well. Um, I do want to help people back home. That's my, the first thought, which comes to my mind is I said this to my mom when I was young, when I started out that I want to promote natural bodybuilding because everyone around me is taking drugs. Everyone around me is popping pills and injections. I don't want to be the guy. I want to promote natural bodybuilding. I remember talking to the talking about this to my brother too. And the first and foremost, the reason why I wanted to be a person trainer was to promote natural bodybuilding. So, um, if there is an opportunity or a platform, um, and you know, me through social media, uh, if I am able to promote natural bodybuilding and uplift athletes, and I think that's an important thing which I want to do as a service format. Um, if, if, uh, if I find an athlete who is, um, talented, who has a talent, who has a work ethic and is, is finding it hard financially, then I want to be the guy who is stepping in and, and, and helping, uh, helping him, uh, financially, uh, even if, uh, no supplement companies or anything like that is sponsoring him, which is going to be an ongoing problem in my opinion. Um, so I want to be the person who steps in. I want to empower people to, to, to take up this natural bodybuilding route. Uh, and I also want to promote natural bodybuilding, uh, in India and say that, Hey guys, stop seeking instant gratification. Put your head down, stop seeing social media and comparing yourself with other people. Gain a little bit of fat because fat is going to help with putting on muscle. Do that for years and then step on stage or, or do whatever you want to do at that point. Right? So, um, the, the message is pretty simple. I want, uh, what I want to put out. I also want to promote natural bodybuilding and also help natural bodybuilding happily. That's, that's kind of how I envision my future, uh, to be in this, in this particular field. I think that's a fantastic message. I think it's a fantastic goal. Um, as far as your own competitive future, um, when do you think you're going to get on stage again? Are you going to take an offseason? What do you see is now you've it's, it's man, the cool thing is you are the first world champion in classic physique for the WNBF. But now what we're going to see is that as those ranks fill, it's only going to get more and more competitive. So are you thinking, oh, I got to defend my title? Do I, uh, do I need to take some time off? Am I going to come back? So, so what are your plans? Uh, I'm definitely going to take some time off again. I cannot go through seven month prep and start another prep and destroy myself. Uh, so what I'm going to do is, uh, probably take two years off. 2028 worlds is when I'm looking at, uh, the two, two year offseason, um, push my body weight as high as possible, uh, while still feeling good, enjoy life, which is very important for me. Um, and, and make sure I build a platform to, to the goals, which I mentioned earlier on, um, and just, and just accomplish something. Uh, and I think, uh, I will return to the stage, uh, in 2028. That's the timeline I've set. Uh, same timeline as, uh, timeline as you, I believe. You said 2027 or 2028? That's, that's a good question. The initial plan is 2027, but I'm also letting myself take longer if I think that it'll, like, if it requires more time for me to get to the level, like, like to see visible gains, not necessarily the same level I had, because it went so good. Yeah. But even half of that, if I can do that before 2027, fantastic. If it requires till 2028, then I'll keep putting in the work. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, you know, in conclusion, I don't want to make the same mistake I made. I want to allow a longer period of time, probably a nine month prep, um, where I balance life as well as, uh, you know, get out of that post-com phase in a much better mental state. So I want to leave a nine month, uh, start in January and then go into worlds, uh, in 2028. That's what my roadmap looks like. Um, so yeah, hopefully I'll return to the world stage, uh, with a much better package. Um, hopefully with bigger arms, because arms is something I want to bring up. Um, and, uh, and yeah, defend the title. I love it. Well, I can't wait to see it happen. Uh, I think it's going to be a really good journey and I know that we're going to see some epic battles between you and others. And also, I really can't wait to see you to continue to do the work you're doing to uplift, uh, the natural bodybuilding community, especially in India. And I know you're not alone, you know? So like I've met a lot of awesome people from that region who are coming out of the woodworks now. So big shout out to, uh, Alexander Mohan. He was the, uh, like I mentioned the guy I met who kind of came fresh off the airplane, uh, while his pregnant life couldn't go with him. So he was flying solo to compete in Taiwan for his pro debut. I saw him judging at WNBF India after that. So I know there's so many people who are involved in the community. Shout out to Kyle and, uh, who is, you know, in partnership with Yuva running WNBF India. Yuva who's grossing so many people, uh, Mongol who I got to compete with, who had a fantastic season. Um, so, uh, and shout out to yourself. I know that, and then there's many more. I have only met a small fraction of the people who are, um, who share a similar message and vision to you guys. And I really do hope that some of those, um, cultural challenges and that competitive nature can be something that you guys can also come together around and be able to promote the sport and hopefully promote a more constructive mindset because, you know, if, if, if everyone is trying to tear down everyone else, then no one gets ahead. So, uh, yeah, I think, uh, yes, exactly. So, um, you know, I, I, I have high hopes because there's really good people behind it and there is a will and a passion and there seems to be a support, you know, like some of the natural bottling shows in India have 600 to 800 competitors. Like the demand is there. It is there. So polygraph is going to be tough. I'll tell you that. That's right. Oh, it has been, you know, having behind the scenes, I've talked to some of these, the, the, the, the challenges of actually just doing drug testing and, and, and managing the logistics of these shows. Uh, so hats off to all the effort that goes on behind the scenes that we don't see. And that often goes underappreciated. So, um, I just want to say a big, thank you, a huge congratulations, Sreenath. And to all the listeners, I hope you've enjoyed this series of interviews that we've done with WMBF pros from all walks of life, from all around the world, from different divisions. Um, we managed to cover a few of the categories that we did not cover, uh, when I did the 2023 interviews, uh, we got the new classic division and we touched on women's bodybuilding. Well, last time I had a figure, a fit body, uh, champion as well as Natalie Hayes, the female bodybuilding champion. So there's, there's so much going on. Women's bodybuilding is growing. Bodybuilding in Asia is growing and natural bodybuilding is growing as a whole. And I'm hopefully giving you some exposure to that and that you can do the same dear listener, uh, keep supporting us because we want to provide an alternative, not that's better, but that is perhaps a little more sustainable and something where you have to make less, less compromises in your life. So it is about being pro natural, not anti-enhanced because we're all brothers and sisters in iron and thank you for listening. And once again, if you want to support the show, thumbs up, like subscribe. If you want to be a super supporter, check out massresearchreview.com. And of course, visit our friends over to lead FTS and use our code MRR10. And the final thing I'll say is Shreenath, thank you for your time, your energy, and being the man you are. Shreenath, thank you. Thank you, Eric. Thank you for the opportunity.

=== FILE: Ep 364 - The Evolution of Physical Culture (ft. Dr. Conor Heffernan) [S3aT01p24dA].txt ===

 naringin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin,comfortin, what's going on everybody welcome back to another episode of iron culture uh man I swear the trucks and I do still like each other um but no it's just this Eric on and that's because we find that three's a crowd and who needs a co-host when you've got a co-host because I am welcome back from the obelisk dr. Efernan, published author, which we'll get into in a moment, my good friend, an iron culture history extraordinaire who brings the true historical lens from an academic qualified standpoint, which much like having a degree in sports science, having a degree in sports history is not that impressive. But together, we are moderately successful academics compared to real academics. So welcome back to the podcast. I have just so many avenues and lanes to take that, but I'll just say thank you. And I'm glad that you've moved on from making potato jokes. Hey, you know what? That was the main reason why Omar, quote unquote, left. Blah. Yeah. So he did preempt his own canceling. So you know what? More power to him. I think a lot of people wouldn't have the, the wherewithal to understand needing to do that. Um, but no good, you know, kudos to him. So we appreciate him falling on the proverbial. I'll say sword, but whatever you cut potatoes with. It was a different time. It was 2022. At most. Yeah. I think it started with us. I didn't know what a Sabrina Carpenter was by then. No. So I, finds a change. No. And as a historian, you know that one of the most unfair things you can do is judge historical figures like Omar Esau. Um, on, on, on, on the modern standards of ethics. And we would never do that to our, our good friend. Um, rest in peace, at least as far as YouTube and the fitness and dirty is concerned. Is he dead? No. Did I talk to him literally two days ago on a text? Yes. But how dare you judge him? Listener. Oh, but listener. Now that I've just, uh, gotten angry at you and said, how dare you do something? Let me ask you to do me a favor and give us a like, give us a follow, give us a subscribe. Give us a five star or thumbs up or whatever it is for this given platform. Um, if you are someone who was offended by the prior scandals, uh, know that we do apologize. And if you are thinking about rating us, just meditate on that until you feel comfortable absolving us with a five star rating or a thumbs up and then come back to do the rating. And then finally, for those who really want to support the podcast. And by that, I mean me because daddy got to pay the bills. Please check out mass research review because this is iron culture presented by mass. And if you're interested in understanding how to apply the latest science to all things, fitness, health, and especially lifting, uh, check out mass research review.com. Consider becoming a subscriber. And, uh, additionally, if you want badass lifting equipment sold by a badass group of good people, head over to elite FTS and you can use our partner discount code, uh, for Dave Tate and all the co over there. And that is MRR 10. And that's for mass research review 10 to help you remember it. So now that I've appeased the corporate overlords and that the last bastion of, of capitalism that will exist, at least in iron culture, um, we're going to move forward and talk about the egalitarian topic of fitness or what should be and how it went global and how it became something arguably less egalitarian. But nonetheless, Connor Heffernan, before we jump into your new book, I just want to say, how you doing, man? What's been going on for you? I'm good. I told you off air that I lifted some stones today. Um, so I'm not sure if I'm going to be coherent. There were special stones. You've had David going on this. There were special stones. They're not any stones, Eric. There were special stones that other special boys have lifted in the past. So I'm happy to say that a friend and I, you know, we drove for several hours. You know, we, we, we became men in front of each other. That was a very interesting experience. And the cows and the goats and the sheep did judge our efforts. I have never felt more, I suppose, emasculated than watching literally a herd of cattle looking at me doing the, like, it's very much a visual feature. You know, the cow chew. Yeah. Like, as I'm trying not to break my back. Oh man. I'm horribly lifting these stones. Were you with David? I'm not sure. No, I was with my good friend, Dom. Um, but I see like, much like Omar, I see David regularly. We're trying to get lifting stones categorized as living heritage in Ireland to protect the special stones for special boys and girls. We like to lift the special stones because we all need to protect our hobbies. That's what 2025 has taught me. I need to ring fence all of the things that I like and discard the rest because I like what I'm allowed to like. And I don't like what I'm not allowed to like. And I've always played it down the center. Eric, that's just who I am. You're excellent. Can you follow this? I love it. Um, so I, I have some semi-tangential, uh, relevance. I would say good news for this topic, but a mixed bag with how it makes me feel. So a long time ago, I spit into a tube and mailed it off to a company. Um, 23 and me, I was very interested in, in, in, in. Ah, yes. Yeah. I got that for, I think Christmas when I came out to New Zealand and I've been, you know, looking at the updates and they've had like seven updates on your ancestry. Um, and you may remember that when we were out last time filming documentary footage, they had recently done an update and I found out that I was 2% Italian. And that's gone. So the good news was that at that time I embraced my heritage by doing offensive, um, accents from people who were generally from New York and questionably Italian or connected to it. Um, a different time, a different time, right around the same time that Omaha was still involved. So you can't judge me on that either. Um, no, uh, you're literally not allowed to, um, they did the most recent update and that is now gone. I am no longer Italian. So I had a good run, but that 2% obviously had to get allocated to other places. Uh, like I said, we're a sports scientist and a sports historian. I'm not a mathematician, but I think that's the way percentages work. And guess who is slightly more Irish now? This guy. Your boy. You know? Oh, wow. Uh, so it's, it's, it's, it's, the alien paddy cap is out of the way. And just lucky charms and all kinds of things like that. And I find my still. Let's, uh, I'll find you. Okay. I'll, I'll, I'll leave, I'll leave me some taking this one. Hey, how dare you restrict my heritage at least until the next update from 23andMe where I find out that I'm actually fully English. It's highly change your personality. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. And that's honestly, that's a real risk because it has gone anywhere from being nearly 50 to 70% English to English and Irish to Scottish English and Irish. So like, and now you're longer Italian. Your genes are colonizing themselves as well. Like there seems to be this like genomic material battle going on. There's currently a struggle to see how much of my Irish genes can actually maintain their independence. So it's mirroring history in many ways. So, yeah. I'm, I'm here for it. There's a joke to be made about your incredible, uh, weight loss at the Irish genes, but I'm not gonna. I'm a, I'm a, I'm a, I'm a circle the airport. Of course. But boy, I try and land that one. Yeah. Like right now I might be able to get away with that joke based upon my 23andMe report if I made a t-shirt out of it. But I think more safely for the long-term health of iron culture, you're the only one who could even say that there is a joke to be made, but we should definitely not make the joke. Fair. I'll write it down in my offensive list. Yeah. You just, you just text it to me and call it something else. I'll text it to you later. Yeah. All right. Awesome. So, so you've been lifting some stones. Um, and you've been writing some books. I've been writing some books. I've just written a book when fitness went global. It has a tasty cover on it and lovely pictures of half naked men and women, which as we've established, as I'm not a real academic. Is what is what my life is. Hey, I'm you, you study the history of those people. I help those people get even better looking when they're half naked. You know what? So. I'm. Get even tastier. And now my tangential throw to you, sir, across the digital divide. So the premise of my book is defined on a single question. When did people begin exercising the same? So, you know, when, if you ask people about this, they're usually going to say like Arnold Schwarzenegger and Jane Fonda in the seventies and eighties expansion of gyms. And what I do in the book is I bring it all the way back to the 19th century and show how a number of different exercises and systems began to spread around the world. So you have gymnastics going all around the world, yoga, club swinging, jujitsu, which was seen as physical culture in the 19th century. Oh, there we go. Club swing. Very much a visual feature. That's right. For those of you who are not on YouTube, you're missing out on seeing some light reflecting off the book that we're not actually talking about. One that Connor previously wrote the visual medium. Oh, stimulating. Nonetheless, you're, you're a, you're a four time published book author now, aren't you? Four times. And you know, once I hit five, if anyone's a fan of nineties wrestling, which I assume everyone is our age, uh, Booker T would say he was a five time champion. And he would say five time over and over again. So once I get that fifth book, I'm just going to wander my house screaming that at random points. Five time published author. When that happens, I'm going to have to find a Booker T shirt that says five times on there. I'm going to hook you up. I mean, right. There you go. Um, and I would say this is probably my best book, which is to immediately denigrate all of the other books that I've ever. No, no, no. It's saying that you're, you're, you're an evolving, improving, evolving over time. There you go. Well, it's one of those things where, and I said, the singular question is when people begin exercising the same. And it's something that really interests me. And I think interest the history loving portion of the, of their cult, because it's not a question of when did people in Dublin begin using the same exercises as the people in Boston, as people in Moscow, as people in Paris, Spain, pick your poison. So in the book, I look at how did these systems spread in the 1800s? Cause you have gymnastics, you have weight training, you have various forms of physical culture, calisthenics, kind of merging into these different countries. And like historians kind of get that you show them the evidence and they're like, okay, I get that. And the thing that really interests me, which does tie into your current successes is what did that do? So what I look at in the book is I say, right, here's all of the evidence that people in South Africa and South America were using Sandoz bodybuilding exercises in England. But that created something that we've never really talked about. And I call it a global body. And what I mean by that is if people around the world are beginning to use standardized exercise as they did in the 19th century, it begins to standardize ideas around fit and healthy bodies. So even if not everyone is doing the Ling gymnastics system, the Yang gymnastics system, Sando, yoga, whatever the case may be, the actual norms around what a fit and healthy body are begin to become the same. And there's a great example of this in the book. Irish man, F.A. Hornibrook. Hornibrook by name, Hornibrook by nature. Heyo. Workshop that one for a couple of days. F.A. Hornibrook. You can laugh at any point, Derek. F.A. Hornibrook sees Sando, the world's first modern bodybuilder in Ireland, 1898. He moves to New Zealand prior to it. Hey, I like that guy already. Right. You know, first, when he said Hornibrook, I was interested. But when he said New Zealand, he got my attention. He moves to New Zealand, opens up a PT studio, a Sando exercise school. A couple of years after that, he goes to Fiji. He opens up another PT studio in Fiji in the early 1900s. There's a picture in the book of him and his clients in the Fijian physical culture school. He's wearing his evening wear. They're all wearing traditional Fijian garb. And they're all doing a front double bicep pose. Let's go, Connor. Yep. Yeah. Two pages later, I have an Irish man, Martin Willis, at the same time, the same year, mid-1900s, doing a front double bicep pose. And I mean, that is my book. It's okay. People began exercising different parts of the world. But our ideas around fit and healthy bodies begin to globalize around that time. And obviously, it intensifies in the 1900s. It intensifies with Arnold. It intensifies with Jane and CrossFit and everything that's come after it. But in the 1800s, this is the first time in world history that these systems begin to spread. But it's also the first time in world history that trained bodies begin to spread across borders. So I'm very excited. I tried so hard to find many other examples of photographs of people in China and Japan and South America doing that. I didn't. But I tried really hard. And I found one. And I'm allowed. And because it's Hornerbrook, it's funny. And it'll stay with you. I'm excited to hear more. But I will say, I actually just think this is, before I lean into the comedy, it's really fascinating to me. Because, like, things are way different in 2025 than they obviously were in 1925. But in many ways, certain elements are very similar. Or at the very least, if you're a student of history, you can see where the roots set a precedent that we've just kind of kept carrying out. Like, these cultural zeitgeists didn't happen from social media exposure or official professionalization of sport because we have an international weightlifting or powerlifting or bodybuilding body. But for those things to emerge, having these global bodies, having a social media platform that is largely intrinsic to fitness, at least the visual aspects of the more bodybuilding-centric fitness, you have to already have a society that has a demand for something like that, that's on the same page, to then be connected. And to, like, the idea of going viral, that virality means that we can have something that reaches all these people who are on the same page or see things the same way. So, for that to happen, this stuff has to precede it. So, I think that's really interesting. You know, when I think about people like kind of, like old man yelling at the cloud style, Ah, these bodybuilders today, like, the real ones don't have Instagram accounts or they're just trying to promote themselves or they're, you know, they're fit influencers first, bodybuilders second. And I'm like, you know, if you really looked at what Sandiow was doing with Coco and these spring-loaded dumbbells or if you looked at, you know, the professor back then to the way science-based fitness has been denigrated now, it's all echoes of the same thing, you know. And the drama that you see, like, that was between the weeders and Bob Hoffman and the drama that you see today and just kind of the Jerry Springer of fitness, the reality TV shows, the dopamine drip of looking at the falling apart lives of narcissists, whether it's online or happening in print media, it's been there for a hundred years plus. And, um, for those who don't know, for those who are kind of a little bit newer to the cult or you've been focused on our more, I'd say science forward era of being iron culture presented by mass, um, this might be a new concept to you. And when we say physical culture, I think it's just important people to understand that you could view that in probably two broader definitions. And I'm sure Dr. Heffernan here will, will probably give his thoughts on this, or at least let me know if my concept is right. You could say that's the study of generally humans doing hard movement for non-utilitarian purposes, uh, which is not always been around. Almost all fitness stems from something that is necessary or becomes a ritualized version of it, like gymnastics with military service or, um, strong man coming out of tests of strength to see how useful you were to the tribe or village. Um, you know, full stoker, full strong, that's, you get this position on the fishing boat and the equivalent of that across many different cultures, you know, stone lifting being a test of being a man or a woman in Irish stone lifting culture, which we got to see when I was out there in Galway. Okay. We're so rare. ways for different reasons. Um, but probably in its more modern form, would you say it's right around that turn of the century, kind of 1900s understanding of quote unquote contemporary fitness? Yeah. And you're right. Which means that my sport history degree is all for nothing because I don't hold any knowledge whatsoever that others don't. Or I've just talked to you a lot and you have educated me and you're an excellent master of pedagogy. How about that? I'm asked for something, but we won't go into that. The, um, no, but you're, you're right. There's, there's different ideas around fitness and physical culture is a very like strict term that's used for the late 1890s, really up until the 1920s, 1930s. And that's our early modern fitness industry. It's when you start to see the first recognizable bodybuilding shows. Sando, Eugene Sando, world's first modern bodybuilder host his show in 1901. You know, the first world weightlifting competition in 1891. You have strength competitions for strong men and strong women, which would be kind of early precursors to powerlifting in the 1890s and early 1900s. And all of that kind of growing in that era that the kids on TikTok and Instagram might call bronze era lifters or bronze era physical cultures. The other point, which is something that I tried inspired by Adrian kind, the philosopher of fitness in the first chapter, I ask, you know, is there an innate human desire for strength? Because biologically, our bodies are designed to be strong or at least to get stronger, you know, and let me bastardize your field for a minute. I bet you can do a great job. That's that TBT. Help me out here, dude. Come on. I really need this. I'm on the cult. No, but you know, you know, we, we know this, you take on a resistance, your muscles break down. In theory, they'll get stronger barring some sort of medical, uh, problem. So at the same time, so we're able to get stronger, but at the same time, our bodies crave stability and preserving calories. So we're this mess of contradictions, but at a cellular level, we are designed to get stronger. That is different though, from when people look at the idea of play, which stems into sport. Very famous book, Homo Ludens, which talks about, you know, this innate human desire for play. And I ask, is there an innate human desire for strength? If there's not an innate human desire for strength, our societies are based or have historically been based around the idea that we need to rely on our physicality. And what's interesting is you, and the first chapter of the book looks at, you know, thousands of years of religious texts, medical texts, military texts, educational texts, talking about why we need to be fit and strong. In the 1800s, we don't need to be as fit and strong anymore because we have industrialization. We have people moving into office jobs, moving away from agrarian and fishing societies into cities. So the actual need to be strong diminishes. So what do we do? We start to introduce artificial systems of getting stronger. Gymnastics, weight training, calisthenics, yoga, jiu-jitsu, stone lifting, weight training, club swinging, all of these things, which is now the modern parallel. Because like, in theory, we don't really have to, like, I can get on an electric scooter if I want to give myself a brain concussion at a high speed. You know, I can go to my office, I can get an elevator, I can sit down, I can order food directly to my desk. I can eliminate the need for a lot of physical health. If I get an IKEA flat pack, I can hire someone from my phone to come to my house and build said IKEA flat pack. And while I watch and go, yeah, I would have used that Allen key wrench, I would have done that as well. You know, but at the same time, our societies are continually trying to push us into moving. And the physical culture movement, in particular in the 1890s, is at, like, this high point of, well, we don't need to be fit and strong ever again. You know, even soldiers, they're saying, well, like, we have machine guns now, so, like, we're good. You know what I mean? Like, you know, you eat that extra. They didn't have the candy industry that we had. You eat that extra licorice. I feel like licorice has been around for centuries. I think they had your basic, like, caramelized sugar type stuff that was pretty. Right, yeah. Like, you know, the World Fair, you go there, cotton candy, like, did stuff. Yeah, I mean, they weren't quite with funnel cake technology. But I feel like you could get some pretty good sweets in World War I, you know? The funnel cake technology had not yet reached the pivotal point that we were at now. And flan was just a pipe dream at that point, of course. It's movable. Hmm. But you had, I'm getting distracted. You had, though, this push in the 1890s and early 1900s for people to move, be fit, be healthy. And then you had people introducing solutions into that, like, buy my dumbbells, buy my equipment, buy my workout course, get a gym membership, get a gym subscription. And to your point about the long tail of fitness, when you look at the physical culture industry, which emerged in the 1890s, that provides the script and the playbook, which still exists today. Like, I love fitness and the fitness industry, but its marketing has not evolved from the 1890s. Because you look at, I know you know this, a bodybuilding course from Eugene Sandow in 1900. It's be a better man, perfect your body. Here are my measurements. Track your measurements. See if you can reach, you know, my standard. You have to use my specialized equipment, my specialized workout. This will make you a better man, a better husband, a better student. You can cure yourself from incurable diseases just using physical culture. You have the judicious use of facts and figures. 98% of all of Sandow's clients were cured of an illness, including cancer, using physical culture alone. He had doctors endorsing him. And it's not just Sandow. You have all these people doing this. Charles, that's exactly. But even from Sandow to Bernard McFad, you know, Sajan Moss, you had a number of people who, Alan Calvert certainly as well, who are pushing these workout systems and modalities. And you also have the rivalries. Like, Sandow sues Josef Salai because he said, you stole my dumbbell pad. And he literally destroys that man's life. He sues him. He gets him blackballed from the physical culture industry. He's an Austro-Hungarian writer and coach living in London. 10 years later, he'll actually donate money to Salai's, like, relief fund. And someone sees him on the street and they're like, we need to do a fundraiser. And Sandow, I will, I will save that man. You're like, you are the worst type of meathead. But all of those systems exist. And the marketing of it exists. And the idea of how do I get people involved? Well, we're going to do before and after pictures. We're going to do measurements. We're going to do bodybuilding shows. We're going to do nutritional supplements. You see all that in the 1890s. And in a global context, what's really fascinated me in this book was looking at Sandow. Eugene Sandow was born in Prussia. He moved to England in the 1880s and he sets up an empire there. He does world tours. He goes to the United States. He goes to Ireland. He goes to Australia, South Africa, New Zealand and India. I found Sandow's books and workout equipment being sold in Japan where he never visited, China where he never visited, parts of South America. So his stuff is all over the world, even in places that he'd never stepped foot in before social media, before what we would see as a mass or modern fitness industry. So not only is his equipment being sold around the world, his marketing is also being sold around the world. Yeah, the stuff he's selling and the way he's selling it, it's all become homogenized. You know, yeah, you like following, you know, success leaves clues is a big thing. That's not just what athletes do. It's a huge part of what businesses do. So I did it. It doesn't surprise me, but I find that fascinating. I want to take a step back. What motivated you to want to write this book, Connor? How badly I'd written the other three books. No, and one of my favorite, I wrote a small pamphlet, The History of Physical Culture. I said this to you off air. One of the quotes legitimately is like, yeah, the information is good in this, but whoever the editor was clearly had a brain concussion. I was like, I did play rugby badly for a number of years, so I don't think all the gray matter up here is working, but I didn't think it was that bad. But one of the things that motivated me to write the book was my fascination with how fitness spread across borders. So I wrote a book about physical culture in Ireland, and I kind of talked about, well, Irish men in the 1890s and Irish women were reading like French physical culture magazines, American bodybuilding magazines, English bodybuilding magazine. I wrote a book on Indian club swinging, which is one of the first kind of modern fitness fads. Yes, there we go. And that's all about how this form of exercise, which originated in India, Pakistan and Iran, goes to Britain in the 1820s. And from the 1820s to the 1850s becomes a global practice. People are swinging clubs around the body for health. And then I was asked a very simple question is, why was it just club swinging? And I realized it wasn't just club swinging. It was gymnastics. And it wasn't just gymnastics. It was yoga. It wasn't just yoga. Jiu-Jitsu was spread as physical culture. It wasn't just Jiu-Jitsu as physical culture and bodybuilding exercise. So I became fascinated by this, but also by how fitness practices became similar. But then I also became really interested in, well, what didn't spread? And so some of the things that I found, which did surprise me was, you know, weightlifting is a sport in the 1890s, but it's not a global sport because the French refused to lift using the Italian weightlifting rules. The Italians refused to use the British rules. Even though weightlifting is in the first modern Olympics in 1896 and again in the 1900s, there's no set rules for weightlifting until the 1920s. And really, that's just because the Germans and Austro-Hungarians have been banned from weightlifting and other modern sports because the whole First World War thing, upsie-dupsie. So they were banned from modern sports. And when they were out of the picture, the French came in and said, OK, this is what we're doing. So like weightlifting didn't spread. Stone lifting didn't become a popular practice, even though people would travel to lift stones. There's a story of George Hackenschmidt visiting someone in Germany and lifting his special, you know, strongman lifting stones. Stone lifting was part of the Paris Olympics. They would literally, as in the gymnastics session, as A-50 kilo of stone. What year was the Paris Olympics overhead? It was 1908. I can check these things. But early 1909. It's kind of unfortunate how, like, we generally see things in fitness as always progressing towards the current place we are. But I think people forget that there are decades-long periods where there's kind of a recession, literally and figuratively, before things then move forward in history. If they do. And they don't always, you know, like, when we say society, like, we are often talking about the, like, nations that have inherited prior societies that literally collapsed and don't exist anymore. And there are periods where things go away. And that happens within many segments of society, like fitness or stone lifting. I think it's really cool that David Keown is almost single-handedly, of course, he would give a lot of credit to a lot of people around him, resurrected a history that never went anywhere, as an example, but was stamped out by, you know, the colonial influence of Britain on Ireland. And, like, it's great that it's coming back, but it did go away for centuries, you know? And I think that's just a really interesting thing to remind people of, because sometimes we kind of have this distant view on history generally. But then we can also have this close view to what's going on currently, and that basically you can just tell if someone's more cynical or optimistic on how they view it, and what they're queued into, and what sources they're getting information from. But I think it's just a really important thing to kind of understand. Like, this is not a straight line. And this is actually why I'm very passionate about the value of history for people in the fitness industry. If you walked into any gym in the 1860s, you would see Indian clubs. And that would not matter if you were in North America, in Europe, in South America, in parts of Africa and Asia. Indian clubs were part of the majority of gym cultures. By 1890s, they don't exist. But, you know, like, within reason. So you have the dominant fitness paradigm in a global context, before this is even like a global industry. And they don't exist. And they certainly don't exist. Listen, there's some people on Instagram, because there's always some people on Instagram who are like, I've taken this traditional, you know, blah, blah. Some of them are very, there's a guy called Paul who's amazing. He's a real one, to quote common. But you see a lot of people doing things that are like, this is the way that things should be done. This is the way, this is the best way to be fit. This is the best way to be healthy. And then that goes extinct. And actually, an episode yourself and the other Eric, who I will eventually meet. I'm not comparing them, but I feel like I've been with daddy Eric for quite a long time. And mommy Eric left for cigarettes. And I've never actually met. I'm starting to think it's you with like two different masks. Anyway, you know, you did that episode with Jim about the previous eras of evidence-based lifting. And you build and you build and you build. But there are moments in each of those eras where something is the dominant way of doing things. And that can die out. So like I wrote an article many, maybe a year or two ago, on the history and evolution of the back squat in the US. And the point of that was, if you understand the history of this movement, you will understand that it has never been a set movement pattern. There has never been a single agreed upon way to back squat. And that for fitness professionals should give you the utmost freedom on how to choose exercises that suit your client or your specific needs. And I think if you understand that exercise has, the way people exercise has always been contested, that should free you up so that you are not a knees over toes guy, no matter what the case is. Or, you know, the knees can't track over the toes, no matter what. Or the bench always has to be down here. Or we always do three sets of five. Or we always do, it should actually free you up and give you encouragement to look at things holistically and have a big toolbox because you're not, there's no one agreed upon metric or way of doing things. And that's what this book, I think, is lovely to see how these things literally were created in the 1800s. And even at that point of creation, they were really controversial. There's a point in the book where I talk about a literal dispute over pommel horses and parallel bars that goes to the Prussian government because some people want to bring parallel bars into the Prussian Gymnastic Institute for Soldiers. And some people don't. They have a multi-year government inquiry in this and have court debates that are so contentious that people are asked to leave the court all over whether or not we should use parallel bars. So it's always been contested. And rather than being cynical about that, and I do have my cynical days and my cynical hat, it's a rainbow because it's ironic. It can, I think, give people a lot of freedom. And it can also free you from, if you look at the marketing side of things, how these messages have just been regurgitated again and again and again. But I really like your point about, you know, these things can't disappear. They can rise in prominence. Like even the sport of weightlifting, if there wasn't a First World War, we won't go into what that would have meant for geopolitics. But it could have meant for weightlifters that, you know, instead of the clean, the snatch and the press, as the military press was an Olympic lift up to the 1970s, it could have been a one-handed lift. It could have been, anyhow, it could have been, you know, kettlebells. It could have been lifting for wrecks. It could have been lifting for endurance. All of these things were things that were tried out. It could have been a deadlift, which was used in 1891. Yeah, the also part of the thing when we had a clip on to talk about that. Yeah, yeah, I understand. Might not be this weird niche thing. It might be the dominant way of expressing yourself and weightlifting, which I can't even really imagine if that was the dominant view. Because we're so siloed, right? And just as a small aside, again, for those who maybe are not super keen on the historical, you know, third of iron culture. Give me two minutes just to shout at them. They'll come around. I can bribe them. You understand how fitness works. Yes. You do. Pencil neck geeks. Okay. Sorry. Well, actually, almost that attitude is, I think why we do get segmenting is because, like, if you listen to a lot of people, when science comes up, they will view it as almost a dismissal of the wisdom of the prior generation. Or they will see these young kids, like, they're disrespecting the old school. Why are we trying to reinvent the wheel? We know what works. And I think it's really a mistake to not see how synergistic understanding historical and scientific data can be. Because the limitations of sports science are notable. And, of course, the limitations of well-researched and historically curated anecdotes, which is essentially what the record is. If we want to use it for, hey, what should I do as a bodybuilder, are. But they go so well hand in hand. Like, if you come across scientific research or someone communicating science, because this is more likely where it happens, in very, very black and white terms, and it directly conflicts with what really seemed to work for literally centuries, then you know at the very least the claim is too strong. Right? And I think history keeps you grounded in reality. That, you know, before people were influenced by the most recent study coming out, they kind of figured out, did this work? And I'm not saying that what bodybuilders were doing in 1950 was the best or better. But it got the job done, and it helps you know what is possible. Or at the very least, when certain people with these dogmatic views in fitness, which always is going to be happening, have very, very limiting views or claims about what is optimal or how you can get there or what you should be doing or what you should not be doing. You can be like, yeah, but I'm pretty sure for centuries people were squatting that way. Or I'm pretty sure for centuries people were training that way. Or hold on, for four decades straight, people were training with full body and upper lower splits and with a higher frequency and volume and only free weights. But now I need to prop my arm against the back of a cable machine to get a decent, you know, bicep growth? Maybe, but maybe not. Yeah. And a really nice example of that was when we were in Metroflex and we visited the gym of Roddy Coleman and we were talking to the owner and Ronnie's training partner. And it was really interesting talking to you about that because the way, at a surface level, one could say that the way our accounts trade is very different to the culture in Metroflex. But then when you strip back and you look at, there are core tenants in both. And we did talk about this and we're like, you know, okay, Eric might not train like branch Warren in a way that might injure himself. Still the funniest cut scene ever. People are too young to remember generation iron and France runs like, I've never got injured a day in my life. And then he hops on a horse to ride away and the horse kicks him off the back. The timing. It's the ideal. And I like branch. It was just, it was like a over the top comedy. But, you know, when we talked about this, like, okay, so the, the sets and reps and exercises are different, but there's a core, there's a core joining together in effort and consistency and patience over time, but progressively pushing yourself. And that is where I think that history can come in handy where you can say, well, okay, well, there's success leaves clues, you know, and that we know that there's an intensity of effort is needed. But then it can be applied to what this generation understands and knows and how that can work. And also an understanding of, okay, let's look at say the 1970s and you look at Arnold and Franco and Zane and all of these people. But if you don't realize that they grew up doing weightlifting, like Olympic weightlifting, because that was a dominant paradigm. That explains a lot, actually, outside of drugs and everything else, why their physiques and their physique standards are very different. Because in 30 years and now people don't grow up doing Olympic weightlifting. They grow up doing either powerlifting or just straight into bodybuilding. So obviously they're going to be different. And obviously the standards are going to be different and the metrics are going to be different. But if you don't understand that and you're just like, well, well, golden era looks better than the present day. And it's like, okay, but if you strip all nuance out of this, you get a really black and white understanding of fitness. And fitness has never been black and white. And the core tenets that you can agree upon is it's important to be physically active. And I can go back to the Bhagavad Gita. I can go back to the Bible. I can go back to the Quran. I can point to any religious text which talks about the need for a healthy mind and a healthy body. We can look at old military records. We know that a fit and healthy body, whatever that means, some form of trained body is generally conducive to insert outcome here. That intensity of effort is needed, patience is needed, and some form of progressive resistance is needed. And then after that, it is for what purpose. And when you look at the history, you'll realize that what purpose has always changed. When Sandow is promoting bodybuilding, he's promoting it for people who have never done weight training or bodybuilding in their lives. They don't want to be overly muscular. They're not competing in bodybuilding because there's only like three real major bodybuilding shows in the early 1900s. They just want to look better naked, genuinely. When you look at the 1940s and Mr. America, John Grimmick, he's a trained weightlifter who's moving into bodybuilding. So what's his purpose is to be a good weightlifter and a great bodybuilder. When you move into the 1970s, you know, Arnold, it's all about the body and bodybuilding. But he spent years indoctrinating himself with powerlifting and weightlifting and now bodybuilding. The what outcome has always shifted. So it's actually not fair to compare different heroes, different physiques in that vein because the metrics that they have tried to hit have never been the same across time. Even powerlifting, for example. And you could say, well, it's been standardized squat bench deadlift over time. But no, even the weight categories have changed. Depth standards have changed. Equipment standards have changed. Even something as objective as powerlifting or weightlifting, the outcome and the desired outcome has always been different. And the technology and mechanisms have changed. And this is a long-winded way of saying it is dangerous to box in your thinking. And it is dangerous to be dogmatic within fitness because the history of fitness shows that things have always been evolving. And fitness has always been like jazz. It's always in reaction to what came immediately before it. And if you pretend like it's always been the same, you're going to have a bad time, to quote South Park. Yeah, and more importantly is you'll start to feel disillusioned and not a part of a community that you've really felt a sense of belonging to and that's given you a lot of agency. Like there are a few Facebook groups that I don't participate in but I follow. It's just people sharing a bunch of pictures of old-school bodybuilding and lifts from a prior era of powerlifting. And it's like 80% I love it. It pops on my feed and I'm like, oh, I had no idea about this champion or wow, I've never seen that picture of Sergio Oliva. And then 20% it's a bunch of people who are just talking crap about the current era. Some of them hating on the level of drug use. Some people saying, you know, bring back the true golden era of natural bodybuilding. Why are these guys getting shredded? This looks terrible. They look sick. Like, you know, I catch some heat from the old-school guys. Like, yeah, you look better 10 pounds heavier. And I'm like, dude, I'm competing. Like, you know, like. Yeah, there's a spores. Yeah. And, and like, I could see the physiques better when they were running 11 second 100s. You know, it's like, dude, like. You're. Or, or people who, uh, like I've even had people who are, it gets to the point where they get out of touch. Like, um, there was a comment about depth on one of these old lifts from like, kind of like the. Because, man, powerlifting has changed so much just in the last 15 years, 20 years, right? And there was, this person was like a contemporary powerlifting fan. Like, Westside is still their conception of the popular version of, of powerlifting. And someone was, basically said, I don't know if that was the standard in the bar or whatever. And they're like, well, who even cares about IPF lifting? And I was like, everybody now? Like, that is the whole sport. Like, the Fed that this was done in doesn't even exist anymore. And half of those guys are dead. And they didn't leave a legacy. You know, like, there, there, there's, there's a, there's a Netflix video. Which, which is great. And I'm not, I'm not shitting on the Westside, guys. There's a tremendous amount of history there. And they did, you know, mold the modern culture. But, I mean, I, I just can't imagine personally. With all the time and effort and investment and rich exchange. Giving and receiving from the powerlifting community. To 20 years from now being like, well, you guys don't know nothing. It's all about when I got a Sitco was the, you know. You know, like, it, it, it would just be like a tragic end. And I think it's something that you do, you don't have to do. You can stay opting in and you don't have to constrain something wonderful to not let it grow. And I think if you understand, I think, I think this is why history is important. Because historians could be like this. But I actually find in personal experience, most of the time, they're not. Or at least on their best day. Because they understand the fluidity of it. And they understand it isn't just like people making choices. Because it is, especially in fitness or competitive sport. It's always people responding to the constraints that are in front of them. You know, like, you know, like Bob Paris being like, I never wanted to be this big. You know, I was chasing this. But what was demanded of me to place higher, right? Or like, frankly, like if we think about weightlifting technique and how it's changed. You know, and like the way Tommy Kono taught it versus now. Like, there was a rule against the bar touching your body. On the front side of your body. So, like, you will probably know who this is. You know Precious McKenzie? Yes. Yeah. So, famous weightlifter. And, you know, he's actually, he was an international figure moving from his home country. And eventually settled and became like a national treasure of weightlifting here in New Zealand. He came out to North Sport Olympic Weightlifting one time. And he was showing like, like, just to, because that's where he was, you know, from, from originally. And kind of where he was involved. And now he's involved. And he's like this icon of the sport. But he was competing decades ago. And he started actively trying to teach and correct one of the lifters there. Like, no, you need to jump forward. And. It prompted this discussion. And this very uncomfortable discussion. Because even to the young lifters who were, you know, decades removed from his era. There's a sense of veneration. And you want him to be the man. Like, oh, I want to learn something. And I remember when I, you know, rest in peace. When I got to see Tommy Kono in person. I think in 2010. He did a seminar at Body Tribe. Chip Conrad's old place in Sacramento. It was awesome to see. And you want to hold him on a pedestal. Because they come from an era that formed your current era. Like, you literally would not be there without their influence to some degree. Or it wouldn't be the same. But they have concepts that are no longer relevant. And it doesn't necessarily mean that it was better then, worse now, better now. You just understand, like, oh. Like, if you can't brush the front of your body with the bar. The bar is going to be forwardly displaced. So you have to jump forward to stay underneath it. It's not just like, oh, God. Like, never meet your heroes. They actually didn't know what they're doing. He was just competing in an era where he was less competitive. And he had good genetics. Like, no. No. Like, they were adapting the constraints of their time. Yep. We're adapting the constraints of our time. But we're still quintessentially and fundamentally expressing that same human need and desire to be strong. It just looks different. And, God damn it, just get with the time. It's because then you can still connect with that same core beautiful thing that makes the iron the iron. So, rant over. Go ahead. No, but this is the important thing, right? So, I, admittedly, I don't usually do shitty things. But I was like, I wrote an article on my website about, you know, why did bronze-era lifters have small chests? A serious question to a stupid, or a serious answer to a stupid question. You know, and people would be like, oh, because, you know, in the 1890s and physical culture era, you know, a big chest was feminine. That's why, you know, that's why they didn't do it. And I politely point out in the article that the bench press hadn't been invented yet. And that to do a chest exercise, you would do a pullover and press, where you'd get into a wrestler's bridge and you'd kind of do a pullover while you were on the ground and then you would press. But then even that got bastardized because it was a competitive lift. So, rather than pushing from the chest, you would lower it down to your belly and kind of belly press it up. So you'd almost kind of like hump the bar up into the air, smashing your belly into the- Yeah, it was like a pullover glute bridge thrust, hit, press. Yeah, yeah, lift, yeah, pullover, yeah. And- But by the way, Brett Matreras invented the glute bridge. I don't know if you knew that. Patent pended. Yes. Patent pending? I probably have. I have a rat. I have a rat. On the machine. That man has done more for asses than anyone else. That's- In modern history. That is quite the claim. And I know one person who has been knighted who would disagree with that. Uh, sir, mix a lot. So, uh, you will, you will- I'll take that back. Okay. Brett, I love- Dave, you did get back because of Brett. But it's important because if you don't know the history, you're like, oh, well, I'm going to A, take on this really stupid, uh, you know, explanation. No offense. Some offense. But B, you're not going to actually appreciate how exercise selection is inherently defined by the equipment that you have access to and how that equipment availability will impact the kind of body that you can- Yep. You can build. I remember once being very privileged to train with Frank Zane and he said, you are the outcome of the equipment in your gym. He was like, no matter what, you are- Fundamentally, you are the outcome of the equipment that you train with. And at the time, I was like, I don't know, that's a weird thing to say. But then, you know- A hundred- Right. A couple of different gyms. He's a hundred percent right. You train in different gyms and for different reasons. And you realize that important. So when you don't accept those confines, when you look at, say, okay, the early 1900s, the dumbbell and the barbell begin to be popularized and mass-produced and standardized. And we begin to see more and more people shifting away from dumbbell pressing in strength competitions to barbell pressing in strength competitions. And kettlebells begin to kind of fade out. They're still being sold, but they're not being used in competitions because once barbells get standardized, we can increase the weight and we can get more weight onto the back. And that fundamentally changes people's bodies, fundamentally changes sports, fundamentally changes the conception of strength in sport. But if you ignore that, it creates problems in your thinking. And even you look at the path not taken. There's a moment in the book where I talk about Gustav Sander, who created really the first modern gym equipment. This is in the late 1890s, early 1900s. Anyone look up Zander gyms. I don't know. Z-A-N-D-E-R. He was a European inventor. His equipment was sold all around the world. He won design and business competitions for his equipment. He had health studios across the United States in the early 1900s before they went out of business. And you look and you have like early prototypes of like lap machines, chest machines, leg extensions, leg curls. People would say that Knopfless, which revolutionized fitness in the 1960s, was largely borrowing from Zander. Arthur Jones said he didn't see Zander's equipment until after he'd created the Knopfless machine. But it was weird, though, because they seemed to be based on the same thing. Well, Arthur Jones was always a very truthful figure from the scientific experiment. He did with Casey Viator to his completely unique and non-influenced marketing strategies and inventions. I mean, so who are we to? Where is the lie, Eric? Where is the lie? That's right. I don't understand why people would ever denigrate such a kind man. Yeah, but there's a moment. And Randy Rouch's book is interesting. There's a moment, though, in fitness where like Zander's equipment is beginning to become popular. So what would have happened if Zander's equipment had become super popular? And Alan Calvert, who creates Milo Barbell in 1904, the first mass manufacturer of dumbbells and barbells, and completely changes the game in terms of promoting strength support. What if he goes out of business in 1905? And the people who are selling fitness equipment then are Sandow, which is light spring grip dumbbells, you know, no heavier than five pounds. Squeeze it really, really hard. Or Zander, who's promoting health equipment. Or if it's an older health lift, which is partial dead. Like there are all of these roads. Yeah. Does Bob Hoffman even take the same two jokes? Exists. Yeah, exactly. And what's that do for Olympic weightlifting? What's that do for bodybuilding? And is there Mr. America? But like, just because we've ended up where we are right now, doesn't mean that was a foregone conclusion. That was the thing that was so interesting for me in the book was looking at these clashes between these systems. And there's no reason, in theory, why one would get more popular than the other. It's just the ebbs and flow of time in societies. But like, each of these things fundamentally shape where we end up. Yep. And this is where I think it becomes very pivotal to understand, even a little, like, even like an itty bitty, teeny tiny piece of history. Because I know in the last Mass article, you had a historical video. And it was really, no, but it's really cool. Because people I was looking at, and then looking at the feedback, this is so awesome. I can't believe. And yeah, if you like titrate a little bit of history, you'll connect it and you'll begin to see fitness in a much more open, fluid, constructive way. Because I think that fitness is at its most beautiful when it's art and science. You know, when it is Vince Garanda, the bodybuilding coach in the 1960s with Larry Scott inventing the preacher curl, because they're like, maybe there's a better way of getting that, you know, getting that peak on the bicep or Garanda to stay with them. Doing mad stuff with lateral raises and dips and sternum pull-ups and all that. That's incredible. Not because he... Motorcycle roads. Yeah. Exactly. But all of these things where he's like, there's no rules. Like there are certain movement patterns, like pull, press, push, et cetera. But there are no rules as to how I... Like there are no 10 commandments as to how this absolutely has to look and how to be and how to feel. And Garanda and a lot of that generation, because the old generation is better, Eric, just by the way. Yep. But like a lot of them were dogmatic, but there was a sizable number who knew their history, but use that history to free themselves up to do things that would achieve the outcome that they wanted in the present. Yeah. I think the, like the 70s and 80s and that tension between Wieter and Hoffman, I find really interesting because there is this individual level desire to specialize. I really, I actually just want to be a bodybuilder. And then there is the structural opportunity to do it that way. And then there, that creates the reward system and the technology becomes available for a Garanda to be like, well, okay, what if we did just train to maximize muscular size? What would that look like? And then it becomes this, you know, you've got these people who've been embedded in this way of training forever and they start to explore. And I really wonder what that was like, you know, because you brought up Frank Zane. Like if you look at some of his posts today, because he's been, people look back on him and they go, oh, he is the, the aesthetic, uh, version. He, he's now conceptualized as the, the, the precursor to the more aesthetic focus, classic physique style thing. But he shared that same history. There's actually a hilarious, I'm almost positive, you know, about this commercial. It's a hilarious commercial. I want to say in the early eighties, uh, promoting Pabst Blue Ribbon beer. Yes. Of all things. Right. And. Classes bear around. Yeah. And, and, and, and they, and, and remember that he is a three times Mr. Mr. Olympia at this point and reasonably famous because he was in the overall pumping iron sphere at the peak of the fitness airstream. Yeah. So you're thinking, okay, well, if they were going to promote this guy at this time, what would they do? They would have him promoting bodybuilding. Um, but guess what he's doing? Olympic weightlifting. They're doing, he's doing a clean and jerk. And then he enjoys a Pabst Blue Ribbon afterwards. So he's kind of like generally kind of just a lifting, you know? And it might seem like, like in today, if we saw a video like that, we would be like, oh, the corporate execs don't know what the hell that they're doing, or they think bodybuilding is too gross or too sexually explicit. And that to be clear, I don't know what went into the story of that. That might've been the case, but also two things were very apparent. He actually knew how to do a clean and jerk was the first thing I noticed that it was very competent. And I really don't think there were probably any bodybuilders competing as early as the sixties. When I think he did his first show, seventies and eighties who hadn't entered a weightlifting meet, right? Or, or, or an odd lift meet or something like that. I think Arnold, if you look at his history, he'd done like 10 dozens of them, you know, it was just weightlifting, powerlifting, just downlifting. It's just part of it, right? It's part of the thing. And it really was this cultural revolution. The idea of just doing bodybuilding, not having athletic points, separating it. Um, I think, you know, people just don't realize, like, another really thing, interesting thing, like NPC, the national physique committee, it's an odd name, right? It was literally the subcommittee in the AAU underneath strength sports for physique sports, because it was seen as one spoke on the wheel of it. And that name is retained today. So like, I think it's easier for us now to look at this post by Frank Zane and be like, Oh, if you want to improve your silhouette and have a, you know, this, this kind of aesthetic physique, you need to train the peripheral muscles, like your forearms, your calves, and, you know, don't let your waist get thick. And he's talking about things that, that makes sense from kind of that aesthetic lens. And then we co-opt him into what we think is the modern conception of that classical aesthetic physique. But, um, I tell you what, as someone who's a historian, I'm looking at these things when I see like, Oh, classic physique, and you have to hit like the side chest a certain way, or you have to open your hand on the back door by something like, what are we doing here? This isn't classic. Like, this is just like, this is what it's like, what we currently think of as classic, right? So becoming exposed to just a little bit of history, it can help you better understand what came before and contextualize those experience. And I just don't think most people would guess that there's probably a weightlifting meet out there where Frank Zane was clean and jerking, probably close to 1.2, 1.3, 1.5 times his body weight, right? Like that was a good looking clean and jerk. I don't think there were real plates. I don't think he was like, this is what I'm going to do, but you just don't get to be a competitive bodybuilder at a high level in the sixties and seventies without doing weightlifting. It's, it's just, it was part of the way that he was brought up and you can see it in that ironically, beer marketing. Yeah, exactly. So who among us has not been on a weightlifting platform? You're like, this would be much better if I was hammered. Perhaps blue ribbon. I know. I know my coach when I trained with Olympic weightlifting thought that. At least he had it after. It was a post-workout, uh, imbibing. So. But you know, if you look at like Tom Platz, you know, like the quintessential, the quintessential, like mass monster, let's say from the waist down. Um, but that sounds far too sexual. The quad father, where did he learn to back squat? Yeah. Olympic weightlifting. That's right. And he's, he's very clear on that. And that's why it is interesting. We look at, so the kind of modern fitness industry has been around 200 years, but the specialization era has been kind of like the eighties to now. And really you would say it's intensified massively from the two thousands to now because more spaces have opened up for powerlifting, you no longer. And I say this was so much low for earlier, but powerlifters, you no longer have to be a motorcycle driving hell's angel. Like, you know what I mean? Like, you know what I mean? Like, full fast over heavy weights, uh, multiply after. Yeah, exactly. You no longer have to be that. Like even the Olympic weightlifters, you no longer have to like dig an early grave for yourself. Cause you're doing the Bulgarian system, you know, like on the, the bodybuilders, you no longer have to do weightlifting and powerlifting or, you know, or general, just training with machines. Cause there's no bodybuilding clubs nearby, or there's no access to bodybuilding and there's no bodybuilder in your town. So even that has been like a leap, like a really significant leap in that specialization period, but it's still all filtered through all of these different, you know, eras and pathways. And I think sometimes that's where it is just fascinating to take stock. And we've talked about, you know, your own career in the last year where you're like, I needed to stop and take stock. How difficult it is to do that. Yeah. And certainly if you're looking at your, even just a sporting context, like even natural bodybuilding. And you talk about the people being like, oh, they're shredded now and it doesn't look as good as 10 years ago. I was like, but why are they shredded? Yep. Because the sporting standards have changed. Equipment, exercise, information has changed. It's a sport. So people are pushing to extremes because that is how you stand out. That's how you get a podium place. And we need to account for that nuance within this because fitness did used to be one thing. Certainly our modern fitness industry is physical culture. You're right, Eric, you would do your Olympic lifts. You would maybe do some power lifts. You would do some bodybuilding. You would maybe train like Tommy Kono, the Olympic weightlifter would do some months in bodybuilding training, some months in Olympic weightlifting. He encouraged other people to do that. He was proficient in all of those different modalities. Whereas now we've gone into one modality. And I think though, because we've gone into one modality, there is a danger in thinking this is the only way or the right way. And I know we've talked about that, but that's where I think it is so fascinating to look at both the 1800s, but the 1900s and the 2000s and just see half naked men and women. Amen. Across multiple. Oh, listen, all the naked men and women in my book are dead now. Hey. So it would, if you're into dead. Long not to study them. Yeah. Dead naked people. Then you have a, you under the market, Connor. Tell you what? Um, no, no, no. But in all seriousness, I think in many ways, this book is kind of at the heart of the mission statement of iron culture, kind of uniting the tribes, understanding the different places. And it's not the elimination of the tribes, right? It's the uniting of the tribes because we're acknowledging that specialization is necessary and it's an evolution that is not necessarily a step back. If your values are one, ones that are a little more holistic or you don't, or you want to draw the line in the sand differently for where, where health or performance are, that is all good. And, but, but I think to your point, Connor, it's like right now, we don't have people who are specializing, uh, by choice. And then they have kind of like the Renaissance man or woman or person view of all of the options and where they came from. They just get exposed to one style and they also co-opt whether they realize it or not, the limiting beliefs and the lack of creativity and approaches that come from that community. So you're closing off training, uh, nutrition and lifestyle approaches by being hyper-specialized without that fundamental underlying knowledge. And it was something that I'm really grateful for that I've been exposed to so many different things and became a student of the sport because I make progress faster because I'm more open-minded to trying certain things because I'm not buying into certain dogmatic beliefs that are purely from one subculture like hit and bodybuilding or the Bulgarian system and weightlifting or, um, you're benching with, with your lats and powerlifting because you're focused on, you know, the, the, the multiply limitations of bench press or, or, you know, high frequency is training a muscle group twice per week. And hold on, do we have to view it as, as, as a muscle group? And what about all these weightlifters are like, what I trained this morning, you know? So, so I think all of these things are, are consequences we don't really recognize and that we've talked about on iron culture. But if you want to see like, how do we get here and how do you have that perspective of being the Renaissance person while also deciding to specialize? Cause that's just what you're going to do in the modern era to, at least to some degree. And that's just also going, well, I like this aspect of fitness more. I think your book again, when fitness, when global, the rise of physical culture in the 19th century is a excellent way to kind of start that journey and get an overview and understand not just cool stories of what it was like, but how did we get here? Which I think is a really important conceptualization. So, and I think you've done a really good service, not only to the lifting community, but I would say if you enjoy iron culture and you like listening to us talk about this and you are literate, but there's at least a 30% chance if you're someone who follows Connor and I, then you will I've loved the latest OECD. Yeah, yeah, exactly. You will probably really enjoy this book or is it available as an audio book, Connor? Not yet. My dulcet Irish tones remain solely for the cult. Well, you can have almost anything read by AI quite well. So I would advise you to ask an AI app to read in a lovely Irish accent to you when fitness went global. No, no, no, Christopher Walken. I'm good with, so when fitness went global. Yeah, no, that's perfect. No, I like that. Yeah. I knew you had that one in the back pocket, just ready to go. Always. You gotta have the, the Christopher Walken impression in the back pocket. Or even though. Like a real person. Come on. Get that there. Okay. Yeah. So singing the praises of when fitness went global. Uh, I definitely encourage everyone to check it out. Um, Connor has not yet sent me a copy and I'm not a good enough friend to actually purchase it and support him. So I haven't read it yet, but I know he wrote it and I have read his other books. So I will say I, I, I can guarantee you based upon no evidence whatsoever, but his historical track record that it's going to be awesome. Um, but in all seriousness, I actually would love to, to read this in a new year. I need a, uh, a new book. I'm just coming to the end of a fiction book I'm reading and I, I could, I could do me some good physical culture history, but I encourage everyone to check it out. Um, and, uh, and yeah, do a little learning this holiday season. Yeah. Yeah. But buy it for someone you like, buy it for someone you have. Just read the history. Be curious. I just want the world to be curious, Eric. I'm right there with, be curious. I'm right there with, just ask questions and read. I don't care what the questions are anymore. Yes. I'm just asking questions. I mean, a lot of people said, please. Please. Yes. Yep. Connor. No, this has been an awesome discussion. Um, congratulations on the book. Um, anything else that you, you want to say before we, uh, we, we, we sign off and, and get back to our lives, you in the evening and me in the morning. Before I go and sleep about the stones that I left it today, just to encourage people to engage in history in any way. Sure. This isn't even about my book anymore, but just there's iron, uh, there's the strongmanproject.com strongmanproject.com by the Stark center. It's a free online archive where you can learn the history of individual people and get access to. A wasn't of workouts, diet stories. I'll just type in, in search for our bodybuilding strongmanproject.com is wonderful. The Stark center, UT, Texas has early runs of strength magazine. The first modern strength magazine that you can access on your phone online. You have iron game history. You have the tight tan slacks of Dan. If you type in the tight tan slacks of Sushka, I think it is. Yeah. It'll come up. And there's like 20 years of free articles from decades ago. Like literally the world is your oyster. You have rogue fitness documentaries. You have my own website, physical culture study. God, you just saw. Or how long is it going to take him to say physical culture study? At least you said it. You have Marcus of Barbell Films. You have Golden Era Bookworm. There's so much history out there in so many formats. You have podcasts, you have videos. And I say at the end, it doesn't matter if you're going to be a PT, expert scientist, sports scientist, an athlete, whatever the case may be. You know, just training by yourself. A little bit of history and a little bit of curiosity will improve you. It will improve the training that you're doing, the way you think about training, the way you interact with other people, if you apply it in a spirit of generosity. So please, for the love of God and all things holy, the old gods and the new, be curious. I think that is a fantastic final message. So Iron Cult, be curious. But there's one thing you should not be curious about and whether or not this was a monster episode, whether it deserves five stars. The answer is yes. And of course, will we be back next week? The answer is also yes. So I hope you've enjoyed this episode of Iron Culture. Please head over if you want to support the show to massresearcheru.com, where yeah, sometimes we even go into a little bit of history and we often intertwine it in the articles we write, especially if they're my articles, because it's really good to contextualize things. And then finally, I would say, hey, if you need some equipment that will last the test of time, that will be with you in new eras of history, head over to Lead FTS and use our code MRR10. And thank you so much for listening. And we will catch you next week in the next episode.

=== FILE: Ep 365 - The Science Behind Toxic Online Fitness Culture [TxzCbDE4KX0].txt ===

 naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,believably, naringin,andonandon, naringin, with uh with connor heffernan and also you know the the revived stronger man himself you know steve hall and i just wonder do i need to send them applications or announce expression of interest for an alternative post because they they both have a lot of experience hosting generally having me on you know like connor is technically uh a bit of a host you know he's in the the forthcoming iron culture documentary you are not i i just want to know are you are you still about that life uh i am indeed and the fact that they have been on the show gives me a lot of confidence they will not wish to uh host it i think usually people have a pretty unpleasant experience when it's just one on one with helms so i feel pretty confident pretty safe with my placement here uh as committed as ever to the culture but uh as we know from time to time sometimes you just have to uh you know put your toes in the sand get a little uh cocktail beverage with some fruit in it a little umbrella sticking out of it and uh actually i don't even really remember why i was gone um nothing interesting or exciting happened i did not have a tropical beach vacation but nonetheless i am back and it is unseasonably cold where i live so it is a a double whammy of reality crushing me in the face uh first touche well played um i was hopeful that maybe you had actually taken a vacation but knowing both you and myself that probably didn't happen in fact someone asked me recently about the vacation i took for my wife and i's 20th anniversary and they're like oh that was great how often you guys get away and i was like oh we did for our 10th anniversary and yeah they were like so a decade ago was the last time you took a vacation that was just a vacation for vacation's sake not tacking on a couple days after a conference or oh you got some data collection over here babe well let's let's also go to paris first you know for a day so no i get it um and in all seriousness it's good to be back it's glad to have you back and i'm really excited for uh 2026 man oh yeah big year ahead um although we have to we are probably approaching that limit where you can't talk about the new year anymore it's february 9th so i think this is probably it for us so this is the last time we'll acknowledge what year it is until we get to uh probably thanksgiving and we'll start to say hey 2026 you know whatever you were going to do you better wrap it up okay so uh but but we are here squarely in the new year and ready for uh another big push now before helms we get into anything related to uh our 2026 offering of materials first we have to give a big shout out to our dear friends elite fts elite fts.com your place to go if you need any gym gear if you need any gym apparel uh high high high quality stuff i use it myself i've been using it since approximately like 2010 ish 2011 ish and the problem is you buy a pair of straps they last forever and you'll never come back which uh we need to talk to dave that's not a smart uh business model um but uh i can vouch for the durability for sure so if you go to elite fts.com you use our code mrr10 you will get a 10 discount off most things in the store uh now if you want to support us in addition to our friends and i mean support is not a zero-sum game you can dole out as much as you wish uh you can support us in many ways you could all you certainly always like rate subscribe and review the show on youtube on whatever podcast platform you happen to utilize that's always a good idea you definitely want to do that um in addition uh you could uh what else could they do helms they could certainly check out the mass research review i mean that's the best thing you could do head over to mass research review dot com and check out our offerings there we've been the mass research review is established in 2017 never missed an issue never been late on an issue every single month at first of the month in your inbox whether you like viewing it on the app whether you like viewing it on web whether you like viewing it as a pdf that you can even print and bind which people have done i have interacted with actual pages of the mass research review every month a huge update usually 80 90 100 pages worth of really solid practical information about the newest research and exercise nutrition health fitness and all adjacent topics helms what am i missing anything else we need to uh promote yeah do you like it in espanol we got that too you know and that's actually uh a lot of people are telling me that that is actually their approach to linguistic immersion is that instead of like taking a semester abroad and living in madrid they are just hammering their way through every issue of spanish mass as a person who doesn't speak spanish which honestly no one's doing that i i i'm gonna come clean i made that up i've never heard of a person doing that but honestly it'd be really cool if somebody did uh it would it's probably the worst way you could possibly learn a language but maybe you needed that piece of motivation to help you learn spanish wouldn't you feel so much more accomplished if you read through the mass catalog in spanish as your cherry on top of learning this new language no i i think it's a great way to go and um on top of that i'll just say from a personally uh very selfish financial perspective uh muscle strength pyramids which did come out at the end of last year we have now got our italian spanish chinese translators on board they are currently working on uh the next iteration of the muscle strength pyramid so those are probably going to get launched this year 2026 so for those who are interested in getting rid of duolingo and learning spanish via mass and the pyramids as well as italian and potentially chinese um we have the worst method of learning a language but the best translations of our work into those languages if i'm going to be just as honest as trex was beautiful we're all about honesty um it's okay if you lie first as long as you come clean in the same breath you know i don't there's a certain like statute of limitations there if you lie and then immediately come clean i think it's basically as good as telling the truth so um helms we have a beautiful show lined up and this is a a rare essentially like a bit of a continuation or you know kind of uh yeah i'm trying to think of the way to phrase it here but but we are going to approach topics that you discussed on the last episode with steve hall uh and then we are going to take a deep dive into the literature on that topic so if you want to go ahead and set the stage and this will be helpful because i'm sure there's going to be some people who have not yet listened to the last episode um so we can uh give people an idea of what that's all about and then dive into the fresh fresh material absolutely so for those who missed our crossover episode uh which is still a podcast name that is being workshopped whether that is uh iron iron stronger uh revive culture some combination thereof um all of the above whatever you choose the other's choice some kind of we can make some kind of like revival cult um but then it'll sound like an even more serious cult and we might start getting on some uh lists of intelligence agencies we're probably already there based upon some of the comments i've made in the current administration and if not we are now because of what i just said about the current administration and here we go we're going to get more comments about helms getting all political so well we had a whole episode where we lambasted the new dietary guidelines for americans so if you know i don't think we did though i i think uh we lambasted the way they were communicated but like we we said like the protein is solid like that that's a neutral to positive change the alcohol is actually as written better than it used to be although as as rolled out kind of a flub but that was a press conference flub right so i i personally don't think it was particularly uh divisive uh in terms of the political element i took shots at the second committee and and yes lack of transparency and i mean this is a administration that's forming second committees to talk about fruits and vegetables what's to stop them from forming additional arms of the federal government to stop podcasters from saying the things that need to be said i'm going to keep speaking truth to power but i know we're going to get shut down and that's just what it is um if you see me get pulled off camera it's probably because they sent the new enforcement arm of the second committee for the dietary guidelines from america to new zealand and actually started a world war uh across the uh the the world with oceania so yeah i'm fortunate that's happening but we're not going to stop yeah it it always reminds me like when you hear people say when they're arguing in good faith and they're like you know it's a really slippery slope and it's like you know you just quoted a logical fallacy in your defense of your logic but in your case homes that slippery slope seems very enticing and i'm sure it's probably gonna gonna come to fruition 100 so anyway in that episode with with steve we started with congratulating each other for about 30 minutes uh and then we had a really self-indulgent dive into my history um where i actually did talk a bit about um neurodivergence and my uh personal experiences uh and where i am at and i'm actually still the cusp of a potential diagnosis there and i decided to disclose that because i think it it's important to understand what um what we see in as coaches and as athletes sometimes in strength sport uh and in physique sport because i think there is probably an over-representation of certain types of brains if you will uh if you like the monotony of power lifting or if you really really crave the structure of bodybuilding or the nutritional side of it um but also we got into how there are elements of special interests and hyper focus and some of these traits that can cross-pollinate across some various different types of um you know neurodiversity and one of the things that i talked about was how naive i was when i first got into the the quote-unquote social media game as a science communicator and how some of the gen one uh science communicators i found had some like a higher seemingly an over-representation of narcissistic traits and how their egos sometimes took a front seat to perhaps uh altruism and their desire to actually you know educate people um and how it can be very depressing to see how things go online and i talked about how important it is to not let your heroes become gurus and steve specifically asked me like how do you deal with it when people put you up on a pedestal and treat you like you're infallible and we had a good chat about that and i talked about how the the visible falls from grace that have i mean we can think of some that are happening right now but frankly i've been in the game long enough it's just uh it's just like A-50 roll of the dice likelihood outcome for anyone who is online perpetually and popular even if they're evidence based yet they're gonna prove themselves to be who they've been the whole time and they happen to be a pretty shitty person and i think that can really make people think that the fitness industry as a whole is a really really terrible place but i do think online is a really oddly skewed representation of who that is because you hang out with a bunch of personal trainers if you hang out at a gym just with a bunch of people if you hang out in the bodybuilding community the powerlifting community um they are overwhelmingly positive places full of people who are trying to do good work and are living their passions and trying to help other people live healthier happier lives i mean if you think about it like you decided that you wanted to make exercise and health and nutrition your profession so why is it the online space seems terrible maybe it has a little more to do with the online side of things than it being evidence-based or fitness or anything like that and you know i shared how that naivete really surprised me and my recommendation to people was to be like hey don't put anyone too far up on a pedestal because you can get the sense of it poisoning the well and we've seen this lash back where because of the content or the type of person and their fall from grace it's negatively impacted kind of what they represent what they're an avatar for which in my mind is an indication that we don't have our focus in the right spot it's great you know to have you know respect for someone like a carl sagan or a neil degrasse tyson uh or or any of the the science communicators that are much bigger than us in our little corner of the world but it would be a less than ideal if one of them had a big public fall from grace and many of these folks have and you go man you know what i hate now astronomy like i think it's it you you can see how how that how that can go but that has been an unfortunate consequence is that the fall from grace of some of these people or their actions in their personal lives or their public persona um or their personal philosophies has negatively impacted essentially it's the science-based approach to doing anything in fitness and that is i think that's not not a good way to think it's understandable it's natural that we kind of elevate people and i think certain types of people lean into that a lot and like it and i think that is natural to some degree and you know it's not like if you like being acknowledged by other people you're automatically a narcissist or a bad person that's just called being human um but there is a distinction and this was all just based upon my lived experience if you will and i did quote a little bit of psychology i talked about how um why react content does well because there's a pretty established psychology psychological research that when you critique someone else even if you give the same objective information you're rated as more intelligent i talked about the difference between critical thinking emotional intelligence and iq as elements of intelligence but what i didn't do was oh i don't know provide research on what type of people become online content creators and what i didn't do was talk about how being online actually affects you from say a quantitative perspective and what i'm really excited for is to hear about the fact that is it true trex that there is actually research on these topics indeed and helms i think people have probably picked up on this by now but you helms are a person who hates science and so like obviously when you touch on a topic like this you're going to go right from the hip you know just pure vibes science be damned and of course i am going to reign you in and say nope helms without the without the pub med link you are not allowed to have thoughts you're not allowed to have any kind of perspective about the life that you've lived we need to stick just to the pages of pub med and to be fair i think a couple of these studies actually are not even uh indexed in pub med because they're more in the social sciences rather than the health sciences so we'll give those a pass because they have a doi right but uh in any case yeah helms it's it's interesting because uh your conversation with uh steve unbeknownst to me was on this topic while i was also kind of ruminating on this topic and i just went straight to a bunch of meta analyses because i it's one of those things the same things that you are saying and and kind of uh reiterating are the things that struck me intuitively and i was like there has to be some research on this to help us understand basically the exact discrepancy that you highlighted which is that i interact with fitness people and it's lovely i go on the internet and i'm like can we just pull the cord like if i didn't need it to make a living and disseminate research and disseminate uh educational information you would not find me on the internet like i i would be out um and so i was all i've always been interested by that contrast and we're finally at a spot where i think we have not just the studies to look into it but even the meta analyses to to kind of assess why the online space is the way it is and what that means about how we view influencers how we view even the comment section of posts how we let that affect us and how we curate or prune the social media experience that we want to have and this is not sponsored by any major social media company but folks i'm here uh pockets are open as is my inbox but helms let's start out we're going to talk a lot about personality research i think we first need to define what is known as the big five which in in the social sciences when you're doing personality research the big five is kind of the personality uh test that is by far the most common um and has a tremendous amount of research behind it so there are basically five traits and you get scored on these five traits uh number one is openness to experience and that refers to how curious imaginative imaginative and open to new ideas that you are uh another one is conscientiousness which uh responds uh refers to how organized responsible and self-disciplined you are so folks that are very conscientious tend to be reliable goal-oriented good at planning and they follow through they tend to like following the rules and when you tell them to do something they do it the way that they were supposed to um so people who are really conscientious like they're like your kind of model student who's very respectful does what they're supposed to do does it with high attention to detail etc uh extroversion is how energized you feel by social interaction and as a result a lot of people who are extroverted tend to be pretty out there pretty in your face whereas a lot of introverse introverts in many cases uh will kind of keep to themselves a little bit more although there's you know there's caveats always uh agreeableness that's how cooperative and compassionate you are toward others uh neuroticism is the fifth and that refers to that refers to how emotionally reactive and sensitive to stress that you are so someone low on neuroticism tends to be very calm emotionally stable less susceptible to stress someone with higher neuroticism is prone to worry potentially even prone to some mood swings and then will often experience more self-doubt now something that is not necessarily a component of the big five but something that comes up a lot in personality research is narcissism and there are two types of narcissism that you see talked about in the research number one is grandiose narcissism the other is vulnerable narcissism so grandiose narcissism uh is someone someone who has grandiose narcissism tends to be very outwardly confident um very dominant and attention seeking they'll brag about how superior or how great they are and they really don't show self-doubt that's not a level of vulnerability that they will make available to the public so that's grandiose narcissism vulnerable narcissism is very different these are people who are inwardly quite insecure they tend to be a little more shy very defensive very easily hurt they often feel unrecognized or underappreciated and they have a lot of self-doubt shame and anxiety so vulnerable narcissists are not necessarily the people who are way out there in your face telling you how great they are but there are people who have really um heightened sensitivities when they do receive any kind of feedback correction etc trex i think the distinction between narcissism narcissistic traits and types of narcissism and also understanding big five is really important and just for those who are not aware generally when you look at psychology research they will sometimes talk about states and sometimes they will talk about traits and the big five is a construct that specifically talks about personality traits which are generally thought to be pretty stable not immutable though and they can be impacted by things that we would put in the bucket of you know nature versus nurture and but they're pretty reliable over time and when people do have a change in what might be described as a trait it could occur over different stages of life uh or potentially due to pretty large impacts in their life like a head injury or undergoing um pretty you know massive pharmacological intervention or other things like that or it could shift to some degree but within kind of a relatively similar domain like you generally won't see one someone going from entirely agreeable to disagreeable as an example but anyway that was great and and carry on i'm really fascinated by this absolutely yeah so now that we have you know we've talked a little bit about what the big five are we talked about grandiose versus vulnerable narcissism states versus traits i think we're ready to dive into the actual research here um and so we're just going to give kind of brief takeaways from these studies but there's some really fascinating work out there the first study uh the source the study itself is called who wants to be a youtuber personality traits predict the desire to become a social media influencer and i just i want to say on the front end obviously there's no need to paint with too broad a brush here we're looking at general traits that predict whether someone wants to be a youtuber so fitness youtuber especially at the top level there's only a handful of them so i'm not making this content to just like throw an unsubtle jab at the entire collection of them but this research was basically trying to figure out the concept or the hypothesis basically was there's probably some personality traits that predict not necessarily making it big on youtube uh but just who wants to be out there in front of people being in this kind of influencer type position and what they ultimately found that the key points from the study there were three main things that gave people a strong motivation to pursue influencer careers number one was extroversion not surprising uh number two was narcissism uh they did not delineate between uh grandiose versus vulnerable but it was grandiose like for sure uh and then number third was histrionic traits and that's why i feel so confident saying that it was grandiose narcissism uh histrionic trait you know these are people who are everything is grand everything is you know this this huge statement um everything's a spectacle and they are always at the center of it so those are the three things in the study uh that motivated someone to pursue an influencer type career and there was also a negative association helms uh with what would uh compel someone to pursue an influencer career and that was conscientiousness um and so one of the things that was kind of the main point of this paper but one of the things that struck out to me that i'd like to hear your thoughts about is helms if you told me that i needed to produce in a laboratory an excellent scientist i would say i'm going to turn down the extroversion i'm going to turn down the narcissism i'm going to turn down the histrionic traits and i'm going to increase the conscientiousness to me i felt like this was um very striking to me that sometimes especially in our field we have one quibble with that okay and you're welcome to it but i think especially in our field kind of a broader point i do want to hear your quibble but a broader point is we often wish for them to be the same thing like i get my science content from this influencer um and i view them as kind of these fairly overlapping personalities and skill sets um and i get my science from youtube so i want my youtuber to be a good scientist and i would argue that there are probably some less overlapping distributions in terms of the personality types there but helms what is your what is your quibble so it may be it's field specific so we are talking about um human research a lot of the time on people in in fitness so i feel like turning down all of those things and turning up all the others except for introversion extroversion i think would be pretty good but i find uh recruitment keeping participants involved and obviously if you're introverted and highly conscientious a lot of this gets sorted but sometimes you you need to be really on top of communicating with participants in human research um especially if it has elements of well not always actually i i was gonna say mixed methods when you do interviews but actually if you're too extroverted you go back and you listen to your thing you're like wow that was supposed to be an interview but i was sure as hell talking a lot and for that person but anyway i think for i would say for quantitative training studies nutrition studies and when you need to like cast the wide net get a lot of people especially in our field that struggles with participation rates and low end i think extroversion is actually pretty helpful and the last thing i would say is that um in my experience if you are a lower capability in terms of intelligence critical thinking but you are extroverted and don't have a strong ego you're actually more likely to succeed in the phd than if you are introverted but have higher capability because you're more likely to reinvent the wheel you won't ask for help you'll try to do it all yourself you'll suffer in silence and honestly resourcefulness is one thing but if you are and critical thinking is one thing but if you are not willing to go out there expose your ignorance and ask for help um you're much more likely to fail a phd because you're used to the whole journey through the master's degree of much smaller tasks that you can just do on your own and not have to worry about others and all that stuff and you're probably the person who got like burned in high school for those group projects where you ended up doing all the work and you held the bag so i have i identified that very early on as a supervisor when i have introverted highly intelligent students i'm like okay this one's actually at risk even though they could be a top scientist so very minor quibbles like i said but important context just to understand the field and how i will show no those are totally fair and of course we're painting with broad brushes here because everyone's got their own little unique combination of these traits they make them work these are all spectra you fall somewhere in them but um i would say another fair quibble helms is that there's a big difference between being an excellent scientific thinker and a star scientist and i would actually say that the same thing that makes someone a good youtuber probably also makes them a star scientist especially in fields where like legitimate model and theory building is not necessary and it's more just you are a scientist brand yourself as a scientist um and we see a lot of that man like there's a lot of fields where your ability to go and you know be the star of the show and get the you know do the right amount of networking to get on the right lists and the right award things and in the you know the right grant reviews and there's a lot of this that i mean and so that that's um like like you were saying helms the kind of traits you talked about i think not to get on a huge tangent that's not interesting to the audience at all but there's a big difference between succeeding in science and like what i'm referring to which is like a careful scientific thinker so like the extroversion is that does does that help you run studies really well yes but in a lot of fields of science it's not particularly relevant and even at like the high level human trial level you're probably hiring study coordinators and that's something that you're looking for um you know so all all that is to say um i will let me uh let me ask you a question okay where do you see extroversion as a disadvantage and introversion as advantage because i can ask for openness you want to dial it down i no i said when i think of okay so in my mind it not to say that once you reach a certain level of extroversion you can't be a good scientist and in fact i i i conceded i actually think it's a strong trait for your brand building as a scientist and for networking um so i'm not saying that it it precludes you it's just my kind of mental model of the kind of i'm going to retreat and work on you know understanding this theory and kind of huddle up in my little scientific bubble uh it just strikes me as um that that is one archetype of the kind of uh scientist who secludes themselves away to to busy themselves with their work so i'm not saying that it is um that's not the one if you look at the outline helms that is bolded for me it's the narcissism and the histrionic traits that i think are particularly uh antithetical to being a careful communicator of science that's fair and i'm just in defense of my fellow probably more on the extroverted scale not that i am actually an extreme extra right in any means i would just say the conscientiousness measures self-control diligence intention to detail yeah and openness measures you know curiosity and willingness to entertain new ideas extroversion is social interactivity boldness quote-unquote energy i just i just and neuroticism you know can also drive more attention to detail as well because you have a proneness to anxiety and stuff like that so yeah i would just put forth that introversion extroversion is probably neutral as far as yeah to be a scientist independent of yes and again we're talking ability versus eric's little mental model which is biased because he's extremely introverted and i find that when i'm out extroverted no i'm introverted oh sorry when you said eric i didn't know you're referring to no i'm talking to me yeah there's eric and then there's helms uh but uh i always speak in the third person you know this and so when whenever i probably what's coloring my bias here is that when i'm out actually engaging with people i'm thinking in my brain i should be at home working because first of all i'm behind on things and second of all wouldn't that be lovely to be to be home alone uh but anyway so the the big point here is when they look at aspiring influencers uh and say you know the folks who really want to get into this stuff what are some of the key traits that that jump out the big ones that that are kind of circled narcissism histrionic traits and low conscientiousness uh which not not necessarily ideal especially in when it comes to as we said science communication and very careful deliberate even-handed you know the content is in charge not me it's not an ideal mix now uh when we look at um the the idea of social media use this is a different study uh looking at narcissism and social media use there there's been uh research showing a positive link between grandiose narcissism and social media activity and we say activity we mean posting as an activity number of followers as a proxy for activity and frequency of posting selfies as a third kind of branch of activity and so generally speaking uh we see that when we look at the influencers who are kind of holding court in the social media public square again we see a lot of narcissism histrionic traits low conscientiousness when we see a lot of power users who are doing a lot of the engagement that drives algorithmic function as far as i understand i'm no expert in social media algorithms but i've been led to believe that you know engagement uh is really what drives the ship we start to see a lot of grandiose narcissism in terms of what you are you are seeing as the follower viewer passive participant when you open up social media uh there's another study that specifically looked at sharing um i i think they might have include posting as part of sharing they said sharers of content on social media um but but they were looking at traits of posters slash sharers and they were specifically looking at those big five traits um they found that um agreeableness and conscientiousness were actually negatively associated with sharing behavior so um understandably you know extroversion was positively correlated with sharing and engagement so that makes sense even in the digital space extroverts are just a little bit more out there more of a poster than a lurker um but but the the thing that was really interesting to me was when we look at things that were negatively associated with sharing again the two that stuck out were agreeableness and conscientiousness and so um one one one thing that that obviously um is not great about that is when you are opening up social media you are finding a lot of engagement being driven by people who are by by based on their personality traits very unlikely to be agreeable in nature and so like a lot of people they get really you know they turn they turn against social media because they're like i feel like everything is a big fight um and so that that may not necessarily just be your your personal curated algorithm uh it may not be that you're hypersensitive to it it does seem to be that you have a lot of uh extroverted disagreeable people who are kind of power users on social media who are are kind of hashing it out um and kind of fighting through things um and then again conscientiousness ideally especially when we are talking about um a when we're talking about a field where generally in health and fitness science communication we're really hoping that people are very deliberate and organized with their argument and kind of you know very very thoughtful about getting it right um and being detailed and unbiased and uh you know a fairly um uh you know we we want their posts to be really like buttoned up and communicate things effectively and so we we kind of have this uh negative combination in my opinion of low agreeableness low conscientiousness being the power posters um which is not exactly ideal ideal for cultivating a pleasant and rigorously accurate kind of environment of content and then the final piece of research i want to mention here is that there is some research looking at how social media use can temporarily actually change your personality states so like you like you brought up helms the difference between a trait and a state so states are things that are much more malleable in the short term uh so there's a study that looked at how uh instagram specifically how using it uh impacted acute measures of the big five personality traits um in addition to another metric that i'll talk about um but the key finding that they identified there are two things that stuck out in terms of the big five they found that people who spent more time on instagram had um acutely had higher neuroticism states immediately after they were put on the platform and they also mentioned that these individuals had a higher need for uniqueness um and so that's not a big five trait but it's really interesting i i ended up doing a lot of googling and i was like kind of getting to the bottom of what are the what would be the consequences of this kind of combined duo of heightened narcissism uh neuroticism excuse me and also height heightened need for uniqueness and it sounds like it kind of puts you into this kind of double whammy situation where because of the heightened neuroticism you are yeah neuroticism you're likely to feel a lot more insecurity and because of that increase what they call need for uniqueness generally that that tends to make you more motivated to differentiate yourself and so one of the things that comes up a lot when people talk about social media is performative behavior and what you tend to find is when you have a higher need for uniqueness you have two things that result from that number one really hot takes that go against the grain and tend to be extremely disagreeable and often controversial and number two a lot of performative behavior where it's not enough to be different you feel an increased desire to signal to everyone that you are not in the mainstream on this you have a unique take and so when we talk about really high polarization in social media spaces it's like you you have this hyper anxious state that you're entering when you're on it and you say okay i need to differentiate myself and and ultimately there's a lot of there's a lot going on that might make you more inclined to make a really hot take that is particularly controversial particularly disagreeable and then you have you double down on the strength of it to differentiate yourself and say this is my thing i'm way out here in this camp and you're in the middle with all the normies and that's really not good for you and so there's a lot of this othering after someone kind of performs a particular camp that they find themselves in so helms that is my like ultra quick rundown of some of the research that i've been uh ruminating in and steeping in and so i'm a little bit um curious as to does that general milieu of when we look at influencers power posters and gauges and then the use uh what happens to users when they kind of log in does that seem to match your experience of many of the frustrations or pain points with social media a hundred percent and you probably saw some of my facial expressions and responses you were talking about this and it was like god that makes so much sense um you know the interesting thing is it also i felt very like i don't know if seen is the right word but i'm like that's why i have this love hate relationship with social media not because i have to do it because of my i mean yes we both have to engage with it because we have decided to be science communicators and not engaging with social media and calling yourself a science communicator is like saying i'm a race car driver oh well i'm not going to get a driver's license or get in a car i just like the theoretical idea of driving cars and i study racetracks or whatever you know yeah so um when i look at i don't think i've actually taken the big five but i've taken a tci which has it's another personality inventory has a lot of um crossover and and they're both pretty highly reliable and valid for measuring personality traits and i think if i remember what i got on the tci and how they overlap i am reasonably high in extroversion uh very high in agreeableness and also quite high in conscientiousness and very high in openness so like i'm on social media and then i hate it you know like yeah like would you would you think about like all all those things so it's no it doesn't surprise me at all but it is very much like oh like i i see the puzzle pieces fitting so no i think that was a really awesome summary and i'm sure there was a few people just laughing at what their experiences are and i hope i hope some people understand the implications of what this mean is that we're not getting an unbiased representation of the supposed community that the online fitness space represents absolutely and you know one of the things that got me really fascinated by like one of the reasons i started digging into this research and as you can probably tell dear listener i mean this is a work in progress i'm just kind of bathing in this work and like i'm still ruminating on how to fit all the pieces together fully but um i reached a point where i realized like the last like three times that someone had like that i'd gotten a big influx of like comments to me or like like dms of like hey what do you think about this had literally zero to do with science fitness lifting exercising nutrition it was pure personalities it was what do you think about this influencer who did this and it's all over the place and it started to make me think like my answer to all three of them was you know well that's not true my answers varied depending on the severity of the misdeed and the headlines and things like that but it made me really kind of realize for a second like so much of the online fitness industry discourse has nothing to do with fitness like fitness is just kind of a backdrop upon which we engage in this kind of like narcissistic celebrity character promotion versus character assassination versus you know it there's a lot of character driven uh story building here and not a whole lot of plot if you start to just kind of do a superficial scan of what's going on out there and then when you you dive into the little corners where people actually are talking about i don't know know lifting you know evidence related to lifting or nutrition you start to see um a lot of really antagonistic back and forth where you're like oh this is not my experience when i talk to people in real life about lifting and you know when we're talking shop and you start to think through okay well this whole like character driven story instead of plot driven story it's because we have a lot of grandiose narcissists who are kind of called holding court and running the show and then on the periphery of it we have the power posters who tend to be very very low on agreeableness who are really really interested in arguing with everybody um the conscientiousness isn't low which is why you're looking at a lot of the arguments that go together and you're like this is what is even happening here this is kind of a mess um and so another thing that that didn't come up a lot is we're not seeing a whole lot of openness in the power sharers or the posters or the influencers and so we have a lot of disagreeable folks who are very much about them not about the information who are dug in on their talking points and they they will fight it to the death not as a chore but because they love it like they really do enjoy it so um my my big takeaway here for people is when you go on the internet and you're just like this seems terrible i have less faith in humanity i'm having a very bad time and if this is fitness i don't know if i even like it i want to just reassure everybody that what you are looking at is such a weird little distorted not even a snapshot it's a fabrication built upon the concept of fitness you are getting this very very tiny subset of individuals who are not remotely representative of fitness who are absolutely dominating the discourse and because of their personality traits they are engaging in all of the rage and anger and divisiveness that ultimately drives engagement which drives algorithmic selection as far as i can tell and so it's not just a top-down thing it's a top-level narcissism middle-level disagreeableness and you know zealous enthusiasm about arguing and fighting and then algorithmic layers that find all that arguing and fighting and say oh my god that picture has 700 comments clearly this is what the people want so you are really um marinating in a stew of really unfavorable personality trait driven stuff which is also tapping into temporary changes in your states when you know your personality states when you are actually on social media and it's creating that perfect storm which helms i'm sure you felt this there have been days where i open up social media for the first time it's been like four minutes and i'm just like nope not today i shut it i'm like i need to take a shower that was all a mess i i'm rethinking my entire life um and so when you are on the internet helms let me know if you agree with it with my conclusions here but my plea to listeners is number one when we look at this information when you're evaluating the influencers you follow and your sources of information this is a place helms we talk about this all the time with uh interpreting science where we say to be skeptical not cynical this is the one spot where i think tiptoeing up to that line of cynicism actually kind of makes sense and the reason i say that is if you're not careful like if you don't really ramp up your skepticism close to that line you will get got by by influencers who are listen narcissism is a trait it's a spectrum right we all got a bit of it to some extent but there are some like pathological narcissists who get on the internet they cultivate these very performative personalities they lean into that they try to nurture these parasocial friendships by which you worship them and then they absolutely prey on that and we've seen at least one cancellation in the last couple weeks that fits that to an absolute t and so i this is one of those the helms let me know how much you disagree but i actually think flirting with that line of cynicism when you're really trying to assess somebody and being like am i going to put a meaningful amount of trust in them and invest in this one-way parasocial relationship that's a case where i think a little bit of cynicism actually might even be warranted so i agree with nuance who knew right yeah um and this is obviously my conscientiousness trait shining through um first off it is not in your heart of hearts where you're actually thinking and where your suspicions and your concerns are and maybe where your guard is up a bad thing to have a default setting that you could describe as cynical of if i am interacting with an online personality or someone we would describe as an influencer or a prolific poster i think there's a difference between having an online presence and someone being perpetually online as well um like i think we can both see the primary social media strategy that trex has is hitting accept on collaborations and repost when he's in stories and i am definitely more than that but if you look at the if you look at the proportion of the posts on my feed which are collaborations it's pretty high you know some of that is just time like you cannot be the co-director of a research institute have phd students be training as much as i do and all the things i do and be online but it also shows you where my priorities are like how much time do i want to be spent seen and also what do i share online um people have rarely seen my wife or my cats uh even though they've seen my naked body a lot but honestly if i decided that the flavor of iron game i liked was power lifting it would almost be never right anyway so the default setting nothing wrong with being a little cynical and assuming this is probably not a good person but i do think the best way to get to the truth and to ensure that everyone not just the person interacting with i've talked about this before gets there is still operating with the principle of charity so think inside this person is potentially a narcissist maybe even probably if they have a huge following and are perpetually online and it does always seem to be about them even if they're evidence-based because they are absolutely not mutually exclusive that's what the young naive eric helms learned um and still operate from a place with the principle of charity even if you don't even necessarily believe yourself because that ultimately steel manning things is how you build critical thinking yeah and you mentioned tiptoeing up the line of cynicism i will just make the final conscientious distinction um that is maybe perhaps a little disagreeable that cynicism and skepticism are not a spectrum but they are actually two different things and now i have so elaborate on that how would you yeah so skepticism is much more directed towards ideas this is your disposition towards uh i towards towards ideas right and how you think while cynicism is how you parse information through the lens of the person telling it and that you will have a preference or even a disposition towards um devaluing information or valuing information based upon who says it and you tend to go with a more of a knee-jerk impulsive way of thinking and that's actually more critical critical thinking or low critical thinking i should say which co-varies with cynicism so you're that i guess cynicism you're more likely to go this person's an idiot so anything they've said is wrong regards to who else says it yeah right um i think being cynical about someone's intentions um and maybe how altruistic they are just needs to be separated from how do i address the claims they make yes you can be skeptical about and be agnostic about their the person they are and struggle with that as society right like how do i separate the music from the artist or the content from the influencer etc yeah so it's yeah variably i will just say this is a point of contention that often happens when we see a quote-unquote evidence-based influencer have a fall from grace uh due to some type of ethical controversy or them displaying themselves to have views political or otherwise or just be a shitty person and then you you're like well what do i do with this because maybe some of their content was factually correct or helpful but i really wish they didn't exist or i don't want to follow them or i don't want to support them and you see a lot of tension in our community like that less of an issue when people are just selling fit teas and like like nobody cares about you know some of the the more egregious content out there because it was bad from the start and it's like oh now their their personality actually seems to match their content it's shitty in both cases so anyway yeah no so yeah in an ideal world i think you you would you know when when exploring ideas or assessing ideas you'd have a relatively stable and relatively high level of skepticism through which you're kind of viewing uh and critically assessing content um but when it comes to i think for this you know when it comes to discussions of social media there there's definitely two routes people go right one is you're going to follow me because i am your friend i'm a source of stability in your life it makes you feel warm and tingly to enjoy my content you believe that we have this parasocial relationship that i nurture and then other folks are out there who are like hey there's a new meta analysis on reps to reps in reserve and how close to failure you should get right like they're very very different branches and what i'm speaking to more is um just to be wary of where you place your emotional trust on the internet uh because it seems to me especially in the last couple weeks there are a lot of people who even more than they acutely noticed they they were really kind of emotionally out on a ledge um in some vulnerable kind of like like i've seen a lot of people who seem to feel really really just sad and let down when a person has that fall from get from grace and so my big thing is kind of helping people see that like you should not to be like again like ultra cynical but like if we're just going to play the numbers and you decide to be like a devoted emotionally involved follower of a hundred of individuals who fall in this camp like a massive proportion of them are going to let you down and so it's better to know that on the front end and kind of have your guard up a little bit um just so that you can be a more savvy online person a person who uses the internet in a way that's a little bit more informed with knowledge of what kind of personality types are drawn to trying to produce and cultivate and foster those types of parasocial relationships um now uh i think we covered some of the big stuff right which is you know keep your guard up a little bit before you get too emotionally attached to an influencer knowing what we know try not to get too um dejected about the state of fitness based on the online discourse because knowing what we know based on this research it is not remotely reminiscent of what fitness actually looks like in practice it is this weird like i said a a fabrication built upon the premise of fitness that that all these arguments are happening and there's so much negativity um have faith that the actual fitness community out there is actually like very supportive and very cool and you may have to think about how to go out and find that and it may be in person it may be in i mean back in the day forums were not perfect but they were a lot better than what we have now uh so maybe a return to the forum structure would be a lot of fun but um i think it's worth thinking um above all else thinking very critically about where you get your information from where you place your trust online what your expectations are for for how that trust is placed and then finally my biggest point is encouraging people to cultivate their social media life very deliberately um i think it's kind of um i don't think it's very helpful to say like you should do less or do more or be you know go cold turkey and just abstain from social media it is reasonably woven into the fabric of life at this point to some extent and so rather than taking an absolute stance of being like hey you should fully abstain or be like chronically pathologically online um the other approach is to cultivate and kind of prune your social media experience very deliberately and so like it's weird i've seen a lot of people who are arguing online big surprise it makes it into my algorithm and they treat like blocking or muting accounts as if it's some kind of emotionally fragile thing to do like like it is almost a a negative stain on your reputation if you have blocked people first of all i think that's insane i think that's completely silly and nonsensical the block on social media is your tool to say when i see all this incessant nonsense that makes me feel worse after viewing it i don't have to subject myself to that and i don't care what your algorithm thinks i choose what's going to be here and if you commit to actually taking proactive steps towards saying this account is just a magnet for negativity i don't want it this account this person is just an absolutely insufferable narcissist and i'm not interested this person is performing empathy to cultivate what is essentially a cult of personality so they can sell t-shirts i don't want to see that because i that lack that lack of sincerity and ingenuine behavior drives me nuts you have the power to do that and frankly i think it's actually a very noble thing when someone says even though i know what happens to my my personality states or what happens to the average person's personality states i'm going to try to kind of buffer some level of stoicism put on the hazmat suit get into my social media feed and say not today satan i i'm blocking this i'm not going to let this bother me today i i just think that people will have a much better time and helms find their way to better information if there's a big account that's clouding up your your feed or your home page or whatever platform you're on and you're just like this gets shared by everybody it's all over the place the algorithm clearly favors it i get nothing out of this and i wish i got more of the good stuff that alone is a reason to actually block an account and to say anything to do with this creator it's never good it's never interesting it's never about even if you don't hate them even if you're just like i just find them boring and completely unhelpful block them it will put you on a track toward actually getting the stuff you want so helms i think that's kind of my biggest takeaway is not to produce the next generation of hyper cynical haters it's not to falsely assert that there's some spectrum containing both skepticism and cynicism as uh two steps uh stops on a same spectrum it's not to uh try to shame you for being an extrovert because absolutely extroversion is a wonderful flavor of personality it's one i don't personally possess but i i want to be very clear that extroversion is not a negative personality trait nor does it preclude someone from being a great scientist in many cases helps them be a better scientist in practice but that's all of my uh all of my caveats and clarifications and apologies and also my my key takeaway i think that was an excellent summary and as an extroverted narcissist i of course took it personally uh when you dared suggest that a good scientist would want to turn down that trait so no no we're good now because i am at the center of all things uh no in all seriousness i think you did a really good job with that and i think as much of this is kind of like an indictment of most of the online space that we interact with honestly not just in the fitness field this is across anything right um i think it's also probably a a hopeful reminder to people would you agree with that trex like hey this is this is not representative oh yeah yeah yeah yeah i and i also i would i would just also totally big up you and say being willing to block people i think is really really important um the part of me that has openness and also could be perceived because i'm an online science communicator that when i block someone that can be used against me to say i'm not willing to have open dialogue that does create some tension for me um like there was a specific uh researcher who i think scores probably pretty low on agreeableness but does argue in good faith but i felt misrepresented by the person uh and i i i restricted them i didn't even block and they noticed it and then publicly posted about it immediately and then tried to frame it as i am an unwilling to uh just disgusting and i had to okay now i've got to contact this person unrestrict them but ultimately i just needed to reduce that emotional stress so that i could focus on doing my job and engage with people who were probably a little higher on the agreeableness and open conversations because constantly responding to my phone in the kind of obsessive way that i tend to because i need to finish tasks before i can let go of them with my own brand of brain uh wasn't working well but i'm not allowed to because it makes me look like i am not actually practicing what i preach so it is there's there's tension there if you are trying to be online and actually engage with people versus just kind of post and forget it which i trend towards just for my own sanity because if i post and engage knowing that i'm going to be engaging with people who are high disagreeable even when they're like good folks because that's i think that's a really common thing too it's like um there are plenty of grandiose narcissists online but there are also plenty of frankly good people who are just disagreeable yeah like they like debating they want like they want to figure out what the holes in your argument are and those people are awesome in small doses at the right times and if you're not an obsessive personality yourself who has to go down the rabbit hole with them and i get very frustrated when i feel like against my will i'm being pulled into a huge time suck and i'm like okay you're disagreeable and you have far more time on your hands than i do and you're not really respecting what you're asking me to do implicitly and i think that creates some tension for me i don't know if you've ever experienced that yeah no i mean and and that's the thing is that um my whole thing is like being open means in my view in this context we're talking about means being open to ideas right yes it does not mean my front door is open and you get to come take a shit in my living room and i have to deal with it and when someone is like bothering me online you might as well be walking in my front door and taking a shit in my living room you're bothering me and and you you're not entitled to the right to bother me whenever you like and so to me that's the big difference and and so i would say if if you have this grand scientific idea there is a met there's a modality for that communication of ideas we call it academic publishing write your article up if it's this beautiful grand theory publish it i'll critique it in various forms of publishing that's how this works it's how it's worked for many many many decades um a couple centuries uh depending on what field you're talking about so no i totally agree i know a lot of people say that's a bad look and to me that's the big distinction that i would defend myself with which is basically uh social media is different because when i'm eating dinner my phone buzzes so you're not entitled to that you're entitled to having your opinion you're entitled to me not attacking you personally over that opinion i'm going to review your opinion if you present it in a meaningful substantive way but you don't get unlimited vouchers to just take my time and attention especially again like like you said there's even like very good people who are just disagreeable and they enjoy the sport of kind of sparring and do you know tweaking with the ideas and things and um again as a as a very busy person i can't participate in that even if i wanted to and then as a person who i i think would be very high in agreeableness i think um it stresses me out when i engage with people that are highly disagreeable because i think agreeable people kind of have this natural bias we want to work toward okay let's get to the agreeable part where we meet in the middle shake hands and say good day to you agree to disagree or we agree on this 40 disagree on the other 60 appreciate you thanks for stopping by i'm gonna go eat dinner um and i think when when it's an agreeable person and a disagreeable person i think it really stresses out the agreeable person at least that's been my experience so that's another instance where i want to just block someone who's a you know a good person and disagreeable i just say hey i love you appreciate you but this is not working for me you know it's like i'm not gonna block you but i can't keep doing this with you but like if someone is like being very inflammatory if they just have a personality uh approach that i just can't stand on the internet i'm more inclined to just say hey i'll read your paper if you publish it but until then no thanks i'm out no that's perfectly well said and i think that was the only little bit of nuance that i wanted to share which is more of you know like you know understanding the personal struggles and these different types of personalities and not mistakes mistaking one for the other but no i think i think you've done a like a like a master class on helping people understand why online fitness sucks but that it doesn't really represent um the reality of the space that we operate in and why i think it's really important to sometimes actually go to in-person events you know as much as you know your one's introversion or extroversion can handle it because it's a really nice reminder and post-covid once the economy picked back up i was like oh yeah i actually do like these you know so yeah no and even as an as an introvert i like going to in-person events that are fitness or science related because it does kind of remind me like the in-person experience is so much better than the online experience just the interactions um so yeah like you said helms uh if you feel like man online fitness really sucks yes but the final thing i'll reiterate is it doesn't have to like you don't get to like rewrite the entire you don't get to reset the entire uh tenor of the online discourse but you do have tools at your disposal to eliminate the stuff that really bothers you and gets under your skin and there's nothing weak about doing that it's just like to what extent do you want your online life to be dictated by annoying people that you could easily rectify that like it's it's just it's nonsensical to say like well i guess my i guess i have to hate going on instagram because of these four individuals who are dominating the conversation it's like dude just fix it like you're allowed to and you will have a much better time well said all right helms i think that does it for tonight um as always thanks to everyone for joining us uh if you have any negative comments send those to helms he's more extroverted he's more prepared to uh encounter those uh like we always say uh be sure to support our friends at elitefts with the code mrr10 for a 10 discount over at elitefts.com and if you want to support us the way to do that the best way to do that of course is by becoming a member of the mass community learn more at massresearchreview.com helms anything to say to the good people before we go no just thank you so much we're glad to have you here and uh yeah we've got some some awesome stuff coming in in in the current year not the new year to be clear now that we're on the other side of january yeah so folks um you know all that stuff i said today doesn't apply to us we we love you uh we have a very close relationship that goes both directions and i want to nurture that and and you know utilize your trust as an asset in my back pocket as a mega influencer in the fitness industry so forget all that stuff i said earlier you know you can trust me implicitly i'll never let you down same things with helms uh and we will be back in that's one commitment that we will not let you down on we will be back in a week so we'll see you i believe tuesday night of next week everybody take care
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.420380Z ===
