 so I'm Dr. Brandon Elliott, one of the co-founders and chief medical officer of Obesity Medicine and Metabolic Wellness Center. We really appreciate being a part of the event today at the Men's Health Fair. It's really important that we're kind of talking about this as there's really a lack of education in our upbringing, in our teaching, in our schooling, around nutrition, physical activity, how to lead a healthier lifestyle, and that's what our organization really kind of helps with. So we have locations in Saginaw, Midland, and West Branch, and we really teach everyone how to live a healthier lifestyle through nutrition, physical activity, and then medications when necessary. But our main approach here and why Men's Health is so important is we want to really reduce our risk of insulin resistance, pre-diabetes, diabetes, fatty liver, hypertension, and we can really do that through lifestyle changes. And so some people can even come off blood pressure and medications when we make nutrition changes and watch sodium. And so it's really important to help prevent those diseases and we really kind of have registered dieticians, behavioral health team, a multidisciplinary team to help serve this community in the tri-cities area to really make a big impact on doing that and maybe come off certain medications through nutrition and physical activity. And we just really appreciate the opportunity to kind of help spread the awareness and be available to the community to help serve. So one of the things that's also unique about us is we do accept all insurances well, so this is not a cash-based or a membership model. We just build traditional insurance and as someone's kind of losing weight through nutrition and physical activity, we also help manage some of the medications like blood pressure, medications, insulin, diabetes meds that need to be adjusted as well. So it's in a safe manner as they're losing weight. We also offer body composition scales to get an assessment of fat tissue, visceral adipose tissue, skeletal muscle mass as well, so that we try to retain as much muscle mass as someone tries to lose weight so that we're really kind of helping increase their metabolism and do this in the right way, that they're losing body fat and that muscle mass along the way. But managing those medications is very, very important. And that's why we generally see our patients every two to three weeks, to help manage that and monitor it in a very, very safe and close manner.