I've spent the last year digging through a hundred of the world's most popular supplements. In this video, I'm ranking every single one from total junk to god tier based on real scientific evidence. This is the ultimate supplement tier list. Timestamps for everything are down below. All right, so first supplement, calcium alpha ketoglutarate. Now, this one has become quite popular as a longevity supplement over the past few years. There's a few studies showing that it does lower biological age scores based on this DNA metilation clocks which isn't like very good evidence and there is evidence in animals as well in mice that it might extend their lifespan but the other human clinical trials mostly suggest it helps with wound healing and bone density in post-menopausal women. So I do think it's good. I would like to see more clinical evidence about these aspects of biological aging which we will have in a few years but currently I would put it into okay tier based on the evidence right now. NMN is another very popular longevity supplement and um you know I would say it's a bit more overhyped and it has disappointed a lot of people over the last uh two years I would say and uh this one is also okay. There is some human evidence that um it helps with gate speed. It might have some aspects on effects on inflammation and uh things like that and it will certainly raise NAD levels. Increasing NAD levels will be an important aspect of uh health span. Actually en has been seen to extend lifespan in animals whereas NR for example didn't. So uh but NR has a bit more human clinical evidence. So I would still also put it into okay tier. NR is better than calcium alpha ketoglutarate and NMN is a slightly lower tier than NR in my opinion. Now NAM nasinamide so this is another NAD booster that um does raise energy levels in humans and it also has some skin benefits. So nasinomide is one of the ingredients in a lot of skin care. So it can protect the skin especially against um UV radiation. So I do think that it's good but uh yeah there's you know more limited evidence in evidence in terms of uh its other effects. So put it into this tier here. Niain notoriously used to raise HDL cholesterol and it does raise it does raise HDL but it doesn't do anything else almost that it raising HDL cholesterol doesn't lower the risk of heart disease events. So um you know take it for what you will. I do think that nycin is a very good supplement for a lot of cases. Very high dose nascin can have some effects on the liver function but um yeah it's mostly the benefits mostly stop with increased HDL cholesterol. Queretin one of the senolytic supplements that uh could also have some longevity effects. Now with these analytics, there's no human clinical trials yet whether or not they work in humans or what's the uh you know benefits that we could get. So there's very limited evidence about their effects. So based on that, I could put it into the bad tier, but quin of itself isn't a bad supplement. I would just put it into okay tier based on the available evidence. The same with fisetin. Fisetin has been seen to extend lifespan in animals as well, but um the human evidence is a bit more limited and it's quite expensive. Just just because it's in the okay tier right now couldn't mean that it could rise to good or gut tier, but um as of now there's uh not a lot of data from a human studies. The same with epigenine. I like it as a CD38 inhibitor that helps with um NAD metabolism. It helps to increase energy levels, lowers inflammation, but um yeah, there's limited evidence in terms of other effects. Glycine. So um my favorite supplement I'll put in the gut tier and u you know glycine has been seen to extend lifespan in animals and it in humans it has benefits for blood sugar, sleep, potentially collagen synthesis and um visceral fat and methanine. So uh yeah I think glycine is one of the safest and best supplements out there. Trimethaglycine as well got tier because uh it mostly helps with methylation and homocyine metabolism. If you're a poor methylator, you have high homocyine levels then taking TMG can be one of the best supplements out there for you. And uh TMG might have some benefits for exercise performance. But um my read of those studies is that uh not so much because this more in inconsistent results. You have some studies finding benefits, others don't. So um I wouldn't say it's an exercise performance supplement. Some people claim it is but um not in my eyes. It's mostly for homocyine glucosamine sulfate. So um known for joint benefits or is used for mostly joint benefits. Uh it also has anti-inflammatory effects. It actually has a skin anti-aging effects as well mostly through the anti-inflammation uh possibly some other mechanisms. Uh so it's attached to sulfur so that helps with glutathion synthesis. So glucosamine in my opinion is good. It's not god tier but uh it's good. Torine I would put into god tier. There's a lot of human clinical trials that it helps with metabolic health, metabolic syndrome, uh cholesterol, lipids, blood sugar, blood pressure, and exercise performance as well. So even if you're not diabetic or with not poor metabolic health, then you can still expect to gain exercise performance benefits via u muscle strength. For example, MSM is another sulfur compound known for uh joint health, but it also has a skin antaging benefits similar to glucosamine. So, I'll put it into good tier. There's uh quite a few clinical trials that it does actually work. The same with chondroitin. Condroitin has the least evidence for skin and joint health out of these two. So, I'll put it into okay tier. I'll put it somewhere here before calcium alpha ketogluterate. turmeric or curcumin. Uh there's quite a lot of uh human clinical trials for inflammation mostly. So I'll put it in the gut tier. Now you could also get turmeric from just um the spice. So not taken as a supplement. The problem with uh turmeric is that it's very poorly bioavailable. So even supplements tend to have pretty bad bioavailability and that's why it's better to use something like liposomaal formulations or or with added biperine piperine that's black pepper that increases the bioavailability of turmeric ashroandha. So this is interesting. This ashwagandha is mostly known for stress and sleep as well as um testosterone production. And there is actually quite a lot of clinical trials as well that it does support that. So it helps with sleep, helps with stress, helps with testosterone and estrogen. And believe it or not, it also helps with V2X. So uh it's actually pretty researched supplement and it actually has quite a lot of evidence. is mostly for this KSM66 ashwagandha and that's why I'll put it in the got tier. Now some people have claimed that it has negative side effects on their mood and libido and those kind of things. Now personally I've taken ashwagandha on and enough I've never experienced any negative side effects from that. So if you are one of those uh people who does experience negative side effects then maybe it's not for you but um you know person that haven't experienced anything and based on the other evidence out there then it's definitely quite research backed citrine. So this uh amino acid helps with nitric oxide production so blood blood flow and um I would put it into good tier because of that reason. Thamine, vitamin B1. It's a very good for blood sugar regulation and energy metabolism. It has a little bit more limited evidence compared to something like glycine or torine. So, I'll put it in the good tier. Now, personally, I like thamine. I take benthamine occasionally if if u I'm maybe eating a lot of carbohydrates or something like that but um based on the evidence it's not going to be got tier but personally I would put it in the gut tier because I like it but uh based on the evidence I'll put it in the good good tier. Chromium as well has a lot of evidence that it helps with blood sugar regulation even cholesterol metabolism and body composition. So weight loss and muscle growth through increased insulin sensitivity. So chromium enhances insulin action on the cells. So where you have better blood sugar regulation and nutrient partitioning. So I've I've even taken chromium in the past as a bodybuilding supplement hoping that it would help with muscle growth as there are some uh studies u pointing in that direction. So I do think that it's a pretty good supplement. Melatonin got here. So I'm a huge fan of melatonin not for its sleep benefits. Obviously the sleep benefits are true that it helps with sleep, increases sleep quality and sleep duration, but uh I'm personally mostly interested in it because of the antioxidant benefits. So melatonin helps with glutathione regulation, autophagy regulation in your sleep and it's a powerful antioxidant. So I take pretty large dose melatonin a few times a month like 10 milligrams just for its antioxidant benefits. Theanonine. So uh this amino acid mostly is used combined with caffeine as a neotropic agent. Now theanine might also help with stress and anxiety and the sleep for that reason. So I do think it's in the good tier. Rodeiola rosia another adaptogen and um it has a mixed evidence for VHMX and uh mixed evidence for hormones. So, I'll put it in the I'll put it um yeah, I'll put it in the good tier because there is some evidence that it does help with um hormones and stress and exercise performance. Vitamin C. Now, you know, vitamin C is a very simple vitamin. It's involved in a lot of things in the body and it's super crucial. Humans don't produce vitamin C obviously. So, we need to consume it from diet or supplements. But the amount of vitamin C you need is quite low. You don't need like a ton of vitamin C. you don't need thousands of milligrams of vitamin C a day. Most of it is going to be just peed out at that point. So something like 100 200 milligs is uh well enough and you can get that from food quite easily if you eat fruits and vegetables. So I do think vitamin C is good but um there's no evidence that it has any you know significant health benefits. Methylated B vitamins I would say is a god tier because a lot of people aren't getting enough B vitamins like B12, B9, you know, thamine as well in in here can be included. But uh yeah, just methylated forms of these B vitamins tend to be superior for methylation purposes. Ginger is um quite interesting. There's evidence that ginger helps with weight loss, helps with digestion a little bit, but it's not very significant. So, I'll put it in the good tier. Sulfurophane. Now, I am interested in sulfurophane, but I think that it's a bit overhyped in that sense. So, I'll put it in the okay tier, similar to NR and NMN that it has potentially some benefits, but it's um too early to tell. Resuratrol. Now, reseratrol is known to be a longevity supplement, but in my opinion, it's more like a metabolic health supplement for people who have diabetes or obesity because uh the human evidence suggests that it only has benefits on people who have metabolic syndrome, diabetes, obesity or something like that. And uh it has negative effects potentially on people who are otherwise healthy by lowering exercise adaptations, lowering testosterone. So, I would put it in the junk tier. Depends on if you're a healthy person, then a reserto might be in the junk tier. If you're a um metabolically sick person, then it can be good. So, it depends a lot on the person. I would put it in um yeah, the junk tier. The is a cousin molecule of reseratrol essentially and um it has much less evidence than reseratrol. So based on the evidence right now, I wouldn't be I wouldn't be able to say almost anything about Stillbin aside from the fact that it has been actually seen to raise LDL cholesterol. Only if you um take it with grape seed extract, it's not going to raise cholesterol. So based on the evidence, I would put it in a junk tier in my opinion. Now, yeah, it might change in the future if we have more clinical trials on humans, but u you know, there's no clinical trials in humans yet. Now rapamyin is a wild card on this list. It's not a supplement obviously but it's a pharmaceutical but the reason is here because it's um considered like a potential um life extension uh pharmaceutical. Now it has been seen to extend lifespan in animals consistently. In humans there's no evidence for that yet. Um and um you know there's very little evidence about rapamy effects on otherwise healthy people. So I wouldn't be able to say with definite proof where it will lie. In my opinion, rapomycin has a lot of potential as a life extension molecule in humans. So based on that, I would put it in the gut tier. But um you know because we don't know what it will actually do in healthy humans over the long term, I would put it in um in I would put it in okay tier based on that. But uh because I like it, I'll put it in the good tier. Now it doesn't mean that you should recreationally take rapamy but um still metformin. Now this is another pharmaceutical diabetes drug that's thought to have longevity benefits in animals. Actually it's inconsistent results in um in mice that aren't genetically identical. They uh don't find that it extends lifespan. So uh based on that you wouldn't be able to say that metformin even extends lifespan in animals and in humans it doesn't do that either unless you're diabetic. So uh it's more about counteracting the harm of diabetes and enabling to live longer similar to reseratrol that um if you have metabolic disease and obesity then uh reseratrol and metformin can obviously be quite beneficial but I would say that even if you're otherwise healthy you take metformin yes you will see some decline in testosterone and decline in viax as it's shown in studies I would say that um there might be still some longevity benefits because of the hardcore lowering of the blood sugar that you will experience from the metformin. And based on that, I would just put it in a bad tier. It's not complete junk here, but it's bad. Spiritine. So, uh, another popular longevity supplement based on the current evidence, it's only effective for lowering stress and increasing DHEA levels. There's one study showing that other studies or other clinical trials on spermadine have shown that it um doesn't improve cognitive function in elderly people and um that's pretty much it. There's not a lot of clinical trials with spermine. Now the hype about spermine as a longevity supplement comes from dietary spermine. So the one you get from mushrooms, cheeses, vegetables, beef, those kind of things. So higher spermine intake is associated with lower mortality but it definitely doesn't apply to supplements or at least we don't have evidence that it would. So I'll put it in the bad tier based on the evidence right now. Now it's not going to it's not harmful. Now sperming it might helps with maybe helps with hair growth or skin health to a certain extent but um we don't have good clinical trials on it yet. Wheat germ is a good source of dietary spermadine. So it's more like a dietary let's say food rather than a supplement. You can just buy wheat germ powder and mix it with your yogurt or something like that. So based on that I think it's uh like a good thing. It's a pretty nutritious. It has TMG and um and spermine. So I'll put it in the good tier based on that multivitamin. So multivitamins just have a bunch of different vitamins and minerals. The problem with them is that each multivitamin is different and uh you can't translate the evidence from some clinical trials on multivitamins to every single multivitamin that's out there because yeah they have different formulations but um you can still make some general conclusions uh that okay if you provide yourself with these daily vitamins and minerals at least covering some of the RDAs of these vitamins and minerals you might have some effects and uh clinical trials on elderly people show that multivitamins help with mostly cognitive function. Now, there's they're not going to reduce the risk of mortality as is has been shown from observational studies, but they might improve cognitive function slightly. So, I'll put it in the good tier based on that. But as a generally healthy person, you don't really have a lot to gain from a multivitamin. All right, vitamin E toatrinols. So, these ones have higher antioxidant potential than the other form toopherol. The issue with vitamin E supplements is that in human studies, antioxidant supplementation, including vitamin E, has actually been seen to be associated with increased mortality. Now, I don't think that it's something to really worry about or it's very uh let's say quality findings, but I would put it into okay tier. Methylene blue, another supplement, but a dye. Now I think methyline blue has some benefits for people who have poor mitochondrial function or they have impaired energy production in the electron transport chain but otherwise healthy people don't probably not going to see any effects. I've tried methyline blue for few weeks and I saw no effects. So, I'm going to, you know, put it in the bad tier based on that. But, uh, you know, it can be okay for, uh, general use if you don't have health problems and it can be good as well if you, uh, you know, try it and you see miraculous benefits. So, I I guess I'll put in okay tier based on that. So, it's straight up in the middle. Nicotine. So, popular notropic agent, nicotine spray, gum patches, etc. Now nicotine has cognitive benefits. It can improve cognitive function but uh very high doses of nicotine can also be uh bad for vascular health and blood flow. So it increases arterial stiffness in very large doses over 10 milligrams a day and uh is obviously addictive as well. So as a short-term noropic it's good. As a general daily use I don't think you want to use it daily. You don't want to get addicted to it. And uh you know chronic use might have some negative effects on cardiovascular health over the long term. So I'll just put it you know in the okay tier. Luteine and zanthin. So these carotenoids mostly known for their eye health benefits. I'm going to put them in the gut tier because there's a few clinical trials that they actually work for improving u eyesight. Moving on with lycopine which is another carotenoid from a tomato. So it's more this red color and um in observational studies higher dietary lycopine intake is associated with reduced prostate cancer. In clinical trials lycopine supplementation doesn't affect PSA levels and other cancer biomarkers although it might help with some vascular health. So based on that is not very effective but um the reason why people take leyapine as well is for skin benefits. So it can pigment the skin slightly makes it more orange or a bit more red can increase the color in the skin I guess. So I'll just you know it's not very effective for anything else based on the evidence right now. So I'll put it in um I guess okay tier because it you know will certainly have an effect on your skin pigmentation. Beta carotene is pretty much the same story that the higher beta carotene intake is associated with reduced mortality. So you get it from carrots, squash, sweet potatoes etc. So orange fruits and vegetables. But um in clinical trials and those observational studies it appears to have no effect on mortality. So there is some uh thought that um or some observational studies find that beta carotin supplementation is associated with increased mortality but in the clinical trials it's not. It's kind of a benign in terms of that it doesn't increase risk or reduce risk, but it again might improve skin color and skin pigmentation. So, a more colorful skin. So, I guess based on that, I'll put it okay. But because of the potential increased risk of mortality, I'll put it yeah, at the bottom of a K. So, it's not something you really want to take. I don't think it's going to be harmful, but um you know, if you want to improve your skin coloration in the short term, then that can be one of the supplements. It's not something I would probably take long term. So, molecular hydrogen is a antioxidant and this tablet you put into the water for example or inhale it. Now, it's it doesn't have that much clinical evidence right now. I put it okay. It's not harming you anything. It uh potentially increases antioxidant uh levels. So, or combats oxidative stress in my opinion. I don't think uh it's too it's too early to say you know whether or not it will actually have any significant anti-inflammatory effects in humans. cocolavinols. So raw cacao, cocoa flavonol specifically in in raw cacao I think it's uh good because uh there is clinical trials that it actually helps with heart health and uh brain health. Spirulina so supplement now most spirulina is probably contaminated with uh potentially heavy metals and other ingredients that you don't want to consume. So you need to be very sure about the source. Now spirulina and chlorella there's some let's say evidence that might help with stem cell proliferation. I don't think it's good in that sense. I'll put it in the okay tier. Bourberine I think bourberine is got tier because it's uh pretty potent for blood sugar regulation and it's even better at cholesterol and lipid meta regulation. So uh there's quite a lot of clinical trials that helps with you know weight loss, blood sugar, lipids and um there's even some studies finding that it might reduce atheroscllorotic plaque as well. So arterial plaque creatine obviously got tier there's a lot of evidence for sports performance and now people are waking up to the idea of creatine as a brain supplement as well. Now the misconception about creatine is that it's going to give your brain superpowers or cognitive superpowers. It mostly works for periods where you're under some cognitive stress or cognitive dysfunction such as sleep deprivation, concussion, traumatic brain injury, Alzheimer's, dementia, those things. So it's not going to exceed your cognition. is going to bring you back to more baseline or you know in that case it can actually also take you slightly above baseline. In the sleep deprivation study they saw that but um yeah you shouldn't think of it as a massive cognition boost if you're otherwise in a good situation. Vitamin E tocopherol now this is considered to be like the worst worst kind of u vitamin E compared tools. So I'll put it in the in the bad tier that is less potent aspirin. So pharmaceutical NSAIDE non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug and aspirin has been used for you know decades. The interesting thing about aspirin is that it's used for cardiovascular disease prevention. It doesn't appear the latest evidence suggests that it doesn't prevent the initial heart disease or the first occurrence or incidence of heart disease but for secondary prevention. So once you've had heart disease, it appears to have uh benefits of reducing u secondary outcomes. So um the issue with aspirin is that it can increase bleeding. So if you're an elderly person who's easy to bruise or easy to bleed, then can be more harmful. And I would imagine taking aspirin on a daily basis even as a healthy person, you know, probably might increase the risk of some gastrointestinal bleeding or something like that. So, I wouldn't say it's something that is wise to take on a daily basis chronically. Now, some people disagree. That's my opinion, right? Um I would put it in um it's not I guess it can be bad in some cases, right? If you're at a high risk of bleeding, it's a benign at most like a small dose baby aspirin 50 milligrams, 100 milligrams, it's going to be okay. Vitamin D3. So, uh, I'll put it in a gut tier because, uh, it's safer to have normal vitamin D levels than to be deficient in them. So, that's why I'm going to put it in the gut tier. Now, the benefits of vitamin D supplementation isn't that great in terms of, you know, some health benefits. There's some evidence that might help with testosterone levels, immunity potentially, but the biggest thing is just to get the vitamin D status high. if you are deficient in vitamin D but uh you don't want to neglect the sun but you don't but you don't want to avoid the sun there's other benefits you get from the sun that you don't get from uh vitamin D supplements such as infrared light UV light and other things now with vitamin D you want to take it with K2 so uh keep that in mind that isolated vitamin D mobilizes calcium that can be harmful in the long term so take it with vitamin K2 Q and magnesium ideally. Moving on with magnesium glycinate. I think this is a god tier. It's one of the best forms of magnesium. Uh magnesium 38ate also got tier. So this is specifically for the brain. Most bioavailable form of magnesium for the brain. Torate got tier. Malate got tier. Ourate I think it's good. It's slightly less good as 308 or glycinate. oxide is u I would put it in the junk tier is is the worst uh magnesium lowest bioavailability as well and potentially harmful for digestion citrate. So citrate is good if you have constipation. Citrate is good for just general raising magnesium status but it doesn't have u it has fewer other benefits. So I think citrate is uh okay but it's good if you have constipation issues. Collagen I think um collagen is good because the only thing you would want to take collagen for is skin antaging benefits and um collagen peptides specifically. Okay, so we're not talking about regular collagen. So this collagen peptide structure is with different bioavailability and different uh effects. So that's why you see some conflicting evidence occasionally that uh collagen doesn't work but it needs to be the collagen peptides that have been seen to uh actually work. Glutathione so um powerful antioxidant people take it for that reason immunity and antioxidant inflammation status. The verdict on Gulathan in my opinion is that it's good in some situations like if you have let's say um you know infection some disease then it's good but otherwise it's okay. There is the argument that taking large dose antioxidants would uh be harmful and u might actually cause more harm. So I would put it in okay tier for that reason. Vitamin K2 gut tier. So it's a perfect be pair for vitamin D3 and there's evidence that helps with bone health and uh possibly reduce aththeroscerotic plaque as well. Vitamin K1 there's actually some evidence that vitamin K1 also helps with bone health but I would put it in a good tier. K2 is better than um K1 carnosine a supplement for primarily skin anti-aging benefits that it reduces advanced glycation in products. So skin glycation that causes wrinkles but it's not very effective. You know there is evidence that it can work but it's low bio by availability and um and more limited evidence. So personally I think carnosine is good. So I'll put it here. Whey protein I think is got tier because uh most bio available form of protein powder and uh has all the essential amino acids. It's uh easy to digest unless you have some dairy intolerance. But yeah, generally it's the best protein powder out there. If you can tolerate it, then it's h good. Essential amino acids, I think they're okay. If you're in a low protein diet, you will benefit from them. If you're fasting a lot, you will benefit from them. If you're eating a nutritious diet and you're getting all the essential amino acids from your diet, then they're not going to build additional muscle. They're not going to make you gain a lot more extra muscle. BCA's junctier in my opinion because BCA's so they getting only leucine isolucine and valine which is only three of the essential amino acids and you need all the essential amino acids to um stimulate protein synthesis you know yeah you leucine is the key amino acid there but uh what they find in studies is that taking BCAAs alone actually results in greater muscle catabolism because you're not getting the other essential amino acids so your body starts catabolizing its own tissue to get those amino acids from the other tissues. So, um that's why BCAS alone the only rationale or the only benefit you might see from BCAAs in studies is that it helps with muscle soreness and helps with energy production during exercise. So, your body will convert the BCAAs into energy. But if you're just sitting there and taking BCAAs, then it's a net negative. You want to take essential amino acids if you're going to do that. Glutamine I think is a good gut supplement helps to heal the gut lining. Now there's some fear that glutamine can feed cancer but you know you get glutamine from pretty much all foods. It's one of the most abundant amino acids. So um you would have to be in a very low protein diet to avoid all glutamine completely. Now yeah the issue is dose and how frequently you take it. I don't think you you want to take it like on a regular basis but periodically it's a a good supplement for gut healing purposes. Now psyllium husk I think it's a gut tier now it's a food powder and uh very high source of fiber and there's quite a lot of clinical trials helps with cholesterol mostly. So it's one of the easiest ways to lower cholesterol. Just add psyllium to your yogurt or something. And it also helps with digestion by increasing fiber, fiber intake, caffeine. So I'm talking about caffeine powder or you know energy drink or you know yeah we can put coffee here as well but coffee has other benefits like coffee is got here based on the research that it's associated with reduced mortality and heart health benefits, brain health benefits, reduced cancer, all those things as skin health benefits. But uh we're not talking about caffeine alone, caffeine powder alone pre-workout, right? I would put it in the bat tier now. There's evidence that ca so caffeine is a very powerful erogenic supplement. So it's amazing for sports performance. It works very well for sports performance. So based on that, yeah, it's going to be good tier or even god tier based on the sports performance benefits uh that uh people perform a lot better if they take caffeine, which makes sense. They're just, you know, anked up angst angst up. But uh you know, personally, I don't like very high dose caffeine supplements because for a regular daily use, they can uh you know, be harmful, can be reduce your sleep quality, give you anxiety or something like that, talitions. So yeah, I'm not a big fan of mega doing caffeine. So based on that it would be bad but because of the vast amount of research for sports performance that it definitely works for sports performance then it's going to be a good tier. Um that's not my personal preference. My personal preference would be bad but uh because of the research it's going to be good aged garlic extract. I'll put it in the gut tier. Another very multifaceted supplement that has benefits for lipids, blood sugar, blood pressure, visceral fat, inflammation, blood pressure. I say it weight loss, potentially aoscroic plaque as well. So it's pretty much like a all-in-one supplement almost for metabolic health, for cardiovascular health, potentially neurodeenerative health as well. Ergoine. So this is a novel ingredient that's become popular a little bit not that much yet but uh in some clinical trials it supports cognitive function. Now the thing is that in those clinical trials they use very small doses of ergoathanine. I think it was something like 20 30 milligrams and you can get that amount very easily from just foods like mushrooms, cheeses and vegetables. So you don't really need to supplement eranine. can get more eranine from just eating mushrooms and different kinds of fruits and vegetables. So the practically speaking, no one needs to supplement erathionine, but there is evidence that supplementing erathanine does improve cognition. So I'll put it in good tier based on that. Red yeast rice extract most known for cholesterol effects. But um you know the chemical ingredient in red yeast rice extract is almost identical or is considered identical to uh statins. So it's obviously not suitable for every person. It's definitely effective for lowering cholesterol but because of the potential other health effects I don't think it's bad. I you know it's not going to harm your health. You just need to be aware maybe you need to supplement CoQ10 because that can deplete CoQ10 levels. So yeah, just be aware of that. I think there's easier ways to lower cholesterol like psilium husk, even bourberine or aged garlic extract than red yeast rice extract, but it definitely does do that. So I'll put it in okay tier. Next, Tongat Ali is a very popular testosterone boosting supplement. Ashwagandha is definitely better. It has a lot more evidence that it raises testosterone. Now, Tongadali, there is some evidence that it can raise testosterone in um in people who have low testosterone, but uh the effects are pretty modest, and to be honest, yeah, it's a bit more overhyped, overrated. So, I'll put it in okay tier for that reason. DHEA is another uh considered like a hormone supplement. So, it's a precursor to testosterone. In men, it does almost nothing. I think it it has a effects for let's say stress regulation maybe helps with sleep through that mechanism but it's more effective for men uh sorry for women because women have lower DHEA levels to begin with so they might notice even body composition benefits from DHEA but men notice almost nothing at all uh maybe aside from a stress I'll put it in okay tier based on that lithium orate So uh there was actually a very recent study that showed lithium deficiency could be implicated in neuro degeneration and Alzheimer's and there's a few clinical trials sorry not clinical trials but observational studies finding that lithium use is associated with reduced risk of dementia. Lithium in the drinking water is associated with reduced mortality and greater longevity. So that's quite kind of interesting. Also reduced rates of mental health disorders and reduced rates of homicide and suicides. So that's also quite interesting. So, we probably should be getting lithium from our drinking water. We should I don't know the exact amount how much we should be getting because high amounts of lithium can have some kidney effects, negative effects on kidneys, but that we're talking about very large doses where people take it for bipolar disorder and mane. So in very small doses like 1 milligram that people use it can have mood benefits, mental health benefits and possibly let's say it might have preventive effects as well on dementia risk in the future but it's too early to say that. So I think it's good. I think that it definitely has like a mental health boost a little bit. Omega-3s got tier. So all omega-3s, krill oil as well as olg oil here or fishbased omega-3s they're got here because uh just the vast amount of research that we have about their effects on cardiovascular health or cause mortality and uh neuro degeneration. So what you want to do is have just a higher omega-3 index and supplementing omega-3s is one way to achieve that. Certix, one of the certuitins, the only certuin that's been seen to extend lifespan in animals. Now, there's some certic supplements, but um there's no human clinical trials on the Zert 6 yet. So, it's not bad. I took it. I didn't notice anything in animal studies. It's interesting and promising. It's too early to say, so I'll put it in. Okay. NAC got here. So, perfect pair for glycine and helps with gulthan. So with glutathione, you don't want to take the antioxidant directly. You want to take the precursors to glutathione and that will enable your body to prod produce the glutathione itself. So that's why glycine and n together are better than glutathione alone. And there's um quite a few clinical trials from a few years ago where the glycine and n combo glyc help with a lot of uh health conditions and um health outcomes like gate speed, grip strength, metabolic health, inflammation, body composition, etc. CoQ10. So CoQ10 helps with energy and fatigue in people who have chronic fatigue. In heart failure patients, it's also quite useful. And like I said, if you're taking a satin or red yeast, you want to combine CoQ10 with that. The evidence about exercise performance is more limited. I haven't seen any compelling evidence that it will help with V2 max or exercise performance, but uh yeah, chronic fatigue, it certainly helps. So yeah, um it's very safe and I would put in a good tier, but uh something tempts me to put it in the okay tier, but I'll put it in the good tier. Next, we have PQQ, another mitochondrial supplement, and it's antioxidant as well, similar to CoQ10 helps with mitochondrial function, but we don't have that much clinical trials on PQQ. There are few that help see that helps with physical function in elderly people, but it's too early to say. It's more expensive than CoQ10. A lot more expensive. So, I don't know. I I would put in the okay tier based on the limited evidence that we have. Hyaluronic acid. So, there are some clinical trials that it helps with skin hydration and skin condition, but that's pretty much it. there's not a lot of uh other or the amount of the clinical trials about skin antaging are also so small. There's not like a ton of them compared to collagen that has dozens of those clinical trials. So, I would put it okay based on that. But I think because uh the evidence is quite compelling right now, I would put it in a good tier boron mineral that will help with testosterone by lowering SB SHBG levels. There's also evidence that it helps with bone density and a lot of people aren't getting enough boron from their diet. So, I'll put it in the good tier. Next, we have inositol. So, I like inositol. It's uh helping with neurotransmitters, might help with mood, and it helps with blood sugar regulation. So, I'll put it in the good tier. Electrolytes. So, let's say like element tea or just some other salt mix. depends on the formulation. Obviously, some electrolyte formulations are better. Element is quite quite high in sodium, you know, which is beneficial because uh you lose the most sodium during exercise and sweating. So, you need to replace sodium the most. But, uh let's say for daily use, you wouldn't want to take something like LMT that's very high in sodium or you're getting more than enough sodium from your food generally speaking. So unless you are not salting your food at all and you're on a low carb diet, then yes, maybe you need to take element tea or some other high sodium electrolytes. But you know, average people who don't even exercise, they don't need electrolytes. So I'll put it, you know, good for exercise performance, okay use, bad for some people who are also eating a lot of processed foods and they're overweight, etc. So I'll put yeah I'll put in okay tier zinc. So zinc helps with immunity wound healing and testosterone levels. Low zinc levels are associated with lower testosterone. So depends on the particular person. Personally, I don't find much value from zinc myself, but I fi I do I guess acknowledge that it can be useful in some situations and it is, you know, like a generic mineral. Zinc is very important as a mineral, but it's a like a generic mineral. I'll put it in a good tier for that reason. Jinseng, the clinical trials out there with Jinseng do suggest that it might have some cardiovascular benefits and kidney health benefits. So I'll put it in a good tier. Chilleit is another let's say rising star in the testosterone boosting world and u some of the clinical trials on chilleit do suggest that it helps with fatigue and energy and might modestly increase testosterone levels as well. So those those are actually true. So I'll put it in um their good tier. The source matters you know where you get your cages from. So you need to u be aware of that. Ginoba some uh research about uh cognitive function especially in elderly people. So I think that it's okay. There's better probably better alternatives to ginkoiloba in my opinion for cognitive deficits like creatine and it's more researched in that area. So but there is some research that gabiloba does actually help with cognition. Now EGCG you get it from green tea. It's uh shows promise in um you know cardiovascular disease or diabetes and those things but um in my opinion it's better to drink the green tea than to take the EGC supplement because uh a lot of herbal supplements especially can be harmful for the liver. So I'll put it in the bad tier in my opinion. I don't think it's worthwhile to take EGCG although it might so I you know we would need to get more research about it. Tripololis Terrestrus is the most generic testosterone boosting supplement out there and um you know there's actually no evidence that it would actually increase testosterone levels. So I'll put it in the junk tier. Doesn't also help with erectile dysfunction in the research. So yeah, it's better to take Tongat Ali than the tribulus and over Tonkat Ali. You could even take something else that's more potent like ashwagandha. Ashwagand is more more effective for testosterone than Tongadali but Tongadal is better than tribulus testerone. This supplement was popular a few years ago as muscle building and muscle strength supplement. Now the final conclusion or the consensus about testerone was that it has no effects on it's not better. It's definitely not better than creatine for sure. You I've tried testerone. I did notice increased strength, but it could be just placebo, right? Um, so I'll put it in a bad tier based on that the evidence that we have right now. MCT oil. So, one popular way to boost ketone bodies. I think MCT oil is probably a good addition to someone's diet for brain health benefits especially. I don't think anyone needs to follow like some some very specific routine for that. Maybe you put it into a coffee. If you're fasting, put in the coffee. It tastes a bit different. You boost ketones that have anti-inflammatory effects. Possibly therapeutic effects as well for the brain. But yeah, like if you get a concussion, you get sleep deprived, then yeah, you can boost MCT oil or you can boost your ketones in the brain with MCT oil. Now, of course, there's this ketone esters that uh boost ketones a lot more than MCT oil, but they're quite bad tasting and uh much more expensive as well. So, MCT oil is a good addition to let's say someone's morning coffee if they are doing intermittent fasting and uh they're super interested in their brain health. So, based on that, I would put it in a good tier, but it's not something I guess I put in yeah, okay tier. I don't think it's necessary. Like if you just fast, you just drink black coffee, you're also boosting ketones and you don't need to add the MCT oil in that scenario, but it's okay if you do. Iron, so high iron levels are associated with heart disease and mortality and liver disease. So you don't want to have high iron levels in the blood. Iron supplements, you know, there's no direct evidence that they would cause heart disease or something like that. But um if you are low in iron then you can take iron supplements with no worries. If you're higher in iron especially men then you need to be more careful with that. So I'll put it in uh the bad tier because it's potentially harmful for a lot of actually I'll put it in the junk tier because it's yeah potentially harmful for some individuals. GHK copper so it's a peptide but you can also take it as an oral supplement. So in the context of low iron levels, taking copper or increasing your copper intake or taking copper peptide GHK might also improve your iron status through increased iron absorption and iron metabolism. So copper regulates iron metabolism. So if you're just low in iron, it might not be iron deficiency, it might also be copper deficiency. But um in a lot of cases, you just need both. You might need both. So eating red meat, eating liver are easiest ways to increase iron status. But adding copper GHK can also be useful in that. But the main reason people take copper GHK is for the skin anti-aging benefits. And the evidence for that is quite compelling. Right now it's mostly animal-based research, but um I've tried GHK as a serum, as an oral supplement. The serum is better. So topical GHK is better for skin ant anti-aging benefits. Um so I think it's good. So I like it but uh the human evidence is uh quite limited as of now. So I'll put it in okay tier based on the evidence right now. Iodine so many people take it for thyroid health. Now iodine supplementation is good during pregnancy especially if the woman is uh the mother is potentially low in iodine. So that can prevent let's say intellectual deficiencies. Uh if you are taking iodine as a pregnant woman but it's not again so in the past people had the impression that you just take iodine and it's going to fix your hypothyroidism. Now, yeah, iodine deficiency can sometimes be a cause for low thyroid, but in most cases, it's just calorie restriction or carbohydrate restriction that causes uh thyroid dysfunction or low thyroid function. So, I don't think boosting iodine will really do it. Uh and uh high iodine levels actually can increase the risk of autoimmunity. So it's not something that you really want to do unless you're a pregnant woman who is low in iodine and your iodine demands increase during pregnancy. So I can't put it into the bad tier because of that. Uh but it's okay. Calcium calcium supplementation is associated with increased cardiovascular events. So again I don't think it's a healthy thing to take for most people. So uh I'll put it in the bat tier. But uh calcium is useful if you're postmenopausal and you have low bone density for example and you're not eating any dairy. The easiest way to get calcium is just eat dairy or eat bones and uh these kind of things. But uh the other alternative is to take a calcium supplement beta-alanine. So uh potentially useful for sports performance by buffering lactic acid. It also produces carnosine. So if you take carnosine, it has low bioavailability, but beta-alanine makes carnosine in your body. So or it gets converted to carnosine and it might even have some cholesterol lowering effects. So I'll put it in a good tier. So exercise performance potentially skin antaging benefits as well through carnosine. But the issue is that it makes your skin itch. So uh this is the kind of itchy feeling you get from some supplements. HMBB. So most useful for reducing muscle breakdown for elderly people. It doesn't have that much benefits for otherwise healthy individuals and younger individuals. So I'll put it okay. It's good for sarcopenic elderly people. It's okay for or yeah I'll put it good tier because the only people I would recommend to take it would be older people older than 60 65 who have lower muscle mass or they want to ensure good muscle mass. Saffron mostly for mental health benefits. There was a recent study that saw that saffron supplementation was seen to be the most effective for depression symptoms, but it was also combined with an SSRI. So, it might be a good addition to other, let's say, medications, depression medications. Uh, I haven't tried it myself, so I don't know what would my experience be, but uh I see little value as a let's say otherwise healthy person to take it. So, I'll put it okay. I don't think it has any harmful probably harmful effects similar to ginkoiloba that you know it might have benefits but um normal healthy people probably don't notice anything probiotics you know most probiotics are going to be bad and uh they tend to be just you know different strains you don't know necessarily which strains you need you know unless you do a gut microbiome test and then you get specific probiotics to your need then uh most probiotics are not going to be useful. They're going to be in the bad tier. The only exception to it is like something like seed that's actually been it has clinical evidence that it actually on the specific probiotic. So, it's the most clinically validated probiotic out there, but most probiotics are bad in my opinion. It's better to eat fermented foods, lots of fiber and those kind of things in my opinion. But seed would be a good in my opinion the supplement. and but they're not they're not sponsoring me or anything like that. This is my just personal opinion. Um I've tried seed a lot a lot of times in the past and it's uh pretty good prebiotics. So these are like inulin and this chory root and those kind of things. I think they're also bad especially their supplements. You know some people even can't tolerate prebiotic foods like onions and chory root. They'll get some gut problems from them and the prebiotic supplements would be probably worse than that. So that's why I wouldn't recommend um in that case narokinise. So uh mostly for blood clotting and um reducing blood viscosity. There's some interesting studies that it might reduce aththeroscotic plaque but um I personally believe that it does based on the evidence that I've seen but we need some more clinical trials that to differentiate between the doses and see okay what is the effective dose but I think it's good because it reduces blood viscosity and people who have high risk of blood clotting young people don't need to take it unless they have heart disease right But um uh it's becomes more useful after the age of 50 for men especially who have higher risk of blood clotting. And the last supplement is digestive enzymes. Now personally I don't find digestive enzymes useful at all. I have no digestive issues. So I don't notice any effect if I take them. Now some people swear by them that it helps them a lot. So in that sense they can be good. They're obviously not going to be gut tier, but they can be good for some individuals who have digestive issues. For me, they don't do uh the trick because I don't I don't have any gut problems or digestive issues. So, put it in the I guess I'll put it in the okay tier because if you take it then nothing's going to happen. And the last supplement I forgot to add. So, this should be aanthin, not melatonin. But imagine that it's aanthin. Asexanthin is got here in my opinion uh because yeah it also has some evidence for skin wrinkles. It protects your skin against UV radiation and uh might help with inflammation levels as well. But otherwise healthy people the biggest reason you would want to take ain is for skin antaging benefits and reduce the risk of sunburn. All right. So this is the list as you can see. Got tier supplements. My favorites glycine, ng torine, creatine, turmeric, ashwagandha, melatonin, B vitamins, lutein, zigzanthin, bourberine, vitamin D, magnesium types, melatonin, uh sorry, this has vitamin K2, whey protein, psyllium husk, age, garlic extract, and omega-3s. And um yeah, obviously you don't have to take all of these supplements. I personally take only five, six of these ones in the gut tier like lysine, TMG, creatine, occasionally, whey protein, etc. So, you obviously don't need to take all of them. I'm not saying any of that. But yeah, just this is my opinion of based on the research that I've done. I've spent hundreds of hours going through the studies looking at what are the effects of these supplements out there and are there any actually human clinical trials. I try to make this list based on the human clinical trials because that's considered the highest quality of evidence and uh when there is limited evidence from human trials, I put it in the okay tier. So that's my rationale behind it. So yeah, there you have it. Thanks for watching this video. If you want to know the top 15 supplements that actually have evidence and you might want to take, then check out this video