! Vkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkgkg are always telling you that you're not healthy because you're eating this one single food or you're not taking this supplement. But the truth is, no single food or single supplement is going to fix you. They're just farming for clicks and controversy. In reality, optimal biomarkers and health comes down to these six health pillars. Number one, balanced training. Number two, moderate nutrition. Number three, adequate sleep. Number four, circadian rhythm alignment and consistency. Number five, adequate hydration. And number six, daily movement. So in this video, I'm going to break down how exactly I got perfect blood markers and health markers and the simple habits that make the biggest difference on your metabolic health, inflammation and long-term longevity. Let's start with exercise. From age 20 to 28, I trained quite a lot, probably seven to 10 hours of exercise per week. I did build quite a good amount of muscle during that time and I think I reached what I would consider my maximum peak muscle mass as a natural back in 2021. I was around 86 kilograms lean. Nowadays, I've managed to maintain relatively the same muscle strength with only about four hours of exercise per week. I'm now 81 kilograms while being slightly leaner, but with also a bit less muscle. Over time, I realized something very important. Focusing only on muscle and strength is optimal for general health markers. Things like cholesterol, liver enzymes, visceral fat and metabolic health can sometimes worsen if your training is too one-dimensional. Yes, muscle in the general population is associated with a lower mortality risk. A huge meta-analysis of two million people recently confirmed this. But long-term health isn't just about one single metric, such as muscle. It's about balancing as many healthy biomarkers as possible. Since 2021, I've shifted my training to be more balanced. I'm doing a mix of strength training and cardiovascular exercise in a more equal footing. Yes, I've lost muscle and strength because I'm doing less strength training and I'm doing more cardio, which is to be expected. But my biomarkers had improved significantly as a result of that. My blood work wasn't bad back in 2021, but it's significantly better now. Visceral fat is down by about 86.5%, LDL cholesterol down by about 62.5%, ApoB down by 51%, and my hemoglobin A1c is down by 9.3%. And the surprising thing is that I achieved this while working out less. Studies show that moderate strength levels already provide most of the longevity benefits, but cardiorespiratory fitness continues to improve survival all the way to very high levels. In other words, strength matters, but high cardiovascular fitness is one of the strongest predictors of long-term health. Ideally, you want both, but head-to-head, cardiorespiratory fitness matters more. When I looked at my own data, I realized something. My strength was already in the advanced range, but my B2 max was only intermediate. So the smartest move wasn't to keep chasing more muscle and strength. It was to improve my cardiovascular fitness while maintaining strength. And that's exactly what I did. Here's my workout plan right now. Three times a week resistance training, either weightlifting or calisthenics. Once a week, some HIIT or sprint workout to maintain speed and explosiveness. One to two times a week, zone-to-cardio with either jogging, cycling, or hiking with a weight at best. And I'm still walking around 8 to 12k steps a day, depending on the day. The big difference is that my workouts are shorter but more efficient. Most of the muscle building signal actually comes from the first few sets of an exercise. After about three hard sets, the additional benefit drops off quickly, while fatigue and recovery demand increases. The same idea applies to exercise selection. You could do isolated biceps curls to build your arms. Or you could do pull-ups or rows, which train your biceps, your forearms, your lats, and back all at once. So I focus on movements that give the biggest return. Instead of doing isolation exercises that much, I focus on the main compound lifts that train multiple muscle groups at once. You get the point. Focus on the things that get you better results and faster. Here's how to do it. Focus on strength and higher intensities. Focus on the first three sets of the exercise that get the biggest growth signal. These are supposed to be your hardest, heaviest sets. Focus on the compound exercises that target multiple muscle groups like squats, pull-ups, overhead press, deadlift, bench, sprinting, etc. For cardio, focus on doing high-intensity interval training and add zone to cardio according to how much time you have. Now, let's talk about diet. What matters ultimately isn't the diet label that you have. What matters is what your blood work looks like. Because your blood work and biomarkers tell you actually your inner health. It doesn't matter what you eat if your inside is unhealthy. You could follow a perfect diet on paper, but if your blood pressure is high, your blood sugar is elevated, or your lipids are poor, then that diet isn't actually working for your health in the long term. You might feel fine right now, but it's not going to stay the same over the course of decades. So instead of obsessing about diet ideologies and talking about is this food bad or good, I focus on the biomarkers. And your biomarkers are influenced by more things than just the diet. Your biomarkers are the bigger picture of your entire lifestyle. Yes, generally you want to eat unprocessed foods like fish, meat, vegetables, fruit, or minimally processed foods like yogurt, olive oil, cheese. However, what I've noticed that as ironic as it sounds, a more balanced diet tends to result in the best blood work and other health metrics. Without the ultra-processed food, of course, you could get away with a little bit of ultra-processed food, but it doesn't really improve your biomarkers. My own biomarkers improved when I made these changes to my diet, in addition to the exercise changes, of course. Eating a moderate to high-carbohydrate diet to support my exercise. Being a lean and healthy physically active person, there's no reason for me to be on a low-carb diet. By increasing my carb intake from less than 100 grams to 200 to 300 grams, I got leaner, stronger, and better blood work. There's no need to eat a ton of protein. The excess is just converted to glucose and wasted for energy. Instead of eating 1 gram per pound or 2.2 grams per kilogram of protein, you don't need more than 1.6 grams per kilogram or 0.73 grams per pound. You would have better gym performance by eating more carbs instead. Fiber is underrated with all things blood work. I increased my fiber from around 25 grams to 40 to 50 grams, and my lipids got better, my digestion got better, I get zero bloating and gas compared to eating low-carb, and I lost more fat. Sure, some people might have problems digesting fibers and plants, but that doesn't mean it applies to everyone. I eat a ton of different fibers and plants, and things are just better. I don't add a ton of added fats. I think adding fats ought to be done just to increase your calorie intake. There's no physiological requirement for over 30% of your calories as fat. I get around 70 to 80 grams of fat per day, mostly from the whole food, and I don't add that much extra fat, with the exception of maybe some olive oil. The newest research also shows that there's no significant difference between low-fat and high-fat diets on testosterone and other sex hormones. As long as you're not eating like 10 to 20 grams of fat, you'll be fine with enough energy and a balanced diet. In fact, low-carb, high-protein diets result in lower testosterone in men, especially if you exercise. So my approach is pretty simple. Eat mostly whole foods, keep the diet and macros balanced, and then use your blood work as a reference guide to improve your diet and your blood work. Because at the end of the day, the best diet for you isn't based on someone's ideology. It's based on what produces the best health markers for you. Let's talk about sleep. A great illustration of the importance of sleep is this study. Researchers compared people sleeping 5.5 hours versus 8.5 hours per night during a calorie-restricted diet. Both groups lost about 3 kilograms of body weight, but what they lost was completely different. The well-rested group lost mostly fat. The sleep-restricted group lost mostly muscle. In fact, about 80% of the weight lost by the sleep-deprived group came from lean mass, not fat. So you could be putting a lot of effort into your health and routines, but get worse results over time because you're not sleeping enough. And sleep also affects many different blood markers, such as blood sugar inflammation, testosterone, and general recovery. I'm not going to go into all the details of how to improve your sleep, but the main ideas are go to bed around the same time, within 30 to 40 minutes every day for better sleep consistency. Wake up around the same time, ideally without an alarm clock. Aim for 7 hours at minimum and up to 8 hours. If you undersleep for whatever reason, or you can't fall back asleep after 5 or 6 hours, then take an afternoon nap for 15 to 30 minutes to catch up. But sleep is also heavily influenced by the circadian rhythms. I personally am a big fan of the circadian rhythms because I think they're very underrated for general health, and humans are diurnal creatures, which means that we're supposed to be active during the day and sleep at night. Get 10 minutes of daylight exposure after waking up to start your circadian rhythm. Spend time outside for at least 30 minutes a day at minimum. Even if it's cloudy, go outside. Block artificial blue light one hour before bed. Dim down the lights and sleep in complete darkness. Stop eating four hours before bed for better sleep, lower heart rate, and better digestion. These things will directly improve your sleep, and in so doing, it will improve everything else, because you sleep better. The key here is consistency. Going to bed and waking up around the same time appears to be as important as the total sleep duration. Let's talk about hydration. On social media, the common take is that if you drink plain water, then you're not hydrating yourself. That you need less water and more salt and more electrolytes. Yes, hydration does require electrolytes, but you can't hydrate yourself without water. Hydra is water. Of course, you could be drinking liters of plain distilled water and not feel any better. And I do think that the best water you can drink is mineral water, with low-dose sodium and other electrolytes. But you don't need to be taking electrolyte supplements or add salt to your every sip of water. As long as your food contains minerals and electrolytes, you don't necessarily need electrolytes in your water, unless you exercise and sweat a lot. Not hydrating properly will worsen kidney function, and you can see it in people's blood work by looking at their creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. It's not a pathological concern, like diabetes or high blood pressure, but chronically depriving yourself of adequate water is just not optimal for brain performance or gym performance. And it's also important for skin dehydration, because the skin is the last organ that's going to soak up water. The brain comes first. I'm not advocating for sipping water all throughout the day and then going to the bathroom every 10 to 15 minutes. If you're going to the bathroom every 30 to 60 minutes, then you're overdoing it. A simple rule of thumb is to look at your urine color. If it's very dark yellow, you're probably underhydrated. If it's very clear all the time, you might be drinking too much. The sweet spot is not yellow, but slightly yellowish tint or slightly see-through. For most people, total fluid intake ends up being around 2 to 3 liters per day, and that includes water from foods, things like fruit, vegetables, soups, and other drinks, so it doesn't have to come entirely from plain water. The last thing I want to talk about is walking. Sounds super simple and useless, but it's one of the easiest things you can do to improve your health. Walking stimulates lymph flow, as well as helps to pump blood back up to the heart via the soleus muscles, aka the second heart. If you're sitting on sedentary all day, you get stagnant blood flow, and that can lead to poor circulation and risk of blood clots. People who walk 8,700 steps a day see a 60% lower mortality risk than people who walk 2,000 steps a day. It's simple, just an extra hour of physical activity throughout the day, when you're shopping, walking the dog, or doing house chores. Going for up to 16,000 steps provides an additional 5% benefit, so it is better to walk more, but it's not going to provide that much extra benefits. Walking also helps to lower your blood sugar, lowers your lipids, lowers your blood pressure, so it's a no-brainer. Just walk at least 8,000 to 10,000 steps a day, maybe 12k steps if you like it or you're doing something more active. As you can see, I don't have a super strict routine. I've just spent years researching this topic, and I've figured out what's the best ratios for exercise, diet, supplements, sleep, and general lifestyle. I've also tracked hundreds of blood markers to prove that it works, instead of just telling you, trust me, bro. People underestimate the power of consistency with these simple steps. Sleep 7 to 8 hours, lift 3 times a week, sprint 1 to 2 times a week, walk 8 to 10k steps a day, get some morning sunlight, drink 2 to 3 liters of water per day, stop food 3 to 4 hours before bed, and eat mostly whole foods. If you want to learn more about how to improve your biological age and overall health span without spending hours at the gym, without spending thousands on supplements, and get yourself to top 1% of health without obsessing about it, then check out my online community, Youth Man Society. It's where you can learn more detailed programs and protocols from me. Link in the description.