how much you eat, what you eat, and when do you eat, which one is the most important, which one is the least important. >> I think a lot of people benefit from higher protein intakes. I think where the protein is coming from is really >> Going to a podcast and getting coffee is bad without any context or whatever. >> Unless it's my coffee. >> Yeah, unless it's my coffee, of course. >> Okay, Greg Seam, thanks for being here. So, because uh there might be a group of people that don't know who you are, be curious if you guys could uh give me a bit of background on uh I guess your educational background. Just a few minutes on that and uh generally Yeah, I guess just generally who you are. >> Yeah, Greg, you can start. >> Thanks, C. Hello, everyone. I'm Greg. In terms of educational background, did my undergrad in sport and exercise science at Lbury University and around that time I first started coaching people too. Worked primarily with 100200 meter sprinters. And then also really deepened my interest in science and I did a project that was sponsored by the physiological society that was looking at relationships between skeletal muscle fiber composition and sprinting and jumping performance and then continued down that path doing an exercise physiology masters at the same university. carried on coaching but around that time I realized that I wanted to broaden my understanding of the various factors that affect long-term health and performance and so I was looking at PhD opportunities and found one at University of Leeds which was basically about the intersection between how we sleep our biological rhythms how we eat and our metabolic health and about halfway through that I started working with various different businesses one in particular I was the content director at a digital health platform called human OS and since that time having graduated in 2018 I've been involved in many different projects but most relevant to today co-founded a nutrition business in 2020 which was called Resilient Nutrition. I was the chief science officer there and I was in charge of all the science education stuff and formulating the products and nowadays I'm the cso of a North American supplement startup which is trying to help people live longer through careful selection of neuticals and over the years I've coached people across a big spectrum everyone from high functioning athletes to people with complex chronic health conditions And in terms of other projects, I do a little bit of public speaking. I work with a data science business which is trying to build predictive models to forecast change in chronic disease risk based on variables such as blood data. And I also help out with various different science communication projects which is largely on an ad hoc basis and I help a business that runs retreats. So, I'll pause there, but the common theme that runs through everything is how do you help people sustainably support their long-term health and performance through personalized interventions? >> Yeah, that's great. I honestly I didn't know some of that background about you, Craig. That's awesome. Thanks for sharing. Yeah, I'm a seam and uh I have a background in anthropology which yeah I studied many years ago and you know anthropology is just a study of humans in general that it involves many different aspects and uh yeah after studying anthropology I started to do like content online uh full-time and uh yeah I've been doing YouTube for, you know, eight years. Oh, actually, uh, nine years by now. So, yeah, I'm a pretty long-term YouTube content creator. I've written multiple books, not on just nutrition, but also, uh, just health and fitness and, uh, nine books uh, by now. So, yeah, I've been researching uh, nutrition for, you know, over 10 years. At this point, I'm uh involved with a few companies as well that are going to be launching later, but yeah, it's in the realm of um health span and uh longevity optimization. So, uh yeah, that's kind of the short uh story. >> Only nine books, you slacker. >> Well, the 10th one is coming out later soon. then then I can uh you know say that I'm finished. >> On average, how long does it take you to write a book? >> Uh depends on the book. >> Let's say um my longest book, The Longevity Leap, which is the LA last one, took me eight months. It's like 500 pages, but I was writing a pretty much eight hours a day. >> Wow. >> For for for eight, nine months. >> Yeah. And uh the other ones might take a a bit shorter. So maybe four four months. >> Yeah. Yeah, that's a lot of work. Yeah. 10 books, nine books. I I don't know if I if I'd have that in me. That's uh it's pretty impressive. Um okay. Well, I guess the uh the topic that we're going to be talking about today is nutrition. So, we've done a few other podcasts. We've discussed uh the supplementation side of things, the exercise side of things, and today we're going to be discussing the nutrition aspect of things. So, I'm going to run through uh what I think kind of some questions that I've been thinking about for quite some time and I think some questions that hopefully will help the average person as well as the person that's trying to kind of extend to the extremes because you have uh especially in in the YouTube world, I know Seam knows this quite well and Greg knows this too, that uh you're going to have groups of people that aren't looking for the average, they're also looking for how to push the limits. So, we'll try to address both uh within within the context of a single podcast. So, let me start out with a kind of a uh a hypothetical question. So, let's say you're in a social setting and someone finds out that you're a leading health expert. So, you just gave them the exact spiel that uh we just gave. And then they ask you, well, what is the best diet? How would you respond? And I have a very particular answer for this, but I'm especially interested to hear how you guys would respond to that question. So, again, what is the best diet? Let's start with you, Greg. >> Well, someone asked me that question, I'd say, I'm really sorry. I really need a pee. And then I just try and avoid them the rest of the evening. >> Okay. Great. Okay. You see him? >> If it was forced on me, then I would give them a predictably boring, nuanced answer. And I would say that it of course depends on lots of factors. A few of those, not all of them, include what the person's goals are. For example, someone who's trying to build muscle as quickly as possible is going to take a different strategy from someone who's trying to navigate some sort of chronic health condition. Another would be someone's current health status. If you have type 2 diabetes, then that might influence various aspects of your nutrition. Someone who is pregnant or breastfeeding has different nutrient needs and also how they eat is going to influence various different metabolic and taste preference parameters in their offspring too. Then one would be ancestry and this isn't something that we understand that well but there's a little bit of evidence suggesting that someone's genetic background might be helpful in personalizing some aspects of their nutrition. There's research relating to things like how well people desaturate fatty acids and the number of copies of salivary alpha amalayise they have and therefore how they respond to carbohydrate intake and so on. Another would just be someone's taste preferences. Not going to force a diet on someone if the person hates the food that is present in the diet. Another will be someone's values. If for example someone is really interested in animal welfare and environment sustainability, then that might shape their food choices. Whereas if someone has just been following all the carnivores on YouTube, they might be a bit less fussed about that stuff. And then what has this person tried previously? if they haven't had success with a type of dietary strategy that I might otherwise have suggested, then that probably isn't going to make much sense for them. And then just panning back, I'd say in terms of the general dimensions of nutrition, and we can actually apply this across different lifestyle domains. I'd take a similar framework for sleep and physical activity, too. I think there are a few dimensions that matter. So one of those would be the diet composition and we can break that down in various ways but it includes obviously things like the nutrition. So the macronutrition, carbohydrate, fat, protein, alcohol and the micronutrition too. But there are also other factors in food that will influence various aspects of someone's biology. And those could include chemicals that are present in fungi, polyphenols, in plants, zuochemicals in animal foods. The list goes on. Another dimension would just be timing. And that's something that's only really received attention in recent years. And we can frame that in different ways. Commonly people speak about what is colloally referred to as the eating window. So the time lapse between when you first start consuming something that contains calories on a given day and when you finish your final calories for the day. I would call that the caloric period just because I'm a nerd. But within that we can also look at the distribution of someone's energy intake. So you could have a fixed caloric period where in two conditions someone's eating from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. an 8 hour window. But in one condition much of the energy is front-loaded within that window and in another it's loaded towards the end of the window. And then you could separately have an energy domain but I put that in the composition bucket. And then finally there's one kind of meta domain that applies to all of those which is regularity. So, how consistent is someone's diet timing? And how consistent is their diet composition from day to day? And by this point, the person would have fallen asleep and then they wouldn't want to speak to me. So, I still would have won. That's an excellent answer, especially the last bit. No. Um, yeah, I the way I think about it is actually very similar to to what you were getting to that there's so much nuance to it uh that you'd have to dig in deeper. So, I would say that I mean I I had a much shorter answer at like like a dinner party or social setting. I would just say that uh that's that's impossible to answer in this short conversation that we're going to have here. um simply because of all the the reasons that you laid out, you know, looking at timing, looking at the circumstance, looking at the time of day. I mean, there's all kinds of different things that uh that you can that you can uh take into consideration. I don't know. What about uh what about you, Seam? How do you think about it? >> Yeah, I agree with that. It's, you know, super complex and super context dependent to the individual. I mean the main framework and the principles are going to be very similar but there's always going to be these small nuances in macros and um types of foods they eat and u meal frequency etc that depend on the individual but I would like to maybe let's say frame it uh the way I was on Matt Kberlin's podcast a few months ago who is one of the more renowned longevity researchers and he asked me like okay if you were to rank how much you eat, what you eat, and when do you eat, how in in importance, which one is the most important, which one is the least important. Then I said what you eat and how much you eat, they're very equally important. But at the end of the day, it still matters how much you eat. And that that is still the most important thing because that determines whether you're gaining weight or losing weight and whether or not you're going to become obese or stay at a leaner body composition. And if we understand anything about health, then it is that obesity is bad. That being obese cuts down on your life expectancy and increases the risk of pretty much all other chronic diseases. So the number one goal of the diet would be to avoid obesity and excess adiposity. Now how much body fat do you need? That depends on your biological sex. Like are you male or female? There's research that for females it matters a lot less how much body fat they have as long as they're not super obese. For males it appears that you need to be slightly more leaner for health benefits. But yeah, how much you eat determines your adiposity regardless of what you eat so to say. Okay. So, if you're eating a very healthy diet, whatever you think that is, you're eating only whole foods or you're eating only meat or you're eating only plant foods. If you eat too much, then uh you're going to be gaining weight and that's going to eventually harm your overall health. It's going to eventually result in excess visceral fat, excess adiposity, worse metabolic health, worse inflammation, etc. So the number one thing is at the top would be how much you eat maintaining a semic calorie balance and just adjusting your calorie intake based on your body fat percentages. That's how I just like to rule that okay I see that you're gaining too much body fat reduce your food intake or increase your energy expenditure or something like that. If you see that you're becoming too skinny or too frail, you you want to build muscle, then you just need to increase the calorie intake or increase carbohydrate or protein intake, whatever the case uh may be. The second thing is, you know, what you eat and um generally it doesn't have to be something that is perfect. There's a lot of thought that you need to be on this 100% puritan uh diet that uh nothing is processed and that everything is 100% grass-fed or organic whole food. I don't think that's the the case. If your diet is 80% whole food, then that 20% of whatever processed foods isn't going to undermine the other components of your diet. And as long as you're in a calorie balance is not going to undermine your health as well. Now, there are some little nuances there. If you're lean, but you drink too much alcohol, which does contain calories, then uh you might gain too much visceral fat or you might have a little bit of fatty liver or too much uh or too much too high triglycerides, whatever it is. So, your blood work can still be suboptimal even at a lean body composition if you drink too much alcohol, for example. And that can apply to some other processed foods as well. you might be otherwise healthy and lean but you consume too much sugar and you have pre-diabetic blood sugar levels or something like that. So there is you know still a principle of uh eating predominantly whole foods that I think should be followed but it doesn't have to be 100% perfect. If it's 20% processed foods, 80% whole foods, I think that for most people is uh like possible, but generally like let's say 90% whole foods, 10% some processed foods is going to be realistic for the average person because uh it's just more yeah easier to adopt in the modern world where there is a lot of processed foods. You're not going to be always able to eat your grass-fed steak with organic vegetables. So you there is needs to be some flexibility as well. And as long as you're not, I guess, mentally afraid or very stuck, very stubborn about your diet, then uh you can pull off with, you know, let's say a 10% suboptimal diet because it's not going to undermine the rest of your diet. And the last component is uh when you eat, you know, I'm a huge fan of intermittent fasting. I'm a huge fan of circadian rhythms and time restricted eating. And I do think that it has an important role in health, but I would still put it at the bottom of the totem pole that it's important, but it's not the most important thing. Calories matter the most. What you eat comes then. And the last part is when you eat. So the general framework here would be that don't eat in the middle of the night at the biological nighttime for humans that you want to consume most of your calories or or all of your calories during the biological daytime. You don't need to do some sort of intermittent fasting but uh you know let's say within 1 hour of waking until few hours before bed should be the eating window for uh most people. Now of course some people can't follow that that they're doing shift work or they have some jet lag or something like that. then there are ways to uh go around it. But uh generally you should try to eat in a way that makes you consume 99% of your calories during the biological daytime. I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices which are the bond charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longer influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bone Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most REA therapy devices don't have the right wavelengths of light, which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bon Charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to buncharge.com and use the code seam s iim for a 15% discount. >> That is an incredibly good answer. Um I I love the rank order of how you think about that. Uh because I think in a short conversation I would have with someone if I was forced into giving an answer that would be exactly how I'd think about it too. looking at the amount of consumption then the what's involved in that consumption what are the the nutrients and then from there looking at timing and on the timing front uh if I can just dig into that just a little bit more before we go on to the the other questions cuz this is something that I've thought about a good amount in relation to intermittent fasting. I think you guys would have uh a a really great perspective on this that may be something I've never considered. There's I don't know if you guys have run across the literature showing that uh intermittent fasting tends to be this is this is the way it's it's put out there. It's not necessarily my opinion or the way I think about it, but that intermittent fasting is more beneficial if a person consumes their food earlier in the day compared to later in the day. Have you guys run across that literature or just run across that idea? Well, Craig is the Mr. Time sheet eating. Yeah, for sure. >> Nick, if if you wanted to, you could find hours and hours and hours of podcasts of me boring people to tears about that subject. So, yeah, I've come across it. >> Okay. Okay, good. So, that's great. Could could you could you quote unquote bore us with with with with your take uh now because I I I would be genuinely really interested in that. Well, I I'll give you a hot take, but I'll first just return to something that seemed first raised, and that is just that we need to bear in mind that these different dimensions speak to each other and these different pyramids have been around for a while where people try to rank the relative importance of different things and Eric Helms published one of those probably about a decade ago now, which largely aligns with what you guys were saying. But I think what is sometimes missed in that conversation and I agree for the most part with what he said and what you guys were saying there is that these different dimensions do speak to each other. And actually if you speak about focusing on energy intake then that can cause people to start thinking well okay I will just start trying to count calories then so that I hit my energy intake target and then within that I can eat what I want. And that's typical of a type of I if FYM if it fits your macros approach and that can work well for some people but some people really struggle with that type of approach too. And so I just emphasize that sometimes if you focus on timing and macro nutrition or specific food choices then energy intake comes along for the ride. And you see that with timerestricted eating across different studies on average if people use timerestricted eating which depending on how we define it is confining all your daily calorie intake to a period of 12 hours or less each day. Whereas in my mind intermittent fasting is something different. It's occasional use of a fast of 24 hours or longer. But that's not the way that most people use that term. But if people use time restricted eating they'll slightly reduce their food intake. And then similarly if people were focusing on say consuming more dietary protein or more dietary fiber then they would tend to reduce their total energy intake too relative to how they were eating previously. So just something to bear in mind in terms of timerestricted eating and early versus late time restricted eating. I do think that there are some small benefits to be had from front-loading intake for many people, but the effects are modest. The early work on this that was compelling was done by Courtney Peterson and she published some work on this in one of the cell journals in 2018. It was done in adult men with pre-diabetes. And she had these guys restrict their food intake such that they were finishing their daily food intake by 3 p.m. And within a relatively short period of time, they had a dramatic change in their blood pressure. There was about a 10 mm drop in 10 mm of mercury drop in blood pressure, which is equivalent to what you get from a lot of hypotensive drugs. And they also had some improvements in insulin sensitivity and some markers of inflammation. And importantly in that particular study, they tried to control the diet such that they didn't change their total energy intake. So those effects were independent of any change in energy intake. And there probably was a small effect on energy intake, but it was very modest and it certainly didn't explain those results. and >> what people see eating. >> To me, that study highlights a theme that's come up a few times in that type of research, which is that the people who stand to benefit most from this type of approach are probably people who are relatively sedentary, who don't have great metabolic health. And so for the three of us sat here, do I think that early timerestricted eating would yield any sort of meaningful benefit in our health parameters? No, I don't think it would because it interacts with your physical activity and your general health and a variety of other factors too. The rationale behind frontloading intake in that way is based on circadian circadian biology by and large. If you look for example at oral glucose tolerance then going by work by people like Frank Sheer varies quite a lot over the course of the circadian day and for the most part it's higher in the biological morning than it is in the biological evening and the thermic effect of feeding. So the amount of energy that it takes you to digest and metabolize food tends to be higher in the biological morning too. So you'll burn a little bit more energy, everything else controlled for. There are fluctuations like that across the course of the day that suggest that frontloading intake is going to make some sense. There are some other factors at play too, like there's the second meal effect. The idea being that the previous meal that you've had shortly before your present meal will slightly reduce responses in blood sugar to that second meal. So actually in terms of distribution of energy intake and carbohydrate in particular, I'd argue that the meal where you want to concentrate most of those calories and carbohydrates is probably the second meal of the day, lunch. So having a big lunch works well for a lot of people. However, coming back to physical activity, if for example, someone was working out after they finished the working day, they get to the gym at 6 p.m. and they've tried this type of early time eating approach and then they either skip dinner or they have a tiny dinner after they just depleted loads of muscle glycogen and induced lots of muscle damage and their metabolic health is otherwise good. I don't think that that makes any sense. So you have to take it on a person byperson basis. One thing to bear in mind comes back to what I began this boring answer with which is that we eat different things at different times of day too. And so one of the effects of early time restricted eating might be some modest changes in people's food choices. This hasn't been very clearly shown by the research. I suspect that we would find this given adequate power and appropriate food recall methods. But take the example of alcohol. Not that many people are mainlining beer at breakfast. And so if you're using early time restricted eating and you're having a freakishly early dinner and you're finishing your dinner by 4 p.m. and previously you were having a glass of wine on the sofa at 7:30 p.m. you're probably going to end up drinking less alcohol just as one example. So I think it is going to affect dietary choices too and possibly therefore the quality of someone's diet. But just to reiterate, that hasn't been that well demonstrated yet. That's just one study that I mentioned. There are other studies that we could go into, but I like that because it was very rigorously done. There are two or three other rigorous studies. There are a bunch of null findings to in the literature. There's not really ever been strong evidence that late timerestricted eating, where, for example, someone was beginning their first calorie consumption at 1:00 p.m. and finishing at 9:00 p.m. is superior to early timerestricted eating. One more thing to bear in mind is that this is going to interact with how you distribute the calories and the macronutrients within the eating window too. So take two hypothetical examples. One of them is early time restricted eating and your eating window is from 9:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m. But your 9:00 a.m. dietary event contains 100 calories and then you have a small snack at midday and then your final meal contains 3,000 calories. So it's backloaded within the early window. So, the center of mass of your food intake is actually right around 3 p.m. You could also have late time restricted eating where your window starts at 1:00 p.m. finishes at 10 p.m., but you have all your calories at 1 p.m. and then the rest of the day you eat like a bird and you have a total of 200 calories. Center of mass there is earlier than it is in the early time restricted eating condition. So, as always, there are nuances to this stuff. If you can make early timerestricted eating work, your metabolic health isn't great, you're relatively physically inactive, then I think it's a good strategy for a lot of people. Otherwise, if you want to get some of the benefits of early timerestricted eating, then I'd probably focus more on the distribution of your calories. And so, you can have a longer eating window, but the idea is just that your first couple of meals are probably going to concentrate a lot of your food intake. Yeah, thanks for that. It's a lot of context. Um the I've always been a bit critical maybe I haven't looked at all the literature on this topic but I've been a bit critical of some of the comparisons between the uh late timerestricted versus early timerestricted in that I've always wondered if some of the measurements that researchers do especially in the fasted state the next day isn't biased by the fact of exactly that last point that you pointed out that potentially a person's just backloading a lot of their calories, a lot of their food consumption much later in the day. And if you were to even compare that against a control group uh that is designed to space out their meals across three meals throughout the entire day, then the amount of food that they're consuming at the very end of the day is vastly different from what the group that restricts their consumption to later in the day would uh would be consuming. So doing fasted measurements of like glucose and insulin and using measures like home IR I think could be misleading in terms of how we were interpreting a lot of the benefits that uh that come from some of this uh timerestricted eating or some of the the the the advantages that we give to I suppose we'll say I guess the intermittent fasting period being later in the day as opposed to earlier in the day. So this study that uh that you described, I'm not sure if I I read it, maybe I didn't. Um it's been a while since I've looked at that literature, but I'd be curious. So, so what you're saying is that there are other independent more sensitive metrics that are not dependent on the timing or not dependent on this uh this loading of food at the end of the day versus earlier in the day. We still are able to distinguish that there are maybe some slight benefits with eating food earlier in the day compared to later in the day. Yeah, just to reiterate, I'm just saying that for people with poor metabolic health in general, having an earlier eating window, controlling for everything else tends to lead to slightly greater improvements in metabolic health parameters than putting it later in the day. I just want to pick up on a couple of things that you mentioned there too. So, one is that if you look at some of the null studies, and probably the highest profile of these was in the New England Journal of Medicine a few years ago, they've probably not found anything because the contrast between the groups hasn't been big enough. So, some of these studies that have said, well, timerestricted eating doesn't lead to weight loss or metabolic health improvements. When you look at the eating windows between groups, the people in the control group, their eating window is 12 or 13 hours. And the people in the experimental group, their eating window is 10 hours. And so the difference between groups just just really small. And so to actually see these types of benefits, there needs to be a substantial change between the groups. And that explains some of those null findings, not all of them necessarily. And then you mentioned Homerir, so homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance. Something to bear in mind with these types of studies is that the food that you consume is a time cue, a diet gber that sets many of the clocks in your circadian system, the peripheral clocks that influence all sorts of local processes and tissues such as skeletal muscle, the liver, the gut, and so on. And those clocks basically function to schedule a timet of events each day. When to build things, when to break things out, when to break things down, and so on. And so given that these studies that manipulate food timing going to shift some of those clocks too potentially on top of that when some sort of test is done at the end of an intervention. So let's say that it's a glucose tolerance test the period of time that's elapsed between the final meal on the previous day and the test isn't necessarily standardized which is something that's worth bearing in mind. And so you've potentially got a shift in the timing of those peripheral clocks and you might have a much longer fasting interval from the final meal on the previous day to the test. And so there's some noise that's often not accounted for. I don't want to get bogged down in the experimental weeds, but I just want to highlight that there are nuances to this stuff. And it's actually quite hard, I think, for a lot of people to work out where the weeds are because they they don't have a relevant scientific background and they might not be that familiar with the literature or thought very deeply about those subjects. It's that it's that last point that is the one that I get hung up on because that's that's the one where I question some of the validity of some of the the results that have come out from some of the intermittent fasting literature. Exactly. That that the timing between tests. So the the the ending meal being completely calorie laden versus a meal that's much less calorie laden, but the the calories across the day are still equated. And then the next day you do a fasting measurement of blood sugar, insulin, and then you do some of these proxy measures, and then you try to come to a conclusion with that. To me, it it seems like there's a there's a good opportunity there for us. you use the word noise to get a lot of of noise in those measurements that uh that we're not really accounting for. So, I don't know. Anyway, it was it was great to get your perspective. Um, seam, what how do you feel about the whole late intermittent fasting versus early intermittent fasting considering uh your extensive experience with it? >> Yeah, I've done, you know, different versions of that myself. In a few years ago, I had, you know, 8:00 p.m. dinner or something like that. And my first one at 1:00 p.m. Now I'm doing um an earlier variation. I have my dinner at like 4:00 or 5:00 p.m. and uh first one is 10:00 a.m. So I I do think that from my own experience, an earlier time machine eating window um is better for sleep. At least subjectively, I sleep better. my sleep scores are a bit better and uh maybe digestion a bit better as well. So that's my own subjective experience from that. But I think that um at the end of the day it comes down to the totem pole that uh you know you can't say that someone who is even in a calorie deficit and eating a healthy diet but they're having their eating window quite late in the day that they're somehow unhealthier or that they're in a worse health condition compared to someone who is overeating calories but doing it early in the day. Right? So the hierarchy of these three factors matter still at the end of the day. And unfortunately a lot of the studies yet I feel haven't completely controlled for all these uh factors and uh variables that um that the calorie content I think is a huge uh important aspect here. But you know the problem here is that most people who are doing late time eating they tend to follow the pattern that they are backloading pretty much all their calories later in the day as a diet adherence tool. So the reason they skip food in the early part of the day is that they can have a you know large dinner and and not gain weight because uh it's like a diet adherence tool. It's for some people it's easier to say no to all foods for the entire day and then eat whatever. That's that's one strategy that people like to do. Some people have a different let's say uh preference. But uh I guess that's why most people do late time restricted eating as a diet adherence tool that they have a lot of calories to eat in the dinner without gaining weight so they can eat whatever they want pretty much. And um you know it's hard to there hasn't been like the perfect study to actually I guess uh address that uh component. From a physiological perspective, I do think that having a bit earlier eating window is probably better from like a circadian rhythm perspective because, you know, if you eat the massive dinner at 10 p.m. and you go to bed at 11:00 p.m., let's say, for example, then I do feel that it might shift your circadian rhythm slightly later because uh you know, exercise does do that. If you exercise earlier in the day, you shift your circad rhythm earlier. If you exercise later in the day, you shift it later. Um, so and food is a huge regulator of the circadian clocks as well. So I think that there should at least a few hours before bed where you stop eating. Now you don't have to like have breakfast or anything. You can still skip breakfast and have lunch and dinner, but uh in my opinion, I just it might be better to just not have a dinner immediately before bed. Can I just chime in with a few quick thoughts, Nick? I don't want to get too hung up on this stuff because I realize that there are many other things that we want to get to. But one of the things that I was just thinking about is that having a big dinner is culturally normal in much of Western Europe and North America. And so we have to think about how dietary patterns and food timing interface with norms and with people's lives too. So what seam was saying there, I think a lot of that is just the function of the environments in which we grew up in. And if people are otherwise doing things very well and they end up having the largest proportion of their daily food intake in terms of their meals at their final meal of the day, then it's not a big deal. Another key point is that the size of the eating window does seem to somewhat relate to energy intake. So the smaller the window, the smaller the food intake tends to be. And this raises an important point, which is that time restricted eating isn't for everyone. This is not something that I would recommend to someone who's got history of disordered eating or eating disorders, for example. Someone who has overly restricted their food in some way previously. It's also something that's probably not conducive to achieving an appropriate energy balance in some contexts. So if someone had chronic low energy availability, they had relative energy deficiency, could be in sport, could be another context, and they were trying to get pregnant, saying that they should have an 8 hour eating window, I think, is probably silly for the most part. And then what Seam was saying about the size of the final meal, I this hasn't been studied to my knowledge, even though it's something that I think a lot of people have thought about for years, but I wonder if that interacts with energy availability. So, take an extreme example. You've got someone who's preparing for a bodybuilding contest and deep into their prep, they're ravenous most of the time. And if they go to bed really, really hungry, they're going to struggle to sleep. Well, in that context, might it make sense for them to consume the biggest share of their daily food intake at dinner? I think it might do. So, we just need to bear in mind that type of person specificity. Anyway, I'll pipe down now. >> Yeah, that's good. Um, yeah, we've we've definitely gone down the intermittent fasting rabbit hole, but I think it is it's important. I think a lot of people use it and a lot of people are considering using it. So, it's a it's an area of nutrition that should be discussed. Um, it's funny that we started out by discussing calories. at least seam and I and Greg I think for the most part also we discussed you know the amount of intake is the most important and the the nutrients that you consume and then the timing and then we ended up going down a rabbit hole on on timing specifically it's pretty apt. Um okay so let's move on to the the next question. So, if we were to get more specific, let's say now you had all the time in the world. And I'm breaking this up into three separate goals that a person might have. One of them is one person wants to be in the top 1% of longevity. Uh, another person wants to be in the top 1% of athletics. Uh, and then of course you could probably break that up into the types of athletics as well. And then one person just wants to have general well-being, just wants to be generally healthy, live a pretty long life, but isn't necessarily concerned with every morsel of food that they consume. Um, how would they differ in terms of your approach to giving advice or just general recommendations that you would give uh those three individuals? Do you uh you want to start it off, see? >> Yeah. Well, for athleticism, it depends a lot on the sports. For a sumo wrestler, the diet is different than for a gymnast and a sumo wrestler there. You know, there's research that they have substantially shorter life expectancy than the average Japanese person. >> So, um yeah, let's say not sumo wrestling, but um I don't know, track and field uh because it's kind of similar to a general healthy lifestyle. So they're more similar across the groups. I would say that for an athlete, biggest difference from a general diet is that they just end up eating more carbohydrates and end up eating more calories overall. Now an athlete typically needs to maintain a lower body fat percentage for a better body weight like force ratio. So a track and field athlete is, you know, pretty lean. So they aren't eating a ton of calories, but they're probably eating more calories than an average person who doesn't exercise just because they exercise a lot more. So the biggest differences between the person would be they eat more carbohydrates. They maybe eat more protein because they have more lean muscle tissue and they eat more calories to fuel their workouts. And for an athlete, the meal frequency, I imagine, is also more relevant than to a general person. An athlete you know, depends on the sports specifically, but um if they want to, let's say, maximize muscle anabolism and recovery, then they probably have to end up eating more frequently, especially protein. So, they might have four protein meals a day, spreading out their protein. Whereas for an average person, spreading out the protein is a bit less important. So, they can have, let's say, two, three meals, whereas an athlete might have four, five, six meals depending on their particular situation. And um I don't think an average person needs to be on some low carb diet or restrict all carbohydrates, but um they probably just end up eating less carbohydrates because they're burning less glycogen as well and they're a bit less insulin sensitive. And an athlete probably is able to consume a lot more simple sugars. So they they might have a Gatorade or some sugar gel during their workout to uh replenish their glycogen faster whereas an average person never needs to do that. They don't need to have Skittles during their 30-inut Pilates class or something like that. Um and for yeah general health and longevity it depends also yeah like what you like to eat. If you want to maximize well-being and enjoyment in life, then you also need to consider the enjoyment of eating, you know, when you eat with who you eat, whether or not you consume alcohol or not, and what kind of foods you eat. you know, having pizza with family over a glass of wine or something like that is is a it could be considered like a wellness inter not intervention but a event because you're getting some mental health benefits or relaxation. You're just enjoying yourself. Whereas for an athlete is probably out of the question because they need to focus on their sports especially in like competitive season for it's quite interesting in the top 1% longevity space. You know, some people would argue that, okay, never no alcohol, never pizza, never no kind of a junk food, but I would argue that it's also important in the longevity area because uh because of the socialization and mental health benefits. It's very underrated in uh in like the online longevity discussion, just the just the mental health benefits of, you know, socializing and uh letting it go every once in a while. Now, of course, if you're developing fatty liver and becoming diabetic from eating too much uh processed food or alcohol, then yeah, it's counterproductive. But an otherwise healthy person, they can have a glass of wine, let's say once a week. They can have a slice of pizza once a week, and it shouldn't have any detrimental effects on their blood work or long-term health if they're otherwise healthy. Now, it depends on you. There's a spectrum of people with their health, but let's say a top 1% health individual, they can get away with it, and they don't have to necessarily manically obsess over that. >> So, you don't you essentially don't have to be Brian Johnson to to get into that top 1% then, >> right? >> Okay. Yeah, that that totally makes sense. What about you, Greg? How do you think about it? quite similarly for the most part. I would say comparing those three scenarios the longevity diet is generally going to be the most strict and it might focus on a few things. So it might focus in particular on diet quality. So the density of micronutrients and other healthpromoting substances and food whatever those might be. It might also start to look to some of the different processes that seem to be driving aging and how nutrition intersects with those. I think nutrition is relevant to some of those things like autophagy just to name one example. And then it would probably also focus more on quantification of health parameters and then trying to use nutrition changes to nudge things into ranges that we think are more optimal. So if for example someone's apo and their non-HDL cholesterol are running a bit high then that might indicate certain dietary changes. If someone's triglycerides are a bit high if they're a bit insulin resistance all those types of things. The general well-being approach is going to be a bit like a more flexible version of that and it would be about sustaining health and performance but also with plenty of focus on enjoyment and so I think in this type of instance it's helpful to understand something about how to keep things in check when when you do flex a bit and I mentioned I if FYM earlier I think that one thing that people can take from that irrespective of who they are is that when you do veer off your plan if you have a plan then you're just trying to keep your total food intake in check and maybe have some strategies to support that because it's quite easy for the wheels to come off entirely during certain events Christmas that type of thing and so at those times I would just focus on trying to be quite close to your calorie targets and possibly your protein and fiber targets too if I was to focus on certain things. And then when it comes to athletes, completely agree with what Seam was saying about total energy intake and carbohydrate intake and also the importance of the specific athletic discipline or sport that someone is competing in. But when you put that to the side, the only other things I'd probably mention would be that it can be helpful to have a more targeted approach. So the same way we speak about periodization with training, there's been a lot of discussion about nutritional periodization in the last decade or so. So trying to manipulate in particular macronutrients in accordance with training sessions to facilitate certain outcomes. So doing some training sessions in a state of low carbohydrate availability for example to promote biochemical changes to support fat oxidation just as one instance. And then there are probably some small differences between athletes and non-athletes in addition to their energy needs and maybe the optimal carbohydrate intake in their micronutrient needs. So if you take the example of someone who's sweating a lot and is undergoing loads of muscle contractions, many more than someone who's more sedentary, then they're probably going to need slightly higher levels of certain micronutrients. But I think seem otherwise nailed it and and those be the only things I'd add to that. How about you, Nick? >> I should say Nick the Impala. Sorry for for anybody who's completely confused. That is a pre-podcast discussion. It has to do going back to my murderous tendencies. Um anyway, moving on. Okay. No, I I I think I almost completely agree. I can't think of anything. Um I mean, obviously, if you if we were to have an entire podcast about how to be a top 1% longevity individual, uh there's plenty of nuances that we could get into, but in general, how do we separate the three? I I I agree with how you guys think about it. Um, however, for the vast majority of people who are not necessarily trying to get into that top 1% of either, they're not trying to be uh the the top 1% in their wreck league, uh, where they're absolutely destroying everybody around them, and they're also not necessarily trying to maximize their lifespan at the expense of of uh certain enjoyments. Um, how do you guys think about some of the basics? So, if a person comes to you and they're like, "Okay, here's my goal. I just want to live a long healthy life. I want to be relatively uh happy with my food choices. I I I don't mind making a small adjustments here and there." And you had to rank order the emphasis of how a person should think about things. So, let's uh go with like calories, protein, fat, carbohydrates, micronutrients, things of that nature. Is there h how do you go about advising a person that uh that just wants to live a generally healthy life? And then after that, I'm going to uh dive into that a little bit more, add some more context. >> Yeah. Well, I would start start with uh figuring out how much of let's say what would be their target goals for their body weight to eat. And uh this doesn't have to involve you know tracking and measuring foods and tracking macros. It would initially just involve okay let's figure out what is your optimal body weight. If someone is let's say 10 kilos overweight we need to figure out what would be their ideal body weight for longevity. And uh that's generally pretty easy to figure out. We know like okay certain waist circumference is uh more optimal and hip to waist waist to hip ratio body fat percentage those kind of things. So let's try to get you to an ideal body weight whatever that may be. And the most important thing like I mentioned earlier for that is uh the amount of food you eat. So um doesn't matter what you eat. If you're gaining weight then u you need to eat less or you need to change some other variable that would prevent you from gaining weight and uh help you to reach the ideal body weight. And usually just the means cutting out certain foods or reducing certain uh foods. And um you know the easiest things to cut out are carbohydrates and fats because um you usually don't want to cut out on protein because most people are eating less protein than would be optimal and uh you know carbohydrates aren't inherently essential and uh fat is essential but you don't need like a ton of fat. there's a threshold of fat you need. So if you want to lose weight then uh reducing some of the fat and carbohydrate intake will help you to achieve that. And uh people often times don't know how much carbs and fats certain foods have. So here they could go through like a short period of time of measuring things and quantifying things just to educate themselves about the macronutrient composition of different foods. you know, I've done it a few times in my life. And uh by doing that, you just develop this, you know, third skill or this aspy sense about foods that you you don't need to weigh the food, but because you know, okay, whatever, chicken breast or steak, I approximately know how many calories it has uh because of a past reference and you don't have to weigh it again. But just having skill is something that most people lack. They never weigh the food. They think that you know some people even don't know that I don't know that bread is a high carb food or I think you know most people know that but you know you can imagine that the average person has no idea how much calories a piece of steak has but uh developing that skill is very useful especially for people who want to you know achieve um very uh lean body composition and um and just improve their health or become aware of what they're eating. um for pro. So yeah, just eat as much you need to maintain the optimal body composition. If you need to lose weight, then you need to eat less. If you need to gain weight, you're too underweight, then you just, you know, you can eat more food. The next component would be protein. You know, the research about the optimal amount of protein is I think pretty uh solid or pretty consistent that it's around 1.6 6 g per kilogram per day of of body weight. So that's around uh 0.74 g per pound. So it's a lot less than some bodybuilders recommend, which is the one gram per pound. I think that's more than enough. And for maximum muscle hypertrophy, the intake of 1.6 g per kilogram appears to be enough. Now some people respond better if they eat more but uh for the average person I think that's already more than enough for just general health. Uh if they eat less then that's also fine but uh you know they don't need to eat more protein and then that and then the rest of the calories can come from carbs or fats depending on their insulin sensitivity depending on their exercise demand depending on the preference. if they don't like to eat a lot of I don't know butter or olive oil they can swap it with some carbohydrates or fruits or something like that. Um so yeah the ratios of fats and carbs I think matter the least. The most important thing is the calories. Then the second is protein and the fats and carbs are the third. I do think that the fiber intake is very underrated for the average person. fiber is super beneficial and uh will improve uh the satiety component of dieting. They'll tend to eat less calories. They'll feel more full. They'll have better gut health and uh metabolic health markers also tend to improve with increased fiber intake. So just get a lot of foods from um or get a lot of your let's say calories from fruits and vegetables, berries, whole grains, uh tubers, those kind of things uh are generally positive for the average person. >> That's great. Yeah, that's uh that's a great way to think about it. Um and we're going to get into more specifics on what makes a good or bad protein, good or bad fat, good or bad carbohydrates. So you alluding to to some of that with fiber is a great example. So we'll get into that. Uh Greg, how do you how do you think about it? >> Very similarly fundamentally. So I would also begin by trying to find out what the person is trying to accomplish and typically some of that is going to relate to weight maintenance or weight gain or weight loss and then look at their existing food intake using some sort of appropriate measure and try and understand something about their weight trajectory and then make some changes accordingly. Regarding tracking, I think that it's helpful for almost everyone to track at some point or at least to spend plenty of time understanding food labels for the reasons that Seam pointed out. But after a certain point, you should get to a stage where you just don't have to do any of that stuff because you're not going to look back on your life and think, I wish that I had spent more time on my fitness pal. In terms of the rates of gain and loss, it's going to vary quite a lot between people, but if I had to throw out some generic numbers, then I'd suggest that a rate of loss of no more than about 1% of body mass per week is going to work quite well for a lot of people just because the more rapid the weight loss, the more likely you are to lose fat, free mass, which you're trying to hold on to. The exception to that would be someone who has a lot of adapose tissue at the start. So maybe someone who's got class 2 obesity or class 3 obesity, they've got a very high BMI, they can lose weight more rapidly initially with lower risk of losing fat free mass. But also sometimes if someone's been quite stagnant in their progress for some time, losing weight more rapidly initially can kickstart their motivation and then suddenly they buy more into some of the lifestyle changes that you're trying to suggest. Regarding how you achieve that change in energy balance, there are different ways that you can go about it. So you could prescribe specific macronutrient targets, but I generally don't necessarily start with that and focus a bit more on diet composition. And like Seam said, I tend to start by looking at someone's protein intake. And I think the optimal protein intake varies quite a lot between people. I won't go into that now. We'll come back to it. But because of proteins effects on appetite control, it can be very helpful in the context of weight loss, not just for the retention of fat-free mass. And then fat and carbohydrate, I think you can tinker with as said carbohydrate technically isn't essential, but that doesn't mean that it doesn't serve all sorts of very important functions. The one box that you have to check is just making sure that someone is getting enough of the essential fatty acids. essential meaning that your body can't synthesize them by itself from precursors. So once those are satisfied, you can play around quite a lot with the ratios between fatty carbohydrates, try and come up with something that's appropriate for the person, which might be influenced by some other information that you have about their health status, conditions they're trying to manage, etc. And I find in practice a lot of the advice that I end up giving people that I work with is surprisingly consistent between people. Like a lot of people benefit from increasing the protein content of their breakfast. just as one example. And by reducing the number of liquid calories that they consume, whether it's drinking soft drinks or drinking something that masquerades as being a health food. And then in terms of people who are trying to gain weight, I think the optimal rate of gain is probably going to be a bit lower than the optimal rate of loss just to try and shift the partitioning in favor of gaining relatively more fat-free mass and less fat mass. The exception to that might just be someone who's in a state of chronic low energy availability, in which case the game changes quite a lot and you might try and gain at a faster rate and there might be less guidance about specific food choices and things because you're actually trying to get the person to be more flexible in general and maybe to stop labeling items as good or bad and so on if someone has some disordered eating tendencies. So again, very similar to scene. I think that the sequence that I go through is pretty much identical actually. How about you, Nick? >> Uh, unfortunately, I have to echo everything you guys said again. Um, I guess in a way it's a good thing cuz hopefully it doesn't confuse people. Um, that's that's the way I think about things too. uh that focusing on nutrition patterns, focusing on uh calories, typically getting a person, especially if a person has never counted calories before. Um, you said this earlier, Greg, that you a person doesn't have to count calories. And I think the vast majority of people probably almost definitely don't have to be counting calories, but if you don't have any experience understanding, well, how much you're actually consuming, I think calorie counting and learning how to read a nutrition label can be invaluable. It can really open your eyes in how you generally think about uh nutrition. So, for general health, I think that's a good starting point. Maybe do it for three days. That's how mo like in my nutrition courses they said three days. Do two days within the week and then one day on the weekend at the minimum. Maybe you can extend that out to 7 days. Uh because in the grand scheme of things, you know, 7 days out of your entire life being strict about counting calories and just understanding where you are. That's the starting point. Just get a baseline. Understand your weight. Understand how many calories you're consuming. understanding the macron the macronutrients that you're consuming without trying to make any sort of changes. And once you have that baseline, then from there you can start to make a lot of these adjustments. You have to think to yourself, okay, well, if I eat a lot of vegetables and a lot of fruits, for some reason I get really bloated all the time. Then you can start to get into, okay, well, what foods am I consuming that's that's causing a lot of these like gastrointestinal discomfort, whatnot. So, you address those issues and you get a bit of a baseline on, okay, what kind of foods can I eat? What kind of foods can't I eat? And then you start getting into, okay, now I'm going to start focusing on trying to up my protein, let's say, for breakfast. And just kind of general recommendations like that. And it's it's pretty remarkable, especially for a person who is overweight, how much of a difference that can make. Um, and if a person really likes calorie counting, maybe that's something that they start adopting. But I think for for the vast majority of people that's definitely not necessary. Um if you enjoy it, it's something I enjoy doing. Um so I will be spending the rest of my life in My Fitness Pal. But um for for many others, it's uh it's not for them, which is which is definitely understandable. So yeah, calories and just your general nutrition. Then focusing on protein, just kind of putting in more protein, especially for breakfast and and for lunch. And then fats and carbohydrates. I think they're they're a lot more interchangeable. Obviously, you have to have a certain amount of fats, uh, but it's it's not as much as as people think. And usually, you get that from consuming a lot of the other foods that you're going to be consuming. Um, unless you're specifically consuming an incredibly uh dry plant-based diet. Um, in which case, maybe you won't get the the right fats that you're supposed to get. which actually segus uh perfectly into uh talking about these macronutrients a little bit more specifically. So, we talked about we talked about protein being pretty important and we're actually going to be touching on that uh in in more depth in relation to longevity and and the you know the the different camps of low protein and high protein. I know Greg has quite a few thoughts on that. So, uh tune in for that folks. I'm very curious on on your thoughts on that. But when we think about these three macronutrients, so we've talked about protein a little bit. uh we haven't really discussed fats and we haven't really discussed carbohydrates but when you frame protein fats and carbohydrates what are I hate to use the words good and bad forms but just for simplicity what are good and bad forms of protein that you aim for and what you try to avoid and the same thing with fats and carbohydrates do you want to start us off Greg Yeah, quite a loaded question. I don't want to label foods as being good or bad, but protein is an interesting one because the reality is that depending on which of the protein quality indices that you look at, animal source proteins tend to be higher quality than plant-based ones. and the different protein indices that have been put forward largely relates to two things. One of them is the balance of amino acids in the particular protein. Amino acids being the building blocks of those proteins and another is the digestibility of the protein and therefore how available those amino acids are. And animal sources like eggs and meat and fish and seafood and dairy have wellbalanced profiles with sufficient quantities of all of the essential amino acids that your body can't knit together. And they also don't have lots of things that could interfere with your ability to take up those amino acids. So things like the amino acids being bound to fibers and so on. So they are certainly good protein sources if we put aside some of the other health related factors that come with amino acids. The issue with plants is that there aren't that many plants that are technically complete proteins by themselves because they tend to either be short in the amino acid lysine or methionine. And people have spoken about how maybe this explains some of the disposition for cultures in much of the world to put together grains with pulses, rice and peas or rice and beans that you see in many traditional dietary patterns because by combining those foods, you can balance out those profiles. And on a per meal basis, that does make a lot of sense. But I think when it comes to people who are consuming vegan diets and therefore not consuming any of those animal source proteins actually what really matters is what goes on over the whole day. We have to think about nutrition over longer time scales. I think we get a bit hung up in terms of the day. So if you're thinking about changing your body weight for example the important thing is your energy balance over the week. It's over longer time scales. And with protein, I think the optimal in terms of changes in muscle protein balance would be to have a series of wellspaced bonuses of proteins. Probably the optimal frequency is probably something like one bolus every 4 hours or so. There's this refractory period immediately post ingestion where you can't keep stimulating your muscle to take up more amino acids and Phil Aton and others did a lot of the early work showing that. So, it's something like 04 g of a complete protein source per kilogram of body weight every 4 hours or so. Therefore, one could argue that it would be hard to do that consuming isolated plant foods. And therefore, if you were a vegan bodybuilder, you might need to pay a bit more attention to appropriately combining different sources of plant proteins. But for the vast majority of the population, that's not an issue. And daily intake is the thing that matters. And provided that your diet is quite diverse, you don't need to worry about it too much. I do think that people consuming plant-based diets might need slightly more protein just because of that difference in protein quality. I don't think it'd be a big difference and this hasn't been very well studied, but maybe it's something to the tune of 0.1 or 2 g per kilogram per day to reach equivalent with someone that's consuming animal source proteins, but of course that depends on the distribution and so on. There are rare exceptions where there are a few plant-based proteins that do contain complete amino acid profiles. My favorite is the humble potato. Potatoes actually have a great amino acid profile. Corn is also really high in leucine. So, and leucine is this trigger that basically stimulates the potential to build more muscle tissue. You can think of it as being a bit like a construction site of your skeletal muscles where lucine is like bringing someone in to then order people to put bricks in the wall. And without lucine, you can't initiate that. And one of the reasons why animal source proteins are so good is because of their relatively high lucine content. But there are these exceptional plant foods where they do actually have quite a lot of lucine in them. So that would be something to bear in mind if you're on a vegan diet. But in general, good plant sources of protein include things like various different soy products. And unless you're consuming truly heroic quantities, you don't need to worry about phytoistrogens and stuff. And sources like tempeh and tofu are perfectly good sources. And then otherwise vegans are probably going to get quite a lot of their protein from things like pulses, so lentils and different beans. And it might be that some people also want to include a a protein supplement if they're vegan and they're health concerned. I think they they can be helpful probably more so than the omnivores among us. Not essential necessarily, but if you're struggling to meet your protein targets, then they can be a helpful addition. and choosing something that includes multiple different plant-based sources, I think, makes good sense. There's also a separate category of protein richch foods, namely the insects, which has become something people have been interested in the last few years because they are actually quite protein dense and they don't taste too bad, but obviously the thought of eating insects is enough to make some people squirm. And then in terms of good sources of fat, I think fat often comes along for the ride and you don't need to worry too much about specific sources with the exception of trying to manage specific blood lipid phenotypes. So if your triglycerides were really high for example or your LDL cholesterol was very high. And I think in general favoring leaner cuts of meat is a smart idea for a lot of people because the saturated fat in the meat does tend to drive up LDL and in turn cardiovascular risk a little bit. And when choosing fish, I think having some oily fish each week, if you eat fish happily and you enjoy it, the best fish sources in my opinion are probably the smash fish which some people might have come across. So, sardines, mackerel, anchovies, and salmon, and herring, because they're not that high up the food chain that they've bioaccumulated lots of toxins like mercury, but they're also very rich in pre-formed EPA and DHA, which your body is not very good at making from other fatty acids, including alpha linenic acid, which is technically essential, but it's really the EPA and DHA that are particularly important. And then in terms of dairy, I think it depends on the person. I think a lot of people consuming full fat dairy is fine, but again, if you were trying to manage very high cholesterol levels, then choosing lower fat dairy sources is probably good way to go. Occasionally including some eggs too is I think very beneficial in large part because they're so nutrientdense and because of their choline content. And obviously I'm speaking about foods here that really overlap between the protein and fat categories, but in terms of specific added fats, I think including some nuts and seeds is almost always a very good idea. And I'm a fan of avocados and olives for the most part across whatever we're speaking about. I tend to favor whole food sources as opposed to oils or supplements when possible. But obviously oils are very practical and they can be much cheaper for some people to access. So they certainly have their plates their place. And then in terms of carbohydrate sources, I think the the paleo people who used to be very anti-grains in general were probably a bit misguided with that. And there's definitely a place for whole grains. I think all of the nutritional epidemiology shows that. I'm a particular particularly big fan of oats. The betalucan fiber in them has some very interesting properties. But other whole grains, they're fine, too. And then other pulses, they're great. Fruits and vegetables and fungi, they can all contribute as well. So just focusing primarily on minimally processed whole food sources. And the processing does matter. So if for example you were trying to manage your blood sugar better because you' just been told that you have pre-diabetes and you could be on the path to type two diabetes then in general the more heavily processed the carbohydrate the higher the blood sugar spikes it's going to produce. A good example of this would be something like rice. So if you remove the outside of the rice, then it's going to spike your blood sugar more. Consuming white rice versus brown rice. But also, if you think about other carbohydrate sources like dried fruit versus whole fruit, the whole fruit is going to be preferable, not just for its effects on blood sugar, but also appetite control. So across those different categories, minimal processing tends to be a good thing, but there's plenty of flexibility within that. I'm sorry for the long answer, but yeah, those are my high level thoughts. They might not seem that high level, but they're pretty high level. >> No, that was great. Uh, seam, how do you how do you think about protein, fats, and carbohydrates? Are there particular protein sources or fats or carbohydrate sources that jump out at you as being especially generally beneficial? Yeah, I think I would apply the same hierarchy to protein at least that the most important thing is how much protein you eat. Because if you eat very high quality protein but not enough in enough quantities, then that's suboptimal than consuming an inferior type of protein in sufficient quantities or above the sufficient quantities. And and yeah, like there are, you know, proteins that have more amino acids, higher digestibility, higher quality, so to say, but uh I guess many people get too caught up with uh that that uh higher quality therefore that's the only thing I need to consume because based on that logic, we should we should all be just taking protein powder because protein powder has much higher digestibility and much more amino acids than any other whole food, higher than steak and eggs etc. So um the quantity of protein is the most important thing as I said 1.6 60 g per kilogram appears to be, you know, it's a generally considered like a maximal optimal intake. You can go above that, but it's not inherently necessary. If you are consuming lower quality of proteins that have few amino acids, like more plant proteins, then you probably need more protein in in total to make up for the lower quality. So, it's not that plants, you know, don't have amino acids. They have all the amino acids. Not all of the plant foods have all the amino acids, right? But people eat a mixed diet anyway. So, they're going to get all the amino acids they need. It's just the quantity might be lower in plant foods. But if you eat a sufficient amount of those foods, then you're you're going to meet the required amino acids or the quantities that you uh need. On a plant-based diet, you might need more. I like to think that, okay, if you're eating a plant plant-based diet, then you'll need something like 20 30% more protein to have the same effect as if you were to eat 100% uh animal based uh protein uh intake. And interestingly, yeah, if you were on a animal based diet, then you actually need less protein than someone who is on a vegan diet because of the difference in quality. The higher the quality, the lower the protein demand. And the lower the quality of the protein, the more protein you need. And um yeah, you can get those foods on on a plant-based diet or get the quantities on a plant-based diet uh as well. What I like to think with protein is that yeah, where it's packaged in is also quite relevant because you can get protein from, you know, chicken nuggets or or hot dogs or something like that. But uh generally speaking those foods tend to be more health harming especially in uh large quantities. So they come with trans fats, other preservatives, other ingredients. You know, it doesn't mean that you can't have them in very small amounts, but generally speaking, you want to get your proteins from more whole food uh sources such as, you know, meat, eggs, fish, beans, legumes. And uh personally, I think protein powders, although they're processed, I think they're healthy because uh they don't just have garbage ingredients. You know, of course, some protein powders have a lot of added sugars and yeah, bad ingredients, but generally speaking, protein powders are something that can be a part of a healthy diet. You know, you add one one scoop of protein powder per day, then that is generally healthpromoting. If all of your protein comes from protein powder, then you're probably not going to meet some micronutrients that you would get from uh the actual whole food protein. uh but very ultrarocessed proteins, hot dogs, chicken nuggets, those kind of things uh would you would want to avoid them. From the uh health perspective, it's quite interesting, you know, that historically um it's always seen that animal protein intake is associated with, you know, increased mortality, increased heart disease, etc., and plant proteins are associated with lower mortality. I do think that it's better to lean more towards uh like plant proteins uh from a let's say purely longevity health perspective. But 100% plant protein intake probably isn't optimal either just because in the real world people aren't able to make up for the lack of quality or the lack of some other nutrients that you can't get from plant foods. Now, if you were to be super meticulous about it, maybe you can pull it off, but let's say the average person probably doesn't have the skills or the knowledge to do so. So, theoretically, it's possible probably, but u the average person isn't able to pull it off. And there's there might be like some element with from a longevity perspective, I like to think that the amino acid balance might have some effect on longevity. So specifically the glycine and methionine ratios muscle meat is very high in methionine and much lower in glycine and in animal studies a methionine excess is associated with shorter lifespan and methanis methane restriction extends lifespan. So uh if you eat more plant proteins you're getting less methane. So that might have some explanation that might explain partly why plant proteins are also associated with reduced mortality. But it's not only like the methane that matters, it's the glycine as well. So it's not the excessive amount of methane is more so the lack of glycine to counterbalance that methane. The more methane you eat, the more glycine you also need to balance the the homocyine and some something else that might affect the lifespan pathways. So if you eat more glycine then maybe you can get away with a very high methanine diet which in animal studies they have seen that glycine supplementation even in the presence of high methanine intake can extend lifespan or or doesn't shorten lifespan. So maybe if you just supplement a lot of glycine or supplement a lot of collagen or something like that maybe uh it wouldn't have an effect on longevity. But I do think that very high methane intake is uh at least based on animal models is driving aging or shortens lifespan, maximum lifespan at least. And plant proteins are just much lower in methane. You do you would still need to supplement some glycine on a plant-based diet because you're not getting that much glycine from plant foods either, but at least you're not getting excessive amounts of methane. So, I like a yeah like a mixed protein intake, some beans, some meat, some fish, some eggs, and minimize the ultrarocessed proteins like processed meats, ham, sausages, uh chicken nuggets, and those kind of things. Um, with fats, you know, the worst fats out there are trans fats. I think pretty much everyone agrees about that. For fats, I think the most important thing is the quantities. again, how much fat are you eating? Are you gaining weight from that excess fat intake? Uh, and how it affects your lipids and the blood work because people respond very differently to dietary cholesterol and dietary saturated fat. Some people have very high cholesterol and a levels from um even small amounts of saturated fat whereas others don't. So, it's very individual based. So um you know the ep epidemiological studies would suggest that a higher saturated fat intake might increase the risk of a heart disease but you know what's the causal link there it's the APOB and if your APOB is low while eating a lot of saturated fat I don't think that it you know necessarily will result in a heart disease so the tracking the blood work for for a fat intake I think is a very crucial because people respond very differently to different pets due to genetics Um, but I do think that u getting most of your fats from whole foods is a smarter rather than adding a ton of butter or even a ton of olive oil. So, olive oil is I would consider a healthy oil, but um I wouldn't add like something five tablespoons or 10 tablespoons a day of olive oil to your diet. You generally want to get your fats from the whole foods, meats, fish, eggs, nuts and seeds, avocado, olives, like uh the whole olives are better as well. Um, and I wouldn't really, you know, add a lot of other types of added fats to your diet, mostly because of the calorie intake. Most people don't need a ton of extra calories. So, it's just easier to reduce their calorie intake by cutting out on a ton of uh extra fats and carbohydrates, you know, uh the more processed the carbohydrate, then yeah, the the worse quality it tends to be. So, uh simple sugars, liquid sugars, uh refined grains, so more pastries and uh those kind of things are are the worst typically. And uh vegetables, fruits, berries. I I also agree that whole grains are pretty good. You know, buckwheat, quinoa, sorghum, oats, etc. They're a bit overvilified, I think, in the nutrition space. So, uh you know, oats, they contain a lot of different nutrients, and some of those antiutrients like phytic acid actually have anti-cancer properties. So, I don't think they're that bad. from that scenario. Of course, someone has some food sensitivities towards oats or tomatoes even or whatever the food may be. Yes, for that particular individual, this food isn't suitable, but I don't have any food sensitivities. I can eat tomatoes, I can eat cucumber, I can eat grains, etc. So, why should I restrict it? Because it doesn't have any negative effect on my health. And there's no I guess um physiological reason to do so either especially if you look at the research about different these polyphenols and carotenoids on health you know lycopine and tomatoes it's appears to be associated with reduced prostate cancer risk and these phytic acid in uh oats also appear to reduce the risk of cancer. So uh you know they all the evidence would point that for like generally speaking they're healthpromoting but for specific individuals with food sensitivities or allergies they tend to cause more harm. So it's always depends on the individual what they should eat at the end of the day. >> Yeah that's great. I think uh I think your point about consuming the food forms of fat is especially important uh just because you think of fats like olive oil and whatnot which are generally healthy or at the very least neutral. Um but if you are consuming large amounts of them of course it's going to have negative effect on on your health. Uh if you're if you're over consuming in the context of over consuming in your entire diet. Um yeah, it's those are uh those are definitely good guiding principles. I think um you know some some of the takeaways. I think that one aspect which we're about to get into more on protein is that we've been centered a lot more seem you mentioned more on the longevity aspect but it seems like a lot of the the conversation around protein seems to be centered around muscle mass and function and whatnot. And I think that the uh there are different ways of thinking about protein. So I think going into protein consumption again I guess it goes back to that conversation of do you want to be in the top 1% of longevity? Do you want to be in really good at athletics or do you want to be general well-being? Typically a higher protein intake will uh lead to to benefits. Um however if we can steer this conversation towards that top 1% in longevity there has been quite a debate we'll say on the protein uh front which seem you you alluded to it talking about methane talking about glycine and the relationship there and why methane may be tracking with uh with uh lower longevity. So to set this up, there are some longevity researchers that claim that a lower protein diet is better and then there are protein researchers that claim that a higher protein diet is better. So I'm going to throw this uh to Greg first just because in our last podcast you had alluded to the fact that you had quite some thoughts on this. I'd be especially interested and then I'd love to hear from Seam as well. Uh how do you think about that? How do you tease out the differences in the recommendations or how researchers are talking about protein? I think quite a lot of it relates to the types of studies that people are doing. So whether they're doing mechanistic studies to try and understand specific molecular pathways typically in non-human animals or in cells versus people who are looking at epidemiology versus people who understand those things but are doing experimental interventions with people to try and understand protein metabolism. And it seems that if you split people according to which of those camps they're in, you could probably predict what their thoughts are in relation to what the best protein intake for longevity is. Protein is really important and I favor higher protein intakes for a few reasons which I glossed over previously. One of those obviously is its effects on fat free mass, on skeletal muscle, but also on bone tissue too. Frailty is really important as people get older because if someone falls, maybe because they don't have sufficient explosive strength in their knee extensors and their hip extensors and their planter flexors, and then because they've got brittle bones, maybe they got osteopenia or osteoporosis, they end up breaking a bone, which would often be the hip. then they might they might end up in a hospital bed being inactive and then the disuse not just of their muscularkeeletal system but all of their bodily systems will precipitate quite a rapid decline. So they end up in this vicious cycle of frailty and life expectancy after a hip fracture once you're past a certain age is not very long at all. So we need to avoid that and therefore by providing building blocks to remodel skeletal muscle but also protein contributes to bone metabolism protein is important. Obviously you need to stimulate that remodeling and the way you do that is through appropriate resistance training. So it's important in that context and protein quality feeds into that as as does protein quantity but it's also instrumental to appetite control. So looking across the different macronutrients per gram, protein tends to be the most satiating more so than carbohydrate or fat. We'll put alcohol to the side. It's a slightly confusing one. And therefore, if we think about the fact that we live in an obesogenic environment where people are disposed to overeating, we've spoken so much about energy intake today. If by increasing your protein intake you end up consuming fewer calories than you otherwise would have, that probably is a good thing if we think about the population at large. So those effects on appetite control matter too. And then protein also stimulates the production of some hormones that ultimately help to reduce blood sugar spikes in response to meals. And it slows gastric emptying too. So the different constituents in your digestive system pass more slowly through the tract and therefore glucose is going to appear in your blood at a lower rate. So it's also helpful for metabolic control. Certainly glycemic control probably liemic control too. So in those ways protein matters. There's also the fact that many proteinrich foods are very nutrientdense in general, but they're not necessarily the foods that a lot of people end up consuming. The most nutrient-dense animal source proteins include things like awful, so liver and heart, and most people are not particularly interested in consuming those on a regular basis. But for that reason, dietary variety matters. And eating nose totail has some advantages which relate in part to what seam was saying about the different amino acids that you find in those different tissues but also various different micronutrients. People speak about liver as being nature's multivitamin. So the protein source is really important to general nutrition much the same way that people encourage people to consume a rainbow of different plant colors which is good dietary advice but we want dietary variety across everything that we're consuming. And part of the issue with the epidemiology is that if there's a signal between higher protein intakes and some sort of adverse health outcome, then it can be a red herring. It's due to residual confounding because the question is what is driving a higher protein intake? And sometimes additional protein is coming from heavily processed foods that are rich in saturated fat and flour and various other additives that might not be good for you. And so I have a reservation whenever I see studies about red meat intake, for example, because there's a massive difference between consuming 150 grams of beef liver and consuming 150 g of a very fatty, very processed beef sausage. They're not equivalent. And we need to be able to lump things together to make life easier, but we have to bear in mind some of those nuances when looking at that type of epidemiology. So protein source in that way is really important. And then in terms of the mechanisms, I think what's missed here because people will tend to focus on the mtor pathway. We've got this biochemical pathway that's really important to anabolic processes in cells, building new structures, and that is of course key to healthy growth and development, but it can go a ride during aging. But we have to think about it in the context of specific tissues and also in terms of turning it on and off. And so there's this assumption that if increased signaling through mTor seems to largely be pro-aging in model organisms like mice and flies and so on, then we want to reduce protein because protein stimulates activity in the mtor complex one pathway. But there are a couple of big issues with that. One is that we need to carry on that type of signaling in skeletal muscle especially as we get older because there can be anabolic resistance in that muscle. So the muscles are less able to knit together new proteins in response to dietary protein which is largely driven by inactivity rather than anything about aging per se. So because of that older people benefit from higher protein intakes than the younger pound counterparts. Everything else accounted for. And what makes it extra hard is that a lot of older people really struggle to have an adequate appetite. And because protein is very satiating, they therefore if anything, sometimes end up consuming less protein when they need more. So that complicates things a bit. But just thinking about the whole swave of adults out there, if protein is satiating, then when people consume higher protein diets, they're going to eat less in total. Less in total means lower energy availability which in my mind if calories are a big driver of signaling through those growth promoting path pathways not just mTor but insulin IGF-1 and others then that reduction in energy balance is going to reduce some of that signaling and if we're doing activity and we're consuming plenty of protein then we're still driving that activity in skeletal muscle and bone where we need it. So it doesn't make any sense. And what's happened is you've had scientists like Valter Longo and others and he published a frankly laughable paper in one of the cell press journals about a decade ago where he did this interesting really nuance technical work on mice if I recall correctly looking at some effects of protein on pathways that are implicated in chronic disease. And then he tried to back that up with a bizarre analysis of a cohort and massaged the data such that it suggested that higher protein intakes were associated with an increased risk of this specific disease that he was looking at. And then in response to that, the protein metabolism researchers who really know their stuff, so people like Stu Phillips wrote a rebuttal pointing out all the issues with it. But that type of rift between those different camps has continued over the years. So to summarize, I think a lot of people benefit from higher protein intakes. I think where the protein is coming from is really important. I think consuming a diversity of different proteins is a good way to go. And I think a lot of the low protein advocates aren't thinking about what determines longevity in people as opposed to in rats. One of the other things I didn't mention is that protein is important for immune function. If you've got mice that are raised in specific pathogen-free cages where they're not exposed to novel pathogens and therefore immune function is not a particularly big determinant of their longevity and these are small animals. They don't have far to fall. If a mice rolls over onto its side or topples over, it's probably not going to break its hip. And their food is controlled. So we can do away with that particular variable. Whereas in humans, if you consume more protein, you're eating less. And you compare that to the human condition where we're bombarded with novel pathogens all the time, which influence risk of lots of different things, not just the specific infectious disease that's associated with the exposure. So like COVID and SARS, >> CO also seems to dispose people to Alzheimer's and various other issues too. And then when we fall, we fall really hard. So you put that together and the research doesn't translate. So much pre-clinical research doesn't translate and I think protein is a really good case in point. So I feel like I've been sat happily on my soap box for a while. And I don't mean to disparage Longo and pick him out as the worst purveyor of this because he's done some really good research and he does these amazingly intricate experiments. They're really impressive and really interesting mechanistically, but it it just exemplifies a limitation of that type of research that frustrates me. And I'm happy that some people who really really know their protein well are now given large platforms. As is often the case with podcasts, people tend to just come back to the same three people. So if you listen to protein researchers then it's often Luke Vanlon or Steu McIll or Yorn Tromlan or someone like that and there are loads of great protein scientists are out there like I mentioned Phil Aton earlier like him and Mike Granny at the University of Nottingham they've done amazing research over the years like you know I could list many more people and some of those people they never get any limelight but they really really know their stuff. these other people, they know their stuff about other things, but they're coming at this tangentially, which is helpful in terms of ideiation, but it sometimes means that they completely miss the big picture. That's uh yeah, it's incredible. I I think uh probably some of my follow-up questions would probably be better off podcast simply because um they're going to get a lot they're going to get very technical. Uh but I'd be really interested in your take on some of these uh longo studies because I I've just started delving into them. Um, and especially considering your knowledge about some what some of the other researchers, some of the other protein metabolism researchers have put out there. Uh, I'd really like to to pick your brain on on some of that. But I'll leave that for uh for another time simply because again, it's just going to get too technical. I think uh I can I can see the YouTube comments already. Some people will be like, "Oh, that was amazing." And then some the vast majority be like, "How do I use this?" So, so I'll leave it. But that that was that was absolutely fascinating to listen to. So, I really appreciate it. Um the the one question I have before we we go to Seam's perspective on this is when it comes to epidemiological research because you're mentioning residual confounding and again I don't want to get too technical with this but um don't you think that especially considering we've got so many studies in different cohorts or at least my understanding is that we've got different cohorts on this stuff that and different uh research groups that have that have probed this question. Don't you think that a lot of that stuff, some of the obvious ones have been accounted for like saturated fat or heem or uh some of these other other factors that would track with uh protein intake and we still as far as I understand and correct me if I'm wrong because again I haven't done a deep dive into this yet. we still see this uh these these links between uh increased mortality with uh really high protein intakes compared to uh lower protein intakes. What's your take on that? Well, I haven't spent that much time looking at that body of research for a while if I'm being frank because I tend to focus on certain types of research and there are some of these questions that just get cycled over again and again and again over the years. Something comes into favor and then it goes back out of favor and then it comes back again. So like one of the things that you mentioned is the whole seed oil debate at the moment which is something that was widely discussed about 15 years ago when the Paleo diet was at its most popular. >> And so honestly I think that my thoughts about that are relatively established and I now have the knowledge that I need to have to be able to move on and it just doesn't feel like the best use of my attention resources. So I can't comment too much about specific studies. If that is the case and there is that type of consistency between studies then that's interesting. But I think nutritional epidemiology in general and I don't mean to seem like I'm now cherrypicking. But just as a a broad comment about nutritional epidemiology in many instances it's incredibly noisy. And obviously John Yanidis and others have written about this over the years and there are some people who basically say that we should just throw it all under the bus. And I wouldn't go that far because I think that if you take the example of biomarkers of dietary intakes, there are some biomarkers that correspond very well to how people are actually eating. And the dietary assessment methods that we use are also getting better over time. We're not just relying on food frequency questioners, which have some advantages, or 24-hour dietary recalls using traditional interviewer style administration, but there are certainly limitations to that. And I I think also there's so going back to those camps, I think there are people who who want to see certain results and therefore will go about their data analyses in certain ways. You can start to work out if that's the case by looking at various different things. But it's it's always interesting to see someone who ahead of publishing the original research has published some sort of protocol like there's the journal trials where people publish what they're going to do and then they stick to it which is great because it keeps them honest and it stops them from P hacking and trying to look through the data in different ways to try and tease out associations which then facilitates publication because it's hard to publish negative results by which I mean null results. So finding there was no relationship between two things. So I think some of it probably does relate to that, but otherwise foods are really complicated. They interact with each other. The food matrices and so on matter too. And so I I think looking to some of the intervention trials can tell us quite a lot when we do that with dietary protein and admittedly a lot of those trials are on protein powders and things but like take the example of whey protein supplementation. It's been metaanalysite meta analyzed for its effects on all sorts of things including change in free mass and change in blood lipids and so on and across the board it looks good. So I think a lot of it if there is a relationship there it's driven by what I was saying about the sources of protein being foods that aren't particularly healthy what we would have called junk foods previously which nowadays would be given the euphemistic label ultrarocessed foods. So there probably is a slightly inadequate answer, but I think that that stuff does contribute. >> Yeah, I got you. Uh yeah, we could definitely go on discussing a lot of the research on that. I I do want to get into a lot more depth on that in general, but Seam, what what are your uh what's your perspective on the longevity versus kind of how the the I mean, even Greg just now mentioned it, right? some of the protein research that shows direct intervention trials saying, "Hey, you consume protein, you get better fat-free mass, you get reduced uh body weight, body fat. You tend to see improved serum uh lipids and whatnot." So, how how do you reconcile that or don't you? >> Yeah. Well, with all research, um, it's important to, you know, first of all, not look at a single study and, uh, also not look at just one line of evidence. So, uh, if you just look at observational studies, then you can draw certain conclusions about protein intake and longevity. And generally, it's going to be that higher protein diets are associated with reduced mortality. maybe with the exception of elderly people where you tend to see the flip of that that lower protein diets are actually associated with higher mortality in elderly people because of the reasons that Greg said about hip fractures and those things. Um and if you look at just animal research then yeah you can also see that uh high high protein diets are worse and low protein diets are better but that's you know these animals live in cages and they're not in the free world where they can break a hip etc. So there's a lot of you know things you need to consider when you're just looking at one line of evidence and you need to look at you know multiple lines of evidence you know there's the mechanistic studies about mTor and methanine and those things there's animal studies there's observational studies there's um random control trials as well that obviously can't look at longevity but they can look at certain aspects of health like fat mass and the blood sugar and those things so uh there's obviously no perfect answer to anything in nutrition and and you know exercise as well when it comes to long-term health outcomes and longevity. But there's a certain uh you know trends you can uh look at and if multiple lines of evidence point in a certain direction then you can at least you know I guess lean towards a certain opinion. you can't make some definite conclusions but you can lean towards some certain uh trends a little bit. Uh so what my opinion is about protein and longevity is that I think people should eat enough protein and there's no need to eat more protein because it you know potentially could be harmful um especially when you're talking about maximal lifespan. So I don't think anyone needs to eat more than one gram per pound of body weight of protein per day. You know some bodybuilders they eat 1.5 grams per pound, two grams per pound or something like that. I think it's completely unnecessary first of all for muscle growth or body composition purposes and you know potentially could be harmful. I don't think it necessarily is in the short term especially but over the course of decades we don't know what would be if someone eats eats 300 grams of protein every day for 50 years. Um, so what would be enough protein? I think this 1.6 grams per kilogram is more than enough because it maximizes muscle growth uh body composition outcomes and you still will even build muscle with a lower protein intake than that. Something like 1.2 to 1.6 six grams per kilogram I think is uh the sweet spot for protein for a muscle growth perspective muscle muscle growth purposes and you need certain amount of muscle for longevity because if you're sarcopenic and low muscle and low bone density then yeah your risk of breaking hip falling off the stairs or something something like that is much higher in elderly years now older people I think do need slightly more perhaps maybe 20 20% more or something like that but uh here I think the meal frequency appears to be more important because like Rick said earlier there's this refractionary period or a certain maximal threshold that you can stimulate protein synthesis with each meal for a certain period of time. So even if you eat 300 grams of protein in one meal it's um not the same as dividing it into four meals across the entire day. So if someone needs to maintain more muscle to avoid sarcopenia, they probably need to spread it out more. So elderly person, they shouldn't do one meal a day. They should, you know, have, I think, four protein meals per day of at least 30 to 50 grams of protein per meal depending on their body weight. U but for a younger person, they can eat much larger amounts of protein and in less meals. So the Yon Drummer Lens uh research two years ago now has showed that your body can absorb 100 grams of protein in one meal and it actually maintained a higher anabolic state for a longer period of time as well compared to 25 grams of protein. So uh you don't necessarily need to micromanage the frequency if you're a younger person, but if you're older then you do need to ensure at least you know three four protein meals um per day. Now, low protein diets for a younger individual probably are safe in the short term because uh younger individuals tend to have higher amounts of muscle mass than elderly people. And especially if you're doing resistance training, even on a low protein diet, you can still, I guess, maintain some of that muscle mass as well much more easily. But I do think the elderly person needs more protein. So, so let's say 1.7 1.8 g per kilogram, maybe 2 g per kilogram, but no one needs, you know, 300 g of protein per day. So, I do think that, you know, first of all, it's unnecessary to be eating a ton of protein. And secondly, if you want to do some sort of um let's say precautionary principle, then uh you want to lean towards a moderate amount of protein. I don't think a very high protein diet is inherently harmful. But you know why why take the risk if it's not physiologically required u you know even for muscle growth. So the protein intake for muscle growth is higher than you need for muscle maintenance. You can maintain muscle on a pretty low protein diet. For elderly people it's not optimal but for younger individuals it isn't manageable. Um, if someone has low bone density already in their youth or if they do a DEXA scan in their 40s, they see that they have low bone density, low muscle mass, you know, it's going to be harder to build it later in life. So, you need to catch up. You need to maybe increase your protein intake and make sure you lift weights, etc. to increase your bone density and muscle mass so that you wouldn't be frail when you're 80 years old. Um but um I guess yeah there's a lot of uh talk about the importance of protein but I also think that a lot of it is overhyped that you don't need insane amounts of protein. I think the one gram per pound is uh already to more than enough. You don't need that much. The research shows that you know 1.6 grams or kilogram already maximizes generally speaking uh the muscle hypertrophy. And if you eat less than that then that's actually uh also enough to maintain at least muscle and uh build it slightly. You're not completely optimizing muscle hypertrophy with a 1.2 gram per kilogram protein intake but you can easily do it. Interestingly I I did in my own experiment I you know a few years ago I was eating 1 g per pound which is 2.2 grams per kilogram of protein. I've reduced it to 1.6 So I dropped my protein intake by about 25%. I didn't lose muscle based on my DEXA scan. I actually increased my appendicular lean mass index by something like 200 g uh within the span of from uh from my first DEXA scan in 2023 and the last one uh this January. So like within the span of 1.5 years, I actually gained 200 g 200 grams of lean tissue in my arms and legs by reducing my protein intake by 25%. Now, it's still a high protein intake compared to the standards. Uh the standard diet 1.6 grams per kilogram is uh much higher than the average person eats, but it's lower than what a lot of uh I guess bodybuilders or protein researchers recommend, the one point the one gram per pound of body weight. >> I'm assuming that with that experiment, you were continuing to make progress in the gym, too. >> Yeah. So I I increased my volume in the in the gym. So I I did more I I reduced the weight because you know I was in a actually this slightly calorie deficit. Uh but I increased the volume. So I was doing I was doing a slightly lower weights maybe five 10% lower weights but I was doing three three four more reps per set. So my total volume increased. So the biggest contributor is obviously resistance training. If you eat 300 grams of protein per day, but you're not lifting weights, then uh you know, your lean muscle mass will be probably higher than someone who eats low protein and doesn't lift weights, but it's not going to be higher than someone who eats low protein and lifts weights in my opinion. And you know, looking back at the mechanisms, eating a ton of protein, but not lifting weights probably drives cancer more than if you were to be lifting weights. So the where do you ste so the mtor pathway you know you can activate mTor in different organs you don't want to activate mTor you know in your liver or certain other tissues but you want to activate mtoris in your muscles you know you need mtor in the brain as well for brain cell uh neurogenesis but you mostly want to activate mtor in the muscle cells to uh help with muscle growth. So the signal for that is resistance training. If you don't lift weights, then uh you activate mtor in the wrong places in my opinion and that might not be the most optimal. This uh this conversation I think is just it's a it's a single question that could suck up hours and hours of time simply because like see you just touched on so many different aspects uh so many different contexts, right? if you're lifting weights, if you're not lifting weights, if you're overweight, if you're not overweight, if you're uh over the age of let's say 60, if you're frail, if there's uh life circumstances, if you're dealing with cancer, if you're dealing with uh other disease states like diabetes, there's there's so many different circumstances that we have to take into account. And I do think my perspective is that the protein requirements and the protein recommendations are going to shift based off of and shift pretty wildly actually based off of individual circumstance that I don't necessarily think I would say with some of the other macronutrients like for example carbohydrates. I think for the most like if I were to focus on fiber let's say uh I think by and large and correct me if I'm wrong we'd probably say generally more fiber is better. I mean up to a point obviously you're going to you're going to start feeling pretty uncomfortable once you get to 100 grams of fiber or whatever it might be. But um the so if if you have cancer, if you're older, if you're you know all these things, the general take is okay, increase your fiber no matter what. And then you can start playing around with some of these other other factors. But for protein, I'm not I'm really not convinced that uh just aiming for higher protein is is always better. Um, I'm still I think I'm still at the infancy of trying to really reconcile that because all all the protein research that I've looked at has been in relation to to exercise performance, body weight, uh, body fat, all that stuff. And in in those contexts, yeah, a higher protein diet tends to be beneficial. Um, but as you get into the longevity space, I again I'm still at the infancy of trying to understand that, but it seems to me like there may be some contradictory uh information or data out there which to Greg Greg's point about uh some of Longo's Dr. for Valto Longo who's who's a for anybody who's not aware is a is a researcher that's done a lot of work on longevity basically and has delved into a little bit on this uh this protein front and seems to to believe that lower protein and and pretty sizably lower protein diet is uh is more beneficial for longevity. Um, I I still need to to look into that research a lot more. Um, but there is more and more research from my perspective. I don't know if you guys saw a recent study that came out maybe 3 weeks ago, a month ago, looking at uh low protein diets and the effect that it had on longevity in mice. And then they there's another study that's been done in humans that parallels a lot of the same results. So increases in metabolism, uh reductions in body fat, increases in lean mass, like things like that were paralleled between the human cohort as well as the uh the the mouse study. And while I certainly wouldn't jump to any conclusions based off that research, I think that there there may be something there that we still need to to investigate. But the overall point being that uh there's just so much context that needs to be applied to a to a person's individual circumstance. And I think for the average person, I think a higher protein diet tends to be uh beneficial across the board. >> Yeah. So I think it's yeah important to I guess define as well what is high protein and low protein for for the government organizations a high protein diet is I think already something that is above 17% of total calories so that's you know we would consider it low protein still I I think a high protein diet is yeah anything above 1.6 g per kilogram and up to 2.2 two grams per kilogram like what the bodybuilders eat. I think that's a high protein diet. But compared to what the average person eats, I'm also eating a high protein diet. Although I'm eating 130 grams of protein, 120, 130 grams of protein per day. Compared to the bodybuilders, I'm eating a maybe moderate protein diet, but compared to the general population, I'm eating a high protein diet. So yes, the general population generally needs to increase their protein that uh maybe they might eat let's say I'm just throwing out numbers, but I I would imagine the average person needs something like one gram per kilogram at the most. So they would probably need to increase the protein by 30 to 50% for and they would see health improvements because they'll eat also other things less. They'll eat less junk and less calories overall. But uh yeah, someone who's health conscious, they're probably eating already enough protein that they don't need to necessarily add a ton of extra. Think I don't want to dwell on this one too much longer, but I just want to throw in a a few other thoughts just to tick some boxes that haven't ticked. >> Yeah. One one of them is that the irony of all this stuff is that protein tends to come along for the ride with energy intake in total. And so a lot of the people who are most fussed about their protein intakes don't have to care about it because they're consuming lots of calories anyway. And that's typically true of the gym rats because the more total calories you consume, the more your protein is going to climb. So many people who need to worry about this stuff are the people who don't think twice about it. And the people who worry most about it, they shouldn't care less. And then obviously energy availability interacts with your protein needs. So see spoke about how he was building muscle on a lower protein diet. If everything else had been held constant, then I would expect the reduction in protein intake to slightly negatively affect his muscle protein balance. But if total energy intake is going up, then protein matters a little bit less. more of it can be partitioned towards skeletal muscle as opposed to being used for other things. >> I was in AI was still in a calorie deficit. I was losing the body fat as well. My my visceral fat and stuff went down. >> Yeah. >> My So, >> but the the general point remains. And then in terms of factors that modify your protein needs, so energy availability is one of those as I was just saying. Another is age because of that anabolic resistance that I mentioned earlier. So in general, older people would probably benefit from slightly higher intakes, but some of that is just because of physical activity because people become less physically active and then protein quality as we spoke about earlier. So based on all of that, there's a range of intakes that going to be a they're going to be appropriate for people. And from my perspective, the range of intakes that I would recommend to people that don't have any medical conditions that would contraindicate higher protein diets could be anywhere from about 1.2 to about 2.8 grams per kilo. 2.8 grams per kilo would be for a vegan bodybuilder deep into contest prep with low energy availability, doing lots of exercise who's a little bit older. So everything is stacked in the favor of higher protein intakes. Whereas I think for the general population probably something around 1.4 g grams per kilo is going to work really well. And there are other factors to consider too like planetary boundaries and stuff which are important for the world at large. So yeah I just wanted to chime in with those closing thoughts because I realized that I hadn't mentioned anything about protein intakes and what I thought might be an appropriate range for people. So quite a big range, but most people they do well at the lower end of that range. And reference nutrient intakes tend to be about 0.8 grams per kilo. And I think expressing intakes in this instance relative to body mass is much more helpful than speaking about percentage of calories. It's so much more informative. So with protein, I certainly always do that. With carbohydrate, I think for athletes, it's helpful to do that, too. But I'll pause there because we've probably spoken about protein for about an hour now. >> Yeah, it has been a while. Uh, but your guys' ranges that you're mentioning is exactly my point that there's it's so context driven. So, yeah, we'll leave it there. But, uh, there's there's there's definitely plenty more to to say on the topic. Um, so we don't have too too much more time. Uh so I'd like to discuss just one more thing and then we'll get to kind of the final thoughts and final points. So I'm going to merge two questions into one because they're tightly linked with one another. I don't know, Seam, you probably have a lot more experience with this. Um, but maybe Greg, you do too on on social media that you have this it's almost like this quasi war between uh low carb community and the plant-based community. And it it seems like both sides are kind of at odds with one another. And certainly there's some crossover as well, but generally there's this kind of back and forth. And my question to you is that how do we reconcile the fact that um and maybe you feel slightly differently about this, but I'll ask it this way anyway. How do you reconcile the fact that low carb diets across a multitude of studies can show improvements in diabetes? So, diabetes remission, uh, improvements in seizures, significant fat loss, and other health outcomes end up, uh, better, but and yet we still see a lot of plant-based diets, at least, and maybe this goes back to to some of Greg's critiques, in epidemiological research, but also in clinical trials, indicating that plant-based diets uh, tend to come out on top in terms of lifespan and health span. So, first of all, do you guys agree with that? And secondly, if you do, or if you don't, I'd be curious on how you reconcile that. How do you how do you think about that? Seam, do you want to do you want to take a stab at this first? >> Yeah. Um well I think um you know in epidemiological studies it's mostly because uh I guess you can uh find a correlation between plant-based foods and the higher diet quality that the overall diet is higher quality generally speaking if you eat a lot of uh plants and of course you know you can try to confound for these variables but it's not going to be perfect. So I do think that eating more getting a lot of calories from plants is probably you know more more beneficial for most people and uh but it doesn't mean that needs to be like 100% plant-based or something like that. So, it's obviously an unanswered question that we don't have an answer to that because there's never been uh this clinical trial that's done uh this investigation for long enough of a period of time. But I do generally think that eating more plants and fiber results in better diet quality and if you have better diet quality, you tend to be in better health and a better body composition over the long term as well. Um when it comes to these short-term trials then uh low carb dats are better in weight loss and blood sugar management in the short term but if you span it out over the course of a year or two years then uh they tend to equal out. So low carb diets result in much faster weight loss mostly because of the water weight loss that happens if you u have lower levels of insulin. So you lose more water but over the long term there doesn't appear to be that much of a big difference when it comes to weight loss and blood sugar uh management. Now someone should should someone follow a low carb diet to improve their blood sugar or help with weight loss? Uh you know I think depends on the person. I think some people find it more uh suitable or easier to adhere to but others might not. So uh personally I actually do better on a you know higher carb diet. Obviously I don't have diabetes or obesity but um you know it depends a lot on the person what diet they prefer. But I guess the important aspect is that in the in the metabolic wart studies where all the foods and calories are controlled for there's no difference in uh in weight loss because uh the people are you know fed they're put in a in this uh lab and they're fed everything in the exact same quantities etc. So there's so high carb intake isn't going to be in inhibiting factor for weight loss in these controlled studies which means that in the real world people who are doing low carb diets they just feel more satiated or they end up eating fewer calories. It doesn't matter it doesn't mean that calories don't matter or that that that carbohydrates are somehow bad that they prevent you from losing weight. It's just that in the real world, the same with intermittent fasting, in uncontrolled studies, people who do intermittent fasting tend to lose more weight, but in these actually random control trials, uh there's no difference between regular calorie restriction and intering for weight loss. In the real world, people might find a low carb diet or intering easier to adhere to. So that's why they end up um eating less due to satiety or or something else. Um and yeah, from these shortterm studies, these clinical trials, even two-year clinical trials, we're not going to be able to say what is going to be the outcome in decades because, you know, things like heart disease, Alzheimer's, they take decades to progress. So even if someone you know might be losing weight initially within the span of even two years, we don't know what is going to be the final outcome in 50 years, 60 years. So that's why this uh you know there's going to be still a lot of unanswered questions in that uh area. So I think for most people the biggest let's say short-term goal would be to achieve normal body weight and achieve normal metabolic health and then try to adopt the more balanced diet over the long term which would be I guess again from a precautionary principle smarter to uh to have a slightly more balanced diet. >> Yeah. Great. Okay. Uh, Greg, you want to chime in? >> Sure. Yeah, just on what mentioned at the end there, I think people need to bear in mind the more restrictive their diet is in terms of diet composition, the more at risk they are of both nutrient deficiencies and nutrient excesses, too. And so, variety is good. And unless you're using nutrition to try and therapeutically manage a health condition, I think relatively mixed approach is going to work well for a lot of people. I'll point out a few things. One is that the division between those two different camps is interesting because you can of course be on a low carb diet and be on a vegan diet at the same time. And I say vegan because slightly allergic to the term plant-based. I know it's so used nowadays, but what was wrong with vegan? Like, what do we mean by plant-based? Vegan and vegetarian, they have very specific connotations. I guess that it was in part a response to some of the negative connotations that came with those particular labels, but I've always found it slightly vague and pointless as a term, but it's widely used nowadays. So, I'll move on from that. that in terms of what you mentioned Nick I largely agree and I think some of that reflects what I was speaking about earlier in discussing protein and by that I mean that there is going to be some healthy user bias with some of those studies that's not accounted for in statistical analyses people who consume more plants probably more interested in health in general probably a bit more physically active and so on. Some of that is a little bit difficult to account for in that type of research and then we've got the sources and so on that contribute to that too. But we need to bear in mind that those studies showing beneficial effects are in the context of trying to manage a health condition typically whether it's just someone having too much body fat or being disipidemic and using a low carb diet to say drive down their triglycerides, whatever it might be. And you can formulate a healthy low carbohydrate diet which would be perfectly conducive to living a long time. If your fat sources are predominantly coming from plants, so avocados and nuts and seeds and so on, as we mentioned earlier, and your diet isn't heavily processed and you've got good diet variety, diet timing is appropriate, adequate protein and so on, that's a perfectly healthy dietary pattern. And so I think we have to come back to some of the best experimental studies that have been done to help inform us about what might be an appropriate path. And the study that comes to mind, which I'm sure you guys have both read, is Chris Gardner's old diet fit study where for 12 months, people who are overweight or obese were randomized to either a healthy low carb or a healthy low-fat diet. You know, both weight loss diets. And at the end of the 12 months, the weight loss was almost precisely the same in the two groups. And their general health looked very similar, too. And they also looked at some single nucleotide polymorphisms to try and work out whether people might be better suited to one type of diet than the other and so on. And there have been some reanalyses since then to try and work out if that is the case. And maybe we'll find out over time that we can make personalized recommendations based on certain biomarkers, identifying who is best suited to that diet and who is best suited to that diet. But the general point is that they can both be healthy. And so a lot of this stuff does come down to personal preferences. We can be a bit more targeted with how we we manipulate those variables to nudge things in the right direction. But you just have to bear in mind what is sustainable for someone. What can they stick to? Compliance is really important. And with the epidemiology, I think we always need to take it with a pinch of salt. Not too much salt because sodium will push up your blood pressure but just with a pinch of salt. >> I think uh I think another aspect so both I completely agree with both of you guys. I think one other aspect is that uh there seems to be this almost uh contradictory mentality that comes with a lot of this tribalism in certain nutrition camps. It's it's almost like uh we we've created these identities for for both groups when exactly to you guys both talked about it that it can be married like you can be a low carb and be uh to use Greg's favorite term plant-based. You can do both. Uh, so they don't have to be either or, but it seems more that the the disagreement comes from, well, I've chosen my side, so therefore I will defend it to to to all ends. >> Um, as opposed to to actually focusing on some of the the scientific literature that shows that both can work. >> Sorry to interrupt me, Nick. I just think you you've got to bear in mind in that instance, too, that >> what what does sometimes happen is that there's a vested interest. is not necessarily there at the start the whole time, but maybe someone takes a stance. Let's say that it's a low carb stance and they don't necessarily even plan to make relevant products in the future, but then two years later there's an opportunity and they start making some sort of low carb lifestyle product and then that causes them to dig their heels in more. And going back to Volta Longo, I wonder if that's happened with him a little bit where he's now got his fasting mimicking low protein prolong diet where he sells these very expensive very low calorie items for people to consume for a few days every once in a few months and low protein is a big part of that approach and then that reinforces the stance because now there are other things on the line too. I'm not saying that that's happened with him, but it is a relevant example. So, I think it's helpful to sometimes look at the different ties that people have. And I always appreciate it when you find people who superficially you might expect to have certain ties. Maybe the research has been funded by a certain industry or maybe they've helped produce a particular product, but then they change their stance. They say, "I was wrong about that stuff." Sodium obviously does increase blood pressure. potassium does lower blood pressure. That stuff does matter. And it's it's always entertaining seeing the evolution of some influences and how they modify things over time and then suddenly this is permissible in their world whereas two years ago was absolutely not an option, >> right? Yeah, definitely. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean it's a very political like you can u predict someone's political views based on what's their handle. Is it if is it like a carnivore handle or a vegan handle? You can pretty much 90% be accurate what their political leaning is as well. >> Do carnivores lean right? >> Well, I don't know a lot of uh leftwing carnivores. >> I don't know any, but >> yeah. I mean, so it's it's just Yeah, it's just the issue that it's it's not only a nutrition debate, it's a political debate as well that people have. >> Yeah. And uh I guess that in a lot of ways uh makes it a very more confrontational and uh you know identity is involved here as well. So if you're if your handle is you start you start your Instagram with whatever handle like a carnivore this or vegan this or something like that and you change it you know then people are going to be like what the hell you create your brand your business around a handle or a particular diet and you change it then it's obviously going to be harmful for your business and harmful for your uh uh social media status overall. So you dig in much harder if you're identify as as part of a certain group of dieters or whatever other ideology it is. I think uh I think a great example of that is um a person I strongly disagree with on a lot of things uh carnivore MD or Paul Saladino. Um but something that >> best name ever. >> Yeah. Yeah. I know. But uh that that said um one thing I do respect about him is that he went as far as I understand he was carnivore MD and then he semi recently switched to uh going by his his full name Paul Saladino which uh and he also incorporated a lot more uh fruits into his diet when he was I think almost primarily all uh I think I think all meat. in the beginning it was all meat then >> at the beginning which I mean to me in that scenario where his name is carnivore MD and having to to make that shift I I I mean as much as I disagree with him I have to say that I I really respect that that shift. Um so it's difficult but exactly to your guys's point it's it's very difficult to do that especially when you have a huge uh following of individuals that it it's to a certain degree in certain instances it's a pretty unhealthy admiration for the uh social media influencers. So to have that conscientiousness to say, "Hey, I need to I need to change my stance on something um especially when you've got products attributed to it is incredibly difficult." So >> he's he's he's having coffee now. So >> Well, hey, I I think we're on board with coffee. Yeah, but you know it was the devil last year. >> Oh, was it? Oh, that's right. As a matter of fact, I created a video about that. >> I completely forgot about that. That is so I did not realize he was selling coffee. I'm assuming there's something special about the coffee. >> Is he selling coffee? >> It's mold. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think he's just recently started to sell that. Yeah. >> But I mean it's, you know, fine to change your mind, right? You can you can obviously do that then you can explain the reasons for that. But uh I guess the issue is that if you're so sure that your coffee is bad and next year you start selling it or you're sure so sure that vegetables are bad or whatever and then you start eating them. So appear I guess it's you know what what I like is that you know if someone is super sure about it that okay this is true this is this is false this is the right way to eat it's just a red flag that they don't actually understand the nuance and they don't understand the context and they're just dig in based on their identity and based on just opinion or ignorance that they're so sure but you know in the example of someone like Paul or you know there's many other examples you can make. I'm sure there's vegans who turn animal based and there's, you know, you can find examples of this all the time. So, if someone is so sure about something, then they probably don't really appreciate the context because our podcast here, you know, we we never came to absolutes. we uh always uh on the edge of the context of this uh very you know it sounds like we don't like we're very vague or that we're not giving clear answers but that's because there are no clear answers that it's always context dependent and very nuanced but if someone is it's just more easier to sell if you're super confident and people tend to gravitate towards confidence because it makes them feel that the person knows what they're talking thoughts. >> Meanwhile, you have people that are going to be listening to this and they're going to say, "Well, why can't you guys just give me the answer, right?" And I I understand like I understand that mentality. I understand like I want to just just tell me what I need to do, right? And I I can empathize with that. But exactly to Seam's point, I think that's such an astute observation that for a lot of conversations, especially when you talk to researchers, Greg, you know this well, uh there's there's a lot of a lot of like, well, yeah, I mean, maybe we could look at it from that perspective, but I think I would probably add this one quick caveat in this situation. And you know, it's it's like trying to catch water. you know, it just slips right through your fingers because it's there's so much data that we need to be able to be really confident about things. But to be clear, dear listener, there are things that we are pretty confident about like I don't think any any person or most people would not disagree that like exercise is beneficial for health like things like that. You know, we can make some statements that with mass inputs of data, we've come to the conclusion. I don't think regardless of how we slice the data, you're almost always going to come out with a conclusion of yes, this is beneficial or this is harmful. Trans fats is another example. I think we've come to the conclusion that trans fats tend to be uh detrimental. CLA, Nick. >> CLA. >> CLA is a trans fat technically. So, natural trans fat found in animal foods. Not too bad. >> I'm I'm I'm being a jerk, but I'm actually reinforcing your point, which is that there there are nuances to this stuff, and there are some general principles to hold. >> Exactly. >> I just enjoy I just enjoy being a pain in the ass. >> Yeah. I would expect nothing else. Or being being obese typically is not a good thing for your health. like things like that we can agree on and as we keep getting more data we can start slicing deeper and deeper into those nuances and uh and when you you talk to experts and you tell them this is my circumstance what should I do they are able to be like oh in your circumstance this is what the data is is tending towards and you can get a lot more specific recommendations but you know go going to a podcast and getting you know coffee is bad without any context or whatever Unless it's my coffee. >> Yeah, unless it's my coffee, of course. Then uh you know that that that can uh that can seem enticing because it's so simple, but it leads to uh a lot of backtracking if a person is ethical and in the worst scenario, which is often the case, it just leads to a lot of confusion and dogmatism that that comes along with that. So, on that bright note, um, do you do you guys have any final words to any any last bits of wisdom that you'd like to impart? Go and buy Paul Saladino's coffee. I was just thinking when you're saying that, I I find it almost unbelievable that he's selling coffee now. But him being the carnivore MD, I thought, I wonder if it's copy lak. Do you know copy lak? Copy luak is a type of coffee that originated in Indonesia where they basically feed coffee beans to civit type of cat and then they poo out the beans and then they use the beans for their coffee and some people claim that it's the best coffee on the planet. objectively not and they sell it for extortionate prices. But I thought him being the carnivore MD. Maybe that way he's he's getting some of the the civet microbiota capitalizing on a fellow animal and so he's turned it into some sort of animal food. But it sounds like it's probably not the case. It's probably just some washed coffee from Costa Rica. Anyway, it's very entertaining. Got to love this stuff >> for sure. Yeah. I've never heard of that before. I'm going to look into it now. Don't don't. It's really unethical, too. I find it so interesting that people get so worked up about this stuff. I mean, we might see it in comments on this video that people really lay into people online because they're speaking about nutrition and because what they say conflicts with how they view things. And if you're that type of person, just stop doing that because honestly, you're wasting your time. It doesn't help anyone. And as a general comment, I think a big problem in the world feels like we've shifted to politics. Big problem in the world is that people pay attention to the wrong people and that puts more eyes on them. So if you've got someone who's clearly spouting complete nonsense, just ignore them. Just stop following them. So yeah, very another positive note to end on there. You're welcome. >> Uh Seam, do you have any any final words? Any parting words? >> Yeah, I think uh many people might overthink the nutrition. I think uh the human body is very adaptable and uh we can we can thrive on many different types of diets. you know, Inuit living in uh the north eating a very different diet than the Masai or people in the Amazonian rainforest, etc. So, humans can obviously thrive on many different diets. They can be low carb, they can be high carb, they can be more plant-based, more animal-based. There's underlying principles that matter more than the actual food that you eat. Now, if you eat certain foods, you're going to be more aligned with those principles, namely eating predominantly whole foods and not enough not in very large quantities so that you maintain calorie balance. But there are the principles matter more rather than there's some specific food out there that is um the best food or miraculous food. Certain foods are better than others. You don't need to always eat the best food. It's like, you know, if you have a Ferrari, you don't need to take the Ferrari to a supermarket every day. you can take you can take your Toyota to the supermarket every once in a while. So, it's just yeah, like the overall lifestyle matters a lot and the nutrition is obviously a big part of that lifestyle. Uh, and you don't need to get caught up with a specific diet, especially if that is influenced by politics or identity politics or something like that, you know, because then you know it's not actually rooted in nutrition. It's rooted in the politics. if you're eating in a certain way influenced by politics. Um so uh yeah I guess eat a balanced diet is uh quite important or you know the easiest takeaway is to eat different types of foods uh not too much and uh yeah adjust your lifestyle based based on adjusting nutrition I guess based on actual the signal your body is giving you the blood work the gastrointestinal symptoms the sleep problems or exercise performance etc and adjust your nutrition based on the goals and what your body is telling you. >> Yeah. >> Can I ask a question to finish with? >> Sure. >> It's the it's the question that everyone's been dying to hear the answer to, and that is, Nick, tell us about your diet. >> And on that, folks, we're going to end this podcast. Uh um yeah, I'm not going to answer that. But you'd be shocked how many comments I get just uh all people assuming what what I eat and then they'll they'll Exactly. to your guys's point. >> I bet you're a raging carnivore. >> Yes, I'm coming out with my own coffee soon. Fed fed to cats. Um, okay.