 A lot of pyrin, troublesome, rinomitin, troublesome, rinomitin, troublesome, rinomitin, A lot of people do train, but they don't send a strong enough signal for the body to adapt. Their workouts are tiring, but not effective. The problem is that your body changes only when it has a reason to do so. In this video, I'm gonna share with you one of the most powerful exercises you can do. It can increase growth hormone by up to 1,000%. No supplements, no hacks, just sprinting. The more interesting part to it is that it virtually has zero downside, because it might not even raise your cortisol levels. So sprinting isn't just cardio, it's free anabolic snacks. I'm going to break down all the studies and tell you how you can implement it into your routine. I'll start with a more interesting and practical study that looked at the effects of sprinting on anabolic hormones. In this study, they took 12 young athletes and made them run 250 meters at 80% maximal speed for 4 rounds. They rested 3 minutes between each run. What they found was that their testosterone increased by 20-30% by the third and fourth run, after which it dropped down the baseline. Their cortisol levels didn't increase, so that testosterone-cortisol ratio increased significantly, which creates a very anabolic environment. The reason they didn't see an increase in cortisol is because the runs that they were doing were relatively short, only 250 meters. Yes, that is still categorized as sprinting, before you type it in the comments. Anything below 400 meters can still be categorized as sprinting. It's just a long sprint. You'll be running at near maximum effort for the entire duration. The total workout was also around 15 minutes, as they had 3-minute rests between the sets of the sprints. Additionally, growth hormone increased 15-17x, or 15,000%, above baseline. Now, growth hormone isn't going to make you build muscle that significantly, but it does reduce muscle breakdown and helps with fat loss. IG of 1 that gets made from growth hormone rose by 18.8%, which isn't statistically significant, but IGF-binding proteins did increase significantly. This still creates a more anabolic environment in the body that helps with muscle growth and fat loss. But is this just the effect of regular exercise? There is a study from 2013 that compared three different running protocols and how it affects metabolic and hormonal markers. They had one low-intensity cardio at 55% of peak power, done for 130 minutes. Number two, the Norwegian 4x4 interval training with four minutes of 90-95% peak power, with a three-minute rest at 45% repeated for four rounds. And three sprint interval training, consisting of four 30-second sprints at max effort, separated by a 7.5-minute rest between sets. All workouts had a 10-minute warm-up and a recovery period. What were the results? Growth hormone increased by 900-1100% in the 30-second sprint group, 400-600% in the 4x4 Norwegian group, and 150-250% in the 130-minute cardio group. Cortisol increased by 15-25% in the sprint group, 0% in the Norwegian 4x4 group, which is surprising, since it's the hardest workout of them all. And cortisol decreased by 10-20% in the 130-minute cardio group, which is also surprising. Testosterone increased by 15-20% in the sprint group, 20-25% in the 4x4 group, and 10-15% in the 130-minute cardio group. Now, which type of exercise is better is debatable. For example, sprinting clearly won the growth hormone race. It increased growth hormone twice as much as the 4x4 Norwegian group did, and 5x as much as the regular cardio group. But the 4x4 group increased testosterone more than sprinting, and surprisingly, the 130-minute cardio group lowered cortisol. Which exercise you should do depends on your goals, but ideally, you want to do a mix of all these types of exercises, for not only improving general cardiorespiter fitness, but also athleticism. Sprinting is the best for athleticism here, and is the most anabolic arguably. 4x4 is the best for VR2 max, because you're forced to do it for longer intervals, and low-intensity cardio is best for lymphatic drainage and a different type of endurance, namely the steady-state long endurance. In terms of time management, the high-intensity groups win. In this 2016 study, they compared sprint interval training to moderate-intensity continuous cardio, and found that it can be a time-efficient way to get the same results. The sprinting workout consisted of three 20-second all-out sprints, with two minutes rest between sprints, done three times a week. The cardio group was 45 minutes continuous cycling at 70% max heart rate for 12 weeks in total. Both groups saw improvement in VO2 peak by 19%. Both groups saw improvement in insulin sensitivity, with no statistically significant difference between them. The same for mitochondrial content and body composition. The difference was that the sprint group trained in total 30 minutes per week, whereas the moderate-intensity cardio group trained 50 minutes in total. Sometimes low-intensity cardio is better, because it's less stressful on your nervous system, and you can recover from it faster. It is more time-consuming, but it has a place. Let me give you some guidelines that I personally follow. Once a week, all-out sprint workout to get a surge in growth hormone, and increase speed and power. With age, you see a disproportionately greater decrease in fast-switch muscle fibers, which sprinting can counteract. 4x4 Norwegian protocol once every 10 days on average. I usually don't have the time to fit this into my strength training program without jeopardizing the strength, so I do the 4x4 once every 10 days or so, instead of once a week. Zone 2 cardio at 60-70% max heart rate, about once or twice a week. The reason I incorporate more of the Zone 2 is because I'm getting a lot of training stimulus on my nervous system from strength training, so I can't keep adding more and more high-intensity training. That's why the lower-intensity Zone 2 is better for my personal program. What I recommend you do is have at least one sprint workout per week. That's the bare minimum. You can add the other cardio, but the sprinting should be a staple. Chances are, if you haven't sprinted in a long while, you're going to suck at it. You should try to take it safe first. Don't get injured, don't pull a hamstring, don't tear your Achilles tendon, etc. The sprint in the beginning, if you're not used to it, should be slow. It shouldn't be your max-out effort because you're going to pull something. And you don't even need to go 100% with your sprint to get the benefits. In the first study that I mentioned, the runners were sprinting at 80% max effort. That is fast, but it's not face-melting fast. Overall, sprinting is pretty much one of the best exercises you can do. It's going to improve your view to max, your athleticism, your speed, your power, and it has an anabolic effect on your hormones. Although the effect of these hormones isn't permanent. It's more of a transient increase, which is still better than nothing. If you want to know which type of exercises are worth it, then check out my video where I rank 100 exercises from worst to best next.