there's a certain switch or like a shift around the age of like 65 that they see that a low protein diet actually increases mortality risk whereas yeah if you're younger you can get away with lower protein whether or not it's optimal you know that's a different question in 10 years we hopefully will have some gerrotective drugs but I'll start with our I would say kind of landmark question when it comes to vitalism how long do you want to live I don't have any fear of death I would be fine to live to 80 100, 120, like they all sound fine to me. No one would really want to die, you know, in their 60s or 70s. I think the statistics say like the average answer would be something like 80 for most people, but I wouldn't mind to live like 150, 180, 200 either. Like, so I don't really have like a hard cap on uh the number. I'm not I don't want to live to the age of 350, 500 or something either. At least I don't set my goal to that. Right. Right. And you don't want to be decrepit. That's for sure. Yeah. I guess yeah the quality of life matters like are you you know how good is your quality of life? Awesome. All right. So um one thing I was wondering about is you know you have so many measures that uh you're aware of you track etc. Was that what was the change if any that created a lot of positive value in your mind that you couldn't measure well or that you you there wasn't a good measure for that you could point to. Is there any change like that? So um I guess my tracking of these blood markers began something like six years ago. So I had something like six years before that I didn't track you know that regularly. So I don't know if uh you know certain interventions that I was already doing how big an effect they had on my blood markers but I think a few things that I personally think that improved or have contributed to my health are intermittent fasting so like timer eating so there's you know obviously clinical trials on intermittent fasting improving a lot of different blood markers like cholesterol lipids blood sugar uh blood pressure etc But uh they're mostly done on people who have problems with them to begin with. So like people who are slightly overweight or who have diabetes or something like that. You know, I never had that but I've been doing intermittent fasting for like 10 years. So uh it would be interesting to see what like how they could have impacted some of my blood markers. But I personally think that it does contribute to slower biological aging uh and uh better blood work even though like the clinical trials suggest that if the calories are the same then there's no like difference in in those things but I personally think that there might be from my own experience maybe like 5 10% difference. Awesome. So a lot of people here are probably uh interested in improving their health and longevity but uh one thing that people find difficult is finding good uh providers. So doctors uh specialists etc. Who is your doctor? Do you have a doctor and who are the providers or specialists that you consult with? And and also how has that changed now that you're a more known person and probably have more access than just an average person? Uh I don't I don't have like a doctor actually. Um I'm I think I'm my own doctor like I do all my own research and um interventions. Uh I mean I I do think there are a lot of doctors out there with a lot of knowledge um from the states. There's also someone called Anil Bashnath who's like the president of the American Board of Precision Medicine. So he takes it a bit step further that he also, you know, looks at your genetics. He looks at all these other multiomics um data to come up with your specific program for your health. So he's he would be someone I would use if I really wanted to okay go through all my genetics, go through all my family history and all my blood work history and come up with like what are things I need to work on. he would be like the person I would trust with that kind of a task. Awesome. Now, uh, one question is around optimal indicators. So, I've, uh, done some of the things that you've done, but to a, let's say, less intense level, and one of the problems I ran into was that there wasn't good evidence about what is optimal because often that hasn't been researched. you know, we live in a kind of sick care orientation from the medical establishment perspective for all sorts of reasons, none many of which are not, you know, nefarious in any way. It's just kind of how things evolved. Um, but what is your process for identifying what is optimal and how do you get confidence about what what that is? We definitely don't have the optimal answer for uh blood work and not to mention the entire longevity field. We can only be like a level of confidence with certain thing. We can be pretty confident that obesity, you know, is bad and we can be pretty confident that hypertension is bad and diabetes is bad for your longevity. So, u it's all like a degree degree of confidence that you have. Low confidence would be something like mechanistic data that is never proven in humans and uh is like speculative like theories like yes they're interesting and we can you know discuss about them but if there's not a lot of human data then we can't make any like conclusions about them whereas we with something like yeah high blood sugar insulin resistance and hypertension you know there's hundreds of studies correlating worse health outcomes with these conditions. So we can be pretty sure that uh we want to avoid uh let's say these ma major co-obidities for example and and is is there so let's say you're looking at a new indicator that you haven't dug deep into before uh do what's your process do you go through a lot of papers do you have any team members who help you do that how do you reach the that level of confidence and decide where it is on the spectrum yeah it just comes down to looking at the available studies out there and uh assessing the quality of that study. So you need to like read it um analyze the methodology and uh look at the effect sizes maybe like a few yeah like with these biological age clocks for example that's a good example that uh they have studies that do correlate higher biological age scores with higher mortality risk uh like a 5year mortality risk but um you know so far it's like a single population or like some sort of isolated population because there's also like a lot of noise with them so there counterbalances as those findings. So you have like some of these findings that this biological age score changes throughout the day that it's higher in the morning, lower in the evening for example and uh especially that the biological age rises after you've been infected with corona virus or just a regular flu even if you get sick then your biological age score goes very high and if you test at that exact moment then you're going to get a worse result and you're going to freak out for example. So that creates a lot of noise that then jeopardizes the confidence in these other studies because it's could be just noise and uh randomness. So that's why it's hard to say like that exactly this biological age score would be actually any worth it, right? Yeah, that's great. is uh if you had a $100 million to deploy to try to investigate what is more optimal uh among let's say three indicators or two indicators where the jury is more out how would you deploy it or which which indicators would you choose to try to find out better and is there any particular study you'd love to see run right I guess the issue with yeah human clinical trials is that we we live relatively speaking so long that it's hard to see whether or not it will actually make you live longer a certain intervention or blood marker range. So um it would be have to be like a very long clinical trial which is you know almost impossible to do and costs a lot of money. Probably this 100 million would go to like a single study almost if you want to do like a lifelong study. So the ideal study is that you have genetically identical twins they follow different programs from birth and uh then you follow them for you know until they die. That would be like the ideal study to see the effects of different diets or different blood marker ranges on their longevity. But uh yeah, it's like a very difficult and impossible study to do. One thing I've been thinking is maybe you can like simulate it in some sort of with AI or in some sort of a simulation. You know, you can do those studies in bacteria and yeast and mice etc. But if you could somehow mimic that or simulate it on humans inside a simulation somehow, you know, I don't know how it would be possible, but you know, if you could do like some sort of simulation study, you can accelerate the timeline until their death and you can maybe see some effects, but yeah, to to give some sort of an answer, I would say that we would want to do more clinical trials, even like short-term clinical trials on different diets, different um blood markers, etc. even like two-year clinical trials are pretty good. Um, is there a is there a one indicator that you think people are following that is kind of a red herring or uh a particular waste of time from your perspective that you feel a lot of people are kind of falling to tracking or uh spending too much attention on kidney markers. There's a issue with the creatinin. So if you have um higher muscle mass, you eat more protein, you exercise or you take creatine for example, then your creatinine levels might be slightly elevated, but it's not indicative of kidney damage or kidney dysfunction. And you know, usually they calculate eGFR, which is the um estimated global filtration rate. So that's a marker of kidney health and they calculate usually from creatinine. So if you have more muscle, you exercise, you take creatine, then your kidney health on paper would show off uh as worse, but uh in reality it's because of this higher creatinine that is skewed by your exercise or muscle mass or whatever it is. So a better kidney marker is a cyat C. So that one isn't affected by muscle mass and exercise. And you can also calculate eGFR from cystin C. So rather than looking at creatinin you should like people would want to look at more cyatin C and calculate eGFR from that. Awesome. Thank you. And uh one uh last compound question. So when you think about uh advances in aging uh and treating aging and understanding aging with science and technology, what is your mental model of the world in the next 5 years, 10 years? You know, I mean here in the Bay Area, some people think we'll all be AI pets in 5 years. So there are different mental models you're probably aware of, but how do you think what's your mental model right now for how things are likely going to be in terms of our science and technology to address aging in 5 10 20 years? And which uh technologies if any are you excited about? Yeah, I think in 5 years we'll be more utilizing things like stem cells, uh exoomes, peptides, hormones, and things we already kind of know that can work deployed in a like a larger scale. In 10 years we hopefully will have some gerrotective drugs you know rapamy is a candidate but I think we'll probably develop better ones and uh you know GLP-1 agonists or something along those lines like that not necessarily for weight loss but I don't know for inflammation or blood sugar or something else that goes wrong with age. So we have like a GLP-1 analog for for um hypertension or something like that. So that or immune decline for example. Yeah. Yeah. So something that similar technology. Um and in 15 years I'll maybe something with gene editing because yeah like the peptides yeah they're going to be great for improving your joint function and uh maybe aesthetic aging and those things but they're not going to make you live to 150 or something like that. And the same to GP1 agonists uh or these other geoprotective drugs. They can maybe add 10 20 years to healthy lifespan but they're not like this dramatic breakthrough in life extension that people are hoping for. Like for that we probably need something with gene editing or something uh you know whole body replacement that you're talking about. Yeah. Okay. Great. There are uh so many questions and I thought having seam and Joseph here together would be a very interesting conversation. Uh but I'll just start uh with something I'm uh curious about. This is just kind of a very simple question which maybe others uh wonder about too. So how much do you estimate you spent on tests last year? And if you didn't spend them, I mean maybe you get some freebies, you know, cuz you're content creators, etc. Just estimate what the cost of them would be. Do do you have a sense? Um, so I did like a analysis of my protocol and stuff that I do a like two years ago and it was something like 10 to 15k per year. So it's not like a massive amount uh that would include supplements plus blood test, gym membership and those kind of things uh excluding food. But uh since then I've uh you know done a lot more so to say and added a few more tests but uh it wouldn't be like exponentially more for me at least you know I I you know and depends where you do it as well like in the US it's obviously a lot more expensive I have like a retreat in India where we do it very cheap uh with a clinic there so uh you know we could cover the entire body analysis with only like a few thousand whereas in the states it like 20,000. So, you know, it's hard to say like how much it would cost in that sense, but um yeah, regular blood work I would say it's going to be at least a few thousand per year, but yeah. Cool. Ch. Yeah, it sounds like sim is a lot more thorough than me. Uh I'd say about $4,000 last year. And um of of those things that you you do track, uh what do you track most frequently? So tests that you pay for that are done frequently and what is the frequency? Last year I tracked my homoyine so it was a bit higher than I would like and um I also did some things to lower it like took a trimethoglycine and did hyperbaric oxygen therapy and it you know lowered it to the optimal range and I did like maybe three four tests within a few months for that. It's not the one that I would like test the most frequently. Uh most frequently I would test just you know regular well for me I I like to look at you know testosterone and sex hormones and lipid panel and blood sugar like I think those very basic ones are very what I find quite practical and there's yeah like a few individual ones like homoyine or oxidized LDL or TNF alpha or something like that that sometimes is more curious does it yeah I get too much into um let's say the more obscure biomarkers. I have te tested testosterone like eight times last year. So I was trying to see how different things would affect it and I I if there was one that I had to say I tested the most probably be that one. Okay, great. Um so both of you have done quite a lot of experimentation. you have um shared your protocols with the world in ways that I think have created a lot of uh value for people. Um and some of these experiments could be risky or could cause harm. And what I want was wondering about is um for each of you to name uh an experiment that you did, a self experiment that caused harm and uh what whether uh you know if you could go back in time and tell yourself something about it uh before you did it. Uh what what would it be? Would you have done would you do it again? Would you have done again? Um so yeah uh please you want to go first? Um well I did it like 10 years ago or something. I did uh not 10 nine years ago. I did um polar physic sleeping. So that's like I slept four hours or no I slept three hours per night. Then I wake up for a few hours took a 20-minute nap and did it like three times. So in total I slept like 4 hours in 24-hour period. I did it for 100 days. And uh you know I did it for just curiosity. I wasn't thinking of hey can I get away with like less sleep? Can I function the same way? Um you know I managed to maintain you know equal cognition although I had to like consume caffeine to maintain it. Um but the biggest reason yeah like I stopped was the the it impeded like physical performance and like gym was much harder or like you plateau at the gym and I think yeah like longterm it's obviously not going to be very good. So you know I would say doing very kind of extreme polysac sleeping or like depriving yourself from sleep is definitely not worth it in the long term. You might, you know, gain a few hours for productivity, but um yeah, like if you live, you know, shorter because of that reason, then uh it's not worth it. What did that crush your mood? Um I don't know. Um I wasn't paying attention to my mood back then, but I think you know, you definitely are a bit more I mean, it's kind of interesting. you do like feel a bit lucid or something like because if you I think if anyone ever remembers being you know sleepd deprived then it's yeah you feel tired but you also feel like kind of funny or kind of lucid a little bit so you just feel like semi- drunk a little bit all the time there's actually uh I came across this one particular study finding that sleep deprivation could potentially be a way to treat depression for some reason there because I've I've done a lot all nighters and I have definitely experienced that on more than one occasion. Like I'm almost giddy if I go past a certain length. It's like kind of like in the Wolf of Wall Street they say you have to get past the sleepiness of the quaoop to get high. So with this it's like you have to extend this the sleep deprivation long enough and then after I'm kind of really happy like to be totally honest. Yeah. It increases like BDNF a little bit. So it's like you're like wow. Yeah, but yeah, longterm you'll probably do more harm. Which by the way, there there is a possibly going to be an observational study run at Vitalispay on uh BDNF which is a peptide uh which which was just mentioned. So if somebody is using it and wants to participate in the observational study uh or has some other interest in this, please reach out to me. Uh just a quick comment on this sleep uh point. I know that when you do polyphasic sleep, there's this sense I I'd only done it for maybe like a week. I'm by no means as uh committed uh in in that way. I didn't try. Um it felt like it was a continuous stream of consciousness like there there was less of a reset. Did you find that to be the case for the 100 days that you were like in a continuous like one long day? Well, it definitely merges the days into more like some block like you because you take the sleep so frequently. It like it doesn't feel like night and day that much and you're awake in the middle of the night, etc. I did feel like sleep paralysis once as well. I was like in the bed. I was like, I can't wake up. I can't wake up and I saw some sort of a ghost or something. But u but yeah. All right. Cool. Yeah. Joseph experiment that uh caused harm and uh what what would you do if you could go would you do it again? Would you go back and tell yourself something about it? Yeah. So the the 5day fast plus marathon that was easily the I I mean it just messed everything up. There's no benefit. Like I guess my triglycerides and insulin were low which is technically good better to have but my cortisol was double the top of the reference range. So, I think the top of the reference range was 20. Mine was 40. And then I So, I guess what I would do, I might do it again because I'm not super afraid of like temporary destruction of my physiology because I feel like it'll bounce back sufficiently. One thing I would have done differently is not scheduling to meet my friends who are traveling from Texas like 2 days afterward. So, I was like trying to be a good host while I was like dying mentally inside. And I was super anxious due to all these crazy changes. Um I feel like there was another one that there's Yeah, testosterone dropped dramatically. Cortisol rose dramatically. Feel like there's one other one that looked really bad and um I can't remember which one, but maybe I would train for the marathon more. I I really wasn't like properly trained for a marathon and I just kind of winged it because it was my birthday had just come up and I thought I need to do something crazy cuz I'm 35 and that's what I did. So I might do it again. Cool. Yeah. Thank you. Um quick backup to the question of costs. I know uh some people they look at tests, they also look at nutrition. you mentioned that you didn't count the nutrition and the costs and that triggered a little light for me and I was thinking okay you know sometimes it feels like it's expensive to eat very healthfully or maximally beneficially to optimize whatever the strategy is. Have you guys found that at all in terms of like cost of nutrition as you've gone through your experimentation that uh there are certain strategies that may be positive but they cost a lot more. clean. Um, yeah. Well, in Estonia, it's much cheaper the food than, you know, in the States, for example. Um, I do think that there are certain foods that are very hyped, but they don't have like that much, I guess, value. Uh, and they're very expensive. Um, I mean, they might, you know, so like some examples would be like some sort of like sprouts or something, right? Uh yes they have they're good source of like sulfurophane and u help with antioxidant defense etc but you know you have to consume quite a lot of them as well and you know per kilogram they're quite expensive um so like yeah it's hard to say like if if it's worth it or not like how much are you getting from just if you buy this box of the sprouts and then it's much easier actually to grow them like if you I mean it's much cheaper to grow them yourself so if you someone is interested in like sprouting or something like that then they should, you know, do it themselves. And the same probably with fermented foods. You know, fermented foods and drinks can be quite expensive, but you can also make them at home for, you know, pretty much cheap uh or free. So uh yeah, just like certain certain superfoods can be uh priced quite high and the same can be applied to meat like um you know how much meat do you need to eat to be healthy and get all the vitamins and minerals like theoretically you can get all the nutrition from you know a few hundred grams of meat already. So you don't need to eat two 3 kilograms of meat every day which can be more expensive. So you can cover all the B vitamins and other iron and all the other stuff from just you know a few hundred grams and the rest of the food can be quote cheaper foods. Yeah. So you there's you can go both ways like you can pay a lot for a lot of expensive superfoods but you can also pay a lot for you know salmon or beef like if you eat 2 kg of salmon a day that can be quite expensive. Totally. uh Joseph and and and maybe if you if both of you guys could give a sense like is the factor like 2x the price or like 3x the price in terms of what what it what it costs to what in your mind eat optimally versus eat like you know a person who's not aware of this stuff you mean as opposed to say standard American diet or someone who's just kind of winging it uh somebody who wants to eat healthfully but is let's say a poor college student you know what I mean like they want to eat healthfully But they look at that price of whatever meat. And and maybe by the way, this is also a good segue into another topic. So maybe when you give your answer, Jose, if you could also um have a comment on that about how do you know what's good, right? We look at different sources of information. I know you're going to give a whole talk about this in in some vector, but like organic this, organic that, the prices can go up like 2, 3x, and it's hard to know what's what. Uh these fermented foods, etc. boutique, you know, companies that are producing this. So, anyway, any any thoughts on on this entire topic? Yeah, that's really tricky because there's just so much to touch upon. Um, I my diet changes quite a bit. I don't I'm not really like the one maybe people see my videos about the ketogenic diet or about the carnivore diet or about this or that diet and they might think, "Oh, he's like the carnivore diet guy." But um my diet changes quite a bit uh over the year and I would say the through line is that I am getting a significant amount of animal protein, usually beef and then eggs. And then if I'm eating a lot of carbs, it's usually probably going to be sweet potatoes. Well, like Japanese sweet potatoes. And I feel like as a base that's relatively cheap um and and doesn't I wouldn't say it makes my pattern of eating more expensive than the average person. Maybe it's even cheaper since I eat at home uh a fair bit when I can. Um I guess it comes down to like how high quality meat you want to do. At some point I stopped worrying about grass-fed. So, um, the grain-fed stuff tastes better anyways. And most of it seems like the the one of the bigger benefits of grass-fed is that you get, for example, higher concentrations of certain fats soluble vitamins in the fat. So, um, yeah, price-wise, I guess it depends on like how many obscure supplements and obscure superfoods you want to take, like uh, Sim was hinting at. Uh, so I don't do too many supplements and I try and keep it pretty simple and just go with like fish, beef, uh, maybe some potatoes, and then eggs, and, you know, like seaweed here and there, some Japanese staples, and it's like pretty cheap. I I wouldn't say it's necessarily more expensive than the average person, at least in Japan. Yeah. And like you there's a certain amount of nutrients and vitamins and minerals your body needs and overdosing on them by eating a ton of these very nutritious foods doesn't give you more benefits. So like I said you only need like a few hundred gram of meat even like 100 200 grams and you'll pretty much cover all your B vitamins and iron for the day. uh and uh you know you need certain amounts of fiber optimally so you can cover them with you know broccoli, beans or carrots or whatever like those kind of things and healthy fats. So you can take omega-3 supplement like that would be like very easy to cover your daily omega-3s. You don't even need to eat fish theoretically speaking. Um and uh you know there's stuff that can come from rice, sweet potatoes, fruits uh or something like that. So there there's a certain foods that are like filler foods to get your calories like rice and uh sweet potatoes and uh other things and there's certain nutritious foods which would make up like a minority and you don't need like extra more if you're on a budget. Yeah. Like the the liver king approach of like overdosing on copper with liver doesn't really right make sense. It's not necessary. Yeah. So, um, going from that to, uh, dig on, uh, dig a little bit deeper on, uh, how to trust, what to trust. Do you have any rules of thumb that are worth noting for other people? You know, they're they're going to buy food or, you know, try to make decisions about what to consume. What's what's your rule of thumb or how do you make decisions and how how deeply do you research stuff? As a rule of thumb, I guess it depends on where the person is in terms of their knowledge of nutrition. So, I might if I'm talking to someone and then they want some nutritional advice, then I would try and feel out where they are in terms of, you know, do they know are they interested in nutrition at all before this point? So, do they have any sort of frame of reference? Um, but a kind of rule of thumb that I think is easy to understand but also make use of is, you know, I got into this stuff through the Paleolithic diet. And I thought I really like the concept of it's just, okay, go back 20,000 years. What did we have available? Um, you know, Paleolithic humans were really robust actually. Their their bone densities were higher. uh they appeared to be more fertile and they were just like physically very robust. They had better skull structure. They have better dental arches so they would have less sleep apnea and snoring and all these kind of things. So then you look at what were they eating and it was just whatever was available which is uh probably meat and tubers, maybe some honey and uh fish and then some berries, fruits, things like that. So, it's kind of if if you just need a rule of thumb of, okay, how can I judge whether this is healthy or not and you don't want to get too much into the weeds and the details and all the studies, then I think that's a fair enough rule of thumb. And I think that's why the the Paleo diet sort of took off when it did because it it was just a really simple concept. Yeah. Like a easy rule of thumb is to if it's packaged like and it's processed then it's uh less likely to be healthy. Although, you know, some processed foods can be healthy as well. But if yeah, if it doesn't have a package, like it's a whole food, meat, fish, uh potatoes, rice, uh fruits and stuff, then you know it's it's harder to go wrong with that. And um you know, other things like organic versus non-organic. So like the issue with organic is that it there's also organic pesticides and stuff like that. So you're not really getting quote unquote chemical-free food even with organic food. um it just costs more and uh you know there's ways certain foods yeah are better to be consumed organic. So the ones that you eat the flesh with or the skin with like strawberries and grapes and those kind of things. The others like tubers underground they're kind of safer to be consumed than non-organic. Uh but anyway, you would want to still wash the things that you eat and uh you know soak them ideally like you can technically remove a lot of you know dirt and bacteria and uh you do that with everything you eat. I mean, with berries and apples, for example, not if I'm traveling, I don't have like baking soda or apple cider vinegar when I'm traveling, but but uh at home, like if I buy some strawberries, you know, you can soak them in there for a little bit and uh at least that helps with a lot of the dirt and stuff as well. Cool. Yeah. Two more questions and then we'll we'll uh we'll wrap uh because we have another u uh more stuff coming on. Uh one question is about protein. So uh there are different perspectives on this uh a lot of research. One of the trade-offs seems to be from the short to the long term that if you consume more protein in the short term and maybe this actually also kind of coincides with paleolithic you can become more robust you can build more muscle etc. But there are some who argue that uh if you or some evidence that if you consume a lot of protein and some people are recommending you know quite high doses like 2 gram per kilo or something like that that that would really actually have delterious effects uh longevity wise um because it creates uh more burden uh on your body metabolically and and you know you're ramping up mtor and other things like that. Do you guys have an opinion about this? I' yeah I'd be curious to hear uh where Sim's coming from because my perspective is basically yeah there's some theoretical reasons why you should restrict protein to live longer uh mainly through the mtorculine like you're talking about but all these there's are many other things that are either have been found to be neutral for longevity or positive for longevity that actually upregulate mTor like exercise most of the the benefits you're getting from exercise is through the mtor pathway through stimulating the mTor pathway. And then another one I think if you eat carbohydrates that that also stimulates mTor. So you know if you're not supposed to eat protein, you're not supposed to eat carbohydrate like are you just going to eat like beef towel all the time or uh uh avocado oil or something like that. Uh the other thing is um so sarcopenia is actually a really big issue for the aging person and as you get older you hold on it's harder to hold on to muscle. So you're going to need more instances of muscle protein synthesis and there's two ways to stimulate muscle protein synthesis is through protein and exercise. And you know it gets harder to exercise while you're when you get older too. But you need to maintain your muscle not just for metabolic health but for you know you have better ability to navigate yourself and you can walk more and get more of the benefits from from lowle activity but you um also need to not fall. So you need some muscle mass so you have better coordination. You're not going to get a hip fracture or something like that. So I yeah I I just don't if anything I might even argue that these higher doses of protein might actually be appropriate for the elderly because for example um it becomes harder for them to digest protein as they age. their digestive processes that are liberating the protein and making it available are less efficient and so you might actually need more bioavailable protein which would be animal protein. Um so yeah for those reasons you know due to the sarcopenia and how protein helps and muscle me muscle mass helps with metabolic health and longevity I don't think it's I wouldn't worry about protein as reducing longevity. See? Yeah. Like it's very there's a lot of pros and cons to that. One obvious thing is yeah, like if you eat a very low protein diet, you'll potentially have low muscle mass and bone density, which we know predicts mortality in elderly people. And there is like with protein intake. There is a certain switch or like a shift around the age of like 65 that they see that a low protein diet actually increases mortality risk in those people older than 65. probably because of them the psychopenia and frailty risk. Um whereas yeah if you're younger you can get away with lower protein whether or not it's optimal. You know that's a different question because you you know that's the best time to build the muscle and the bone density is when you're kind of younger before it's harder later in life. So uh with protein there's you know certain biomarkers I would much rather look at rather than think about the protein itself. You know things like IGF-1. So it's one of the theoretical reasons why protein shortens lifespan. So increases IG of 1 and that increases risk of cancer and heart disease. But with IGF-1 it's a U-shaped curve. Low IGF-1 levels are also associated with increased mortality as is high levels. So if so something like 115 to 130 nanogs per milliliter I think is the sweet spot. So if it's below that then your risk of sarcopenia and frailty is higher. if it's over 300 or something then it's uh you know higher risk of cancer but yeah it's not only protein that because I eat I don't eat like um crazy high protein diet but eat more than is like uh average I would say um but my IGF-1 levels are still in the normal range it's like 100 and in this kind of sweet spot um and I also eat carbs so it's not only like what you eat but you how you eat and what else you do because diabetes and high blood sugar levels they also stimulate mTor so this chronic mtor activation in diabetes and IGF-1 as well so or actually not only because of what you eat or like it's not the protein or the carbs necessary it's just that you have diabetes for example um but yeah it's a you have to measure things uh to see how particular food affects your risk like carbohydrates I eat like 300 grams of carbs a day, I have very normal and low blood sugar levels. Whereas someone who has diabetes, they if they eat 300 grams, they might, you know, have persistent hypoglycemia and uh insulin resistance. So depends a lot on the person who's eating the food when it comes to the macros. Awesome, awesome answers. All right, uh last question as we wrap up. So uh neurotropics and uh cognitive performance uh I know a lot of people here are basically doing work with their minds primarily that's uh how they succeed in life and so forth maybe in the Bay Area as much or more than anywhere else in the world. What is uh what are one or two of your uh preferred neuroenhancing protocols or behaviors uh that may not be obvious? You know, we all know about caffeine, but uh or maybe there's some way to consume caffeine that we don't know about, but I'll hand it to you guys. Yeah. I mean, the second one after caffeine is probably nicotine. So, like nicotine, gum or patches, they're like in small doses, they can have some uh neutropic effects. The problem with nicotine is that uh chronic use uh can cause vasa constriction. So like uh tightening of the blood vessels I think it's like something like eight milligrams a day. Uh so that can increase risk of heart disease or hypertension. So like I wouldn't use nicotine in large doses all the time but the small doses like 1 milligram 2 milligrams pretty is pretty good. Yeah. So in terms of what to combine with caffeine elenine seems to work pretty well. It's um it's supposed to reduce the jitters of coffee and uh there's studies finding that people have like better focus with caffeine plus elenine. I do a couple different things. So I'm balancing like caffeine and nicotine and salt and not eating. So basically if you're not eating and you're having caffeine and nicotine then you're going to be more anxious. And so then to kind of reduce that, I'll add some salt. So salt has this weird effect that I want to dive more into the mechanism to see exactly why this works. But um it seems to be that when your cortisol is higher, you release more salt, you excrete more salt. So if you replace it, you're going to feel a little better. So actually before my talk, I was a little nervous. So I had some I just put some salt in water, drank that, and I actually felt way better. And so I came up and started talking. But um yeah, so you know, you're you're doing too much stimulation, but then if you get too anxious, you can't really work appropriately or creatively enough. And actually, yeah, not eating anything is the best for me to stay alert. Specifically, I'll like avoid eating a high carbohydrate meal if I have a lot of work in a particular day. But then then if if you're not eating anything, then you're more like susceptible to the stimulants and you'll get more jittery and more anxious. And then I'll throw in some salt. So, it's kind of a balancing act. Sometimes I'll just eat some carbs if I feel like the caffeine or nicotine is too much because that also blunts some of the effect of the caffeine and nicotine if I've like overshot with it. So, that those different things is what I go for. But the biggest one like in terms of actually moving the needle even though maybe I don't um cuz like you feel awesome when you drink caffeine. It's like you're working but you also feel like oh I'm so productive and I feel great and you're really confident about it but you might not necessarily actually be more productive. you just feel like it. With fasting, I feel objectively like I'm just getting more done. So that's me. Yeah. With neutropics, it's differences in people's neurotransmitter profiles. So yeah, like some people get very anxious from smaller amounts of caffeine. They metabolize it slower um and they're more sensitive to it and um others are more like I guess more duller or more gabanurgic and uh so they need more stimulation. So this is very individual like some people love caffeine. they work great with it, others feel worse with it. The same with nicotine and uh you know other other likeropic agents as well. So there's no universal nutropic profile. It's a protocol that's like everyone has has to find what works for them. But uh one one cool I guess ingredient is paracanthine which supposedly gives you like the same effects as caffeine but it doesn't stimulate you that much. I think there's like one drink that has it. It's quite new. has been maybe for one one or two years out. Cool. We'll follow up on that and share because I haven't heard about it. I don't know how many people have heard of that. Raise your hand. Few. Okay. Few if none. Um and one uh one followup on this for me. Last followup. What's your take on medapanyl? I've never used it. So I um for when when I had le other aspects of my health not so dialed in, it was kind of magical. It was like I would just take it and I didn't really feel like I was over stimulated. Say with something like too much caffeine or aderall or something like that. With those you just I just felt bad. Uh medafanol it was like I would take it and then I would get all this work done without even thinking about it. Like it would just it would just magically happen and then I would look back and be like whoa I was so productive. Um, but then exactly as Sim is saying about the different, you know, your like neurotransmitter pro profiles, my friend took it and he was like, I just got a headache and I had to take a nap. I hate that stuff. And he tried it like three times and it it just was terrible each time. But for me, it was kind of magical. Now it feels actually a little overstimulating. Oh, interesting. All right. Well, thanks a lot, guys. This was amazing. And uh they're going to be here, so chat with them and uh let's let's go. Thank you. All right. Give it up. All right. That's it for this episode. Make sure you check out my new book, The Longevity Leap, on Amazon. I'd also appreciate if you share this episode with a friend or family member. Other than that, my name is Seam. Stay tuned for the next episode. Stay in poor.