All right, first question. If I do moderate intensity cardio for many hours in a row, do I risk increasing oxidative stress? Are there ways to counteract the negative effects? So, any kind of exercise does increase inflammation and oxidative stress in the short term. During the exercise, yes, your body has, you know, higher blood pressure, higher blood sugar, higher amounts of inflammation. So, if you just look at it in isolation, then you could say that exercise is harmful for you. But what's interesting is that after the fact, after you've stopped exercising, the uh inflammation and oxidative stress are lower. So you're increasing your body's endogenous antioxidant capacity. You actually lower inflammation. That's why people who exercise regularly have lower inflammation as a baseline. They have lower resting heart rates, lower blood sugar as a baseline, lower blood pressure as a baseline. So the short-term acute effect is uh actually beneficial in the long term that your body in the long term does experience improved health. Now other ways to uh counteract some of those negative side effects you know um yes uh first of all don't overtrain. So if you overtrain then you're increasing the likelihood of getting sick getting other negative side effects experiencing harmful effects in terms of body composition or mental health etc. So overtraining obviously is not beneficial but moderate exercise uh trying to progress in your training is generally uh beneficial. Now overtraining does increase the risk of respiratory tract infections. So elite athletes tend to have higher risk of respiratory tract infections because of the increased risk because of the overtraining component especially when combined with sleep deprivation or undernourishment etc. So um if you are training a lot then uh counteracting the risk of respiratory tract infections can be done with a sauna. So there's a research that people who take the sauna have lower risk of respiratory tract infections they have better immune system functioning they get sick less often etc. So uh taking the sauna after exercise after any form of vigorous exercise especially can um mitigate any potential risk and it also promotes recovery. Sonas promote muscle repair, muscle recovery. They also lower inflammation, lower blood pressure in the long term. So, it's a perfect combination. And there's quite interesting research that people who take the sauna while exercising, they see greater reduction in blood pressure than exercise alone. And the same with V2 max. If you do sauna while exercising, well, not in the exact moment that you're riding a bike or doing some uh kettle bells in the sauna, not like that, but if you, you know, exercise and you also take the sauna regularly, then uh you also see increased V2 max gains. So, the small card workout you get from the sauna contributes to increased V2 max as well as well as a lower resting blood pressure. So, uh yeah, it's the best combination. You exercise and you also take a sauna after the workout. is the best uh recovery tool and it also lowers your risk of inflammation or increased risk of uh respiratory tract infections that can come from overtraining. Next question, have you followed any of Russell writer PhD research on melatonin? It's very interesting. He's 88 and researched melatonin since 1965. Uh yes, I am aware of that research and u it's very interesting to me. I think this concept of mega dosing melatonin for the sake of anti-aging and uh other longevity benefits is uh very interesting for me. I've uh been a fan of melatonin myself for many years. I've u tested mega doses. I've tested 10 milligrams. I've taken more than that as well. I haven't really tested the 100 or 200 milligram doses yet, but uh you know I'm definitely or probably going to try it out in the near future. So unfortunately there's no actual clinical trials on this mega dosing of melatonin but um people anecdotally have said that it uh you know has benefits for them but obviously it's very limited evidence these self-reported um cases but generally yeah melatonin as an antioxidant as an anti-inflammatory hormone is uh yeah super interesting. I think that there is quite a lot of untapped potential for for like mega dosing melatonin for just not sleep but just overall metabolic health and maybe cardiovascular or brain health or other health benefits. Next question. Could you compare the top anti-aging supplement formulas like Blueprint, Novascore, or Do Not Age? Uh yeah, I have reviewed actually all three of them on my channel before. I've reviewed Blueprint, I've reviewed Novascore, and I've reviewed Do Not Age as well. Now, yeah, Blueprint and Novascore are somewhat similar. They're or Blueprint has a lot more products than Novas, but uh generally they're like a mix of ingredients and they do not age is different because they sell individual ingredients. They don't sell mixes, they sell just the single ingredients. So, obviously there's they're completely different in terms of that. Uh my review of do not age was uh that some of those ingredients are very good, very uh researchbacked like you know creatine, omega-3s, bourberine, they have uh glycine and NAC a few other good supplements. Um some of them might be a bit more limited like search 6 or or uh some other ones like calcium alpha gilogluterate or reserrol as well but you know the ones that they do sell are quite high quality and third party tested etc. Blueprint and no core so I made a review on blueprint my thoughts on blueprint was that some of the ones are good. I liked the soft gel formula. Actually, that was the only one I would take from their stack which had like a zantanthin and lutein and the vitamin K2 etc. I wouldn't take their capsules. I wouldn't take their uh mix powder and my overall rating was maybe like 3.8 or four I think uh out of five for the blueprint. So, um yeah, that's my thoughts on blueprint pretty much. The only one I would take is the soft gel nolva's core. I think no, the Novo's mix, the powder mix uh is quite uh good. I would I would consider it like a pretty solid um stack. It's a kind of on the safer end of not having any unnecessary ingredients and not having any potential ingredients that could potentially cause some negative reactions to some individuals. So, it's kind of like a safe bet. Um yeah, but uh I do think that uh you know there's a lot of untapped potential in Novos as well that they don't have ingredients that have a lot of research uh and uh potential additional benefits. So they're leaving a few ingredients on the table in my opinion. If I were to stack them, you know, in terms of like a tier system, these three, then I think, you know, no is uh better than blueprint in my opinion. But you know, do not age it's a different league in terms that they sell only individual ingredients. So they don't sell mixed powders. So yeah, it's kind of a pros and cons. Uh but I am actually coming out with my own mix as well in the near future next year. And uh yeah, I'm just formulating it based on what I would take and what I will take myself and what uh the all of the ingredients that have evidence and in their optimal doses. So both the blueprint and normals core they tend to miss on some of the optimal doses which you know can be hard because uh or it's self-explanatory because it's can be hard to fit all the ingredients into the mix but uh what I've done actually uh achieve that. So uh yeah it has the optimal doses and minimalistic setup. So um yeah you don't have to start taking 20 pills a day or 30 pills a day like you would do with maybe some individual ingredients. Next question. Even though you share a lot of what you do, what are the things that you do directly or that might contribute indirectly to your health that you tend to not mention? The things that give you the extra 1 to 5% of longevity and health benefits based on your subjective opinion. Yeah. Well, I've always um thought that one of the biggest contributors to my personal health has been innovative fasting. So, the research about intermittent fasting is that, you know, it does help with weight loss, but it's not superior to regular calorie restriction. And when it comes to longevity, then we, you know, can't say if it's going to make you live longer or something like that. I personally think that u it certainly at least it certainly helps me to maintain very optimal body composition year round without any effort. So I just skip a few meals, eat in a smaller window and uh it just makes it easier to stick to a diet. you know there's some other longevity pathways get that get activated with intermittent fasting such as this umpk and autophagy and fox 3 etc but we we don't know whether or not it will actually contribute to maximum lifespan in humans but personally I do think that I'm kind of biased towards thinking that it does at least for me uh obviously can also improve lipids and blood pressure and HIV and blood sugar and all these other biomarkers that can correlate to health span and longevity. So, that's my opinion and I've been doing inter fasting for, you know, over 10 years by now. So, uh it's always been my go-to just because I like it. What other things I think have played a big role is uh I have a very strong immune system for some reason. You know, I never really get sick. I um if I do get sick, then I recover super fast and I don't get severely sick ever. I uh lived in a molded house for two decades without any symptoms and uh yeah I can you know be exposed to a lot of pathogens or uh viruses and mold and those kind of things without even getting sick. So you know there is I have a strong immune system and the reason I think I have it is because I grew up in the countryside. I played in the dirt. I ate the dirt probably. You know, I grew up with animals, farm animals, touching the animals, getting exposed to a lot of different bacteria and microbes. So, that builds a strong immune system. I eat raw milk when I was a kid. I uh you know was just in a natural environment with a lot of natural bacteria and uh microbes that does contribute to a stronger immune system. And you know in what I see online today is quite you know strange because there's a lot of people who suffer I have this food sensitivity I'm allergic to that etc etc like I'm allergic to nothing I can eat anything I have perfect digestion I have you know good skin health I don't get any reactions or rashes or acne I've never had that so I think the reason is because I grew up with a lot of animals a lot of dirt a lot of soil a lot of uh pollen from the whatever air breathing in uh you know we had surrounded we were surrounded by wheat fields and um some uh other uh grain fields. So when they're harvesting then there's a lot of the grain flowing everywhere. So probably just developed a strong immune system while exposed to these kind of things. And there is research that you know you can improve certain allergies and sensitivities if you're micro doing or exposed to them in small amounts. But as a kid that's what your immune system develops the most. And you when you get exposed to these things in small amounts as a kid, you just develop a very strong immune system or a very like a diverse immune system able to tolerate a lot of different um you know environmental microbes and bacteria. Now if I were to move to Thailand or some Australia or Africa then yeah I've never been exposed to those kind of bacteria there. So then maybe I would get sick. But in my home setting in here in this Nordic Europe I yeah don't get sick at all. getting exposed to a lot of natural bacteria as a kid. Obviously, you can't do it retrospectively, but you can at least do that for your for your own kids. Don't grow uh kids in like a sterilized environment exposed to microplastics and um household chemicals only. You want to expose them to the dirt and live animals etc. like a dog and cat and cows and pigs and chicken etc. So I think that those are the two things that have played a huge impact on my own health. I think I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices which are the bond charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longevity influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bone Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most REA therapy devices don't have the right wavelengths of light, which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bon Charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research, and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to bunchcharge.com and use the code seam s IM for a 15% discount. Your latest YouTube video on circadian rhythm as the next likely age marker was very insightful. Can you give a protocol for those who work nights? So yeah, that's a unfortunate situation and you know if you can't change the job then uh you can still make it work. So if you're otherwise healthy, you're in good body composition, you eat a good diet, you sleep well otherwise, you uh exercise regularly otherwise but the only thing bad in your life is yeah that you do night shift occasionally then that's not the end of the world. It's still better than being without night shift but being otherwise obese or not exercising etc. So even though you do night shift it's not going to completely eradicate other things that you do with your for your health. So you need to optimize just the other things the other fundamentals you know get your body composition in check don't become overweight and obese do some exercise uh you know with cardio and weights you know don't necessarily do a lot of exercise in the night time or u when you're about to do night shift don't like just wreck yourself at the gym before that. So try to exercise on the days that you're off from the work and uh otherwise just eat a healthy diet. When it comes to the night shift itself, then I would recommend not to eat during the night, try to avoid eating during the night time. So even if you're awake, just don't eat massive meals or especially don't eat junk food during those times. You can mitigate a lot of the harm on your metabolism and gator rhythms by just not eating during the night. And when you wake up or when you're about to uh you know go to bed in the morning after the night shift then just try to get a good sleep even even if it's going to make you wake up at 2 p.m. in the afternoon then it's better to get the adequate sleep. And you know it depends if you have another shift the next day how long you should sleep. If you're going to have another shift the next day then yes sleep as long as you want. If you don't have another shift, then maybe sleep restrict yourselves a little bit so that you can go to bed earlier the next day if you have an off day the following day. So yeah, just try to optimize your otherwise lifestyle. And there are a few supplements as well that could help you know a lot of um glycine na these antioxidants that support glutathione that can help melatonin at the right time asthine omega-3s lutein zigzanthin they can sh protect your eyes shield your eyes against the blue light if you're you know obviously going to work under blue light during the night so uh yeah those are the ones I would take and creatine after or during the sleep deprivation during the night shift that can uh improve your cognition and reduce the sleep pressure. Next question. Are there any supplements to take before the sauna to enhance its effects? Yes, there's called the Hubert protocol, Hubbert protocol. And uh it's just nascin with sauna and nascin increases flushing, increases vasoddilation. So it can enhance uh sweating and potentially enhance like the microvascularization etc. So the hubard protocol was done to promote detox detoxification so you sweat more out uh but uh you know you can also otherwise use it for enhancing the cardiovascular benefits. So yeah nasin like a 100 200 300 milligrams of nasin before the sauna can enhance some of its effects. Now you could also take some binders if uh you want to bind to some of the toxins that you excrete but uh you know I don't I don't think it's inherently necessary because most of the detoxification effect from the sauna comes from sweating. So the you take chlorella or charcoal then I mean it binds to things in your gut but it's not going to bind to you're still going to sweat out the the the heavy metals or microplastics etc. So, nascin is probably like the best one that you could take and uh potentially some other blood flow enhancing agents like um citrine. Let's say you go to the gym, you take citrine before the workout to increase blood flow. That also might promote some of the benefits from the sauna. Um yeah, that's that would be the one I would take. Next question. Do you think long-term caffeine use ages the brain or can it be neutralized with proper recovery and nutrition? Well, if you look at observational data, then uh coffee consumption is associated with less brain aging and less risk lower risk of Alzheimer's, lower risk of uh cancers, lower risk of heart disease, lower risk of hyper hypertension. So, uh you know, if caffeine were to be harmful for the brain, then you wouldn't see that, right? The same with smoking. Smoking is seen to increase the risk of heart disease and it's seen to increase the risk of uh cancers and Alzheimer's etc. So if smoking were to be good for you then you wouldn't see that increased risk. So there are some things you can still take away from observational data because of the you either the mismatch or the or the or the match between the uh observations and the mechanisms. So uh there's no causal link between as no causal evidence for smoking and heart disease but because the association is so strong and we have a mechanism we can know that the risk is potentially causal or it's very likely to be so with caffeine you know you don't see increased risk of u Alzheimer's or neuro degeneration. In fact it's the opposite. So, uh, yeah, I wouldn't say, you know, the only way it could harm your brain aging is, uh, if it disrupts your sleep. You're chronically sleepd deprived because of caffeine or because it keeps you up at night. That's the only way it could do so. So otherwise um you know there's no um I mean there might be some differences between energy drinks and coffee because the reason why coffee consumption might be associated with reduced risk of Alzheimer's and heart disease and cancer is because of the polyphenolic compounds. Maybe the caffeine doesn't have that big of a role maybe it's the polyphenolic compounds mostly in coffee and teas that uh explains that effect. In that case, the energy drinks with isolated caffeine or pre-workout supplements, maybe they might be harmful, but uh it's hard to say. There's at least there's no I haven't there's no um enough not enough data for the energy drink side of things. We do have enough data for the coffee and caffeine from coffee side of things, but um isolated caffeine, I haven't seen enough evidence yet. Next question. Can you really repay sleep depth or is it permanent damage? Uh yes, you can. There was actually a recent study where uh this weekend catchup sleep was seen to lower markers of aging and improve some other biomarkers as well. So uh yes you can repay some sleep depth uh at least based on the evidence. So like a few let's say you sleep short during the weekday you sleep five six hours. Now, it's obviously still going to have some long-term damage because you can't fully repay it, but you can mitigate some of the damage by sleeping a bit longer on the weekends. So, if you just sleep, let's say, two hours a night, then yeah, you probably can't make up for it entirely. You can only make up maybe an extra one or two hours of lost sleep. But if Yeah, but but also not chronically. If you always sleep only 4 hours a night, then probably you're not going to be able to make up for it. If you sleep maybe a few nights or 4 hours or 5 hours, then yes, you can make up for that. Maybe not the 100%, but the majority of it. Next question. What do you think of uroliththan A? So, I have a video about uriththn mitoure specifically which contains urethane A and u you know my impression of it is that um it's very overhyped and overpriced. you know, you wouldn't be I don't I don't see a way how you could charge $120 a month for a supplement that's going to increase leg torque, leg like uh strength and leg power slightly. Something like 12% if I miss if I remember correctly because yeah, the data they showed didn't improve uh upper body strength. It didn't improve endurance and it didn't improve body composition. The only thing was was increased leg torque slightly. So paying $120 a month for that is uh you know not worth it in in my opinion. Now obviously there's some speculative data about uriththane and animal research that u it might have some longevity benefits that helps to stimulate mphagy that clears out old mitochondria but u it's you know certainly not the only thing that can do that. there's uh many other compounds that also stimulate mphagy and uh you know exercise itself does that as well. So even if you just exercised maybe additional zone 2 cardio or some extra exercise you could probably get the same benefits uh compared to taking the urthan and the money you spend on urthan could be spent much better on some other supplements. You know, I would much rather take asexanthin, omega-3s, glycine, melatonin or torine. They have a lot more evidence than uriththna at the moment. And asexanthin and torine and glycine, they also seen seem to extend lifespan in animals. So uriththna doesn't have a monopoly on the life extension either. So there's m much many other much cheaper supplements that have been seen to extend lifespan as well. And they have a ton more clinical data in humans showing various benefits for skin, metabolic health, exercise performance, etc. And the reason I think urthanade or might appear specifically so expensive is because it's patented. It's a patented compound and it cost $120 a month because they have the monopoly on it. So it's kind of like a supplemental miniarma situation. Whereasanthin, torine, melatonin, omega-3s, lutein, zexanthin, etc., they're not patented. They're just generic supplements and uh they're 10 times cheaper. Are the people who are doing too much longevity stuff, fasting, cold plunges, stacks, etc., and actually accelerating aging? Well, certainly, yeah, you can do too much. Too much of anything can be harmful. Overtraining is harmful. Getting hypothyroid because of excess calorie restriction and excess excess fasting is harmful. Too much cold exposure is harm. Too much sauna can be harmful. So, obviously, everything has the right dose. oxygen you need oxygen to live but you know excess oxygen is harmful you can die same with water same with food you know everything has a sweet spot and I think uh probably the mindset in longevity space comes from you know a lot of let's say tech bros or crypto bros as well they if they get into longevity then you know in that field just doing more gets you better results in in in business doing more gets you better results and just grinding through gets you better results in business in most cases. Um, but in health it's not always the case. In health there's uh the hormetic sweet spot that gives you the best results. Not too much, not too little, just the right amount because in health if you do more, if you add stacking things up, then you potentially will harm the body. So how much would be too much depends a lot on the individual. Some people can tolerate a lot of stress and it's not going to be harmful for them at all. Whereas others have a lower stress resilience. They have a weaker immune system or you know just poor metabolic health or fitness. So it all depends on the individual of how much is too much. But even then the you know most resilient the most strongest of people will they can still experience harmful effects if you do too much. So what are some signs you need to look out for? You know with um exercise is that if you're always sick, you're not progressing in your training, you're keeping the same level all the time or you're getting some joint pain and you know kind of just injuries, then uh that can be a sign of too much when it comes to saunas. Too much can be you're losing a lot of electrolytes, you're getting cramps, you're just the sleep sleep begins to suffer as well. uh your skin you you become very dehydrated. I mean those things uh can be happening with too much sauna, too much cold usually goes along the lines of uh your thyroid begins to suffer. You uh just feel cold all the time despite uh getting out of the cold. So all those things can be from excess cold and um you know pain sensitivity and those things as well. brittle nails, um brittle hair, kind of this uh flaky skin or something like that can be a sign of lower thyroid which can also come from too low calorie intake, protein restriction, too much fasting, uh etc. So obviously there are a lot of signs that you can you can experience when you're doing too much. But obviously the inadequate side of things can be equally as bad if you're not doing any form of exercise, you're uh just eating whatever etc. you're not getting any of these uh beneficial um stressors, then um you know your body resilience will also be somewhat weaker. So you do need some moderate amounts of uh physical movement and activity, moderate amounts of uh dietary restriction, moderate amounts of u let's say cold or heat exposure as well. Ideally it's not I think the cold and heat are somewhat like mandatory but uh you know at least some form of physical movement. If you stop moving, you stop doing physical activity, then you know, especially after the age of 50, then your physical function is going to drop off a cliff. Especially after if you've not maintained physical activity. So yeah, obviously too much can be too much. Will it accelerate aging? Then depends on how far are you taking it. And uh because you know, arguably calorie restriction is one of those things that has been seen to extend lifespan in animals most consistently. You know, yeah, it's not a pretty life. It's not a enjoyable life but maybe it will still extend your lifespan. But in humans obviously you need to take into account the risk of u you know frailty and uh other infections the calorie restriction studies are done in a more isolated environment. So mice aren't going to these mice or these uh other life forms they're not exposed to external pathogens to just isolate the variables. So uh in humans who are in a free world you need a strong immune system and if you're calorie restricted too much then your immune system will be weaker. So there's a trade-off you need to keep in mind. So they think yeah probably excess calorie restriction is not the most optimal for long-term in humans especially also when we consider the the association between muscle mass and bone density and longevity. Next question. Any tips how to avoid the wake up after 4 hours of sleep? I go to bed at 9:30 p.m. but get up around 3:00 a.m. and can't get back to sleep. Yeah. So, I did a video about it where I talked about glycine and slow release melatonin and just uh emptying your bladder before going to bed, etc. All those things can be a reason why you wake up. And there's additional reasons why you might wake up. They can be stress related. They can be just a habitual. So, one problem with sleep is that it's very habitual. If you're always waking up at 2 am or whatever the time is, even 5 am, then that's what your body will do. It just habituates to that. It develops a certain rhythm around that behavior. And if you even if you don't do it like super long, even if you do it for a few days or few few weeks, then uh your body will quickly adapt to that new rhythm. So uh whatever the the worst case thing to do is to just uh reinforce that pattern and reinforce that rhythm. So you need to just um even like try to force yourself just to stay in bed because chances are if you stay in bed for another 5 10 15 minutes then um chances are you're just going to fall back asleep and you'll sleep another hour. That's at least what I've experienced myself in the past when I've might have woken up again, you know, again slightly earlier, 4:00 a.m. 5:00 a.m. Instead of getting up and, you know, going to work, I just force myself to stay in bed for another 15 minutes, maybe I listen to some music that usually helps me to fall back asleep. So, uh, anything that gets you to stay in bed and get to fall back asleep, that can relearn this pattern that your body will, okay, it'S4:00 a.m., although I woke up, I'm going to go back to sleep. That's what you need to uh do. Another reason could be a blood sugar issue. So, if your blood sugar goes low, your brain wakes you up. Uh, that's a common reason for that. And in the morning, you've been fasting for already several hours, so your blood sugar could be low. um things like kiwis before bed or just um just even like MCT oil or something that has ketone bodies that if you lack metabolic flexibility that is if you're otherwise healthy and you have good metabolic flexibility then you should be able to uh tap into burning fat and ketones during your sleep even if you ate carbohydrates for dinner. But uh people who have poorer metabolic flexibility, poor insulin sensitivity, poor metabolic health then they tend to struggle with that. That's like one hallmark of uh poor metabolic flexibility that not able to switch into ketosis during the night which should happen naturally. So you can support that with maybe some MCT oil before bed or if you're semi metabolically flexible then you can also take kiwis for example. There's research that kiwis help with sleep duration and sleep quality but it can probably also be some other like lower glycemic fruits or carbohydrates. Next question. How many milligrams of sodium do you consume each day? I assume it should be higher for people who work out and do the sauna. So, personally, I don't quantify my sodium intake. I don't really actually salt my food either. I don't drink electrolytes, at least not regularly. I might do it occasionally. And um you know, if I were to guess, then my sodium intake is probably maybe yeah, something around 2,500 milligrams a day because uh yeah, I don't like salt my food. Yes, certain foods have salt. If my wife cooks uh the food, she salts the food usually. I don't myself. I I do not like never got into like a salt salt thing or I'm not like a salt connoisseur or um gourman, but uh yeah, my salt intake is actually quite low compared to, you know, given the fact that I sauna quite often and I exercise regularly. And I think that I don't have any problems with muscle cramping or electrolyte imbalance because of uh eating carbohydrates. So uh eating carbohydrates, you release insulin and insulin is a hormone that also helps to maintain electrolytes and maintain hydration. So carbohydrate refers to hydration. So with higher carbohydrate intake, you're better hydrated in that sense thanks to insin. You maintain electrolytes better. Hold on to them. And um on a low carb diet, that's the opposite. You have lower insulin, you excrete more electrolytes, and thus you can experience more brain fog and more muscle cramping, etc. Over time, you might adapt to it. But um yeah, with a higher carbohydrate intake, I've noticed that I need less salt, less electrolytes. And uh I never really got into I I never felt the need that I need to just add a ton of salt or electrolytes to my own water or to my own foods. And if I were to guess, then maybe 2,00 2,500 milligrams. So definitely on the lower end of sodium because I just naturally don't salt it that much. And the only sodium I get are from some some other foods that, you know, prepackaged or or my wife salts the food or something like that. I do like to consume some mineral waters every once in a while, like a carbonated nice mineral water. Uh, I do consume those occasionally, but not every day, you know, a few times a week. Next question. What's your take on using sleep supplements like magnesium, glycine, or torine nightly? Can they blunt natural sleep regulation long term? There's definitely no evidence that I'm aware of that magnesium would u or torine or glycine would uh blunt your natural sleep regulation or make you sleep worse if you stop taking them. Uh, that they definitely don't work like that. You know, magnesium mostly helps with sleep if you have low magnesium status and uh it then helps with stress regulation or replenishes the magnesium status which then supports your nervous system regulation uh supports certain neurotransmitter production etc. But uh you know it doesn't there's no negative feedback loop when it comes to sleep the same way it is with testosterone. For example, if someone were to inject testosterone their natural testosterone would stop because uh there's a negative feedback loop. the brain detects that it doesn't need to increase natural testosterone production. It's not the same with magnesium or glycine or torine because your your body doesn't produce those things uh to begin with. Glycine it makes in small amounts but uh you know your body doesn't make magnesium endogenously. So yeah, it's a different scenario. There's a lot of fear that melatonin supplementation would stop natural melatonin production but uh there's no evidence for that either. And uh you know you and it's also not applicable this negative feedback loop with melatonin because melatonin isn't a hormone that's always in your blood and and in your body such as uh testosterone is. Yes, there is a circadian fluctuation in testosterone but you know there's always testosterone in your uh in your bloodstream. With melatonin, it's not really the case. Or at least it's uh you know, there might be some minuscule amounts of melatonin in your blood, but it's not like something that has a circadian rhythm similar to testosterone. Uh melatonin is mostly regulated by light cycles, maybe food intake, etc. So, um it's not working the same way as uh testosterone. So absence of blue and green light helps with melatonin production and uh not eating increases also melatonin production in the gut. So uh certain you like infrared light infrared light radiation does that as well. So there are many moments during the day where you can experience an increase in melatonin. So theoretically that would also suppress natural melatonin production at night time. But that's not the case. Even if you get exposed to sunlight during daytime that helps with mitochondrial melatonin, it doesn't suppress your natural melatonin production at night. In fact, it actually enhances it and supports it. And uh the studies that are out there about very large dose melatonin intake 50 milligrams and above uh they haven't seen suppression of natural melatonin production. So yeah, definitely wouldn't worry. I think the bigger risk is a psychological dependence. So if you always take melatonin for sleep, you think that you need to take melatonin to fall asleep properly. And as I just alluded earlier, it's sleep is very habitual and pattern uh pattern oriented. It's very psychological. You um have a lot of psychological factors that influence how well you sleep, how long you sleep. Even just like I mentioned earlier that if you always wake up at 4 a.m. then that's what your body will do. it will wake you up at 4 am. If you rewire that pattern to wake up later, then you will stick to that new pattern. And the same with melatonin. If you always take melatonin, you think you need to take melatonin to fall asleep, then you know that's what's going to happen. It's it's kind of like self placebo effect. You think you need it, but there's no psych no physiological uh blunting of natural melatonin production if that makes sense. Next question. How much longevity is just keeping inflammation low versus actively repairing cellular damage? So yeah, that's an interesting question. Obviously, we don't have a solid answer to what drives aging and what is this like sole thing responsible for longevity in humans. It's quite complicated. There's a lot of psychological, physiological, and environmental factors that determine how long someone will live. There's a luck involved. Genetics is involved quite a lot. But yeah, obviously inflammation is one of the hallmarks of aging and uh I think I think it is pretty reasonable to say that high inflammation also drives aging. So people who have high inflammation chronically chronic inflammation because of mostly let's say obesity, poor metabolic health, diabetes, insulin resistance, uh sleep restriction, just environmental inflammatory factors like air pollution, heavy metals, all those things. um all of all of those things uh will drive the aging process as well. So smoking causes a lot of inflammation and we can say pretty surely that smoking accelerates aging as well. And there is you know some evidence that with age you see an increase in inflammation. So the healthiest 80year-old they can still have slightly higher inflammation compared to the healthiest 20-year-old uh because of natural process of aging. I think it's uh you know not always of course you can have 80 year olds who have low inflammation and 20 year olds with high inflammation but with all things being equal you would see that 80-year-old has worse glutathion status worse melatonin levels worse antioxidant defense and higher inflammation as a baseline is it the only thing that matters no there's you know many other factors that uh drive aging and contribute to that keeping your inflammation low is one of the easiest thing and like just a safe bet to do for your longevity because yeah inflammation is driving all chronic diseases. It's associated with all chronic diseases and you know drives atheroscerosis, drives neurodeeneration, increases risk of cancer, shortens tieamirs, all those things. So yeah, just keeping your inflammation as low as possible is one of the easiest things and safest things you can do to your longevity. You can measure it with CRP, keeping CRP low, keeping GI 6 low, TNF alpha low and just having a healthy lifestyle, keeping your visceral fat low, keeping body composition normal, sleeping normally, etc. Uh actively repairing cellular damage. So that's uh I think a bit harder problem and uh you know DNA damage cells scinessence all those things are also one of the hallmarks of aging and again it's pretty reasonable to say that if you drive higher amounts of DNA damage you know you get you go to you get exposed to radiation in high amounts you just get exposed to high amounts of u UV UV damage or just DNA damage in excessive amounts. you know some toxins um etc. then uh yes you you it's reasonable to say that you also draw accelerate aging by doing that. So the short answer to that is you know you know yes you want to just minimize ex unnecessary damage and uh supporting repairing the damage with your body's antioxidant defense and u repair mechanisms. But um you know even if you do that even if you keep your inflammation as low as possible even if you support all these repair pathways I don't think it's enough to um you know fully transform longevity that make to make people live decades longer. There's a lot more other things that we don't realize or don't understand yet. So there's a lot of like evolutionary programs different genes. So uh yeah I think epigenetics is u also quite influential. So it's not just inflammation. If you keep your inflammation low, you keep your DNA damage low, you'll still age because of uh the natural process of the human body that's you know mostly genetic and uh in some ways evolutionary selected for and just part of the human physiology. And the last question is do you fight the urge to binge or is your will good enough? Well, personally I don't have any problems with food. I have a very healthy relationship with food. I don't uh binge or I can't I don't and I I never go into situation where I can't control my food intake or something like that. I generally just eat a healthy diet. If I want to eat something unhealthier, I want to have birthday cake or some pizza or something like that, then I do it. I don't see like a problem with that. My health doesn't suffer because of that. I have, you know, good bio biomarkers. I sleep well. I have good body composition. I have good relationship with food. And I do think that you know it's healthy to have certain let's say freedom about food intake as well. So you should never feel I guess anxious about food like oh my god does this food have seed oils? Does it have gluten or you know something like that or oh my god this they only serve birthday cake here I'm going to binge or I'm not going to eat anything or something like that. I think it's another healthy place to be mentally and uh I think it's important to have a relationship with food where you're confident in your own ability to even if you eat unhealthy food for a moment. you're confident in your ability that you know who cares tomorrow I'll just be back on my healthy food and healthy diet because you realize that even like like a single cheat meal or a single bite like a bite of unhealthy food is not going to have any long-term negative effects on your health. As long as you don't yeah go into some binge eating uh event then it's not going to have long-term negative side effects on your health. You know you can eat a birthday cake zero long-term effects on your overall metabolic health overall longevity. Now there might be some individuals who does have negative effects especially certain people with have allergens towards certain foods dairy gluten grains whatever it is. If you have allergens to certain foods then yes it can can be harmful. If you don't have allergens, you have good insulin sensitivity, good metabolic health, you're lean, then eating something unhealthy is not going to be harmful. So, you can think of it like a, you know, I guess like think of it the same way as like a bank account. If you have a ton of money in your bank account, then buying yeah like some sort of a luxury item or something that is practically useless, like you don't need it, but you just buy it because you like it, something collectible or whatever it is, then you have extra money in the bank account, so you don't have to worry about it. If you're broke or if you, you know, you have limited money, then yes, you need to be more careful with how you spend the money and you can't spend money on unnecessary things. But if you have a lot of money, which in this context is you have very good metabolic health, you have very good body composition, you're otherwise healthy, then u there's no issues because you have extra reserve, extra bank account, extra like money in the bank. But yeah, if you have worse metabolic health, you're already obese, you have poor relationship with food, etc., then in your case, yes, maybe eating the birthday cake is not the most suitable thing. But ultimately, you want to end up in a situation where you can take a bite of the donut and not eat the rest of the donut because there's a risk that okay, if someone eats a bite of something unhealthy, they eat a bite of a donut. They're going to eat the entire thing. They're not going to eat only the donut, but they're also going to eat seven other donuts, they're going to go to McDonald's after that. So that's the worst situation you want to be in because it has a you have a poor relationship with food and you're not able to control yourself once the once the gates open so to say. The healthy relationship is that okay I'm going to eat this piece of whatever food. It tastes good but it's not healthy for me. Who cares? I'm going to put it back and I'm able to go back to my routine after that. That's like the mental mastery and the relationship we want to have with food. Not being 100% perfect. I don't think that's the healthiest mentally and it's also not you're not actually disciplined. You're just it's easy to say no to the entire thing. It's much more harder to take a bite and put it back so to say. That requires a lot more discipline. So yes, if you're struggling with metabolic health, say no to the entire thing because it's easier. But if you're otherwise healthy, then you can eat it. You can take a bite. You can put it back or whatever it is. You can eat more if you even like. but you know that the next day you go back on track. So I think that's in um in like the health and um nutrition space is what often gets forgotten about. Uh so yeah I I have a very good relationship with food. In the past it might have not been that case. In the past I was more like I need to I'm going to say no to the entire thing because it's easier. But now, you know, I can eat a piece of doughnut, put it back, and I have no issues with it. And my metabolic health has actually improved. Or, you know, it's not because of that, but because I've improved my metabolic health with an otherwise more balanced diet and more balanced workout routine, I'm able to do that. And because of improving the diversity in my diet, I've improved my mental health and I've improved my metabolic health as well in the process. Whereas in the past, if I said no, you know, the one of the reasons I said no was because I was afraid it's going to make me gain make me gain weight or it's going to, you know, give me diabetes or something like that, which is obviously absurd. But, uh, yeah, in the past saying no, I was in a worse metabolic health than I am now. And taking a bite of the donut and putting it back or eating a piece of cake, doing it now hasn't degraded my metabolic health. I'm in better metabolic health than I was in the past and in better body composition as well. I'm lean year round without any problems, without counting calories, without, you know, feeling deprived. It's it's actually hard for me to gain body fat right now because I'm so siated and um you know, I don't feel deprived of anything if that makes case if that makes sense. So, uh yeah, I'm going to wrap it up. If you have any other future questions uh then u turn on the notifications and pay attention to um the community tab where I'll um you know pop a post where you can ask the questions. All right, thanks for watching this video. Make sure you click a like and subscribe. My name is Seam. They optimize the import.