 following the basics can and will take you to top 1% of health if you have an optimized plan and you're consistent. However, there are a few key factors that can unlock your progress and get you results a lot faster. So in this video, I'm going to give you five things you might not be doing but should be doing. I'm not going to talk about eating a healthy diet, exercising or sleeping more. Those are the basics. I'll cover the specifics that are rarely discussed. Number one, natural vitamin D levels. We all know that vitamin D is an absolutely essential hormone that the body can't make itself. We need to get exposed to sunlight to synthesize vitamin D. Ideally, we want to reach optimal vitamin D status without supplementation. The reason for this is because yes, you can have optimal blood vitamin D levels with supplementation, but you might not be getting the other benefits from the sun. If you have optimal blood vitamin D levels without supplementation, it means that you're spending adequate time outside in the sun. The sun provides us with so many other health benefits that can't be replicated with a supplement. Yes, taking a supplement is better than being vitamin D deficient, but even if your vitamin D levels are normal with supplementation, you might be deficient in infrared light and UV light that have unique benefits on your mitochondria, your sleep, circadian rhythm and overall well-being. You don't even need to sunbathe to get the benefits and reach optimal blood vitamin D levels. A study done in Valencia, Spain, under 39th latitude, found that during the summer and autumn, it takes 7 to 31 minutes of spending time outdoors to reach a dose of 1000 IUs for vitamin D, which is the daily requirement. In January, it took more than two hours to reach that amount. In northern countries, you probably need 1.5 to 2x the amount of time. How much sun you need is determined by your blood work. If your vitamin D levels are low or below average, then you need more sun. Vitamin D levels below 20 nanograms per milliliter or below 50 nanomoles per liter are considered insufficient and they're associated with an increased rate of bone loss. Vitamin D levels over 20 nanograms per milliliter are considered sufficient. However, it's been suggested that the insufficiency line should be at 30 nanograms per milliliter or 75 nanomoles per liter. When it comes to the range for lowest mortality risk, then this 2017 meta-analysis saw that compared to vitamin D levels of 30 to 40 nanograms per milliliter, which is 75 to 99 nanomoles per liter, those with vitamin D levels of 16 to 20 nanograms per milliliter, 40 to 49 nanomoles per liter, had a 15% higher risk of all cause and thalate and those below 12 nanograms per milliliter, below 30 nanomoles per liter, had a 67% higher risk. That's what you want to aim for without supplements. 30 to 40 nanograms per milliliter or 75 to 99 nanomoles per liter at least. What about countries where there's no sunlight, especially during the winter? If you're living in Canada, Scandinavia, Iceland or the UK, then chances are you will need vitamin D during the winter to keep your vitamin D levels optimal. However, there's recent research suggesting that you can also maintain better vitamin D with exercise. In this 2025 randomized control trial, obese participants who exercised maintain their vitamin D levels during the winter, whereas the control group saw a 15% decrease over time. Being overweight tends to result in lower vitamin D levels because it's being stored in the body fat and thus weight loss would improve vitamin D status. But exercise even without weight loss appears to improve vitamin D by mobilizing vitamin D from fat stores. Losing weight and having less body fat also means your vitamin D is less likely to be locked up in body fat. Eating vitamin D rich foods can also help to get the minimum RDA. You can eat things like fatty fish, such as salmon, as well as other seafood, dairy, eggs and fish roe. If none of this works, you should take a vitamin D supplement during the winter months, but during the summer you should try to spend more time outside. Number two, stop eating four plus hours before bed. There are legitimate benefits to time-reshifted eating and intermittent fasting. They can help with weight loss, blood sugar, blood pressure, lipids and sleep. One of the ways it does so is by regulating your circadian rhythm and controlling your energy intake. However, the biggest pitfall of intermittent fasting is eating too late or eating too close to bedtime, which can worsen your metabolic health and sleep quality. The truth is that for optimal human biology we want to be eating slightly earlier rather than later. Now you don't need to have an early breakfast, but you should at least have an earlier dinner. I've tested pretty much all the intermittent fasting types out there. I've eaten one hour before bed, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight hours before bed. What I've found is that the sweet spot for me is around four hours up to five hours before bed. Whatever window you choose, you have to make it consistent, because your meal timing also regulates your circadian rhythms. Sleeping seven to eight hours is the foundation of healthy sleep, but it looks like the consistency of when you sleep is equally as important. Irregular sleeping patterns will mess up your body's circadian clocks, and this is associated with worse health outcomes and increased risk of mortality. Having irregular meal times can also mess up your sleep patterns if you stay up too late. I want to take a quick break to tell you about the Bonchard's infrared sauna blankets. My go-to way of getting 20-minute sauna sessions on the go without needing to spend an hour to warm up a regular sauna. Taking the sauna is in my opinion one of the best things for your overall health and heart function. Studies show that taking the sauna regularly is associated with 63% lower risk of sudden cardiac death, 63% reduced heart disease mortality, 46% lower risk of hypertension, and 40% reduced oral cause mortality. This is mediated by an increase in body temperature and increased heart rate that mimic a cardiovascular workout while at the same time improving arterial stiffness in the theory of function, blood flow, immune system function, blood pressure, and metabolic health. It doesn't matter if it's a traditional wooden sauna, an infrared sauna, an infrared sauna blanket, or anything else that elevates your body temperature above what's normal. It warms up in two minutes to the optimal temperature of 70 degrees Celsius and it's low in emf. You can get a 15% discount by heading over to bonchard.com for slash seamlund and use the code SEAM for 15% discount. Alright, back to the video. Number three, reach low visceral fat. Getting into good body composition and becoming lean is the foundation to health. You can't be healthy if you're overweight or obese. However, there's a specific type of fat that's more harmful than regular body fat and it's called visceral fat because it's stored around the organs. There's a wide range of visceral fat in the general population, but the general trend is that it increases with age. You can measure a visceral fat with a dexa scan. This graph is from a study that looked at over 10,000 people between ages 18 and 81. It's a bit hard to understand the exact values, but you generally want to get lower visceral fat to be below the 50th percentile and closer to the bottom 10th percentile in terms of your age and sex. Here's the same graph when made into an easier to understand table. Basically, you want to aim for the 10th percentile of your age group. Being above 50th percentile means you have some work to do and you're above normal levels of visceral fat, which is bad. How do you lose visceral fat? Well, first and foremost, you just need to lose weight overall. If you're over 15% body fat as a male and over 25% body fat as a female, getting below that threshold will help you to lose a visceral fat. By just losing weight, you can realistically get into the 20th percentile of visceral fat for your age. To get to the 10th percentile and lower, you can consider things like higher polyphenolic intake from things like green tea, olive oil and vegetables, higher omega-3 fat intake from seafood, doing aerobic exercise and high intensity interval training, increasing your glycine intake and reducing methionine intake. Number four, the combo of resistance training and aerobic exercise. If you're still doing only resistance training or only aerobic training in 2026, you're doing it wrong. You need to be doing both for optimal benefits. It's found that while resistance training alone is linked to a 21% lower mortality risk, combined with aerobic exercise, it's a 40% lower risk. So it's better to do both rather than one or the other alone. Exercise for longevity isn't about specialization, but more about generalization. Based on the evidence, resistance training is better for insulin sensitivity and muscle growth, as well as bone density. Aerobic exercise, however, is better for visceral fat loss via TMAX and increasing heart rate variability or HRV. I would say that aim for at least three sessions of resistance training per week and at least two cardio sessions, maybe a third one per week. Lastly, it's important to also unlock your mental health and social health. Mental health and happiness are incredibly underrated when it comes to health and longevity. The truth is that if you have poor mental health, you'll never reach optimal physical health because the way your mind affects your body is also a lot easier to stay physically healthy if you enjoy what you're doing and you're happy. Based on research, the biggest determinant of your life satisfaction and happiness is the quality of your relationships with friends and family. So what should you do? The key here is realizing that connection with your friends and family are what will matter the most for you at the end of your life. You might not care about them right now, but you will care about them at your death bed. As I said in the beginning, you need to check the fundamentals of a healthy lifestyle before treating the small things, but the small things still matter and they can unlock your progress. If you want to know how I went from around top 20% to top 1% of health by optimizing my routines, then check out this video next.