 tr kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole kole animals, squirrels and so on and so forth, 2.5%. You get up to something like a rhinoceros, and it's about 0.1%. Brain size in relation to body weight, just three, without exception, on the land system. And that was the difference, of course, between the marine system, where in fact, brain capacity seemed to keep pace, more or less. The evidence is home and dry that this was the reason for the cerebral expansion. Dr. Crawford, welcome to the show. Yes. Well, thank you. I'm very honored to have you on the show, and I'm very excited to talk with you about omega-3s and how important they are to just overall human health and how big of a role they had in the human evolution. So, yeah, super pleased to have you here. Maybe we can start with you giving us a little bit of backstory of you've been in the field, in the science field for many decades. So, how did you get into it, and how did you start investigating omega-3s in particular? Well, that's an interesting question, because that requires a trip down memory lane. It all happened when I was appointed to head the Department of Biochemistry at the Notfield Institute of Comparative Medicine in London. I was given a brand new laboratory with money for equipment, and so on and so forth, and stuff. So, I sat down with Andrew Sinclair and others, and we said, what are we going to do? I'd been working in Africa, and in Africa, of course, the big problem was protein, myonutrition, and it was fascinating, because it was clear that the chronic diseases in East Africa, Uganda, particularly where I was, was totally different to what we saw in the UK. For example, there was no cardiovascular disease, there was no heart disease, as we have it, but they had endomyocardial fibrosis, which was the commonest cause of death from heart failure. And there were a host heard of endomyocardial fibrosis in the UK. And it was very clear that they also didn't have any breast cancer or colon cancer to speak of. So, eventually, it tumbled that really it was the complete difference in the food structure that was eaten by the people of Uganda compared to the people of the UK. And so, that had taught me that nutrition was fundamentally important to health and longevity. And so, when we sat down and thought about having returned from Africa and been offered this job, when we sat down and thought, what are we going to do about this? It seemed to me that really, to simplify the story, that really what was happening was there was lipid malnutrition in the UK. Everyone was talking about fats being the problem and protein malnutrition in Africa. So, the question was, what are we going to do about lipids? And everybody seemed to be doing things about lipids and heart disease. So, we said, ah, the brain. What about the brain? That's full of fat. It's 60% fat. So, let's start working on the brain. So, the first question was, what is the brain made of in terms of its lipids? And we did a study of 32 mammalian species to examine the lipids of the brain. And what it turned out was that they were all the same. There was no difference from one to the other. What was different was the extent to which the brain had evolved. We had big brains and small brains, and they were all the same. But chemistry was absolutely identical, but the size of the brain, which is what had mattered. That meant that the chemistry of the brain was a really determinant of brain size and brain function. And that led us into the question of identifying docosahexanoic acid as a very principal component of the brain, as well as arachidonic acid. And that these two fatty acids between them were singularly important for brain growth and evolution. And that's what set us off on the story of omega-3. Because the arachidonic acid was available from the land food base, but docosahexanoic acid was not. The source of the docosahexanoic acid was, or the omega-3, if you like to call it that, was the marine food web. And of course, the singularly important issue here was that the brain evolved in the sea. It evolved in the sea 500 million years ago. And it evolved from a few small cells that were electrically active. And they expanded, and they developed over 500 million years to the brains that we have today. And what, what, may I ask, nourished that evolution? What nourished that evolution? Well, the only thing that was available was the marine food web. And docosahexanoic acid was singularly important in the signaling systems, not only of the brain, but also of the eye. Gene Anderson produced evidence of that about the same time, working at the Cullen Eye Research Institute in Houston, Texas. So that's really what started it all. Yeah. Yeah, that's super fascinating that, as you said, the earliest life forms, they evolved from the sea, and we have very similar, I guess, composition of the fatty acids in even the mammalian brains, that they're very high in these EHA and omega-3, specifically a DHA fatty acid. Well, one of the, if I may add a little bit for your readers to make it easy for them to understand just how significant the marine food web is, that the 500, what was it, about 50 million years ago or thereabouts, when there was the collapse of the dinosaurs and the mammals started to evolve. What was interesting was a group of mammals, for some reason best known to them, decided that they wanted to go back into the sea. So you've got a whole range of marine mammals now. If you compare, for example, the dolphin, if you compare its cerebral cranial capacity, which is 1,700 cc, which would be a lion or something of that sort, well, a lion only has about 340 cc cranial capacity, compared to 1,700 cc. So that really was, for us, the giveaway about the significance of the marine food web and the cosahexanolic acid in particular. Because if you look at the land-based system, all little animals, like squirrels and hyraxes and things like that, have got very high ratio of the brain size in relation to the body, about 2.5%. But as you get bigger and bigger, the reason for this is that they are able to, these little animals have very fast metabolic rates and they're able to make DHA. They're able to make it from the primary food resource, which is alpha-linolenic acid and is found in green foods, green leaves and some beans and so on. But as you get bigger, you'll face a problem. You have a faster rate of body growth. And the trouble is, that it's been established biochemically, that the ability to make DHA is rate limited. It's a very slow process. So what happens effectively, that as your velocity of body growth increases, your ability to make DHA diminishes. And we proved this by studying the chemistry. And so what you see is that as land-based mammals get bigger and bigger and bigger, the cranial capacity shrinks. You have these tiny little animals, squirrels and so on and so forth, 2.5%. You get up to something like a rhinoceros and it's about 0.1%. The brain size related to the body weight. Brain size in relation to body weight, just training without exception on the land-bound system. And that was the difference, of course, between the marine system, where in fact, brain capacity seemed to keep pace more or less. Not quite, but closely. Right. So I guess the main crux or the idea is that this DHA is what has enabled humans to develop our cognitive capacity and have quite large brains relative to our body weight. Whereas on land-based animals, a lot of them tend to, it kind of hits a plateau with the increasing body weight and uh, it, uh, can't keep up with, um, the increasing body size. That's right. We can't keep up with protein synthesis and cell formation. Right. And so, I mean, we, we proved this with, uh, the, studying the chemistry, that the dracosahexenoic acid levels, uh, in the tissues just simply drops down like that as you get increase in body size. So we were able to prove that. And, and what this of course means, um, uh, is, is that, um, uh, humans, the evolution of, of homo sapiens, had to have enjoyed, um, the marine food web as well as the land-based food web, because arachidonic acid is needed as well. And you get that from the land-based food. And so, making the best use of both worlds, the marine food base and the land-based food base was a secret that led to homo sapiens. And it's quite interesting because the, the, the, there's a lot of sort of, Yabu talked about the, uh, oh, no, no, no, no, no, we, we evolved on the savannahs of Africa. Yeah. Well, that's really impossible because as I explained just now, the, the animals that were evolving there without exception lost brain size. Um, so it really is pretty, pretty, um, pretty important that, uh, we, uh, understand that the evolution of the brain, um, was based on making use of both land and seafood. Hmm. Yeah. It's, you know, the, like, let's say the layman's understanding of human evolution is that, um, we developed bigger brains because we started to hunt and, uh, consume a lot of, uh, protein and animal fats and then, you know, books about it, the anthropological books about it, like man, the hunter, et cetera, that it's this entire way of living was what led to, um, you know, this just the human development and the social interactions, et cetera. But, uh, what you're saying is that it's more that the DHA component, which, you know, which you can really get from seafood, you know, in, uh, in like, uh, adequate amounts that this was the real kind of driver of the human brain size and, um, cognitive development. That's what's missing from the land food base to, uh, the brain involved in the sea. And there's no question about that. And, um, right. The whole of its evolution was dependent on marine food web. And the marine food web was rich in this DHA. Mm-hmm. Yeah. But you do. There's some interesting evidence about this. Mm-hmm. Um, the, uh, David Attenborough had, uh, uh, uh, a, a, a two-part program on the BBC. And, um, um, it was on the scars of evolution because a, um, screenwriter and, um, a writer for other things, Elaine Morgan, had written a book, uh, and, and in the book she, uh, upheld Alistair Hardy's original hypothesis that at one time humans had to live beside the sea. And, um, um, it was all pooh-poohed by the conventional people, um, who thought it was all a lot of rubbish and unscientific. And so David Attenborough had this two-part program where he investigated the reasons why the Savannah hypothesis people were so angry about Elaine Morgan. I think it was partly because she came out with a lot of very interesting stuff, um, and in support of the, uh, marine hypothesis, uh, or the land, uh, land, water, uh, uh, uh, evolution, if you like. And, um, um, she was not a scientist. And so people sort of pooh-poohed everything she, she wrote, said a lot of rubbish and unscientific kind of stuff. So David had this, this, um, investigated two-part program. And, um, um, at the, uh, end of the first part, he, he, he said, you know, that the evidence on some kind of relationship with the seaside and the water is beginning to become more central. And the reason for this is the break. And so he starts part two with me and our evidence, et cetera, et cetera. But when he comes to the end of the program, he said, there's some very interesting thing about this story. Human babies are born with a layer of what's called vernix. It's a waxy, fatty layer that covers the skin. And he said, uh, I know of no other land mammals that are born with a layer of vernix. I wonder if, um, if, uh, marine mammals are born with a layer of vernix because that being born in water might explain, um, the reason for this. And, um, uh, two weeks before the program was due to be presented, uh, a professor from British Columbia in Canada phoned David and said, I hear you're interested in the question of whether marine mammals are born with spurnix. And I can tell you that they are. They're absolutely, because I have to look after baby, newborn, um, harbor seals and so on. And they are all born with, with this fatty layer of burnix. So that was the end of the program. Now, here comes the crunch. After that, we, um, nobody paid any attention to that. But after that, I asked, uh, David, uh, Tom Brenner, who was a hot shot, a mass spectrometrist, where he was working in Cornell University at the time. Could he analyze the chemistry of vernix from marine mammals and see if the human vernix is totally different? Because that would be interesting. And it would also be very interesting if they were all the same. So he analyzed the chemistry of vernix from humans and three different marine mammals. And they were all identical. They were all identical. So this does suggest that, uh, that what sometime in our evolutionary period, or critically important evolutionary period, we were very closely related with the marine system. And it brings to mind today the Mokan people around the coast of Tanzania and, um, uh, sorry, Thailand, and, um, all around that part of the world. They, they live more or less, they have little houses that are sort of in the sea, but like, like some of our holiday, uh, attractive places. And, um, the babies are born in the sea, you know, born in water. And they weaned themselves by diving and swimming and picking food off the sea floor. They, they, they learned to walk on land at four years of age. So there, there's a living example of what, what, uh, we might have been doing way back at the beginning of our evolution, living both, both land and sea, and using the products of both, both land and sea, which was, would have been essentially, a balance between the two would have been essential for the evolution of the brain. I want to take a quick break to tell you about the Bond Charge infrared sauna blankets, my go-to way of getting 20-minute sauna sessions on the go without needing to spend an hour to warm up a regular sauna. Taking the sauna is, in my opinion, one of the best things for your overall health and heart function. Studies show that taking a sauna regularly is associated with 63% lower risk of sudden cardiac death, 63% reduced heart disease mortality, 46% lower risk of hypertension, and 40% reduced all-cause mortality. This is mediated by an increase in body temperature and increased heart rate that mimic a cardiovascular workout while at the same time improving arterial stiffness, endothelial function, blood flow, immune system function, blood pressure, and metabolic health. It doesn't matter if it's a traditional wooden sauna, an infrared sauna, an infrared sauna blanket, or anything else that elevates your body temperature above what's normal. It warms up in two minutes to the optimal temperature of 70 degrees Celsius, and it's low in EMF. You can get a 15% discount by heading over to bondcharge.com forward slash seamlund and use the code seam for 15% discount. All right, back to the video. Gotcha. So in practice, it would have looked like that these humans in East Africa, where we originated from, they started to eat more, I guess, seafood or shells, clams, mussels, different sea vegetables, fish, and et cetera. Yeah, but it's very difficult to actually trace what happened a long time ago, but two things about this. A lot of the evolutionary story that the Savannah people came up with is based on fossils found in Alderby Gorge, which was a river coming out of a huge lake, and the Rift Valley Lake. These people were living beside the Rift Valley Lakes. Lee Broadhurst, Walter Smith and I, published a paper on the chemistry of the fish in the Rift Valley Lakes. They contained significant amounts of DHA, so the paper said that they would have provided the same kind of push for neural evolution that the marine food web would have been. Not as rich as the marine food web, but it was still there. And then there was a study by Curtis Marion in Pinnacle Point in South Africa, where caves have been discovered the sea, which provided extensive and incontrovertible habitation of the earliest humans living beside the sea and making extensive use of the marine food web. The also used land-based food web. There was evidence of killing land animals as well, but huge middens or sea shells and things like that beside the cage, huge middens. And I've been there and seen it. And the evidence is dated to about 160,000 years ago to 200,000 years ago. And this is the first cultural stuff all over the place. And it's quite clear that these people were fully human. And they were extensive use in controversial of the marine food web. So I think the evidence is home and dry that this was the reason for the cerebral expansion. And sadly, we've ignored this in recent time, and we now have the shrinking grave. And I think rising toll of mental ill health and IQ has been diminishing since 1950. And this is deeply worrying, because what it is, is evolution in reverse. And projection of this into the future is extremely uncomfortable. If you were worried about the future, leaving a future for our children and their children. Yeah, absolutely. And what is so special about DHA of why did it allow our brains to develop so well? The significance of this in terms of vision has been well worked out. Gene Anderson started it off in 1973 with clear evidence that the deficiency of DHA in experimental animals resulted in a poverty of the electrical function of the vision system. And so you then go on to, I mean, the evidence is overwhelming in the literature since the 1970s of experiments. We did experiments in capuchin monkeys and showed that DHA deficiency was responsible for behavioral abnormalities, which included self-harm in a very serious way. Repeating them with omega-3 fatty acids and behavioral abnormalities and hair loss went away. The hair grew back properly and so on and so forth. So this was 1973 we published it. And from then on it's just been author after author and studies on preterm infants in particular while the brain is still growing. And the retina foundation in the retina foundation in Dallas and many other people, Susan Carlson in Memphis showed the importance of both a rachidonic acid and DHA to the final phases of neural development. And in 2008 there was a meeting of the Food and Agricultural Organization, yes, organization of the United Nations and the World Health Organization. It was an international expert consultation on the role of dietary fats in human nutrition. And in that book they said that the evidence that DHA was important for the brain is at the highest level of confidence, the highest level of confidence. You can't get any better than that. This was international experts. Yeah. Yeah, that's... Nobody's doing anything about it. That's what's so seriously worrying. I mean, we've known about this now since the 1970s. And let me tell you about that in 2005, the European Union did an audit of health costs. And let me backtrack. In 1972, when my wife and I were deeply concerned about what was going on, we wrote a book, and in it we expressed concern about the future. And Graham Rose, who reviewed the book in the Sunday Times on the 5th of November 1972, wrote that if we don't pay attention to the specialized nutrition of the brain, we're going to become a race of morons. That's what he said. That's what he wrote. He blamed me for using that expression, but I didn't. It was not in our book. But race of morons, that's what's happening now. That's exactly what's happening now. And in 2005, the European Order of Brain Costs had brain disorders absolutely top of the list. Brain disorders top of the list. And 386 billion euro. Well, a lot of people said, oh, it's just due to new psychiatric diagnostics. And so they did it again in 2010, and it was 789 billion euro. And a friend of mine, Reverend Paul Nicholson and I went to see Lord Morris at the House of Lords and said, look, this is serious. We need to get a question. We need to get a question asked in the House of Lords about mental health. And he asked the question, what was the cost of mental health in the UK? And Lord Warner for the government at the Department of Health said, I'm terribly sorry. We don't know the answer to that. We do know the cost of drugs in hospitals. And this has been roaring up. And so give them the credit. Dr. Joe Nurse for the Department of Health did the numbers for the UK. And it came out exactly like the European thing. An audit of public health came out with 77 billion for brain disorders top of the list. Again, they repeated the numbers in 2013, and they came out in something like 2010. And it came out in the region of about 103 billion. So there were actually five audits of public health in which brain disorders came out top of the list. These were audits between 2005 and 2013. And nobody has done anything about it. Now, you would have thought that with brain disorders identified as being the number one cost of public health, that somebody would have said, hey, it's time we did something about this. Nobody did anything. And they're still not doing anything. Yeah. Well, I guess it highlights the issue then that no one has done anything about it. Yeah. So brain disorders. Grace of morons. Yeah. Yeah. So brain disorders, things like dementia, Alzheimer's, neurological disorders, etc. So what kind of conditions does this omega-3s and DHA particularly target? Well, how do you mean? Well, I mean, you said that, or as I understand that the deficiency in the consumption of seafood and the DHA from the diet has led to an increase in a lot of these brain disorders. So what kind of disorders are we talking about specifically? Well, we're talking about dementia. We're talking about behavioral disorders in children. And it's quite extraordinary. There was a study done, published in The Lancet in 2007 in the UK, in the Bristol area, Avon District, as it's called. And Joe Huberman, who was at that time director of an institute, the National Institute of Health in the United States, and Jeanne Golding, in charge of the corresponding sort of place in Bristol, did this study where they studied the mothers during pregnancy. 14,000 plus mothers, and they followed up the children. And they did the sort of analysis of behavior, cognitive development, that sort of stuff in the children at eight years of age. And they could not get rid of one very simple fact, that measures of behavior, cognitive development, IQ, verbal IQ, motor development, were all followed a straight line based on the amount of fish and seafood that the mother had eaten during pregnancy. I mean, this is extraordinary. It was a complete straight line. There was no question of, just a straight line between the amount of fish and seafood, the mother ate during pregnancy, the behavioral, cognitive, and motor scores of the children at eight years of age. And I think this is hugely compelling. There's a whole lot of evidence about that as well, since then. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, it's common knowledge that mothers do need more of certain nutrients, like B vitamins and iodine and omega-3s are also one of them. Well, that's right. Yes, it's not just DHA, of course. One of the other things that's important is you just mentioned it, iodine. Currently, five billion people at risk to iodine deficiency in mental ill health and mental retardation as a result of iodine deficiency. And they're all in that, by the way. I did studies in Indonesia for the government because they were worried about the iodine deficiency and mental ill health, the amount of cretinism that they had. They had something like 800,000 cretins in Java. And 60% of the schoolchildren had papal will goiter from iodine deficiency. So, but there were none of the fishing villages. None of the fishing villages. And so what I persuaded them to do was to grow kelp, which they've done. And the kelp farmers are now making more money than the inland farmers. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's not just fish. It's everything from the sea that contains a lot of these nutrients. Yeah. And, yeah. Yes, and it's not just iodine. There's also copper, manganese, zinc, and selenium. Now, these are trace elements which are responsible for the enzymes which are differentially located in the plasma membrane, the mitochondria, the cytosol of the cell. And they defend the cosahexanoic acid and other oxidizable sensitive molecules from peroxidation. So, these trace elements are absolutely vital. And you get a lot of them in seaweed, for example. But certainly the whole of the marine food web, oysters, mussels, and cockles, and that kind of stuff, is just rich in the trace elements as well as DHA. So, it's a complete package that you get with the marine food web. And the problem with Indonesia, and it's probably similar throughout the world, was that because it rained practically every day of the year, the soils have been depleted of iodine. And the soils are really – there's been some evidence that intensive farming has been depleting our soils of these trace elements as well. And this may well be contributing to the escalation of mental health. Hmm. Yeah. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think you're in your 90s, right, with the age? Yeah, I'll be 96 in July. Okay. Yeah, well, that's pretty remarkable in of itself, your age. But also, you know, just your cognition is super sharp for your age, which – Oh, heck of a mistake. Well, I think it's a very high, you know, compliment or trying to give you that, yeah, something, you know, for your – even to survive that long is very extraordinary. But, yeah, just to have – I think – Yeah, but I guess the question is, you know, do you eat a lot of seafood then? Oh, yeah. And you think that it contributes? It's quite recent origin, of course. I had a misspent youth, I think. But, yes, today we eat a lot of seafood. We usually have about four or five seafood meals during the week, sometimes more. Mm-hmm. Gotcha. And we have five, five, six seafood meals a week. Yeah. So what do you think are – The thing about seafood is that you can have – you can have practically a different meal every night of the week. There's such variety. Even the month, you could extend it to the month because there's such a variety of both fish and seafood and all sorts of things. The trouble is some of it is expensive, but also some of it is not expensive. There's such a lot of mackerel. And haddock's sort of middle of the range and all this kind of stuff. And it requires so little cooking. I mean, you know, you take a piece of, chunk of haddock and put it in the frying pan, there's a lot of oil, and put some nice New Zealand white wine on it, and it's fries and bakes for a matter of two or three minutes, and it's done. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. It's very simple and easy to cook. But what do you think are some good amounts to aim for? So how much DHA would people need per day? Well, it's very difficult to say, and there's a problem with people understanding. Nutrition education was removed from the public school curriculum by the governments in the 60s and 70s. And as a result, no child is, the only information a child gets growing up is stuff that sees on television, which is really somewhat biased in a very different direction. So the knowledge of nutrition has gone out of the tubes. When I was at school during World War II, we were taught how to cook and all sorts of things. We were even taught by the monks how to fish, believe it or not. Anyway, the point really is that it has just gone wrong, and we've got to do something about it. The fishing villages have been depleted as well in the last few decades. And Rick Stein did a program with me a while back, and before I came on the TV, he interviewed a fellow at a fishing village. And this fellow was the only person with a boat fishing out of six boats that used to fish with that village. And it's just, the whole thing's been ignored by government and by anybody that's got any connection with the food system. And as a result, it's just been depleted, and we're now suffering from the consequences. Gotcha. But I guess as a practical rule of thumb, eating seafood, like you said, something like four, five times per week, is it like a good rule of thumb in general? Well, yeah. I mean, you know, there's been talk of fish being poisonous with mercury or that kind of thing, but a story that emanates from the United States Food and Drug Administration, which is a load of rubbish. If you go to Japan, you'll see the ladies who ate fish and seafood at practically every meal. And they brought up the children who now have the best longevity, the least chronic heart disease, the least chronic major depression, and the least of the common cancers that we have, the best longevity. So where's the evidence? It's not a scrap of it. All the evidence that we have from the epidemiology of people who eat a lot of fish and seafood is that it's beneficial for health and long-evity and intelligence. Yeah, yeah. You know, I visited Japan as well a few months ago, and there were just lots of seafood everywhere, and you can buy it quite easily from the store and supermarket. And, yeah, so the idea of heavy metals in seafood, you know, yes, they probably contain more heavy metals than in the past, but you also get a lot of these other minerals that support detoxification from the heavy metals like selenium and iodine and others that actually counterbalance some of that. And I think that probably one of the issues could also be canned seafood. So if you buy a lot of canned fish, then every day, let's say a canned tuna, then you might be getting potentially more mercury and heavy metals that you would like. But if you eat fresh seafood, then the risk is probably diminished a lot. Well, there's a lot. Well, there's a, Nick Lawson and other people in the United States have done some studies on this, and what they've been able to show, again, pretty convincingly, is that fish and seafood contains a lot of selenium, as well as practically everything you eat contains a little bit of mercury. All these elements are ubiquitous, but the point about what Nick Lawson has shown is that there's a lot of selenium in fish and seafood. And the reason for mercury toxicity is that it takes out the selenium, because the selenium is one of the selenium enzymes, the selenium proteins that are really powerful antioxidants protecting the brain against peroxidation. And remember that the brain uses more oxygen than anything else. It uses 20% of all the oxygen that you breathe, yet it only occupies 2% of the body weight. So you feel the top of your head, and it's warm. And the reason it's warm is because of the heat generated by this oxidation that goes on in the brain. And you can do this with a cat, too. You can feel a cat's head or a dog's head, and you'll feel it's warm. And that's because of this high rate of oxidation. So defense against rogue oxygen atoms burning up things like DHA, destroying DHA, and so on, is terribly, terribly important. And these trace elements, selenium in particular, are good at doing that. And if you have enough selenium, it takes out the mercury. And because the fish and seafood is so rich in selenium, mercury just doesn't have a chance to do anything. The problem with this, of course, is that in fact, and the scientists were saying this before it happened, what they were saying was this sort of recommendation about mercury and avoiding fish and seafood was going to do harm. And in fact, that's in the Lancet paper in 2007, the recommendation is going to do harm. And it's being do harm because women, without any real knowledge of anything in the stories, say, oh dear, this is a neurotoxin. Oh, I'm not going to eat any fish at all during the pregnancy. And there you are. It's very sad because it's actually probably doing harm at the moment. Yeah, absolutely. What about, you know, you do get some omega-3s from land foods as well. So from meat a little bit and, you know, the plant-based nuts and seeds are like a different story a little bit. But what's the amount of DHA you get, for example, from ruminant meat? Well, you don't get much DHA from ruminant meat or ruminant milk. Because in fact, I talked about the velocity of growth outstripping the biosynthetic process. And what we showed was, and in fact, we published this in 1969, what we showed was that the metabolic sequence got stuck at the precursor, the 22 carbon with five double bonds. So you had quite a bit of the 22-cursor with five double bonds, but very little DHA. And this is pretty universal throughout all the land-based stuff. So it's not a source of DHA of any significance. A tiny bit there, but it's not really what you need. And as I said, the land-based animals, without exception, and even the carnivores included in this, that eat the meat, have lost brain capacity, cerebral cranial capacity, as they fall bigger and faster velocities will grow. So the land-based is not really significant so far as DHA. Mark you, in old days, it probably was. Because chickens used to eat, when they were roaming around the fields and things like that, they would eat grubs and bugs and green stuff, which contained… And they were able to convert chickens, able to convert the parents into DHA. But today, they're fed on corn, which has got no precursor, and so on. And the DHA content of chicken meat has fallen from 170 milligrams per hundred grams in the 1970s to about 13, in the latest analysis that we did. So the chicken is no longer a good source, although it used to be. But small, small mammals, and probably guinea fowl and duck meat would contain DHA, but not the big stuff. Right. What about things like bone marrow or brain? So if you eat… No, bone marrow. They talk about bone marrow, but that's rubbish. Same as everything else. So if you eat a bone marrow from a cow or a buffalo or something like that… Yeah. …no help. What about the brains? I would imagine hunter-gatherers… The brains, yes. The brains, yes. But people don't eat brains anymore. Right. I mean, brain used to be a winning food. Yeah. But then we had this BSE thing, and so everybody's… The brains no longer appear in the butcher shop. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. When I was growing up, the brain was used as a winning food. Yeah. What about plant-based omega-3s? So… Yeah, the plant-based omega-3s come from green food. And this is why your grandmother tells you you must eat up your greens. And… And… But there are some beans and flaxseeds, of course, contain… It's called alpha-linolenic acid and it's… They can make… EPA… … acid, which is quite helpful. It's good for cardiovascular system, but not the DHA, which is important for the brain. Interesting thing that you mentioned that there's this bottleneck for the cranial capacity in land animals. If you think about it, then humans are the smartest land animals around, whereas we are with dolphins and octopus and whales, etc., they are, at least based on the research and science, that they are much more intelligent than land animals. But humans are kind of like in the middle almost. I think we're okay. I mean, the cranial capacity has been shrinking. That's the problem. It starts off with Mrs. Plays at about 450 cc's two million years ago. And you now come to Hertel about 160,200,000 years ago. And cranial capacity was about 1,450 cc's. So that was pretty good by that time. And they were living beside the sea, beside the way. Then you come to Cro-Magnon. And the peak was reached in Cro-Magnon. The reports of 1,500 to 1,700 cc's cranial capacity, the same size as the dolphins, funny enough. The problem with the dolphins, of course, it can only use half of its brain, because one half has to sleep, but the other, if it all went to sleep, it would drown. So Homo sapiens in the form of Cro-Magnon was pretty cool, if you ask me. They would have been pretty clever. And lovely people, I would imagine, I would hope, at any rate. And the peak was 1,700 cc's at that time. Now it's 1,336. When I was first interested in the brain size, in the brain in the 1970s, if you refer to, it was 1,450 in the 70s. It's gone down since then to 1,336. And with that, there's been a decline in intelligence and been a decline in IQ. It is a far more serious problem than global warming. I think we can cope with global warming and we can gradually get around to making use of it. But we can't get around to making use of declined IQ, declined cranial capacity, which simply leads to extinction. Yeah. You know, there isn't any intelligent life form that doesn't have this high DHA amount and high cranial capacity. So there's at least no alternative right now. So the only alternative is, you know, for us to solve a lot of the problems in the world. We need our intelligence and with the declining intelligence, you know, we're in this kind of a tricky situation that, you know, we still need to use this, I guess, system of using the DHA to support our cognition and intelligence. But yeah, I mean, so like practically speaking, do you think that people should just, you know, start eating more seafood or what do you think about supplementing these omega-3s? Supplements are great. The trouble is they don't contain all these trace elements and if you go for supplements, you need to do two things. One is to support the supplement with the supplement of trace elements and B vitamins. The other is to avoid the over-processed foods and try to get to eating natural stuff rather than over-processed foods. It's interesting that the new American guidelines for health, nutrition and health, have really gone towards the use of more natural food and this is, it's no accident that our friends, Joe Hibborn and Philip Spiller and many others in America have been pestering the government to get something done about this whole issue. and the new guidelines in America that have just come out are talking about returning to more natural foods which is the right prediction. Yeah, so you, people are consuming less omega-3s but they're consuming more of these omega-6s from processed foods. So, you know, is it more so that people aren't getting enough of omega-3s or are they getting too much omega-6s that's responsible for the decline? For example of both. You need omega-6s as well as omega-3s. The brain contains both and human breast milk contains both as well and human breast milk contains DHA and significant amounts and also arachidonic acid and almost equivalent amounts when the arachidonic acid is the omega-6. DHA is important for the signaling system of the brain. The things that enable you to think, do things, cognition, learning, um, seeing, that's where DHA is. Arachidonic acid on the other hand is important in the astrocytes. DHA you find in the neurons and synapses, the connectivity. Arachidonic acid is in the astrocytes and the astrocytes are important because they help maintain all the stuff and they do the good things. Um, so both arachidonic acid and DHA are important and, but arachidonic acid is easily obtained from marine, from the land-based food web. That's where it comes from and that's why the evolution of Homo sapiens simply had to be the best of both worlds. Yeah. Yeah, so it's, if you're just getting only arachidonic acid, if you eat only land-based foods, then you're missing out on the critical DHA. Well, the trouble again with over-processing is that we're losing out on things like arachidonic acid from the land-based food web and, um, being swamped by other kinds of land facts and so on. And it's, um, it, we're going to have to do two things. Well, actually, it's more than two things still. One of them has got to be better education of children about the importance of nutrition and particularly the importance of each other particularly for young girls who are going to be the mothers of the future about the importance of, um, maternal nutrition and the importance of breastfeeding as well. And this really needs to be reintroduced into the school systems and it wouldn't be a bad idea to have it introduced to medical education as well because they lose out on nutrition education. Um, they're filled with a lot of pharmacological stuff but very little about nutrition. So that, that needs to change. The other thing that needs to change is, is the, the loss of our, our fishing, uh, organizing. We're a land base, we're an island nation and we depended in the past on, to a very large extent on fish and seafood. Fish and seafood was never rationed during the war, World War II. Um, everything else was rationed but you would, you would eat as much fish and seafood as you wanted. And every mother who was pregnant was, was provided with cod liver oil, orange juice and milk by the government free of charge, delivered by the milkman to her doorstep. So, um, they, they had this understanding during the war. It's nothing new, nothing new. And, um, 95% of, of the infants were breastfed. And, there's no question about it that breast milk is, is really important. So, all of that seems to have just vanished in, in recent time and it needs to be reestablished. The importance of nutrition and particularly the importance of nutrition during pregnancy and the early development of the child. And, the other thing is that to enable for this to happen and to be functional, we need to start restoring our, um, our, our fishing, our fishing fleets. We need to restore the health of the seabed around our coastline. Um, the Japanese are doing it, the Chinese are doing it and we need to start doing it to restore the seabed. Uh, the Japanese plant seagrass having cleaned up the seabed in between two islands and, um, so what they effectively have is they have marine pastures for the vegetarian face in the same way as we have, uh, green pastures for cows and sheep and they have them in the sea and they have artificial reefs that, that amplify the marine food web and that sort of thing can be done easily. to, we need to start developing farming in the sea. We've reached a limit of farming and the land and we now need to start farming in the sea and that means an island nation with a huge coastline and many islands, many of them unpopulated. We just have such a potential to restore the supply of brain food. It's quite simple, just needs doing. Yeah, right, yeah, I mean, we need to find ways of doing it sustainably to not run under the same issues as we have on the land. Well, that's right, that's exactly what the Japanese are doing. It's a completely sustainable, using nothing other than the capacity of the marine footweb to be healthy as long as we clean it up. Yeah, but they've added the ability to extend. Surface area is really the important thing. If you create surface areas with artificial reefs, then you get a population of marine flora growing on the surface and that starts amplifying the marine footweb. So it's using natural ability of the marine system to help it increase its productivity. And in these islands of the space between two islands of Okoyama in Japan, they have tripled the fish catch since they started doing this. fish and fish cancer has been diminished. Yeah. You mentioned that it's very critical during development and the pregnancy to consume these nutrients and yeah, it's kind of a critical period that determines the brain development for the rest of your life. So, you know, there's very little that you can do or are the ways to, let's say, I don't know, catch up on lack of development in the brain area with... There's no catch up. There's no catch up. If brain development is stunted or partially fails, you can't catch up later. It's not like body growth. Any damage that occurs during early development of the brain is lifelong. And that's the problem. That's the problem. And all the focus of attention of most of the people in the health sector is on treating, trying to treat children, trying to treat dementia, trying to treat Alzheimer's disease. You've got to get it right at the start. And that's a principle that goes throughout so many disciplines, but it's of particular importance to the brain. You have to get it right at the start. And that means the maternal nutritionist should become, before conception, right through pregnancy and breastfeeding. Yeah. Yeah. One thing I want to also touch upon is, at least in the current online space, there's a lot of talk about that omega-3s, polyunsaturated fatty acids, they're very vulnerable to oxidative stress. Yeah. And if you heat them up and if they get exposed to, let's say, sunlight and oxygen, that they turn rancid and they can cause more harm than good in people. So what do you have to say about that? Well, be sensible. And there are many reasons why people have things in bottles that are deeply colored to prevent sunlight getting into whatever product they have. And you've got to be careful about this sort of thing. And one of the things that you can do with these supplement products that are presented in capsules, if you bite a capsule and it stings the back of your throat, throw it away. It's a simple test. If it doesn't bite the back of your throat. If it's more or less tasteless, then it's fine. But obviously the answer is, the trouble with all the supplements is that people take supplements and then go and eat rubbish foods. So you've really got to get the food base right and the behavior of eating right. There's no substitute for it. Supplements are obviously a help when nothing else is available. But there's no real replacement for getting the thing right. Yeah. I think the oxidation evidence mostly is about deep fried foods and reheating certain oils. So if you deep fry fish and you expose them to very high temperatures, then perhaps. But even in some studies where they oxidize fish oil, it doesn't appear to raise inflammation in humans. So, yeah. Right. Right. Going to start wrapping up as well. You have done research for decades. So what is some recommendations or advice for young research entering this field of how can they take over your mantle? What is left to be researched about this? Yeah. Well, I think my recommendation at the moment is that we have so much information that we've now got to start putting it into practice. I think that is the overriding point that I would make. As I said, 2008-2010, FEO and WHO expert consultation said the evidence is at the highest level of confidence. And 2005 to 2013, five audits of public health and brain disorders at the top. We are now seeing escalation of children with autism, an escalation of children with disabilities. And we're seeing a reduction in IQ. And if that goes on, we'll finish. And we have a responsibility to leave the planet in a better state for our children than we have it. And at the moment, we're just not doing that. And we want to start really thinking seriously about the brain, brain health, brain nutrition, and the health of the marine food web. Caring for the sea is going to be important. And developing the marine farming is going to be important as is education. Yeah, absolutely. So, as I said, we need our brain to tackle all other problems. So, if we lose our brain before we tackle those problems, then, yeah, we're finished. We've got to use our brain to tackle the problem of the brain. Yeah. But, yeah, well, thank you for coming to the show. I'm super grateful for that. And before I ask my last question, where can people learn more about you and your work and your book? Yeah, well, they can read our book, of course. It's called The Shrinking Brain. And perhaps they could read the last few chapters first. Because in the book, The Shrinking Brain, we not only talk about this, but we also talk about the fact that the whole ethos has been changed. We start with Darwin. He had a passion about the environment. And he said that there were two forces in evolution. One was natural selection. And the other was conditions of existence. Conditions of existence, of course, mean the environment in which we live. And that's pretty bloody obvious. Because what he said was that of the two, the conditions of existence were the most important. And that is obvious. Because if you like to think about the fact that we couldn't have air-breathing animals until we had oxygen. So the conditions of existence really are the fundamentally determinant of what can happen. And that's the environment. And that also translates to the chemical environment. So that was all rubbish by Professor August Weissman, who published a paper called The All-Sufficiency of Natural Selection, in which he cut off the tails of mice. And the next generation of mice produce tails. He couldn't produce tailed-less mice from cutting the tails off. Well, that was not conditions of existence. That was mutilation. But he sold the story. And from then on, we entered the gene-centric philosophy that has dominated. We've now got to get back to the fact that Darwin's original concept was the environment. And we're talking in this case about the nutritional environment. It's all persuasive. And we've got to really address the issues of that surrounding brain health, brain nutrition. And that's all in the book. That's very insightful. Yeah. And my last question is, what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? Say again? What's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? Well, there has to be two pieces of advice. One is education. And the other is, eat more fish and seafood. Yeah. Yeah. One supports the other and vice versa. Yeah. All right. Well, yeah. Thank you for coming to the podcast. It was a really honor to have you here. And yeah, I think people learned a lot of valuable information. So thank you. It's a pleasure, Sam. Pleasure.