In early cancer research, we've focused on achieving the largest appropriate dose without significantly observed toxicities, but now we're finding that often less is more. In general, you give a lot lower of a dose for a longer period of time. And that sometimes um based on the research that's available right now has often a more potent biological effect than just giving a a larger dose of the same treatment. >> Joe, welcome back to the show. Hey Sam, how's it going? Thanks for having me. >> Yeah, I'm uh excited to have you back. And um for those of you who don't know, then Joe and I did our first podcast last year where we discussed the main fundamentals of cancer biology. How does it work? Uh what are some of the things you can do to prevent cancer and reduce the risk of developing cancer? But uh there's obviously a lot of questions that were left unanswered because cancer is a super complex topic and uh yeah that's why I decided to have you back and uh we actually I actually um let my audience uh ask you some questions. So we'll go through some questions that they had. But before we get to that, the first podcast we had was uh not one year ago but let's say 10 months ago. And have there been any new insights in cancer research that you've come across or has there been any changes in your own way of thinking about cancer and cancer prevention? >> I mean cancer research is is an ever growing field. So there's there's always things we learn even on a regular daily basis. Um from like an advanced therapeutic perspective, there's obviously been a lot of advances when it comes to amunotherapies. um which are types of therapies that can basically make your immune system stronger or more capable to recognize tumors. And I think we touched on that briefly in the in the first uh the part one of our of our discussion here. Um but more so in an area that I am focused on regularly because it's my job essentially is targeted radiotherapy. So my company that I work for specifically, we attach radioactive isotopes to basically these small proteins that we design to bind to a specific thing on cancer and that's not present on normal cells um to basically deliver a radioactive missile or or nuclear warhead directly to the site of a tumor as opposed to systemic radiation. So there's there's been a lot of advancements in terms of developing um radiotherapies to be targeted um in my specific area and a lot of therapies are in clinical trials right now to target um you know various bladder cancer subtypes uh liver cancer subtypes and um let's see breast cancer subtypes as well um and also some lung cancer uh types for targeted radiotherapy but >> another type of amunotherapy kind of is um it's called an ADC. So it's it's an ADC type therapy where you basically have an antibbody uh that is attached to or chemically linked to instead of like a radioactive isotope it's chemically linked to a chemotherapeutic. So it's another way of delivering a targeted chemotherrapeutic directly to a tumor site kind of like the way that we would use uh targeted radiotherapy. >> So those are some advancing fields that I think are are pretty important to pay attention to. So if people want to dig more into um ADC type therapies, that's ADC type therapies um or uh targeted radiotherapy. I would I would advise that they they look into that and obviously we can you know have a part three through 100 uh to discuss the the various nuance to be discussed here. But those are some promising fields that I I think people should look into. >> Yeah, it's funny that you mentioned the radio therapy. A few months ago, I stumbled ac across this boron neutron capture therapy which essentially is also you ingest this uh boron 10 that's uh I guess uh also also like allows neutrons to hit it. So the boron 10 migrates the cancer cells and then you have like yeah some high energy particles targeting that tumor >> which also works like a nuclear nuclear bomb in in your body that targets the cancer cells. You'll have to send me that information because I I I'm not familiar with that specific type of therapy, but uh I'd be very curious to read about it. >> It's it's a huge >> Yeah, it was a new new paper I think a few months ago that I found. Um but you also mentioned this imunotherapy which uh >> over the last few months or years there's been some of these insights that uh the timing of when you do chemotherapy or when you administer chemotherapy appears to have pretty big effect on the outcomes and the effectiveness of the chemotherapy through like the circadian rhythm regulations. So like the timing of when you actually quote unquote u you know do cancer therapeutics. Mhm. >> appears to matter as well. >> Yeah, there was um there was a recent paper that came out that had discussed uh obviously the chicadian components associated with when to administer imunotherapy. Um and it appears based on the research that the best time for a cancer patient to receive um a specific type of imunotherapy would likely be towards the uh towards the morning to the afternoon. Um, but I've, you know, I've had some hitback or some blowback with this because I've been speaking to a lot of my colleagues about this and clinically it's it's very difficult to schedule uh a patient to receive those treatments in the morning because obviously patients they, you know, they have jobs, they, you know, sometimes they they often have to travel to a specific site to receive therapy and it's it's it's often very difficult to control whether or not they receive those those therapies in the morning despite what the research says. So, there's some hurdles we have to overcome there in terms of trying to achieve an optimal response. Um, and there's also been a lot of work done and it's it's it's funded by the the National Cancer Institute and the NIH here in the United States to better understand the relationship between dosing and uh treatment efficacy. So in early cancer research, we've focused on achieving the largest appropriate dose without significantly observed toxicities to be able to achieve an effect in terms of reducing cancer growth. But now we're finding that often less is more. So, we're dialing back on the overall dose that we use to achieve the minimal effective response such that you exhibit even less level of a toxicity. But in general, you give a lot lower of a dose for a longer period of time. And that sometimes um based on the research that's available right now has often a more potent biological effect than just giving a a larger dose of the same treatment for a shorter period of time. And this is often true for imunotherapies as well. So we're learning to reduce the dose of imunotherapies and give it a lower dose for longer periods of time to have a sustained immune response against the tumor versus increased likelihood for um basically anti- uh your body will make antibodies against the the antibbody that you're giving to get rid of it. So if we give a lower dose it's going to decrease the likelihood of your immune system to target that thing and uh it'll increase it'll increase its availability in circulation to kill a tumor. So >> that's called uh project optimus actually which is kind of funny. >> Right. Yeah. Before we get to the questions there's another thing that I remembered. So I think maybe one or two months ago there was this paper that uh linked being close to the golf course living close to the golf course with higher rates of Parkinson's because of uh potential like glyphosate exposure or something like that. And you know people were very um up in arms about it and um you know talking about okay you know move away from golf courses or uh don't buy any pesticide uh grown food or something like that. So what are your thoughts about that paper? Yeah, I mean there's there's been a lot of studies about this regarding um ecological considerations from runoff through uh you know into water sources and stuff like that into which can eventually lead into to human consumption um related to golf courses. Um my thoughts on this are that obviously there's there are better alternatives we can use on golf courses to try and you know keep them pristine, but golf courses are are man-made. Like if you want a golf course and you want golfers to occupy this golf course, >> there's a lot of synthetic material that is needed to be able to maintain that ecosystem to be as pristine as possible. So, while I don't think that it's great for the environment, in fact, I' I'd be willing to say that it's pretty bad for the environment, um there's a trade-off here regarding uh you know, making an income off of owning a golf course. Um, right. >> But as far as it goes for regulatory considerations, I think that golf courses should also have >> um appropriate runoff streams or or there needs to be an investment in in a better infrastructure to enable uh golf courses to operate more safely such that that runoff is less and less likely to um make it into human consumption. Um and and to be honest like I don't know all the the the infrastructure they have available but based on the research it suggests that there's very little >> uh which needs improvement. >> Yeah. Yeah. But yeah do you think it's you know reasonable to or is that like a plausible uh risk like real risk to uh risk of Parkinson's or something else if you're like very close to a golf course? >> I think I think it is real. Um, it's just it's hard to say how likely somebody will get Parkinson's or even increase cancer risks as an example. And again, I'm not a Parkinson's uh disease specialist, but um you know, it depends on the golf course and it depends on how careful um the people that are applying the pesticides to or fertilizers uh to to the plants and and things there and insecticides and stuff like that. Um it depends on how careful that they are. Um, but yeah, there there's definitely a risk. I mean, there's there's a risk with everything in life regarding human interaction with insecticides, glyphosate, fertilizers, and all that stuff. So, >> people just need to be conscientious of that. And golf courses, if they want to maintain their business, they need to also be more rigorous about how they protect not only their employees, but also uh people that live in the surrounding communities. And perhaps maybe there should be zoning restrictions um in place where people can't live within you know, couple hundred yards or couple thousand meters of of a golf course and and there may be in in many places, but here, you know, I drive down the street and I see houses right next to the golf course. And, you know, it's reason to believe that those people might have greater in impact with or or interaction with with the fertilizers from the golf course than, you know, the house that's a few blocks away. >> Gotcha. >> Yeah. I don't I don't remember exactly if we covered this on our last episode, but uh what about cancer risk? Does glyphosate or some other pesticide exposure have a cancer risk? >> Yeah. And uh I don't think we discovered or discussed this in the last episode, but um yeah, there there are certainly risks and and I made a post about this recently on my page and I I partnered with people are always up in arms about, you know, fertilizer use and insecticide use and and as we've just noted, there's there's pros and cons that need to be had regarding farming practice and and our need to utilize these things such that we can grow a sufficient amount of crops. Um but the studies show that at very very high doses um for a prolonged period of time that of course the the increase for risks of cancers goes up. So I think it's reasonable to say that you know people should be washing their produce where they can when they receive it from the grocery store to try and minimize uh fertilizer or insecticide or pesticide consumption where possible. Um, but in general, if people are consuming a a healthy and nutritionally diverse diet, their likelihood of something like glyphosate increasing their cancer risks is going to be low. Uh, it's a not it's nonzero. There's going to be some risk to it just like anything in life. Um, but you know, they're going to have lower risks assuming that their their diet is nutritionally diverse and they're, you know, they're exercising, they're they're engaging in good sleep behaviors and they're not regularly consuming alcohol or smoking and those sorts of things. And I think we've touched on that in the previous episode as well. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's like everything has risk even if you're, you know, being alive imposes some risk and uh you get radiation exposure from the sun and you know there's all things can be carcinogenic and uh increase risk. >> Yeah, exactly. >> Yeah. Well, I think now we can shift to the Q&A section. U we got nice questions here and yeah, let's start with the first question. Do I really need to worry about cancer if I'm young and healthy with uh mostly like the increased rates of early cancers in younger people nowadays? >> Um I think the word worry is subjective. I think that people should be reasonably cautious and I feel like maybe that's a synonym for worrying. But uh I think as we are I mean I'm a 33year-old male going to be 34 this this next month here and uh you know I'm relatively young and and I think that when I was younger I assumed that I was you know kind of invincible that there were there were a few things that could affect me and I think that there's there's a certain level of caution that people should be going through throughout their lives um when they're younger and as they get older because those cancer risks increase as you get older in general just because you're aging. Um but I think that there should always be some level of baseline about certain um behaviors that may be associated with risk. Like when I was in undergrad, you know, we've we've all been through party stages and stuff like that too where we're we're drinking with friends and you know, you smoke the occasional cigarette or or uh you smoke pot or something like that or consume THC. We've we've most of us have been there. I've been there if I'm being honest. And um you know, knowing what we know now about the relationship between the the causitive relationship between those behaviors like smoking, drinking, and even THC consumption in some cases, uh both beneficial and harmful. Um, it's it's worthwhile to to note that we can reduce the consumption of those things now, even as we're younger, to hopefully minimize the level of risks as we get older of the impacts of those things. Of course, we can handle things acutely, right? We can handle acute stresses and acute levels of carcinogens, but it's when we consistently consume those things and and interact with UV radiation, like radiation, if we have, you know, poor behaviors associated with going out and tanning, right? like those things chronically are going to be associated with increased risks of cancers. And a lot of those behaviors do start uh when we're young. Like I started exercising when I was very young and I've maintained um the behavior of of and and the importance of consistently exercising over time. So that has helped minimize my own risk. So I think a lot of those behaviors do start when we're young. Um but I don't think that it's worth worrying to the point of anxiety just because we do see increased risks of cancers um especially in younger people specifically regarding colurectal cancer >> um and I just made a post about this as well uh regarding earlier uh incidents of of cancers because there was a new study published a couple years back uh that notes that so like we know that certain diets are associated with increased colurectal cancer risks particularly that within the the United states currently our food environment is not great uh to say the least. So if we know the the specific contributing factors to colorectal cancer risks largely regarding excessive consumption of ultrarocessed foods, saturated fats, uh a diet that's deficient in fiber, those sorts of things. If I know those things now based on the research and I'm younger, I know that I need to adopt my diet or change my diet to accommodate something that's going to reduce my risks for something like colarctal cancer that we're seeing in increased prevalence in in younger individuals. >> Does that make sense? >> Yeah, absolutely. That's a very good answer. And um why do you think there's uh this increase in colon cancer? Um you mentioned already some of the dietary components. Is there anything else specific that you might explain some of that risk? >> Um, yeah. I mean, there's also there's also the sedentary lifestyle thing that is associated with increasing risks of colorectal cancers. Um, >> and our our colon is also like an integral part of of how our immune system can take care of us. So, I think that often times if we have bacterial dysregulation, uh, if we're not consuming something like enough fiber, going back to that nutritional perspective, um, it can it can often be associated with what's called dispiosis or the microbial species, bacteria, fungi, viruses within our our colon or our digestive tract um, get messed up basically and often times this can lead to a state of uh, chronic inflammation. Inflammation is often a buzz word that's used online and you've tried your best just as I do to try and educate people about what inflammation actually is. Um, and so that level of chronic inflammation um can be associated with uh with increased cancer risks over time, especially for for colon cancer. Um, yeah, I mean that's that's just trying to keep it simple. There's also like the the circadian dysregulation thing. There's a very important interaction between our gut and the way that our brain signals to our body for things like hunger and satiety and all those things >> and also um energy balance. So dpiosis can mess up the the circadian biology aspect >> um as somebody develops cancer as well. Um so that's that's even something we have to be careful with when we're giving cancer therapeutics to a cancer patient is to try not to disrupt the the gut microbiota as much as possible. And of course that's that's often impossible. >> Um >> those are just some contributing factors. >> Yeah that's should pe should people then start to screen earlier with uh the increased rates of younger people cancers? Yeah, I mean I think nowadays just because of what we know uh regarding cancer incidents in younger people, I think that people should uh screen when they're younger, maybe, you know, get their their colon checked or something like that. Um or even something like an MRI or or some sort of PET scan, but um I wouldn't say that it's worth doing, I don't know, before 30 years old. Um, but if people have the ability and the access, um, you know, their healthcare or whatnot to be able to get those types of screenings done when they're, you know, 25 to 30 years old and and onward either annually or bianually. Um, I I think it's a great idea just because of what we're seeing regarding the trends. And of course, as you know, I think we've mentioned this specifically in our last episode together is >> the the cancers that are easier to treat are the ones that are detected sooner. So, um >> yeah, >> I think that it's important. Yeah. >> Yeah. Especially colon cancer, like you can >> Yeah. >> treat it completely if you're like early enough. >> Yeah. Yeah. the treatment um the treatment for colon cancer when detected early is even for most cancers even is is significantly more effective than you know when when a when a cancer has come close to metastasizing or has metastasized to distant tissue. >> Yeah. Gotcha. >> I want to take a quick break to let you know that my school community with me and my wife is now live. It's called Society and it teaches you how to look and feel younger. Both me and Inca have reached top 1% of health with our biomarkers and we can teach you to accomplish the same because we have already coached over 500 individuals. Here's what's inside our school community. 12 plus hours of video content about reversing signs of aging and becoming healthier. We're adding new content every week and every month. Video courses on nutrition, skincare, fitness, sleep, biomarkers, and much more. New courses are added every month. Bi-weekly live Q&A calls with us where we answer your questions about your span journey. An in-depth overview of our own health protocols that helped us to reach top 1% health. Community posts and discussions where you can get feedback and help regarding your progress. Full workout plans and meal plans that are updated regularly. Step-by-step walkthroughs of workouts, skincare, nutrition, and daily routines, and a WhatsApp group for daily tips and inspiration. All of this for $1 per day, and even less than that with the annual plan. Check out the link in the description or search for Youthban Society on school.com. School with a K. All right, next question. Um, is it true that stress or negative emotions can cause cancer? Uh, yeah. So, I' I've covered this as well on my page. Um, there are associations between how distress uh negative stressors in our life can potentiate situations that increase our likelihoods for cancer. So a lot of studies have focused on the chicadian aspect regarding cortisol metabolism. So um chronically or or chronic stress can mess up cortisol metabolism basically that can increase risks for something like kidney, liver, bladder cancer and those sorts of things pancreatic cancer as well. Um so yeah so just keeping that simple yes there chronic levels of stress can potentiate situations which can create basically metabolic disbalance or or imbalances between our circadian metabolism to increase cancer risks. Um >> there are also situations where from a behavioral perspective we can posit that uh chronic stress can lead to adopting pretty poor behaviors. So oftent times when people are dealing with uh chronic distress in this case they'll resort to drinking alcohol to try and calm down or various medications um and and often times people overdo it or even like smoking like I said and those those are chronic consumption of carcinogens in the case of of alcohol consumption and and smoking cigarettes or or even THC or pot. But um >> when it comes to medications and things like that, often times people can overdo it uh from that perspective. And of course that affects uh liver metabolism. If people are are overdoing specific medications to affect their their metabolic ability that makes them feel better. >> What about the negative emotions? So like more like grumpiness or being angry or those kind of things. >> Well, if that if that were certainly the case, I'd probably have cancer first more than anybody. I'm pretty much grumpy most of the time. Uh my wife can attest to that. But um I think that they're so it's hard to say whether negative emotions are directly related to increased risks because those negative emotions are often very important in how we cope with our reality, the things around us. And and so I think that you know getting into the psychological aspect which again is not my area of expertise but um I think that therapy can be very important for people in particular cognitive behavioral therapy can be helpful for people to cope with those negative emotions in a more impactful way such that they know why the negative emotions are arising such that they can make appropriate actions for them to not be sustained negative emotions which eventually lead to distress. I mean, we've all been in positions where we've been so stressed out or at least I can speak for myself here um you know, where we've been so stressed out that um you know that it affects our overall health in the long run. I, you know, I've I've had extreme behaviors when I was younger in terms of being completely obsessed with, you know, doing lab work such that I would work from 9:00 in the morning to like 1:00 at night. And I did this for years. And now, you know, if I'm being honest, I'm exhibiting some of these effects of chronic distress and improperly dealing with my emotions um on metabolic output. though, my testosterone in this past year has been completely tanked. And I'm pretty sure that was a strong contributor to that was me not taking care of myself for many, many years because I was so obsessed with what I was doing that I wasn't taking care of of my psychological state. Um, so I think there's important in taking care of your your mental health just as you do your physical health. And those have to go hand in hand and it's it's very challenging. So I know I know how difficult it is for for people to deal with that just because I've dealt with it myself and continued to deal with it. >> Yeah. If you look at the other chronic diseases as well, you see that you know loneliness or um social isolation and unhappiness and depression and those things are associated with increased risk of heart disease and mortality you know the other types of diseases as well. And it's kind of interesting that you know of course you can explain it with certain um behavioral aspects. So like people who are more depressed or um unhappy they tend to yeah cope with more alcohol or some sweets or something like that. >> Yeah. But um I don't know there might be also something uh actual causal there that um you know I guess you could uh create some um more inflammatory state or like neuro neuroinflammation if you're depressed or u chronically unhappy or something like that. So she isolated like you could probably increase some neural inflammation or you know some other types of uh you know sympathetic nervous system state or cortisol increased cortisol or something like that. >> Yeah. And it certainly seems possible and like I said the the research that we're we're finding out relating cortisol to cancer risks is is certainly pointing to that. Um but as you know it's it's never one thing or the other when it comes to any biological system just because there's >> obviously a lot of moving parts. Humans are not you know easy to understand >> uh beings regarding our overall biology or physiology. So, but yeah, they're we're learning more and more about these links and how they how stress can relate to uh Parkinson's disease risks or or even uh diseases like cancers. >> Yeah. Uh next question is pretty interesting one. Um what does it feel like to have cancer in the early stages? Are there any early signs people should pay attention to? >> Oh, I mean all of these are great questions so far. Let's start there. So, for those of you who are asking questions, thank you so much. They're great. so far. Um, but when if if you're exhibiting what you think to be early symptoms of cancers, it's it's really it's really hard to say what those are. Um, something like ovarian cancer as an example. A a pretty common symptom of ovarian cancer is abdominal pain. So in females like they have menration every month and so abdominal pain is pretty common in females. So often times ovarian cancer gets missed early stage because women naturally just think that it's associated with menration or cramping or something that's pretty common when it comes to women physiology. So that's that's one particular instance. So, it's really hard um it's really hard to diagnose cancers when they're in an early stage just because the symptoms often times are just not there or they're so common that it's hard to say, "Oh, it's cancer." It's like when people go uh onto WebMD and they say, "Oh, I have a migraine." And it's not going away. And the first thing WebMD says is, "Oh, it's a stage four glyoma." You know, it's it's hard to make a conclusion there. But um yeah, I mean I can't give any any specific advice there regarding you know how to detect early stage cancers from a symptom perspective. >> Um all I can >> I'm sorry what >> something like you know blood in a stool or um you know those kind of things. Yeah, I mean those things are pretty basic, but that could also be indicative of like >> uh a GI infection or something that of course depending on the infection it can be associated with cancer risks. If it's a specific micro that's known to be associated with gastric cancer risk as an example. >> Um it could just also be associated with someone pushing too hard. I've I've been in that situation too. and um you know you create micro tears in the the intestinal lining and sometimes you get blood in your stool or somebody's not wiping appropriately those sorts of things. So those are common things that are hard to miss but if if it's profuse bleeding that ends up becoming painful yes then then it's worth getting checked out. Um I think in general blood from stool uh fresh blood from stool uh should be should warrant a person going to the doctor uh to to get checked out. Um, but those are >> pretty straightforward and basic things that I think people already or at least they should know. >> And if they don't, they do now. >> Yeah. Uh, next question. Uh, you talked about muscle and survival. How how much exercise is enough? And are there any like specific workouts people should do? >> Yeah. So there's there's always a lot of debate between nutritional scientists and exercise scientists and biologists in general about this particular topic about what the most optimal types of exercises and how often uh we should do these exercises to reduce uh risks of cancers regarding uh you know skeletal muscle as an example. And there have been studies that show the minimum amount of exercise that you need is like something like 2 minutes per day, which you know is interesting from a statistics perspective, but I I'm kind of calling on that. Uh cuz 2 minutes is just not enough. I mean, unless you're doing two minutes of severely rigorous hit activity, um, you know, like very fast push-ups or or sprinting or something like that. Um, which most people are not doing. Like, no one's committing just a two-minute time block to to exercising. At least they shouldn't be. Um, but I will say that based on what I've read, I would say that anywhere from half an hour minimum depending on the type of exercise. So if somebody's going >> I'm sorry, >> per week or per day or >> per day or per exercise. >> Okay. >> Yeah. So let's say I have a specific exercise plan where I work out four days a week. Uh let's say two of those days I'm going for runs, right? And I'm running for 30 minutes uh like endurance running. So I'm not running at a super fast pace. I'm going for like 30 minutes. Maybe I'm doing like a 10-minute mile pace running 3 miles. That's a sufficient exercise. Um but then let's say the other two days I'm doing resistance training in the gym. And this is actually something I've done before. um you know focusing one day on upper and lower um and then the other day on maybe core strength um those sorts of things can be can be helpful. Um but I would say in general at minimum 30 minutes per exercise is sufficient for most people. Um and of course we can talk about frequency per week. I would say at a minimum two times per week. Um, but oftentimes it's dependent on people's work schedules. I know there have been weeks where I've just been so busy and stressed out that that it's, you know, as an excuse it's affected my ability to go to the gym. Um, sometimes, you know, that mental health component of just needing to go home and relax and play video games or unwind or something is is often more beneficial to me than than taking that time and going to the gym where I don't feel like it's going to help as much. So, there's there's always a trade-off with these things, but, you know, at a minimum, I think working out two times a week for about 30 minutes uh is is sufficient for most people. >> Gotcha. Uh, next question. >> Yeah, I think with exercise, yeah, it's something that uh hard to say how much is uh, you know, optimal. There's possibly Yeah, too much exercise can possibly be harmful, but uh, >> absolutely. >> I think but but the average person probably doesn't reach that. >> So, the average person probably exercises not enough. >> Yeah. I mean, I'm certainly not like a a pro athlete or anything like that. I I find that it's hard to exercise the way that I do at least more than four times a week. Um, and I used to exercise a lot more. Depends on what I've been training for. What do you What do you do for for exercise typically? Just out of curiosity. I do three times a week. I three times a week I do like um calisthenics and resistance training. So I do like pushpull legs, a split and then uh twice a week I do some easy low intensity cardio. So uh cycling currently in in the summer and then maybe once a week I do some sprints, you know, 10 minutes sprint workout or uh 20-minute hit. Depends on yeah how much time I have or >> yeah how how I feel. I I try to have like one day of the week for rest and uh three days a week are somewhat harder workouts, but uh three two three times a week I do very light exercise. >> Yeah, that's great. So there you have it guys, the uh the Simland uh workout program. >> Yeah. Uh next question. Um should I be should I be filtering my tap water for uh microplastics and pas and those things? I mean, I do just preemptively. Um, I'm not sponsored by this company, but in the United States here, we have something called Hydro Viv. Um, and I don't know if they they ship to where you guys are, but I certainly use um a filtration system to filter out microplastics and water supply just because a lot of water aqueduct systems utilize PVC and over time that PVC, which is a type of a polymer of plastic, can break down and those those fine particles can end up in your drinking supply despite uh the treatment processes they go through in water plants u before they're delivered to uh drinking water supply. So, yeah, I mean, I certainly think that there's there's a lot of benefit to for most people to have some form of filtration system to filter out microplastics, especially now since we're seeing from a variety of different research perspectives that microplastics are pretty much everywhere. So, that's a very very very simple and really affordable thing that most of us should be doing to uh to minimize our microplastic consumption. So, yes, very simple. >> Yeah. Uh what's the difference between a benign tumor and a cancerous one? >> Okay, so a benign tumor is typically a a piece of tumor tissue that is actively growing but doesn't have characteristics of a of a cancerous piece of tissue to go beyond that particular area. So, it has cancer characteristics, but they're not severe enough to the point where it can become malignant. When something is a malignant piece of tissue, it has often times these hallmarks of cancers. They they're genetically unstable. They have multiple different types of mutations. They have metastatic characteristics. They're showing signs of being able to move or extravate between tissues. um they often have uh metabolic aberrations between the electron transport chain and glycolysis as an example in the citric acid cycle. Um it's it's it's much easier to diagnose when something is potentially malignant than it is benign just because the benign mass is something that's actively dividing. It's maybe causing some form of local issues, but it doesn't have some of those severe cancer features that you would see in a malignant or cancerous piece of tissue. Does that make sense? Yeah. Yeah. And u um should they be like worried if uh if it's spreading or growing on a scan? Um, yeah. I mean, if you have even a benign piece of tissue that's actively growing, um, and you've been tracking it over time, um, then then yes. So, as an example, I recently just went to the dermatologist. I, you know, in my family, I've got lots of moles that I've inherited through my genetics. So, I I have to go regularly now to get checked. And I this is something I've recently started doing and I should have done it many many years ago in terms of getting my moles checked. So I've been watching some of these moles in particular on my back um become more irregular in their shape and their melanin pigmentation. And one of them actually started causing pain on on one of my the back of my shoulder blades because it was you know maybe pushing on a nerve or something like that. So that's kind of indicative of this is a growing piece of tissue and it's raised now. So um it might be benign. I'm still waiting on the results of that be to be honest. Um but um those are particular characteristics I think that we have to look for in in actively growing piece of tissue. And don't do like I did uh and wait till the last minute. go, you know, as soon as you start to see those those particular features, try and secure an appointment to um to investigate potential cancerous lesion. What about uh birth signs and melanoma and um you know, skin cancer? Is is there any specific differences that you know immediately point out that this is just your regular birth sign or uh then this is more malignant? >> What do you mean by birth sign? I mean, you know, there's birth spots, you know. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Um, no. Uh, typically those are not related to uh cancerous pieces of tissue. Those are just kind of inherited uh melanin characteristics associated with with the skin. My sister has a couple of them. I have I have one of them on the back of my leg, but those I don't think there's really any reason to be worried about those. >> Gotcha. Yeah. Uh, next question. Uh, can the body ever get rid of cancer on its own? >> Uh, yeah. So, there's been a lot of people that talk about spontaneous remission, which is the ability of the body to eradicate cancerous tissue on its own. Um, and the answer is yes. Um, but it's hard to say just how likely that is just because our bodies are naturally ingrained to eradicate cells that are acting abnormally in any given area in the body. Um, and that doesn't mean that it's cancer. That means it's something that is not working the way that it's supposed to. And that's just checks and balances that happen within the body. So we can't confidently state that that's cancer. Um now there are times where if somebody does have a cancer, they can exhibit spontaneous remission depending on the type of cancer it is, but it's not it's not very common. Um and it's yeah, it's just not widely seen. So, it's hard to say with any degree of confidence that a cancer patient can just avoid treatment entirely. Um, with a strong degree of likelihood that their their body will take care of it cuz in most cases uh often very close to 99 sorry close to 100% of the cases pretty much uh require some form of treatment if if somebody has an active uh case of cancer. Uh, so spontaneous remission not common at all and I would not advise anybody to to take your chances in letting their body to eradicate something that's known and actively dividing as a as a tumor. >> Yeah, that's a risky uh business. >> Yeah. >> Um, next question. Um, should I avoid milk and cheese? >> No. >> No. I mean, let's keep that simple. I I love milk and cheese personally, so I don't want to say this from a position of of potential bias cuz people will claim that, oh, if I drink milk and cheese and or drink milk and eat cheese, I'm introducing bias here. But like in in in all seriousness and being unbiased looking at the research, um, of course, if somebody is is all if all their diet is dairy, milk, and cheese, then yeah, they're going to have nutritional deficiencies. Um, but no, they they don't intrinsically on their own uh strongly relate to cancer risk. So, I think that often times cheeses, there's many different diverse types of cheeses with different nutrient profiles. The same with with milks and those sorts of things. Uh, of course, pasteurized because there's obviously there's this tendency for people to consume raw milk these days. Um, but pasteurized uh milk is is the way to go here. uh from you know reduction of consumption of potentially pathogenic bacteria and and parasitic organisms but um yeah there's really no >> no no reason to avoid eating dairy or or cheeses >> assuming a good >> I remember doing >> yeah I remember doing some research and finding that uh dairy consumption is associated with less colon cancer specifically that uh dairy and calcium. >> Not revap per se, but um you know I can say that you know if somebody is consuming a nutritionally diverse diet and dairy and cheeses are are a good component of that particular diet then it kind of makes sense that if you know people are consuming those things appropriately that it would be associated with reduced uh colurectal cancer. just from like a a protein perspective and there's a lot of benefits from a a probiotic perspective when it comes to drinking uh dairy and cheeses. You're consuming microbes that in general have benefits when they interact with your gut microbi biota in terms of helping you digest. So that makes sense from that perspective. >> Yeah. So maybe the best option would be some of these fermented dairy products, yogurt, kafir. Yeah, exactly. >> Blue cheese rather than regular, >> you know, McDonald's cheese. >> Yeah. No, no, that's totally true. Um, that McDonald's cheese is pretty heavily processed cheese, too. So, >> um, now it's not to say that the the wheel of blue cheese or or other types of cheeses are not processed, but of course, the the nutrient composition and the microbial composition of >> of cheeses is wildly diverse from a fungal and a bacterial perspective largely. Um but yes, so it's safe to say that >> fermented uh dairy is or fermented cheeses are the are the way to go in terms of bacteria or or um sorry yogurt kafir consumption or even some of those cheeses like blue cheese, >> parmesan, aged cheeses, those sorts of things. >> Yeah. >> What about uh processed meats and cured meats like salami and sausages? Yeah. So again, if if a person's diet is is overly abundant in terms of uh consumption of of hyperprocessed meats like deli meats and those sorts of things, then yeah, you're going to have again those nutritional deficiencies that come with fixating on one particular food group. uh when it comes to consumption, like the carnivore diet as an example, um there's a lot of preservatives and those sorts of things on on those foods as well that that can counteract certain health processes. But if somebody is consuming deli meats and and I eat deli meat regularly with sandwiches, um it's just not super often. Um, but if somebody is eating these deli meats with, you know, a lettuce, tomato on a sandwich with light mayonnaise and, you know, a good slice of fresh bread or something like that, um, as a part of their diet, there's certainly no issue. Um, especially if, you know, like I said, they're integrating other healthy behaviors alongside consuming, uh, a nutritionally diverse diet, which can safely include uh, processed meats, uh, like deli meats. It just shouldn't be, you know, as you know, it just shouldn't be everything that that person eats. If I eat deli meat every day, I'm going to have a problem. Um, but I can have a a sandwich every couple of days or something like that. >> Um, alongside the other things that I'm eating in a day, as you know, if I'm eating vegetables, fruits, and all those sorts of things >> or even dairy and cheese. >> Yeah. That's like moder moderation is fine. and uh have a more yeah hold more balanced diet then uh then you mitigate risks with with that. >> Yeah. I mean I know it sounds >> next question. Why do some people live for years with cancer and others die quickly? >> Why do some people live more quickly? Um it all depends on the type of cancer really. um and the aggressiveness of the cancer. So if somebody has pancreatic cancer that's detected relatively late stage, oftent times the mortality risks associated with that latestage pancreatic cancer are very high and those people have a very low chance of surviving more than 5 years. And it's the same with like glomomas as an example. But if somebody has like a a basilc cell carcinoma that they've been keeping under check as an example or maybe even a melanoma um there's a higher chance of survivability past 5 years than something like pancreatic cancer, esophageal cancer, glomomas, late stage brain cancers. Um so often times a thing that dictates survival is the type of cancer and how advanced it is. And that's pretty much true for for all cancer types. >> Mhm. Gotcha. Yeah. I guess the health of the individual will be a big component. If you're healthy healthier, let's say, you have a healthier lifestyle to begin with and you have better body composition and you know better blood markers etc. then your likelihood is uh much higher to survive. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. >> Gotcha. >> Yeah. It's a great question. >> Yeah. Uh, next question. How much cancer risk comes from everyday stuff like deodorant, teflon pans, and etc. >> Yeah. And again, it's hard to say how much specific risks come from, you know, association with deodorant and and teflon, but there are known risks between um, you know, the the use of aluminum containing deodorants in particular um, with cancers, albeit the risks are very low. But nowadays there's deodorants and antipersperants that people can buy um that don't have aluminum. Now that you know we've we've learned that there are some risks. The producers of these materials have have taken you know aluminum containing reagents out of out of their the production of their of their material. So there's there's always options now because of what we've learned. Um when it comes to teflon pans, non-stick pans, uh yeah, there's more risk with those for developing uh certain cancers. Um, but often times it it depends on whether or not someone's taking care of those pans. Um, and ensuring that they're not overusing them to the point where, you know, they the the nonstick is noticeably wearing off. Um, so often times when people have teflon pans, they just overuse them. And it's important to to buy new pans every couple of years if if you know, if we notice that the wear and tear is great on them. And that that's one thing that can help reduce risk just being kind of like um aware of of the use of these materials such that the you know that you're not consuming the the teflon uh coating on these pans. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense. And what I find is that you know the idea with microplastics is there's a lot of uncertainties about them. We don't necessarily know how big of a risk it is for you know other diseases as well like heart disease or >> Alzheimer's or something like that but u you know there's very easy and simple swaps you can make like you can just you know stop wear stop using plastic Tupperware and replace it with glass and you know maybe every once in a while you occasionally have something in a plastic box that's fine but uh in the fridge regularly just use glass boxes and with the pans as well you know stainless steel pan is very good for cooking And you just remove one risk factor completely by by doing that. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And it should be I mean we we say this as though it's a relatively simple thing to consider but um a lot of people and myself at sometimes uh some point haven't really considered a lot of these things too and it's it's kind of just about what we do going forward. >> Can you reverse some of the past damage you did to yourself? Uh let's say smoking, alcohol, bad diet, etc. Um, >> specifically in the context of like cancer, >> when it comes to undoing damage or reversing damage from from past association with carcinogens, it's often very hard to do and it often depends on what the damage is. So, for example, like if somebody's smoking for a long period of time and they they've damaged their lung capacity because they've been smoking for a long period of time, your lungs are not good regenerative uh tissue. So, it won't repair to the state that it was before. Um, but your liver, as an example, is pretty malleable when it comes to tissue repair, and it's a pretty integral part of the liver uh is to be able to um repair damage um in a in a very quick way. So if somebody is drinking a little bit or they've stressed out their liver for a relatively acute period of time, uh the liver will have a greater capacity to reverse a process associated with damage than something like lung tissue. Um so it always depends on the type of carcinogen or the type of material that someone is associated with um in relation to the specific organs that that thing affects regarding regenerative uh capacity. Um, but I will say also that in in in general in when it comes to reversing a process associated with damage, it's oftent times not that it can be reversed to the state that it was previously in, but more so that it's an adaptation of a new state to accommodate damage that maybe has been done that cannot be reversed to circumvent it or get around the damage that has been done. There's almost >> there's there's very few biological processes that can revert back to a state where they can function the same prior to that damage >> if that makes sense. >> Yeah. And especially something like smoking is where it will have a bigger effect on that. >> Yeah. But this is this isn't to say that people shouldn't, you know, just succumb to the idea that, oh, I've already, you know, induced enough damage. I guess there's no point in stopping, right? Like, >> right, >> if you stop associating with those carcinogens, there's there's obviously a lot of benefit from from a health perspective, even just focusing on that alone, um, in terms of of trying to repair tissue to the best of the capacity, whatever that new capacity might be. It's not worth continuing to smoking or or continuing drinking like crazy to, you know, just because you've already induced enough damage. >> Yeah. >> Next question. Should I be tracking any specific biomarkers for cancer risk? Um, it's hard to say because there's a lot of different types of biomarkers, but something that I've recently been doing and and I think that a lot of people talk about online is, you know, as we get older, you know, as you get to about 25, 30 years old and and onward, uh, regular blood tests are important. um not only from an endocrinological perspective in terms of you know checking estrogen, testosterone, um T3 production from your thyroid, T4 production, those sorts of things, cholesterol, all those sorts of things are are very important biomarkers, uh which can help assess whether or not there's something wrong. And it's not always cancer, right? It could be something like predisposition to to heart disease if we see uh issues with cholesterol as an example or um um it could be something like testicular cancer if we see that there are severe aberrations in in testosterone and estrogen signaling in males um or even females when it comes to estrogen metabolism. Um so those are important biomarkers. Most of the metabolic panels that you get from from standard of practice uh blood blood tests are are you know in general very good to to assess uh potential for disease. It's just you know people need to do those those things regularly I would say >> if not every year every 6 months. >> Yeah. Even just to assess overall health and immune system function and those things inflammation status. >> Yeah. Yeah. because you get your your white blood cell count and stuff with with those tests as well. And you know, if you see like an increased eosinophilic uh count, you you know, could be indicative of a of an allergic response or some some other issue with your immune system. >> So, it's important to pay attention to those things over time. >> Yeah. Um I guess we're going to start wrapping up. And um last question is um are there any supplements that have cancer preventive or protective effects? >> Um it's hard to make a global statement about this because supplements are a bit uh taboo with a lot of people. But I will say from like a nutritional perspective, there are a lot of supplements that people can be utilizing alongside their diet to help offset risks um maybe or or even help to increase the the efficacy of certain medications that they're taking. So in my own case like I take uh vitamin D3, I take vitamin K uh complex. Um I've taken ashwagandha. Um I currently have like a supplement stack. I I've partnered with with Blo. I don't know if you're familiar with the company Blok. Um they do blood tests and those sorts of things to help um increase care towards you know um men and women. Um, but there's there's a variety of different supplements that people can use, whether it's it's something like ashwagandha or vitamin D3 or vitamin K. Uh, omega-3s, healthy fat sources, those sorts of things can can help to um offset some sort of imbalances that a person might not be getting uh from their their nutritional profile that they're they're getting on a regular basis. So, um it's hard to say how those things will contribute to reduction in cancer risks. um because obviously the the the things that we eat are are more complicated in terms of their relation to cancers. But >> in the short term, they'll help to increase a person's nutritional diversity such that um hypothetically they're reducing their cancer risk. But it's hard to say whether or not the consumption of that supplement is positively linked just because there's so many things associated with with the things that people eat that it's hard to say whether or not the the impact of that supplement on the person's diet is is directly related to uh cancer risk reduction. But I will say overall that >> if you determine in your blood panel >> that you're low in vitamin D3 or you're low in um other vitamins as a part of your your metabolism panel, then it might be wise to supplement those things to uh to help offset those those effects because you may not be eating them in your in your nutrition. So >> if you cannot find a way to get those things through whole foods, then supplementation can certainly be helpful. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Supplements, you know, I don't think they're going to, you know, cure cancer or something like that, but just again, they might fix some uh potholes in uh in your blood work or your nutrition intake or something like that. >> Yeah, exactly. Yeah. I mean, just as the name would imply, they're supplements. They're supplementary to to the things that were that were eating to help offset those those potholes as you mentioned. >> Mhm. Yeah. >> Exactly. >> Well, uh Yeah. Well, it was uh great to talk with you and uh thanks for answering all the questions. I think people will appreciate it and uh yeah, where can people learn more about you and your work? >> Yeah. Um first of all, thank you again for having me for round two. Um I'm always here to talk to you and your audience if they've got any more questions. Uh there's awesome awesome awesome questions uh that were asked by your audience. So, thank you to them first of all um and yourself for for hosting me today. Um, people can find me on Instagram. I've got a website, uh, drzandell.com, but people can find me on Instagram at dr or dr.jezandell. Um, yeah, I'm pretty much most most active on Instagram these days. I'm trying to span out into YouTube, but obviously I'm a oneman band over here, so all of the editing and stuff that people see is me, myself, and I. So, uh, it takes a lot of time from my already very busy work schedule in, uh, in in biotech. So, um, that's where people can find me on Instagram, and I'm always available to answer, uh, people's questions, um, particularly in the comment sections of my posts. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Well, I appreciate it as well, and thanks for coming. We'll we'll do another maybe future one in in a few months or a year. >> Yeah. Sweet. Thanks, dude. I appreciate it. >> Yeah. Thank you.