My favorite though is tart cherry juice. Really seems to help me stay asleep. I have no problem going to sleep. My problem is I wake up in the middle of the night, but if I do a shot of tart cherry juice, I can sleep straight through the night. All right, Dave, nice to meet you in person. Yeah, at this event together. And uh yeah, like the first video I made about you was I think last year went through your entire routine you had on your website that you had been doing. So yeah, we're going to do like a little follow-up like what have you changed about your routine? uh ever since. Oh, cool. Yeah. Great. Yeah. And maybe we can start with like supplements. So that that was one of the first things um that you actually brought out when we had a follow-up podcast about your routine that uh I went through a lot of your supplements that you were taking a bunch back then. Uh so yeah, maybe have it changed anything about your supplement routine uh right now. Well, I mean it's funny when you first did that podcast about my supplements, I thought, "Oh man, this is going to be a takedown." And I really did. I thought for sure like, "Oh, he's just going to destroy me." But it was it was so cool the way you were very respectful and you went through each and every thing that I was taking and the quantities that I was taking them in. And you even, you know, offered some assistance like to help me make my protocol better, which I so appreciated. And so I I took a lot of notes as you were, you know, going through them all. And I I did. you actually um recommended I increase the doses of some things because of the studies showed that you know um I can't even think of which ones in particular but studies showed that a higher dose would be more appropriate. So right and I did that and what well to my surprise um I ended up having diarrhea. Okay. Which one was it like creatine or something? I know. I think it was uh might have been glucosamine. I was probably taking too little of. And when I increased my dosage, uh I my gut just could not handle that. But it took me a while to figure out which one it was because when you're taking that many supplements and you just change one and all of a sudden you have a reaction, you don't know which like what happened. Yeah. I mean a lot of supplements they can have like short-term adaptations. So like creatine is a good example of that. You get nauseous, you get uh some loose stool, some headaches, something even that if you take it in a short term, in a larger dose, but over time your body kind of adapts to it. Yeah. Yeah. It would have been wiser for me to titrate my dosage up slowly rather than just jump. Yeah. So, you know, I gave you that I guess feedback mostly because of, you know, it's not that you know, supplements aren't effective. You can find a lot of like evidence for different supplements. It's just like at some point you have to start worrying about your like budget. Absolutely. If you spend 100 and some of the supplements were quite $100 per month or something. Uh Oh, yeah. I had one I was taking one toase activator which was like $800. Oh wow. You know, but that was a 90day supply, but that was so ridiculous. Yeah, exactly. Then you need to find what are like the key ones that actually have been shown to have benefits and what give you like, you know, the best bang for your buck in terms of that. So maybe you know you can outline some of your like main supplements that you're like you pretty much have to take every day or you want to take every day. Oh gosh. I mean there's really so many. Um to be honest that's why I have them all on my website cuz I honestly don't memorize them all. Gotcha. So you have like some sort of a box or something that you take them out or you just Oh yeah. I have a a bin that I just keep underneath my bed. Okay. Bumping the microphone. Um, and I I have on the top of each bottle, I have a sticker with the number of pills in the bottle that I have to take out and put in my my case. So, when I'm packaging them all, I'm not even looking at what I'm taking. I just know that I need to take three of these and put them in there and two of these. Gotcha. So, that makes it brainless for me. Yeah. Do you like I guess I can name a few. Like, do you take like creatine or anything? Oh, yeah. Okay. So, powder-wise, I I do take, you know, creatine. I take um oh gosh I mean one of the one of the favorite things I like to take is nicotinomide ribocide. Okay. I notice that big time when I don't take it. Um so my must haves are like vitamin D and our um some of the basics. So, do alpha ketogluterate. Um gosh, but I mean powder-wise for um pre-workout, post-workout, it's um Oh gosh. Well, I do llutamine for the gut. Got along with the creatine. Um I'm trying to picture all the bottles. Yeah. I mean, there's there can be a lot of them. It's a lot. Yeah. Um do you take like any sleep supplements? Magnesium, melatonin? Uh yeah, before bed I end up taking uh L3ine. I take um um gosh, yeah, magnesium 3 and8. My favorite though is tart cherry juice. Really seems to help me stay asleep. I have no problem going to sleep. My problem is I wake up in the middle of the night and then I can't go back to bed. But if I do a shot of tart cherry juice, I can sleep straight through the night. Now, if I just do melatonin, I it'll wake me up at 4:00 a.m. and then I'm wide awake and I can't go back to sleep. M. And it might help the first night, but then the second night, no. I mean, wide awake from the start. Yeah. So, but for some reason, tart cherry juice just seems to work. Yeah. Yeah. There is it has like a lot of melatonin and uh it's powerful antioxidant. I think it your your gut produces melatonin, you know, with the tart cherry juice. So, it helps to produce your own indogenous supply. Yeah. Um maybe let's move on with like a diet then. So, um, well, I was going to say one thing I have changed in my supplementation since we last talked was, um, I did particularly have my morning and evening supplements set up though where I would do more, um, mTor building things or, you know, mitochondrial enhancers in the morning and I would do more autophagy activating things in the evening, which, you know, it was okay. Um, I did that more for simplicity sake. Yeah. But now I'm trying to be more um just just more intentional about doing the autophagy activators only on weekends. Yeah. So I'm doing mtor you know 5 days on and then the two days off is more the autophagy stuff. Yeah. The timing is also quite important that if you have contradicting mechanisms from supplements then you're like are they actually working? That and that was a concern. Yeah. Yeah. And you you you're going to update your like website with kind of the concurrent supplement stack. Been meaning to do that for weeks now, but you know, things keep life keeps getting in the way. Yeah. Well, we'll put it in the show notes so people can see when it happens. Um, but yeah, diet. So, have you changed anything about your diet? Well, this uh this weekend while we've been here at the conference, my diet has changed pretty much high. Um, no, I mean, pretty much sticking to my diet, but one one thing I found by accident at the last conference I was at, I took a um it's like a gut sensitivity test. M I didn't think I needed it cuz I didn't realize I had any gut issues, but uh the sensitivity test came back to tell me that I have some sensitivities to some foods that I eat often, right? Which was a big surprise to me. Um and then of course talking with their um their doctor, I realized that's a common thing for people that if you eat something often Yeah. you'll get a sensitivity to it's going to show up soon. Yeah. So mushrooms was one thing that I eat, you know, pretty much every day, right? Um, and of my cherry nut, chia, you know, berry bowl, spice bowl, um, hemp was one seed that I have a sensitivity to, right? Yeah. The thing with those tests can be that, you know, because you're eating them so often, it's going to your immune system is, you know, quote unquote triggered towards that food and it might not necessarily indicate actual allergy or sensitivity. It's like, yeah, what you're exposed to the most often. Yeah. So, if you're not getting any symptoms, it's not the immune system starts to flare up a little bit about it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, but it's not going to be an issue like right right if you if you don't actually you eat eggs right you feel fine you don't have any bloating or gas or anything like that then you're not really really sensitive to it and that was another thing I was surprised by because uh casein was one that I'm totally fine with according to the sensitivity test but if I do even the slightest bit of casein I blow it up with gas something fierce so it's a difference between your gut microbiome being sensitive versus your immune system being sensitive. Yeah. Yeah. And but still kind of same meals uh omniver and plants, meats, uh fish. Yes. Yeah, very much so. Any anything about timing like timing schedule? Uh no, I still like to eat my dinners about 4 4 p.m. if I can because it helps my sleep scores much better if I'm not digesting while I'm trying to sleep. Yeah. Yeah. The same same like too much too close to bed, right? tends to keep keep me up or I mean not keep me up but it'll just you know have worse sleep score uh even if I don't feel it like so that's the plan and of course life gets in the way because when you're out with friends and things uh you don't always have control over when you get to eat. Yeah. And especially when you're at events like this you just eat when you get the break to eat. So yeah. Yeah. But you know you build a resilience. So if you're healthy you have resilient metabolism. You can do things uh in a chaotic way. from time to time and and get away and eat foods that you're not usually eating and your body is going to like react super bad. Yeah, that's why I like to I I do low carb generally, but every so often I like to just like throw heavy carbs at my body just to make sure that I'm metabolically flexible. Yeah. I can handle the fats or I can handle the carbs. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Um and with exercise, you know, you're in great shape by staying year round. Do you like change anything about your exercise? Are you doing still like P90X? I'm still doing the P90X, but because I have the the shoulder issues that I've done stem cells for, I'm it's being repaired. It's getting better, but um I'm finding that in my rehab, I'm doing uh my workouts now with lighter weight, but using uh katsu bands, so the blood flow restriction bands. Yeah. And I I get a good pump from that. It makes the workout harder, right? With even lighter weight. Yeah. So less less chance of getting injured. So it's a great thing for older people to work out with. So you know if you're injured katsu bands that would be the way to go. Yeah. If you're injured and you can't like do the full movement or the full weight, you put the katu bands and you get the same signal to your body with very light weights without damaging your joints even further. Yeah. And the funny thing is I can put them on and just go about my day, not even do a workout. Yeah. and my arms will just start getting this huge swell pump. So, it looks like I just did a massive workout when I'm just going about, you know, the kitchen washing dishes or something. Yeah. Yeah, that's what I usually use them as well. Like I'm on the computer. I got just put them on typing on a computer and uh it just works. I was going to say you probably don't need them though cuz I've seen some of the superhuman workouts that you've done. It's It's funny. I I don't know if you guys know this, but the seam had originally suggested we do a workout together. Yeah. And I was game, but I was I was very intimidated because, you know, you're like 30 years younger than me. So I'm like, "Oh, please don't hurt the old man." You know, that would be embarrassing, especially to break Dave Pasco in a video. That would be bad. Well, we would have done like your workout to adjust the intensities. But, uh, we'll do it another time. Well, after I saw your, you know, your shorts of what you were, your workouts, I'm like, "Holy crap, I'm glad I didn't take you on. That would have been embarrassing for me." Yeah. But, uh, you know, you do cardio, you do interval training. Yeah. Cardis and run season starting up again. So, I've got a half marathon coming in October. So, I need to do that again. How many How many have you like run before? Oh, I've done maybe three full marathons and probably a dozen half marathons. You change your like nutrition going up to it in some ways or? Yeah. At first, I didn't I didn't realize I needed to and that was bad because Yeah, I would bonk pretty quickly, right? I'm I'm very slender. Yeah. And so when I uh when I don't bulk up on carbs, I I tend to burn muscle really quick. But even though even though I do like add more carbs back in on run season, I still tend to burn through muscle. So it's it's frustrating. Gotcha. You might need like some of these anti catabolic. Uh so HMBB is a good one. I take that. Yeah. Yeah. HMBB and maybe ketone bodies even can be anticolic. Um yeah. Uh, guess we can wrap it up then. So, um, you're 62 now, right? Yep. I'll be 63 in August. Yeah. So, uh, what are your plans like for the future? Great question. Um, well, I'm thinking about starting a YouTube channel. Yeah, I know you've been encouraging there. I really appreciate that. Um, still don't know what my exact niche is going to be, but we'll see. Well, it's the go niche, so Yeah. Right. No one can compete. Yeah. Yeah. Well, thanks for doing this and yeah, definitely looking forward to your YouTube channel and it's been great hanging out with you this this weekend. I've had a blast. Yeah, it's been really really fun. Yeah. Uh, where can people find you on social media right now? Oh, um, Dave.pasco at on Instagram and then uh Davepasco.net on the web. All right, sounds good. We'll put the links in the show notes and yeah, thanks for watching. Thanks everyone.