Last year, there was a study that claimed that people go through two massive bursts of aging after their mid-40s and early 60s. I already talked about the routine you should follow in your early 40s to slow down aging. But in this video, I'm going to talk about the specific changes you need to do in your 60s to maintain better health and live longer. Watch until the end for a complete weekly routine. One of the most significant changes that happens in your 60s is the loss of muscle mass and bone density in people over the age of 75. Falling makes up the leading cause of accidental deaths. That's because of low bone density and low muscle mass. That leads to deadlier falls in people who are frail and weak. You should do some resistance training and lift weights already in your 40s, but especially after your 60s to reduce the risk of frailty and falling. You can't build bone density with just walking or a healthy diet. You need weightbearing exercise that overloads the bones to trigger growth. You don't need to go super heavy like a powerlifter, but you should lift something that you can lift only for five to 10 times several times per week. With age, you also become slower because of a loss of fast twitch muscle fibers. To maintain and build these fast twitch muscle fibers, you need to be lifting heavy and running fast. It's been seen that elderly people who do just endurance training have much fewer fast switch muscle fibers, whereas those who do strength training have significantly more. So you have to be stimulating the fast switch muscle fibers with strength training and sprinting. The next thing I want to talk about is sleep and melatonin because both decline with age. Melatonin peaks in your puberty and drops relatively low in your 60s. This coincides with the loss of sleep that's seen with aging as well. Older people sleep less. They get less deep sleep and they recover slower partly because of this drop in melatonin. This is just a process of natural aging but it's not healthy. It's actually partly responsible for the decline in overall health because melatonin is not just sleep hormone. It's also a powerful antioxidant and anti-inflammatory hormone. One obvious way to counteract this decline in melatonin is to supplement with it. In your 60s, you would need approximately 3 milligs of melatonin or even more to fill the gap of how much melatonin your body is making now versus what it did when you were younger. When it comes to sleep duration, then older people sleep shorter, but it doesn't mean that it's healthy. You still want to sleep 7 to 8 hours and follow the fundamentals of sleep optimization. Get bright sunlight in the morning to regulate your circadian rhythm. Block out blue light before bed to prevent the disruption in melatonin production. Take your melatonin 3 milligrams at least 2 to 3 hours before bed. Sleep in complete darkness. No night lights or sneaky blinking lights. I want to take a quick break to tell you about the Bone Charge infrared sauna blankets. My go-to way of getting 20-minut sauna sessions on the go without needing to spend an hour to warm up a regular sauna. Taking a sauna is, in my opinion, one of the best things for your overall health and heart function. Studies show that taking a sauna regularly is associated with 63% lower risk of sudden cardiac death, 63% reduced heart disease mortality, 46% lower risk of hypertension, and 40% reduced all cause mortality. This is mediated by an increase in body temperature and increased heart rate that mimic a cardiovascular workout while at the same time improving arterial stiffness, endothelial function, blood flow, immune system function, blood pressure, and metabolic health. It doesn't matter if it's a traditional wooden sauna, an infrared sauna and infrared sona blanket, or anything else that elevate your body temperature above what's normal. One charge infrared sauna blankets have the advantage of shining far infrared light that can penetrate deeper into your tissues than regular saunas can. It warms up in 2 minutes to the optimal temperature of 70° C and it's low in EMF. You can get a 15% discount by heading over to boncharge.com/seamlund and use the code seam for 15% discount. All right, back to the video. When it comes to nutrition, then people over the age of 60 need more protein. A 2014 study discovered that after the age of 65, low protein diets were seen to be associated with an increased risk of mortality, whereas before 65, they were not. Remember that we want to be lifting heavy weights to maintain muscle and strength. Well, eating more protein will give you a better result in that. A 2022 systematic review and meta analysis of 28 randomized control trials discovered that when doing resistance training, a higher protein intake in the elderly leads to greater lean mass and strength compared to a lower protein intake. After the age of 60, you want to get over 20% of your calories as protein, which would translate to about 1.6 g per kilogram per day. But you can also eat more than that, up to 2 g per kilogram, which is roughly 0.8 to 1 g per pound per day. You also don't want to be doing extreme intermittent fasting because it's harder to build and maintain muscle that way. Instead of eating protein only once a day, you want to have at least three up to four protein meals that provide at least 30 to 50 g of protein per meal. At the end of your life, you need to have a reason to be alive. Lack of purpose or lack of meaning in life are associated with increased risk of mortality and poorer quality of life. Whereas having a purpose is linked to longevity. The reason for that is you'll take care of your health more. You'll have better mental health and you'll have almost like a physical resilience. The desire to be alive and not give up. It's actually very strange and quite real. People who don't have any desire to live or they don't have a desire or willingness to live, they die sooner. Whereas people who have this passion, energy, and willingness to be alive, they are more resilient. There's also very interesting research that the offspring of centinarians have been seen to have a three times higher likelihood of having a strong purpose in life than age matched controls. It might be that a lack of purpose has a genetic effect and the offspring of centinarians live significantly longer than their peers because they have some genetics that increase their purpose in life. You might ask, what's my purpose in life? I'm just a regular person. I don't have any big mission to cure cancer or go to Mars or something like that. That's okay. Your purpose in life can be as simple as friends and family. It can also be religion or having a dog. You just need to find the things that bring you the most joy and happiness in your life. Speaking of having a purpose, for most elderly people, it's grandchildren and children. Unfortunately, research shows that people spend a significantly less time with their children after their 50s when they become adults and they move out. This means you'll rarely see your children and grandchildren after that, which can be a major source of despair and sadness. The research is quite clear. Having children and grandchildren is associated with greater longevity. Not only because you'll have some people to take care of you when you're sick or support you financially, but also because of the happiness, the purpose, and the mental health benefits. Most people will retire in their 60s and they're not going to work for the rest of their life. This is thought to be a great thing because now they can do whatever they want. True, working a corporate job or a 9 to5 can be boring and depressing as hell. That's why I worked my ass off in my early 20s to become self-employed and financially independent. However, I'm never planning to retire and I'm going to be doing what I love for the rest of my life. In your 60s, after you retire your real job, you should still try to find a quote unquote second career. Doing something that you love, maybe it's painting, music, entrepreneurship, or something else like that. The research does support that working at something you love and not retiring is beneficial for longevity because it provides a source of purpose and meaning as well as keeps your brain engaged which protects against dementia. The worst thing in life would be to spend the last years of your life living alone with no friends and family. You can't exercise because of the physical pain. You forget things. Everything is boring. You have no hobbies. And you spend all of your days doing nothing, waiting to die. There are also some supplements you could take specifically after your 60s. We already talked about melatonin being important. A dose of 3 milligs or above. Another antioxidant that declines with age is glutathione. Older people have higher inflammation due to aging called inflammaging that accelerates aging and death. Supplementing with glycine and NAC in large doses has been seen to counteract that age related inflammation and increase glutathion status. It also improves physical function, cognition, body composition, and many other hallmarks of aging. The recommended dose for glyc is 100 milligrams per kilogram each. So, if you're 80 kilograms, you need 8 g of both. It sounds like a lot, but it's what's deemed optimal by the studies and what's needed after the age of 60. The next supplement is omega-3s because after your 60s, your risk of dying to heart disease and getting Alzheimer's in your 80s increases. Supplementing omega-3s and having a higher omega-3 index has been seen to reduce the incidence of heart disease deaths and dementia. Vitamin D3 and K2 can also be beneficial for heart disease prevention. There are several studies showing that K2 and D3 supplementation reduces athoscorotic plaque. Nattokinus is another beneficial supplement for reducing athoscorotic plaque and reducing the risk of blood clots. You do need a higher dose again of 10,000 fibbronotic units per day. You shouldn't take it with blood thinning medicines though. Speaking of heart health, aged garlic extract is also very versatile by improving lipids, blood sugar, blood pressure, visceral fat, and kidney health. However, you shouldn't take it with blood thinning medicine like warerin. All right, let me give you a complete longevity plan for over 60s. Lift weights three times a week for 45 minutes each. Incorporate some sprinting into your workouts to maintain fast muscle fibers, but also go for regular walks and cycling. Get 7 to 8 hours of sleep and take 3 milligs of melatonin or more. Eat a predominantly whole foods diet emphasizing protein. Get 1.6 to 2 grams per kilogram of protein or 0.8 to 1 gram per pound per day. Divide it into three to four meals. Spend time with your family and try to make new friends. Cultivate your purpose and work on some goals that you enjoy such as art, entrepreneurship, or even politics if you want. The key is to not think of yourself as someone who is old and waiting to die because that's going to accelerate your demise. If you stay physically and mentally engaged, you'll age slower and you'll live longer. If you want to learn more about the details of my decision-making, then check out my full evidence-based longevity routine video