The amount of energy you're getting from the sun can easily burn a hole in the retina in the back of the eye. I don't wish that on anybody because usually once that tissue is gone, it is gone. It's not going to come back. And so people end up with permanent holes in their vision from it. This is showing a mixture again of yellow light, red light, and near infrared light can not only slow down the development of age related macular degeneration, but also restore some usable eyesight. Dr. Allen, welcome to the show. Hey, thank you so much again. This is an honor to to be here, to be invited, and to talk about eye stuff. Yeah, I'm excited. And uh you know, eyes are one of these interesting organs or uh you know, devices that don't get that much attention, but when you look at it, then they're quite important to our overall health, but also just, you know, life satisfaction. Yeah, it's it is a it's often something I think it's human nature to always be more reactive, right? we don't think about it until there's a problem. And unfortunately with the eyes when there starts to be a problem, it's usually too late to do anything about it. So it's it's kind of the long story of, you know, better to do a prevention and do what you can early on in life uh rather than be reactive later on once once things have started. Yeah. And one very fascinating thing about the eyes is that they're actually connected to your brain. So in some sense they could be considered like an extension of your brain which you know most people don't really think about. Is is that true? Yeah absolutely. Uh one of my colleagues I think kind of famously said that they're the only like internal organ of your body that is facing the outside of the body. Uh and yeah the the retina is an extension of your brain. That's interesting. And with age eyesight or eye health tends to deteriorate. Why is that so? Like is it is there something I guess intrinsically vulnerable about the eyes or is it just you know natural aging that you every other organ also deteriorates with age? And certainly age plays plays a big role in in what's going on with the eye. And why I think the eye is maybe more susceptible to a lot of aging changes is because it is one of the most highly metabolic tissues in the body. And I've seen some publications saying it is the most highly metabolic tissue. And part of that is because of the massive amount of energy it takes to process vision and send the proper signals to the brain, but also because the eye is constantly being being bombarded with light energy. And your body has to respond by fixing any sort of reaction, reactive oxygen species or oxidation, but also manage the inflammatory cascade that cells are also going through because of those same processes. and and that relates to a lot of different eye diseases. And is is like poor eyesight so like with oral health at least there is this association between poor oral health and other systemic diseases like heart disease or Alzheimer's. Is there anything something like that with eyes that uh poor eyesight walks hand inhand with I don't know diabetes or heart disease or something else or is it could it also be just you know genetic or uh I guess random. Yeah. So it's definitely a little bit of both. We do know that some genetic components increase your likelihood of various eye diseases. uh but there is a lot of associations right if you are somebody who is more obese you have type two diabetes or any other form of diabetes or high blood pressure this dramatically increases the risk of various eye conditions in fact have direct um disease processes within the eye uh but also u you know if you're somebody who has problems with your eyesight even early on in life or it's deteriorating uh then there's also higher risks for other like dementia and aging other issues because your brain's not getting the same amount of information and you're more likely to become sedentary and that just sort of compounds everything, right? Then you're not moving as much and then we see higher rates of cardiovascular disease and it just and depression and it just sort of cascades. So there's definitely a relationship to many different processes within the body. M yeah it's interesting then you know too much screen time too much technology use um you know watching too much TV or something like that irrespective of the sedentary component like uh so would that then increase the risk of those those conditions as well like heart disease uh just through the act of worsening your eyesight and yeah like let's say we control for being sedentary and being overweight yeah these are good questions uh from what I've read I don't believe uh just like watching TV or seeing on your computer will have a direct effect on um like causing there are some conditions of the eyes where it can be influenced by what you focus and stare at but um it probably isn't going to cause that direct effect on like diabetes. it will be more like oh well you're sitting more because you're watching more TV and because of that your your increased likelihood of obesity and all these other things increases and so then you you you can kind of see how that all is linked but u we can talk more about you know devices staring at screens and and those sort of things and how that affects the that can affect the in multiple different ways too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's just I was you know wondering because in the modern world we are using more technology and I would imagine because of that reason your you know eyes are getting more uh oxidative stress and more exposure to these bright lights and uh you know you could be otherwise fit and healthy but because so many people are using technologies I would imagine more people are experiencing worse eyesight because of the excessive use of technology as well. So are they increasing the risk of these chronic diseases through the eyes even though they're otherwise healthy or is it just yeah like the association that people who have poor eyesight usually watch too much TV and they don't also exercise and they eat too much uh uh processed food. Yeah. So we know that uh if you are somebody who stares at a screen especially at an early age people who use more it's not just screens but really just doing near work in general especially for young kids who stay inside a lot of the time uh they're also at a higher risk of not only of actually developing nearsidedness to a greater degree or myopia and that also carries risks of various eye diseases higher risk of cataracts higher risk of glaucoma uh higher risk of retinal degeneration as well as retinal detachments. So there are issues with that. Um there is a lot of research looking into how light can influence the eye and how that light can influence our brain. So we know that high energy light uh or light exposure in the evening especially blue light. You'll hear about that affecting your sleep cycle. So we do know that there is an effect in that way. Um, and you know very well that sleep can affect so many different parts of your body uh and your mental health. Uh, and so there there's ongoing research to knowing exactly how sleep affects eye health. Um, we're trying just starting to get some research on that. I don't think it's very clear uh exactly to what extent. Um, but it looks like that most of like light energy from devices like computer screens and things like that don't have a direct negative like damaging effect to the eye. However, there are some in vitro studies or studies done in laboratories on like mice with really high energy like blue lights right up and next to their eye and they can show that yes, retinal cells can have uh oxidative stress and faster degeneration from that light exposure. But most devices like your phone, your computer screen, television screens don't emit that level of energy to cause that damaging effect. So, uh, interesting. At this time, we don't have any, uh, they're all passing safety standards. There's nothing really claiming that it's causing this damage. So, so it wouldn't be right to say like the technology screens and light from them is like smoking for the eyes. It's not the same degree. It's It's not the same degree. No. But, uh, we do know that the effects of screens on other parts of the eye. So, like we tend not to blink as much when we're staring at a computer screen, our blink rate can either have or go to like 1/4 the amount. And so, if you're not blinking as often and our eyelids tend to not blink as completely, so they don't shut all the way. So, your tear film is constantly being exposed to air. So, you have faster drying out or dry eye disease. But also with that, you have desiccation of the surface of the eye which clicks in an inflammatory cascade on the surface. And so we are seeing increased rates of uh ocular surface disease, dry eye disease even in younger individuals, even in like teenagers, we're seeing this. So there there are some negative consequences from increased levels of screen time and and issues like that. That's that's interesting. Are there any like exercises or you know we exercise every other part of our body. Um are there any exercises for the eyes that we should consider? So like with age there's a decline in muscle mass and muscle strength and if you do resistance training you counteract that. Are there any like analogous exercises to the eyes that counteract the natural aging of the eye and the natural entropy of the eye? So there there are several different types of eye exercises that have clinical validity and most of these are used for correcting the posture of how the eyes work as a team. Uh this is mainly for either young kids who have an eye that's turning a different direction or they're used for people who've had brain injury of some kind, right? They get in a car accident, they have a stroke, now the eye is not getting the right signals to move as a team. And so there are some eye exercises that are prescribed for that. In general, as as we get older, um most of the eye muscle exercises that are out there, they won't strengthen the muscles necessarily, but they improve the teeming, again, the coordination of what your brain is telling the eyes and where they need to look. The um the downside of, you know, people are often like, hey, I can improve my ability to see up close. And as a young age, you can do that because the muscles pull on a lens inside the eye, which is flexible when you are young. But once we all hit our mid- into our 40s, 50s, that lens becomes thick with age and becomes crystallin. It actually starts to become harder. And so even though the muscle inside the eye, which is a smooth muscle uh called the silary body, even though that's moving, uh the lens is not able to shift and change shape anymore like it was when you were a kid. And so unfortunately a lot of the eye muscle exercises they again aren't going to reverse the crystallin hardening of that lens. And so uh ultimately you're still basically most people depending on the type of glasses or or refractive error as we say uh most people do end up needing reading glasses or some form of bif focal or progressive or verifocal lens to to help them see better up close. M um I still think there's there's validity to at least taking breaks from staring at devices for long periods of time, giving the eyes a rest because you kind of like how you can get muscle cramps and and your it hurts and your arm can be stuck in a position or your leg can cramp up and be stuck in a position. You can also have that with the eye muscles. Uh we call it an accommodative spasm. And we see people who come in and they spend all day on a computer or their phone and they come in because they're having these vision issues and all it is is they their muscles are kind of cramped up in that position and they need to learn to relax it. And so I think I think everyone has you know experienced if they're spent majority of the day in front of a screen or looking at a computer then uh you know the vision gets a bit blurry or they can't see in the long distance that much. It kind of reverses after a while, but you know, initially they might have more or at least I I sometimes get like more blurry vision if I've been sitting in front of a computer all day. Uh but yeah, have to look at a far far away distance and or eventually it kind of clears clears up. I think the best thing is just uh to be aware of how much near work you're doing to try to purposely take breaks. There are some publications implying that taking a break every 20 to 25 minutes and taking it's not like 20 second break. That used to be a kind of something you'll see posted online is the 20 2020 20 rule. Every 20 minutes take a 20 second break looking 20 ft away. That was kind of just made up and then they actually did a formal test later and they found that in in that formal clinical study it really didn't do anything. Um so they in fact recommend now taking a longer break every 20 to 25 minutes closer to maybe 3 to 5 minutes and uh that just looking in the distance giving your eyes a break relaxing the muscle system but also for a mental shift right you're taking a break from your work task getting water using the restroom taking a deep breath and then when you get back to work you're actually even more productive. So yeah, uh that's generally a recommended thing. Ideally, ideally like what why for me an ideal scenario would be you have the screen and then behind the screen you have like a vista like a open window to a far away distance then so you can be in a computer and then you can take a look outside as well. But uh right now I have like a wall here with a with a lighting. But in an ideal world, you know, you would have in my previous place I had like a window to the backyard and that was good uh you know to break it up the distances, right? Yeah. Give give that little moment of kind of going back and forth. Um, one of the most historical ones you'll ever hear eye doctors talk about for exercise eye exercises are pencil push-ups, which is basically looking at the top of a pencil or a pen and moving it closer to your nose, further back, closer to your nose, further back, and and keeping it single. That usually works even better if you have an accommodative target, meaning like a letter or like you're keeping a letter A together. Um, because as you bring it closer, it may start to go blurry and then split apart. Um, however, again, while that is really good for just again eye teeming, people can overdo it. And there are some eye scenarios depending on how your eyes work where people can actually make their eyes worse by doing too many types of eye exercises or or doing the wrong types of eye exercises. You can actually induce double vision or make things worse. So, um I always urge caution before people start doing eye exercises without first consulting an an eye care professional. The uh one thing that's more recent is there's some publications on blinking exercises specifically for dry eye disease. Uh and that's basically just taking again breaks every like five times a day is the most recent study. They took five breaks five times a day to basically close their eyes completely uh and then do a couple sets of closing the eyes and then like tightening the eyes, the eyelids closed without like scrunching the face because when you scrunch the face you you end up increasing the risk of like wrinkles along fine lines and wrinkles, you know, crows feet along the sides of the eyes and the nose. Uh but that's to strengthen the orbicularis oculi muscles and to improve your your blinking um processes which again when people are on the screen we tend not to blink. So that's some of the more recent publications and have had it showed some positive benefits. Interesting. What about massaging the eyeballs like squeezing them and like pushing? Is it is it good idea or is it harmful? It's generally considered more of a risk a harmful thing. uh the the eyeball does have its own internal pressure which is generated by a fluid inside the eye called the aquous humor. And if people push on the eye, you know, momentarily the eye can handle that increase in pressure, but doing it for many times or prolonged time, it ends up causing damage to the ganglion cells or parts of the nerve that connect the eye to the brain and that can end up in some a disease that we call glaucoma. And so it's generally considered not good to push or rub the eyes. Um or if you are going to rub the eyelids, you have to be very gentle not to like forcly push on the eye. And then some people who are at risk of it, there's a condition called keraticonus where there it is associated with a high risk of rubbing the eyes. A lot of these people also have attopic issues or severe allergies. So they end up rubbing the eye and then the collagen of the cornea doesn't heal correctly and ends up weakening and protruding outward like a cone and then they get really severe levels of irregular aigmatism and uh they have a hard time seeing and that's a progressive disease uh that often times needs either severe types or specialty types of contact lenses or they need special surgery uh sometimes even corial transplants. So, it's again best recommended to not rub the eyes. And if you have itchy or itchy eyes, get a cold wash rag or something like a cool compress that feels better and and use artificial tears to lubricate the eyes, those sort of things. Mhm. So, maintaining the lubrication and moisture of the eye is very important. Very much so. Yeah. um with with the lights. Um the artificial light has a lot of blue light and green light specifically which you know you also alluded that it messes up the sleep rhythms and circadian rhythms. Um is there what about the red light and more amber light? Is it more beneficial for the eyes? And what about these red light therapy devices? Are they beneficial for eye health? Thanks for asking that. So red light therapy uh also goes by a couple different names. low-level light therapy. Um, and then if you dig deeper into the the publications, they often use the term photobiomodulation because a lot of the devices don't just use red light anymore. They use a combination of yellow light or near infrared light as well. So, the area of red light in the eyes is really fascinating. Um, it's being tested on for dry eye therapies. It's being used as a potential treatment for myopia. It's being investigated more in East Asia for that reason. Uh and then for macular degeneration is probably has the most research behind it. In fact, here in the United States where I live in practice, um the light system was just FDA approved this January for macular degeneration. So what we know with red light is that it does help with activation of mitochondria within the cells. It also has some role on reducing inflammation and boosting antioxidant activities. And so for dry eye therapy, it is showing that uh when red light is applied to the eyelids at specific wavelengths, usually somewhere between 630 to 670 nmters of light. And there's a few studies using a near infrared light as well, but that can help boost the tear production and presumably because the red light can penetrate and get to the lacrial gland, but also because it can help stabilize the lipid layers of the tarf. Um, and you have these oil glands in your eyelids called mayomian glands. And so when you get red light treatment, uh there can be some heat benefits, but it also is helping the cells within those glands uh basically heal and produce better. And so those oils sit on your turf film and prevent it from evaporating. And so there is some good publications about use of that type of therapy for dry eye, for myopia, for nearness for children. Uh again, these this is probably an area that I think the industry is very cautious about because you're putting red light or this intense red light into children's eyes and we're worried about the long-term effects, right? Short-term studies going one to two years right now largely show good safety um results, but we just don't know what the what's going to happen 20 30 years down the road. And there are some devices which have also been tested independently and found to breach safety levels because if you're shining a bright light if if if anybody who's watching listening like a lot of red light devices that are sold just on the internet also come with goggles or they give you a warning like do wear protective eyewear. Uh and part of that can be because if you have too much energy, it's not just the wavelength, but if you have too much energy of the light and it reaches the back of the eye, it could cause photochemical or even thermal damage to the retina. And so there is a lot of safety precautions I think in the research right now about like hey, how do we divi how do we design a research study and how do we make a device that we know is going to be safe but also reach therapeutic levels. Mh. And then the area right now which again because of the new valid system being FDA approved um that's really fascinating because this is showing a mixture again of yellow light, red light and near infrared light can not only slow down the development of age related macular degeneration but also restore some usable eyesight. And we've never had a treatment like that where it wasn't an invasive procedure because other treatments for macrogeneration are like using an injection of a medication inside the eye which nobody wants. um vitamin supplementation has been shown for macrogeneration to slow down the disease but not reverse it or improve your eyesight where this is the first time we have a technology again um I believe over 50% of people in the phase 3 clinical trial had at least one line of improvement in their vision right that's taking somebody from not being able to drive to being able to drive in some scenarios um about 25% of people in that study also had two lines of improvement or about 10% of people had like a full I think it was around nine but 9% of people had a full three lines of improvement which is just outstanding in the eyeare world. So um it's it's really exciting right now. I don't think it's on the market yet. So eye clinics probably aren't offering it in the United States but it has been available in some places in Europe and and and South America as well for the last several years. M so these at home red light panels like I have one here these uh you know very mostly for the whole body can you like use them for the eyes as well that not obviously you probably don't want to look directly into them but let's say glance away through the side or if you're further away like few meters away are they would they have any you know help benefits to GDI I think they they could again a lot of it has to do with the amount of energy that's coming from it. So it depends on how far away you are from the device. It depends on the fluence or the power density of those devices. And so u we have devices in the eye clinics that are much higher energy doses. And so usually it takes 20 minutes of a treatment for example where a lot of the atome devices um they may not be as effective. you essentially would have to be under it for like six hours to get the same dosage. But I've also seen a few eye devices now on the market which I they don't have this is the tough thing I have is that they don't have necessarily clinical studies to show its safety or efficacy of a lot of the at home devices, right? And some of these devices it's like hey uh I have two of them that I've been testing out and they're specifically marketed for the eyes. is you keep your eyes closed, but you basically do it for 3 minutes at a time. And I'm doing it and I still am trying to figure out exactly where in the research where's the safety limit. I believe these devices are safe, but I don't know if they're clinically effective yet. M and so for myself, I'm sort of just sort of trusting some of these uh the researchers and other doctors I know who have done the research, but I haven't seen any true clinical data of these devices yet. So I I'm I think that I give lectures on this topic, but I I the profession is still very cautious about we don't want to cause damage to someone's eyes, right? So we're we're being ultra cautious about it. So that home devices, if someone has one like yourself, if it says wear eye goggles, I would still wear eye goggles. Um, and I wouldn't look directly into the light, right? Uh, yeah. Yeah. Like until we have more information. More Yeah. Like kind of indirectly. Uh, if it reaches the eye in some point you're further away, then it's probably not going to be like harmful. But, uh, don't like sit in front of it. And because sometimes, you know, I use it mostly for the face and the chest. Um, so I'm sitting in front of it, but I wouldn't want to like open my eyes and look into the the light. Yeah. Certainly not for very long. Um there it's interesting because even like for the clinical trials for the valid system for macular generation they have three cycles or where basically you have your eyes open where some forms of light like yellow light and some near infrared light enters the eye with your eyes open but then there's another cycle where they have you close your eyes and they use a higher energy dosage of red light um while your eyes closed. And I would love to get some of the PH time to talk with some of the PhD researchers who are doing this cuz I want to know why and how what other studies do they do to determine the clinical safety and efficacy of the eyes closed versus eyes open versus certain wavelengths. Uh I honestly just don't know that information off the top of my head. Uh I haven't found I don't know if companies are just purposely keeping it secret or if it's just really that hard to find or maybe they don't know either. Uh I'm I think there's alo a lot of curiosities and questions around again eye safety and and protocols that we just haven't established yet. Yeah. Well, it's going to be interesting to see what what it going to look like in a few few years. Um but with sunlight, you know, you're getting uh the full spectrum light from the sun and I don't think you want to look directly into the sun either, although some people might disagree about that. Um so, uh yeah. So how how about sunlight? Um is there any time of the day that is more beneficial for the eyes and um yeah how do you go about you know where where should you look? Yeah. So this is this is something I've personally been more interested in. And I haven't been f haven't been able to find like solid research to explain like cuz I think there's so many variables, right? Time of day, the latitude, longitude, where you live on on the planet. U we know that UV light is going to be most potent later in the day. Um, but also just if it's midday and you stare at the sun, the amount of energy you're getting from the sun can easily burn a hole in the retina in the back of the eye. Uh, we call it solar retinopathy. Uh, and I don't wish that on anybody cuz usually once that tissue is gone, it is gone. It's not going to come back. Uh, and so people end up with permanent holes in their vision from it. um early in the day if the sun is just rising or if it's setting at the end of the day then less energy is going directly to the eye. A lot of the sun's light is in fact being bent by the atmosphere and so in some way the energy is being filtered um it also tends to look more like a red light. So, uh, a red orange hue, right? Um, and so there are some thoughts that perhaps that form of light is better for waking the body up, shutting down the melatonin processes, uh, making me feel more awake. Uh, there might be some, you know, cellular benefits to it, but, uh, I don't know of any safety true published published articles on on like what's safe and what's not. Uh best though I would say not to directly eyes open stare into the sun at any point. Uh and then yeah hopefully as as I'm able to dig more into research. I'm actually looking at this for to answer this question at a uh I'm giving a lecture at the American Optometric Association in a few months. So I'm I'm currently digging into it but I still haven't found like direct answers. Yeah, it's very interesting. you know there's these sun gazers who uh do claim things about looking directly into the eye into the sun uh but uh yeah it's very interesting that it obviously too much bright light uh it certainly will damage the eyes and uh a lot of cases of that there might be a sliver of truth to it just because of like what we're discovering with things like red light however we also know that there's increased risks of other conditions whether it be solar retinopathy uh UV light exposure over the length of your time we know is increased risk of various not only cataracts but potentially macular degeneration as well. Um so it's I think it's there's a lot of curiosities about it but there's also variability of where you live what time of the day you know again there's all those factors. Yeah. So probably early and uh late sun exposure, so after the sunrise and before the sunset is more safer for the eyes and you get more of this red light that might have some, you know, therapeutic benefits potentially. But the midday sun is very bright and more damaging to the eyes. 100%. Right. As should you like would it be better to wear sunglasses during the daytime or or not? Yeah. Uh definitely. So UV light and so sunglasses, you know, assuming you're getting good sunglasses, there are some really poorly made ones out there that maybe don't have full UV light protection, but we know that UV light doesn't just cause damage to the eye like internally. Again, there's several studies that have shown an association of UV light exposure and risk of developing macular degeneration, uh, which is a blinding eye disease. Um, it accounts for a lot of vision loss for people over the age of 50. The uh UV light also increases some risk of cataract development. But then UV light also damages the surface of the eye and the eyelids. Uh a lot of people because the eyelids are one of the thinnest skin on the body. They we have a lot of patients who end up with various melanomas or sebaceous cell issues on the eyelids and UV light directly impacts that. And a lot of people when they put on sunscreen or sunblock, they avoid putting it in the eyes. I mean that you don't want in the eyes. It even says warning, don't get in the eyes. So sunglasses have that benefit of protecting the ocular surface and the eyelids. And then we also see changes to healing rates of the cornea from UV light. Also um you can have other eye diseases that come from UV light exposure on the surface of the eye like terigium and pinguacula are commonly seen. These are like scar formations that or a callous formation that grows on the surface of the eye. If anyone's been around uh like more mid- equator locations around the world, people will develop what's called surfer's eye, which is just a a more of a layman's term for terigium, which is again a growth of tissue that starts to cover the eye. And that's largely due to environmental exposure of UV light as well as like high saltwater content areas. Um surf again surfers eye because a lot of surfers don't wear goggles and then they're not wearing sunglasses either and so they end up developing this growth in the eye which essentially is the eye trying to protect itself from all this harsh damage. Interesting. With a sea the sun reflects a lot of the light from the sea. So you actually often you know from the water surface you get a lot of even brighter light without even actually looking directly in the sun. So is I would imagine that also is just harmful the reflective surfaces from I don't know car windows or windows glass buildings in general as well as uh the sea 100%. Yeah. So uh reflective surfaces uh the things like UV light will bounce off those reflective surfaces and the we have other epidemological studies showing that people who are like fishermen throughout their lives their risks of not only skin diseases um like skin cancers but also eye diseases maceneration cataracts etc also dramatically increase just from that double dose of light exposure. Yeah. Let's talk about nutrition then. So, nutrition can increase the risk of many chronic diseases. Um, are there any foods that are uniquely beneficial to the eyes? For sure. I love I love that you asked about this and I've seen some uh some of other videos where you've talked about it. Uh so, for the eyes, the biggest thing is basically vegetables and green leafy vegetables as well as oily fish and various omegas. Um, from a purely dietary standpoint, um, you know, again, the retina in the back of the eye is highly metabolic tissue and, uh, there's some unique components to it. Um, when it comes to like oily fish, I'll first mention the omega-3s, the the photo receptors in the back of the eye, over 60% of their lipids are all DHA omega-3. Uh, so that's really important to be getting in your diet. The other part uh with vegetable sources is mainly carotenoids. Um we know that vitamin A is important for the photo transduction process of actually receiving light and getting that information sent to the brain. Most people are not vitamin A deficient. Uh you know unless somebody's um not getting proper um calories to begin with. But there is luteine and zeazanthin. Uh have you have you read much on on lutein zeazanthin? Yeah. you have uh become a fan recently and yeah they're very you know car these carotenoids in general are very good for the brain and the eyes. Yes. Uh so I'm glad that you mentioned the brain as well but uh for the eyes if if any viewers listeners haven't heard of this. So luteine and zeazanthin these are carotenoids. They're fat soluble. They're mainly found in green leafy vegetables. You can find them a little bit in some of the egg yolk of eggs. It's really not a high concentration in eggs but it is there. U these corotenoids they go to the eye and they deposit in high concentrations within the retina and the eye specifically in the macular area which is like the bullseye of where your sharpest vision is your color vision all comes from this area where it gets highly deposited and they kind of have three functions in the eye. They work as first a filter for high energy light namely blue light. Uh so um people who have higher amounts of these uh corotenoids in the eye, we can measure it through some testing called macular pigment optical density. Um and people who have higher serum levels of luteine have been shown to have about a 30 to 40% decreased incidence of developing macular degeneration, especially severe levels of it. But then also it has outside of just the blue light protection, it also has a strong antioxidant capability and a strong anti-inflammatory uh capability which again is really important for the retinal structures. Um and like you kind of mentioned, there is also clinical evidence that it's good for the brain, good for memory, even for older adults, good for children and their memory formation, um visual processing speed. It also has reduced glare issues for eyesight and improved contrast ability. So a lot of professional athletes are in fact given supplements of lutein and zeazanthin. And then uh one of my friends uh Dr. John Nolan he um he does a lot of research in these carotenoids. Just last year they published uh research finding that supplementation of these carotenoids also helps reduce the oxidation of lowdensity lipoproteins and other various cytoines that are associated with atherosclerosis. So there there's a lot of benefits to these uh to these carotenoids and people can eat that and diet or they can take supplements for it. Yeah. Uh and then again back to omega-3s, there's a lot of research showing that people who just consume more fish, at least oily fish twice twice a week, uh that they have reduced risks of macrogeneration, reduced risks of diabetic retinopathy, um and various other conditions, even some benefit for dry eye, but uh primarily for the retina in the back of the eye, it's DHA. Um, and unfortunately, most of the supplements for omega-3s, uh, whether it be fish oil based or or whatnot, generally are more of a triglyceride form and have higher EPA. And your body may not absorb the right amount of DHA to get into the retinal tissues because there's a specific iso form of DHA that they're starting to investigate that your brain has a high specificity for. Um, there's a transporter called MFSD2A that you're you're basically allows for a certain type of DHA to get into the bloodb brain barrier and into the blood retinal barrier or get through it. And so, um, it's largely recommended in the eyeare space to eat a Mediterranean diet that has a lot of green leafy vegetables and oily fish. Um, and then if you're going to supplement, there is some benefit to if you're not eating oily fish to taking supplements of omega-3s. And then again, lutein, zeazanthin, if you're somebody who just either can't digest or eat vegetables or if you um if you just know that you don't eat that much, then that's an option. Yeah. Yeah. This lutein and zigazanthin are quite interesting that there from a dietary perspective has been seem to be associated with reduced uh macular degeneration and there's also the studies or these clinical trials show that uh they help with um markers of eye health. So they, you know, have actual evidence that they work and, you know, it's relatively easy to take take a supplement and, you know, preserve your um eye health as as, you know, naturally it will decline with age. Yeah. And so again, it's something I try to talk about with as many patients as I can just about like being more preventative. It's we we we know that once somebody develops a condition like macular degeneration for example giving supplementations of lutein zeizanthin along with some other supplements of vitamin C vitamin E some zinc that that can slow down that condition by about 25% over 5 years of taking that supplement but it won't stop it. it doesn't reverse it, right? But if we can take these supplements or we can eat really well, we can reduce our risk of ever even developing it by up to about 40%. Um, so that's that's a really important thing. Yeah. Um, with carotenoids, there's another one asthin that is, you know, shown to be beneficial for eyes and protecting against UV damage in the skin, photo aging in the skin. Does it have any evidence for like eye health because it's also like a carotenoid? Yeah, there is some evidence that it may be beneficial for the eyes. There's a few clinical studies on on even like eye strain and being beneficial there. Uh there's a there's a several studies more I would say in vitro studies on its effect on helping retinal health. There's not too much on on human clinical trials at this point, but it it is something that's being investigated more now. The only thing I I'll kind of tee off to people is know that aazanthin is a competitor against lutein and zeazanthin. So you don't want to take them at the same time. Um if you if if I was going to design a formulation myself, I'd probably have, you know, take lutein or something in the morning and then you take asanthin in your supplement later in the day. Um just because again they're competing against each other. What if you take like a larger dose? Would you overcome the competition? Uh I'm not I'm not too sure. Uh that's a good question for like a chemist or somebody who knows that biochemistry better than I do. Okay. But that's a good question. Yeah. Because I I take you know them in the morning usually but I take pretty large doses. I take like the maximum efficacious dose that I found uh for both of them. So yeah would be interesting to see. I used to take them both at the same time. And then I spoke with um one of the PhD medical uh the one of the top adviserss for one of the supplement companies in the eyeare space and you know he he knows like every single publication off the top of his head and then he broke down to me how that works and I was like like oh my gosh okay so I need to change things a little bit. Um but it is rather interesting. Yeah, with uh supplements, there's another one creatine that you know is known for muscle and now it's more commonly known as a brain supplement as well. And you mentioned that the eye uses a lot of energy. It's you know one of the most energy consuming organs or tissues in the body. Would and creatine helps with the ATP production and energy production. I don't know if there are studies about this, but would creatine then help with eye health or eye function in some way? I love that you asked this. I've had several people ask me this, too. Um, I personally take creatine, but more from a uh physical standpoint, but also I've seen some of the publications on on like mental health. And I I've noticed a positive benefit over the last several years as I started taking it. It's hard for me to say is it truly because of the creatine or is it because I'm also getting more exercise uh and getting better sleep. Is that causing a better mental health shift? But um I've looked into creatine and its effect on the eyes and I can't really find much studies on it. Uh it might just be something nobody's really researched. And um I don't know if anybody's watching or listening uh and they want to invest in a clinical study, uh reach out to me because I'll be happy to see if I can put together a study like that. Um but that that would be a really interesting and fascinating thing to look into. Yeah, you know, I think it's pretty new topic given that the brain component has only recently become more popular. Quick Google search, there is a in vitro study that creatines neuroprotective in retinal neurons, but uh nothing else yet. Yeah. Uh I'll have to look at that too. Um the last time I did really did a deep dive into it was maybe like last summer. Um so maybe something's come out and I just haven't seen it yet. Yeah. But there is other nutrients and other um other studies looking at things like uh various what would be like um curcumoids as being beneficial for retinal health. There is some research into various like nascin comp um elements that are really good for glaucoma. Um, and they're still in clinical trials right now trying to figure out exactly who is this going to be beneficial for, how much, but uh, I still largely just recommend people eat a whole food diet that's along the lines of somewhere around Mediterranean diet. That's where the most research is around eye health. Um, but as far as those other supplements, there's still Yeah, while there's evidence that they're supportive for retinal health and and nerve health there, we still just don't have really strong clinical recommendations yet. Yeah. With vitamin A, there is the difference between retinol that you get mostly from liver and beta carotene that you get from sweet potatoes and carrots and those things. And you know carrots are usually said to be good for the eyes because of containing vitamin A. Is there a difference for eye health between this retinol uh which is considered the bioactive vitamin A uh and uh vitamin A from carrots and sweet potatoes. Yeah. So betaarotene your body will take and will turn into uh like true vitamin A uh either in your liver or through intestines. uh but the the the eye is going to use the whole vitamin A form. The concern about people who you know again most people are not vitamin A deficient. Your body stores vitamin A pretty well either in the liver or even in the atapost tissue. The big concern is some people take vitamin A supplements. Like right now there's kind of some talk about vitamin A supplementation. And the concern is that if you it's possible to take too much, you can have hypervitaminosis of vitamin A and that can have negative effects on the eyes. Uh there are case reports of I've even seen one of a young girl who was taking vitamin A supplements and she ended up having a swelling of her optic nerve and that was mainly due to increased levels of cerebral spinal fluid as as a as an effect of taking too much vitamin A. uh and thankfully in her case she discontinued the vitamin A and then things improved. But um there there are concerns about that. So most people though if they're eating plenty of uh plenty of calories usually they're not vitamin A deficient, right? But um that it is a concern certainly in some places around the world. What about sugar and more processed foods? Yeah, that's that's a good question. So, u we know several studies have looked at ultrarocessed foods in relationship to eye disease and they have found that yes, there is a relationship. People who eat more ultrarocessed food usually are getting more sugar. They're also getting higher levels of you know different types of fats in their diet. They usually usually are individuals who are more sedentary. And so you see this compounding fact higher risk of obesity, higher rates of inflammatory diseases and that also ends up with higher risk for various diseases. We do see increased risk of glaucoma um diabetes, maceneration um and these are potentially sightthreatening diseases. Um so it is generally it is it is kind of all about the same kind of discussion. You want to eat healthier, want to be more active, uh take better care of yourself. Yeah. Is it is it um you know because there's a difference between eating sugar and having diabetes which is you know characterized by chronically high blood sugar levels. If you eat sugar then you know your blood sugar will rise. If you're healthy then it's going to come back down uh to normal after a while. Um but if you're yeah diabetic then it's going to be chronically elevated. So is it the chronic chronically elevated blood sugar that you know damages the eyes and leads to vision loss similar that it leads to you know amputation of the arms eventually or neuropathy in the fingers um or even like just a mere act of elevation in blood sugar which happens you know normally whenever you eat with just a normal blood sugar elevation would that also damage the eyes at a faster rate? Yeah. So obviously if if somebody's not diabetic then their body will respond correctly and at a faster rate of maintaining adequate blood sugar levels. The problem with people with with diabetes and what happens pathophysiologically with the eye is if there is elevated levels of blood glucose um inside the lumen of the arterials inside the retina there and there's a what's beautiful is the retina has a dual blood supply. You have blood vessels in the back of the eye which supply blood nutrients to the eye, but also have blood vessels that go into the retina. And when you have elevated blood sugar levels, there's a cell called a parasite. Not a parasite like a microorganism, but it's called a parisite. And these parasites allow for reaction of how the blood vessels constrict and how they allow fluid uh and nutrients to pass through the lumen. the but with elevated high levels of blood sugar the sugar molecules basically pass through and get into the pariset which causes them to swell because it also brings in fluid because it wants to have that right the correct osmosis gradient. Mhm. So the parasites swell and they eventually die. Uh and if you lose a lot of these parasites over time then the blood vessels can't constrict and regulate themselves. And then in the eye clinically what we end up seeing is uh we can actually do some functional tests through what's called ERGS or electroretinoggrams and we can see decreased function of the retinal cells. Uh so they're just metabolically not healthy. And then the first clinical sign that we can like me looking inside somebody's eye who's diabetic I can see is usually small outpouching or aneurysms of the blood vessels uh because the blood vessel wall is now weak and so they start to kind of have this balloon out pouching and eventually they start to break and then we see bleeding inside the eye where there's either blood accumulation we can even see fat deposits or what we call exudates that build up inside the eye. Um the severe consequences is not only eskeeia right there's blood not getting to where it needs to be. So then now there's um ox lack of oxygen getting to the right tissues. So then you start having death of retinal cells and ganglon cells and then new blood vessels can start to form inside the eye because there's this eskeeia the cells are dying. they start releasing these markers uh called VEGF or vasoendithelial growth factors that signal for these new blood vessels to grow inside the eye to like hey I need I need nutrients bring those blood vessels over here but the new blood vessels are very weak and they're fragile and so they either bleed more or leak more fluid inside the eye or they can start to um cause scarring. you basically the the new fluid that's leaking into the eye start contracting and you have scar formation inside the eye which leads to retinal detachments and and then you can also have increased problems of glaucoma. There's a lot of things that happen with diabetes. So it is important uh for people who at risk of diabetes if you're pre-diabetic or already have it to not only uh do everything you can in your lifestyle, change your diet, exercise, take medication, lose weight to try and put it into remission if you possible. Um but definitely see an eyeare provider at least every year to so that we can check and see what's going on with the eye. Um because we do have treatments to uh stop a lot of these these conditions. Yeah, I think I heard that when you are diagnosed with diabetes then you get mandatory like a eye exam or some checkup. It's it is considered the a mandatory recommendation. Now uh I've unfortunately yesterday I had a patient who he even admitted he's been neglecting taking care of himself once he was diagnosed. He never came in for an eye exam. He just came in yesterday because over the weekend he had a sudden loss of vision in his right eye and that scared him. So he came in and unfortunately he is in a severe proliferative stage where new blood vessels are leaking inside the eye and one of his blood vessels leaked open and now he's got large hemorrhaging inside the eye and he can't see through it. Oh wow. So, um, in his case, he knew he knew he was neglecting it and, uh, I felt for him, but, um, thankfully he came in so we can get him help and hopefully he's on a better track going forward. Yeah. Um, let's talk about glasses. So, um, usually I I don't know, maybe my like impression, but usually people don't want to wear glasses or they're kind of, you know, hesitant to start using them. When it comes to determining eye health, is it healthier to start wearing eyeglasses when you're, let's say, your vision has slightly declined? um or would it be fine to like continue without the glasses even though your vision is um I don't know like let's say 10% worse than it was before is there so I guess the question is is there any is the progression is the decline in your vision faster if you don't use glasses once you've had already some decline in your eye health or uh is it fine so yeah this is another interesting question um I think a lot of it depends on your age For example, if you uh if you're a parent, if a parent's listening to this, kids, their brain is still developing. And there's also as as kids go through their adolescence and they start going through their growth spurts, um the eye is also still growing with the body. And so it is in fact beneficial for kids who are nearsighted for example to get glasses to get contact lenses something to correct their vision not only so that they see their best so their performance at school is good. Um but also because there are at least two studies showing that uh kids who wear correction in fact slows down their myopia or their advancement or their need for glasses getting worse. It actually slows it down where kids who don't wear glasses at that same age uh advance faster at a faster rate. The there are a lot of there's I'll put in there's a lot of nuance when it comes to myopia specifically. The other um component to it is just you want at a young age for young kids to have proper brain development to appreciate sharp vision. And so it's also really important to to have kids wearing correction and full correction uh for proper brain development. Uh otherwise your brain can choose to not develop good uh cells to appreciate good vision. We call that ambilopia or some kids you'll hear the term lazy eye. uh that can happen as an adult like you and I um if if we choose not to wear glasses, it's unlikely to progress faster or worsen if we choose not to wear them because most of the eyes anatomy is kind of set at this point. But like after the age of 25, usually things come to a slow crawl. It doesn't really change much in terms of your glasses power and things like that. There's a small 10% of the population who can continue to advance, but most of it is just quality of life. Like if you're going to see better with glasses or or contacts, why would you not want to see better? It's not necessarily going to make things worse. There is this perception, I think, for a lot of people that, oh well, I I saw, you know, things were a little fuzzy, but I started wearing glasses. The glasses helped, but now they take the glasses off, everything is so much worse. It's not that your eyes actually got worse. It's that the perception, your comparative difference between with and without glasses became much more noticeable. And so it's uh again it's just not a physiological change with the eye. It's more of a mental appreciation of perception. Yeah. When I was a kid then uh my parents and others told me that don't look through the glasses, you know, these other glasses because you'll actually get worse eyesight because of that. If you use like say your grandma's glasses uh and they're super blurry, right? But uh that will actually make your own eyes worse. There might be some truth to that. Uh certainly if if you're wearing somebody else's glasses, you're wearing the wrong power. You could end up forcing your eye muscles to work harder than they need to be and then that can uh it changes the posture of your eyes and how you use those muscles. But more so is we do know that the way older glasses lenses have been designed, there is a phenomenon where light is focused in the peripheral retina and that sends a what's called a hyperopic defocus and it somehow communicates to the brain and the eye to make the eyeball grow longer. And so it's not fully understood and it's only one part of the equation of myopia development. But that's why now you'll see new glasses lenses made for kids as well as some contact lenses that are designed to eliminate this um kind of distortion caused by glasses which with the new designs can slow down the rate of myopia development by up to like 50%. So, um, depending on where you live and where those devices are available, like in the United States, the glasses aren't available yet because they're still going through trials, but, uh, in some other places like in Canada and and in Europe, those those lenses have been available for some time and they can help slow down myopia for children. Interesting. Are there any health differences between contact lenses and glasses? Oh, yeah. Uh, another good question. So, the big issue with contact lenses is just the risk of infection. M especially for people who sleep in contact lenses, the risk of infection is dramatically much higher. Uh contact lenses also dry out. They they absorb the tears and then the tears evaporate much faster. So uh there is higher rates of dry eye and contact lens awareness and irritation. There is some evidence that contact lenses, if worn for long periods of time, and depending on the type of lens you wear, can also push on the cornea of the eye and cause some desensitization of the nerves in the cornea, which may alter your uh body's ability to regulate tear production um and may cause problems with neurotrophic or uh what's called neurotrophic keratitis. Uh, so there are cases where that's happened. Um, I think in general most people consider contact lenses pretty safe as long as you have good hygiene habits and you don't sleep in the contact lenses. Gotcha. Um, but there is concern amongst some professionals in the space about contact lens wear at all just because there is an increased risk of dry eye and and long-term consequences of dry eye later in life. What about lasic surgery? I think that's a very popular question. Is it I guess is it is it obviously not permanent or is it? Yeah. So the the with the LASIC procedure specifically like they're removing tissue from your eye and that tissue is gone forever. So it is that part of the procedure where yeah LASIC is is permanent but your vision still will change as you get older. uh especially in your 40s and above that again the lens inside the eye is getting bigger and it starts to crystallize and as it crystallizes the light bends differently through that lens inside the eye and so your prescription and need for glasses can start to shift and change and so that's that's kind of the harsh truth of LASIC um it is considered largely safe I know you'll people will see stuff on the internet about some people have unfortunately committed suicide after LASIK um And part a lot of that comes from just poor healing circumstances as well as dry eye. U lasic surgery specifically does sever more nerves on the surface of the eye during that procedure which then they have to grow back. In most cases uh like 99% of cases people heal great. Uh they do get some dry eye afterward and the dry eye usually resolves within 3 to 6 months. But for some people, if the nerves don't grow back correctly or if they already had pre-existing dry eye before the surgery, uh their symptoms of dryness, pain, um can be detrimental. Um and it can cause foggy vision, blurred vision, glare, halos. But then, you know, those unfortunate few, and it's usually less than 1% that's quoted, um there's people who have severe issues because of that. And those are the people who have the worst outcomes are always the people who speak the loudest. Yeah. Um but the vast majority of people I've I've ever worked with that have had LASIK usually come back saying they loved it. It changed their life. They would do it again in a heartbeat. So um thankfully the clinical trials do show it is still safe. I think just as a profession we need to be very diligent about who is at risk and who has more dry eye issues before we send them for surgery. Yeah. Gotcha. Last year there was this video where Mr. Beast where he paid for surgeries for these blind people and they were able to see. I don't know what you know type of surgery it was specifically u but is it possible to cure blindness with some surgery? Yeah. So that so Mr. Beast did specifically with cataracts. Mhm. And cataracts are the number one you know globally if you look at what's the number one cause of vision loss in the world it is cataracts. The nice thing is that so what a cataract is for people who don't know um like I've been saying in your 40s and in your 50s and above that the lens inside the eye starts to crystallize. Um when you're still that young usually the lens is still clear like it's a clear lens inside the eye just like your glasses lenses are clear. But as as you continue to get older that lens oxidizes and begins to turn a yellow color and eventually even a white or in some cases even a dark brown color. Um, so I've seen I've done mission trips in some parts of the world and uh you'll see people who are in their 80s and who've never had cataract surgery and these lenses inside their eye are very large like a marble and they'll be like coffee brown. Uh, they can't see through them. Uh, so cataract surgery they can go in and they use a tool called fico emulsification. That's that's the fun word for the day. Uh, but it uses ultrasound to shatter this lens inside the eye. It's like shattering a glass marble into dust particles. They then vacuum out the particles and then they put a new plastic lens implant inside of the eye, which they measure and account for any need for glasses and try to put that in the implant. So afterward, you see through a clear lens again. And in many cases, people um don't need to rely on glasses as much. It's kind of like getting lasic at the same time almost. Wow. Um so thankfully we have that surgery. It only takes like 10 15 minutes to do. Uh it's considered one of the most successful surgeries that that have been invented. Um the downside is in some parts of the world people don't have access to health care or eye care and uh vision loss is is a consequence of that. That's very interesting. Yeah. um in the future would be would be able to have a type of surgery or like I don't know like um implant of the eye like a cyborg eye or something like that that would you know you give you perfect eyesight or as well as maybe enhance it like able to zoom in or something like that because you know humans our eyes are you know pretty good we're pretty visual like our visual system is pretty good but it's obviously not as good as like e eagles or hawks or something like that Um, could we like use some sort of cyber eyes or other ways to enhance our vision? I know there's talks of that. I know there there's companies who've been kind of working on that in terms of an implant for cataract surgery specifically. I think they do run into some just barriers of technology at this point. Like if they do have that capability to zoom in, it would need some sort of electrical charge or it would need some sort of mechanical movement of the lens inside the eye. And that means you would probably need some sort of battery capacitor. And then how do you charge that through the eye? You know, you probably have to fall asleep wearing some sort of charging goggles that gives it, you know, electromagnetic field that charges it. Um, and then how long do those last? What happens if they break? You know, there's there's a lot of I think just technological things that need to happen. So, we're probably, you know, who knows how things will go with AI, but we're probably 40, 50 years away from something like that. I know that there are some contact lens companies building augmented reality contact lenses. Um, and same thing for augmented reality glasses. And I think that is very much within the grasp of uh not only some augmented reality glasses that exist right now, but in the next 10 years um we'll see improved adoption of that technology. And so I think that's that's going to be very real to the point where uh even if you don't need glasses to see better, you will have a thin normal pair of looking eyewear that will have a digital screen basically in front of your eyes that you'll be able to see not only text messages and email notifications, but as you look around the room, it'll highlight, you know, food in your fridge and tell you what type of recipes you can do by mixing these various ingredients. You'll be able to drive down the road and it'll tell you, hey, take a left, take a right, here's your speed. Just heads up display like a video game almost. Um, and that may be able to also magnify things in the distance and make it zoomed up in front of your natural eye. I think uh I think that will have a lot of applications and I think that is more realistic again within the next probably 5 to 10 years. Wow. Yeah. It like feels that uh with the eyes we will be able to reach this point in technology where we are able to pretty much cure all blindness and cure all eye diseases. At least you know that's my impression because if we can already you know do these surgeries 10-minute surgeries to cure people from uh this blindness from cataracts then yeah in a few decades we'll you know I think that's what what it looks like it is going to be hitting I I hope so. um you know we have the so just about 2 years ago we had the very first full total eye transplant that was um accomplished. the eye didn't work, but the eye is a very special, it has its own specialized immune system. And so, and then connecting the eyeball to back to a new person's head, uh, connecting it to their optic nerve and so the so the eye to not only not deteriorate and not be rejected is a huge deal. Um, but then for this person, they they can measure and see that there's electrical input going from the eye, this donor eye to the the recipient's brain, but the recipient doesn't have functional vision from it. But just the accomplishment of, hey, we actually got an eye and a technique to get the eye to connect to the body and not be rejected. That is a huge feat in its own. Obviously, we have a long ways to go from there, but uh that was a pretty big landmark news in the field of eye care that just happened. Yeah, that's very interesting. Um, before we wrap up, uh, is there anything, you know, specific or special that we didn't cover that people should know about, uh, improving their eye health? Is something they should do or avoid or something like that? Um, you know, my kind of eye health routine is not only just getting an eye exam every year. Uh, I also eat really healthy as we've been talking about. I try to take some supplements for my eye and vision health. Uh, I'm experimenting with red light right now. We still don't have full kind of months about it. Uh sunglasses, you know, we touched on that. I think that's important. Um and then just taking breaks. Yeah. And especially for young kids, being aware that spending a lot of time on near devices, while we we want our kids to have good education, we do need them to try to spend more time outside. There's some sort of um communication to the eye and the brain that we don't fully understand yet. But we know that kids who spend you around an hour and a half to two hours outside, it has this sort of balancing effect where it negates uh a lot of the drives for nearsidedness development uh than than than not. So I do encourage for families that come in to the clinic, I advise them, you know, try to encourage more outdoor time. Interesting. Um yeah so it's been great to have discuss discussion and yeah eyes are super underrated and very important for quality of life uh before I ask my last question where can people learn more about you and your work so thank you yeah so of course my kind of mission with all of my education online is through the Dr. eye health YouTube channel. Um I provide education on various things whether it be glasses, contacts, surgeries, a lot of disease education, uh things that you can do with your lifestyle. Uh I also post on other channels again under the Dr. Eye Health name. Uh so for anybody who's curious about eyes, learn about more um definitely check us out those channels and reach out to me through there. Yeah, we'll put the links in the show notes. And uh my last question is what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you'd update sooner? sleep. My my number one habit uh I think I've neglected most of my life is I just never respected my sleep. Uh you know certainly growing up I I stayed up late nights till 3 in the morning playing video games and my my academics in high school and even some in college I think would have been way better. I was a good student, but uh I think my performance in in so many different ways, physical, mental, um academic, would have been improved 10fold if I just would have had regular consistent sleep. And um when I went to optometry school, I think that was my superpower cuz I prioritized it. And unfortunately, when you get into like things like residency for healthcare, they do not care about your sleep. So I think I I I lost a lot of my regular sleep habits. um as I get I guess I got older past optometry school and now I'm trying to prioritize it a lot again. Um and it definitely affects my physical fitness, it affects my mood, it affects my mental capacity, my productivity. So it is something I'm I'm trying my best to prioritize. Yeah, that's a important tip and very common common one. Uh well, yeah, thanks for coming to the podcast and yeah, it was great to talk with you. Yeah, thank you. I appreciate it. All right, that's it for this episode. Make sure you check out my new book, The Longevity Leap, on Amazon. I'd also appreciate if you share this episode with a friend or family member. Other than that, my name is Seam. Stay tuned for the next episode. Stay empowered.