It really isn't about oh zone 2 versus highintensity interval training. Like when it comes to health, the amount of physical activity that you need is actually so small to reduce your risk of disease and mortality. Just going from nothing to something drops your risk of mortality by. >> Christristie, welcome to the show. >> Hi Sim, thank you for having me. Yeah, you uh had a very uh interesting paper you published just recently that I found online and I wanted to have you on the show to discuss about the details of that paper but uh maybe you can also give like a short background about yourself uh you know how did you come to writing the paper about the zone 2 cardio? >> Yeah. Um so I'm a PhD candidate in the muscle physiology lab at Queens University. Um I'm nearing the end. I can see the light at the end of the tunnel. My research is kind of focused has a diff couple different focuses. Um fasted versus fed training. I just finished up a training study. Um and then the idea of just like fuel substrate use during exercise and how that influences adaptations. Um which kind of gets to zone two and the idea of like burning fat to become a better fat burner. um which kind of parallels the like fasted exercise research and interest in that as well. um which yeah like we'll get into the zone 2 paper but the real motivation I guess behind writing that paper which for the listeners addresses the claims made around zone 2 exercise as this optimal intensity for improving our capacity to burn fat by promoting mitochondrial adaptations and thereby supporting better metabolic health because those two um physiological features of the body are associated and linked to our overall health. So, if we're exercising in a way that supports those, then we should be supporting our metabolic health. Um, but I guess the the paper really addresses, well, does zone 2 induce those adaptations. Really, that's the question we were asked because online you can literally do a quick Google search, put in zone 2 and mitochondria, and there'll just be page after page of blogs being like zone 2 increases mitochondrial content. in zone 2 supports mitochondrial hell. Um like there's just a lot of >> that online. >> In my opinion, there's almost like two camps of people. There's uh people who are just you only need to do hit cardio that zone two is a waste of time and the other group is uh that you need to do only zone two or mostly zone two. So there's rarely like this middle ground where you do both, which I think would be the optimal scenario, but uh it tends to be in the two categories, the two groups of people. >> Yeah. And I think the conversation is just a bit too polarized, which complicates it because it really isn't about, oh, zone 2 versus highintensity interval training. It >> and that's not where I land at all. It really was like, do I even need zone 2? Do we need to be doing zone 2? Does it have some sort of unique inherent benefits that you don't get from going into higher intensities? And I mean, I'll spoil the spoiler. Um, no. Like, I'm not under the impression I didn't find any evidence to suggest that we should be doing or prioritizing zone 2 over higher intensities because you can just get the benefits of on mitochondrial adaptations, our ability to burn fat. those the adaptations that support better fat oxidative capacity are supported with highintensity exercise or higher intensity exercise. I I do kind of I want to be deliberate with my language in saying that it's not that it's not hit it's not high intensity interval training that I'm comparing to zone 2. It's accumul like the the volume accumulated in higher intensity. So zone 3 plus um and I think that gets a lot of confusion online is that we think of all steady state exercise as zone 2 when it's not. It's like most of our studies that use continuous training. So if you read any papers where you're trying to figure out like oh hit versus moderate intensity continuous training that moderate intensity continuous training abbreviated to micked um it often falls above zone 2. So when we're looking at like oh hit versus mixed, it's really hit or sit sprint interval training. So these high super the intervals the the intensities that require us to do in small bursts because they're just unsustainable for longer durations. If we're comparing the interval training to continuous training, it's often okay, we're comparing zone three, maybe even four continuous training to zone 5 plus. and just those intense training. So I think um part of the confusion is that all continuous training is being grouped as zone 2 when zone 2 has a very clear definition. It's demarcated by our lactate threshold or our gas exchange threshold. So we can use ventilatory uh our ventilation to kind of indicate our it's linked to our lactate threshold. So but um online it lactate threshold is commonly the demarcation for what is considered zone 2. So zone 2 just I guess we should define it right from the get- go is the zone just below our lactate threshold. So, as intensity increases, as if we're sitting on a bike and every few minutes the intensity increases, we'll and we're measuring our blood lactate, we should um l blood lactate will stay at a pretty low maybe just above our resting level, maybe like literally point one. 2 above our resting level for a couple stages and then as intensity increases we'll see this gradual incline and then we'll hit a certain threshold which is considered our first lactate threshold where we jump about 1 to 1.5 above our resting level millmers and um there's different definitions for lactate threshold within the literature but in our lab we consider the 2 millmar mark as lactate threshold so zone 2 is typically defined as just below. So within like the 1.7 to 2 millmer range would be we're we're we're able to um engage in continuous exercise for probably up to like 3 hours, 3 4 hours without our lactate budging. It's a very low intensity. But if we go above that and we start increasing intensity, then there's more of an exponential increase until we hit our second lactate threshold, which then just skyrockets if you increase your duration above our lactate threshold, too. >> And and what is like a heart rate zone usually for zone 2. >> Yeah, I actually can't remember the exact percentages that people use um because that's not >> like 60 to 70%. Yeah, that's >> what I've seen typically. But some people might use uh 75 as well. So I guess somewhere around there. >> Yeah, I guess. But it's all a bit like arbitrary without I guess using >> without tape. Got >> Yeah. So what what did you then find? you you kind of spill the beans of the main findings of of the study that you don't uh get unique mitochondrial adaptations from zone 2 that you wouldn't get from high-intensity exercise or interval training. So how did you you know come to that conclusion and um what are some like maybe other major findings? Yeah. And I guess to start is that we don't have a ton of training studies that actually prescribe sublactate threshold. So in order to conduct this review, so this is a narrative review. We didn't do a systematic approach. Um but we did try to find as many studies that fit the criteria of zone 2 as we could. And uh we def we definitely struggled to find training studies or even acute studies uh that prescribed below lactate threshold that would so we had to interpolate using different definitions. Um so percentages of work rate peak or work rate max. Um I we might have used a heart rate zone. I actually can't remember. Um and then definitely lactate and gas exchange threshold. Um and our first finding or con a takeaway is that we just don't have a lot of research looking at zone 2 training. So the whole idea and I guess like what perpetuates the message is based in our opinion is based on cross-sectional observational data in elite athletes who spend a ton of time in zone 2. So they do a ton of low intensity training and 20% of their training is spent at high intensity. So there's polarized training for any endurance listener out there um would be familiar with 8020 or polarized training where 80% of your time is in zone 2, 20% at high intensities and not much time spent in those zones 3 to four. Um, and so the idea that I guess the what's been conflated is that oh look, they elite athletes have super high fat oxy capacity. They have lots of functioning mitochondria and they perform well and they also spend a lot of time in zone 2. So zone 2 must be supporting those outcomes. When if we're we're a molecular lab, so we think about things very mechanistically and what physiology drives a certain outcome, an expected outcome and then that should should support function over time. And in theory, if we think about zone 2, um it actually the theory behind zone 2 and how it would support mitochondrial adaptations doesn't it there's a mismatch. So the way mitochondrial there's one primary mechanism that drives mitochondrial adaptations is through AMPK or AMP kynise um which is activated by uh metabolic stress. So an accumulation of AM or ADP and that occurs when we reach intensities where we just can't meet ATP demand through aerobic metabolism or fat oxygen capac uh metabolism. So we start turning on glycolysis, we start breaking down glycogen and we start relying heavily on carbohydrates and that's basically a sign that we are accumulating those metabolites because as those are also the metabolites that activate glycogen breakdown and zone 2 exercise compared to higher intensities is uh we don't we don't rely heavily on glycogen. We do actually burn glycogen in zone 2, which I was shock a little bit surprised about because we think of it as like, oh, >> basically all of our energy is coming from fat, but we I uncovered during this review that we actually do burn glycogen. It just >> takes hours of exercise versus a very short duration with high intensity. But I'm really uh blabbering and not getting to the your question, which was what did I find? So again just recapping that there's not many studies on zone 2. And then secondly that we have very mixed evidence for supporting mitochondrial adaptations and the supporting fat oxidative outcomes but specifically for mitochondria. Like we do we do have evidence that signaling meta um signaling pathways are activated that would we would expect induce mitochondrial biogenesis or improve mitochondrial capacity. Um, but that doesn't always occur and it's certainly not optimal when we compare to higher intensities. So, this idea that we must stay in zone 2 and we shouldn't go into higher intensity zones because now we're not burning fat and we're uh basically negating those benefits that we would get by staying in zone 2. That is not supported by evidence. Um, if anything, we have much stronger evidence to support the use of intensity, which comes back to just the theory because intensity is what accumulates those metabolites that turn on the signaling pathways that lead to the outcome that we're actually trying to achieve. >> So, I'll stop there and let you >> intervene. Did you did you also uh look at like more the outcome based things like V2X or some other health outcomes or something like that? So I mean the primary purpose of this paper was to just address claims around mitochondria and fat. Um however we did add in a small section on V2 max cardiorespiratory fitness because at the end of the day zone 2 is promoted to the general public um to support better health but we do have much stronger evidence to support the use of or the to support V2 max in predicting our mortality or all cause our mortality risk. um than we do our ability to burn fat and our mitochondrial content. So those things are linked of course and I still care like I'm a big proponent of caring about our mitochondrial health and our ability to burn fat but we have much stronger evidence to to care about V2 max which we know is intensity that intensity is very important for driving improvements in V2 max. Um, so if we're exercising for health, I at the end of this paper, I'm under the impression that we should be prioritizing intensity. And that doesn't mean only hit intervals and killing ourselves. I think that it's more about accumulating volume at intensity. So >> right >> when when we compare mixed studies or those moderate intensity continuous training to high intensity training or sprint interval training a lot of literature would support the use of HIT and sit um if we're comparing just especially based on time spent exercising that you get a better bang for your buck but moderate intensity continuous training is a bit like we can improve our V2 max to similar extents um it's just that I don't I think you would be doing that in zone 2 like I think accumulating volume zone 3 plus um and then using hit and sit where appropriate and however much you can rec like the amount of volume you can accumulate that you can recover from that's what we should be focusing on. >> I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices which are the Bond charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longer influencers using these red light therapy devices but do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bone Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most REA therapy devices don't have the right wavelengths of light, which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bon Charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to buncharge.com and use the code seam sim for a 15% discount. You mentioned the proathletes. uh they tend to spend the most of their time in zone 2 actually instead of the high intensity zones uh and they you know have the highest EO2 maxes in the world still like crosscountry skiers and cyclists etc. So is it that total volume that they just do so much zone 2 that they reach a higher V2 max because of that whereas the average person if they do hit once a week right then that's not enough volume to accumulate to cause those vax adaptations that the proathlete you they spend like something like 10 hours a week in zone 2 or even more than that. So they spend enormous amounts of time while training. So this massive volume is what drives their high V2 max. Um whereas for the average person, they just don't accumulate that much volume to reach such high levels of VOTMX with you know everyday regular training protocol, >> right? Um and I want to just disclaim that we don't know why athletes do a ton of zone 2 training. Like that's I'm just speculating. Um, but they if you if your training volume is 20 hours a week and 80% of that zone 2, but 20% so 4 hours of that being spent at high intensities, that's still way more volume than what that someone following the physical activity guidelines doing 150 to 300 minutes of exercise per week. That's still way more volume. So it could be that the the V2 the high V2 max the high mitochondrial content etc etc of elite athletes is driven through those high intensities and the 80% in zone 2 is I mean we don't know what it's doing. I'm not saying that it's not doing anything, but it I mean there's a chance that it's not like it's uh we don't have that experimental data to suggest that that's actually driving improvement some of the improvements and it's not all just coming from that still a large volume at high intensities. And I think we we just can't attribute based on cross-sectional data. >> Yeah. Well, I think the athletes might do it for the lower risk of injury and uh lower intensity because it would be pretty impossible or it's going to lead to overtraining. If you do, you know, 10 20 hours a week of high intensity training, it's going to lead to quite severe overtraining even in athletes. So, they do the zone 2 to accumulate extra volume at no cost to recovery. So it's very I guess stressfree or doesn't cause that much physical damage to the muscles as zone 2. So you can yeah do zone 2 for hours without ne necessarily getting tired or without necessarily getting exhausted or exhausting your central nervous system. I think maybe that's part of the reason. >> Yeah. And so like recovery is like I'm happy that you mentioned that just cuz yeah there's the the cost of zone 2 is very low compared to um higher intensities. It's just in order to do enough volume at high intensities that you now require zone 2 because you just can't do enough. I just don't think that members of the general public are coming close to that volume at higher intensities to even require that low intensity because they've just accumulated so much volume that they can't recover from more high intensity, >> right? Yeah. Um and I guess like walking is a good example of this. Just because walking isn't going to increase your V2 max doesn't mean you shouldn't walk or uh if if you someone you know because you can make the argument that okay if you exercise 2 hours a day then you don't need to walk any more than let's say 3,000 4,000 steps per day. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Because you're getting the metabolic adaptations and the health benefits from this high intensity exercise but probably walking more is still kind of good for you in other aspects. >> Yeah. And like there might be tons of other benefits to zone 2 training, I guess. Like I don't even I don't have an issue with people engaging in zone 2 training or promoting it. I have an issue with promoting things based on on on something that lacks evidence. >> Is there any like a threshold of uh volume someone needs per week to reach positive adaptations with the high intensity or zone 2? with zone 2 is obviously going to be higher the threshold but is there any threshold? >> Yeah, that's a that's a good question. Um so I don't think we have the optimal prescription. Well, I don't think I know we don't have like the optimal prescription for inducing mitochondrial adaptations. Um but there was a 2018 systematic review. So they've used like 56 training studies and the conclusion of that paper suggests that we we wouldn't even expect improvements in increased mitochondrial content or improvements in respiratory capacity. So that's typically how we measure mitochondrial function. Um and we wouldn't expect that at a threshold of 60% of work rate max which probably falls above zone 2 for most people. Um, and I guess I can mention this here in that I measure lactate thresholds essentially every day. And it they are surprisingly low. So an individual, a recreationally active, healthy 20-year-old university student will have a lactate threshold of like 60 to 70 watts, which is which is very very light intensity. And so say that's on a bike. And as soon so as soon as they started like light jogging, they would be potentially above zone 2. Um, so zone 2 is extremely light exercise. Um, so honestly, I don't even know if people think they're doing zone 2, they are most likely above to be honest. Um, but to say to back to your question about like this threshold of of volume, I don't know the volume threshold, but I would say that there is potentially an intensity threshold for which you want to be above. And I don't mean to say this to like belabor my point against zone 2, but I do think it's just accumulating volume above zone 2. Right. >> I personally would I would try and accumulate volume zone 3 plus and using intensity just to because it's time spent near V2 max. So spending as much time as you can near your V2 max to try and push your V2 max up. Um, and then then when it comes to lactate threshold, so if you want to increase your zone 2, like be able to work out at a higher intensity without accumulating lactate, I also believe based on what the studies that I've come across that you you want to work out, you want to exercise above your lactate threshold to kind of pull it up instead of trying to like balloon below it and try and push it up. Um, so like giving yourself that stimulus in higher intensities to tell your body to adapt um by turning on and activating these signaling pathways um by pushing you beyond your capacity. Um kind of like resistance training if we were to like make a metaphor parallel. you want to go to fatigue almost. Um well, yeah, with resistance training like we know that you can do light reps at or uh light weight at high reps or low reps at high weights. It's just getting close to failure is the important part. And I think that we can kind of parallel that with our metabolism when we are looking at endurance training adaptations and that we want to push beyond our capacity so that we tell our body to adapt and so that the next time that challenge is less of a like we could accumulate less metabolic stress if that makes sense. So I don't know the optimal volume but I would say that accumulating as much volume above zone 2 um that you can recover from. So I don't know what that number looks like for individuals. Um, but the amount the volume the recoverable volume spent at intensity is is what I'd say which is not like a very prescriptive answer but um is something that so like and you can listen to your body like you know if if I do like intervals on the bike day in and day out I know that I'm tired and my legs are fatigued like I I know that I can't I I know when I can't do it again. um which I think people inherently they can listen to their body and maybe they'll do something else. May maybe they'll do 30 minutes of just steady state at a lower intensity. Um so I think that we're kind of over complicating it when it comes to prescription. Um and and I think you're going to get the best bang for your buck by prioritizing intensity and just trying to accumulate as much volume that you can recover from. >> Gotcha. Yeah. I also saw on uh Twitter that you uh replied to Stephen Steve Magnus's post about um he posted another study about uh V2 max and some capillary adaptations. It was also some systematic review and meta analysis and in there well at least his point was that initially in the first few weeks the high intensity training results in higher V2 max but after in a longer time frame so like months the uh endurance training lower intensity training catches up and it might even exceed the uh V2 max and the problem with that was that in my opinion that there's not enough long-term high-intensity studies that actually last for months and months whereas they're usually much shorter term and um but from the graph the trend was that the uh endurance training was resulting in higher V2 max and um event or like initially the high intensity group was higher ROMAX but after a while in a few uh months the endurance training exceeded that. So did you see because you replied to that post but did you see the study itself Yeah. Um and like you said, it's the problem with comparing the endurance training group in that that analysis um to the HIT and sprint interval groups is that yeah, we don't have long-term studies that match the duration of those endurance training studies. And so like the conclusion that people draw from that is that oh endurance training we get better or the same I I don't know if it was I think they were the same results. It's just that it took longer for those to be realized in the endurance training group. Um, but we're comparing like like longer week duration of endurance training to short duration hit studies and and then saying that oh it just takes longer time but we get better results or the same results with endurance training continuous training studies. Um, but we can't draw that conclusion because it's not that the benefits of HIT plateau at six weeks or eight weeks, however long the longest uh hit study was. It's just that we don't have the training studies that go longer. So, who knows? Maybe they do keep increasing and they surpass the endurance training group. So, we can't we definitely can't draw conclusions from that study to say that endurance training results in better adaptations. It just takes longer. Um, I mean, who knows? It might be true, but we definitely we can't say that based on on that study. And another massive flaw with interpreting that as oh we should be doing zone 2 um is that that endurance training group that is compared to the high-intensity interval training and the sprint interval training is anything below lactate threshold two which is um an intensity far above our lactate threshold one which would tell us where zone 2 is. And so I after trying to find zone 2 papers, I would hedge my bets saying that that endurance training category includes mostly zone 3 plus continuous training. So like I said at the beginning, we're probably comparing sprint interval training hit and continuous training in zone 3 or zone 4. Um, which kind of just goes back to my initial message of like do continuous training, but don't worry about doing it in zone two. If anything, do it in zone three or zone four. And uh maybe you'll only have to do 30 minutes of exercise and not 2 hours in zone two to get to the same end point type thing. Like we can recover. We're members of the general public, which I would like if you're not competing at a high level like cyclist or runner or someone who's accumulating 20 plus hours of volume a week. Um if you're working out like five, six, seven hours a week, it probably is hard to um like you're you're probably able to recover from your zone 3 plus volume. uh in order to even consider adding in more volume at zone 2, if that makes sense. So yeah, the the big the big thing big flaws with drawing conclusions in favor to try and support a zone 2 argument with that specific paper is that the endurance training group is likely above zone 2 and we don't have hit studies that match the duration of the the continuous training group. M >> and then they also so they had capillary density and then they had mitochondrial content as well um in those in that paper. Um and then another thing about that paper is that one of the figures and one of the takeaways is that they split up based on train uh like training status. So it was untrained. So sedentary studies that studied um these outcomes in sedentary individuals um individuals who are just recreationally active and then those who are considered trained and in u for mito increasing mitochondrial content the more trained you are the more you require intensity to induce those adaptations. So there's actually no change in mitochondrial content u based on one of their figures if in the trained group. So the trained group who engaged in endurance training there was no increase in mitochondrial content whereas in the hit in the sprint interval group there was so that's also an interesting takeaway suggesting that we actually the more trained you are the more you require intensity to keep inducing adaptations. And that's actually the conclusion of another systematic review. It's quite old now. It was in like the '9s. Um where they looked at it was a systematic review looking at training intensity and improvements increases in lactate threshold. And lactate threshold is an indicator of our fat oxidative capacity just cuz if we have high fat oxidative capacity, we shouldn't be relying on carbohydrates till later in exercise and thus our lactate threshold is higher. Um so we can use that as a kind of a indirect marker of fat oxive capacity and it's also related to mitochondrial um content and function. Um but the results from another systematic review also showed that in trained individuals um intensity is important is a driver of improvements in lactate threshold. So again, I do I do think based on like piecing together all this all the evidence that we really do need to pull our lactate threshold up um instead of trying to push it from below it >> if I can I don't know if that makes sense. >> Yeah. Yeah. And does it need to be so like when we're speaking of max heart rate so is it 100% max heart rate or 80% is enough or is there any threshold there? >> Yeah. Um I I I I don't we don't prescribe in the lab based on heart rate, but I'm pretty sure high intensity is um uh defined as like 80% plus and then anything of of V2 max, which um >> yeah, I guess in in the real world, people can't do the lactate test. >> So they need to measure it with their max heart rate. But 80% is usually what's recommended for the intervals, interval training. >> Yeah. >> 80% and above. So, it's going to be 90%, you know, like most cases. >> Yeah. So, if you're pushing above 80% of your max heart rate and doing intervals at that, um, then that would be considered high intensity interval. And then if you're going all out, that's when it's become sprint interval training, >> right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, looking at Steve's content, then I think he's a proponent of doing mix training a lot. So, changing it up a lot. So doing sprint interval training, doing uh hit, doing zone 2, doing all different types of uh threshold trainings, etc. So he's he's a big proponent of I guess you know changing up a little bit all the things and uh following different protocols. He he's a if I'm not mistaken he's a more in the endurance realm as an athlete himself and a coach. So, uh, he he he doesn't, I guess, um, you know, do those protocols for the general population. He's more for endurance athletes specifically. >> Yeah. And I think that's like another just thing that's being conflated in that our paper addresses the general public. Like I am coming from this as like a consumer of health longevity content online and basically just doing a robust fact check of like are these claims supported by evidence? And I would probably put most people in the camp of general public. We all have full-time jobs mostly. I don't think anyone like a lot of the people that are consuming this content, they're not professional athletes. They're not looking for advice through podcasts probably. They have coaches. Um, so I I really do come at this from the perspective of people within the general public who are maybe following the physical activity guidelines and are now seeing that they should be doing low inensity exercise because they they need it for their mitochondria. Um, and those are the those are the claims that we're addressing. And I'm those that's where we found very very very limited evidence to support and in contrast would our conclusion is that in in fact we should be prioritizing intensity if we're trying to optimize those adaptations to exercise. >> What about too much volume for int for intensity? So there are quite a lot of studies on the general population that excessive volume with high intensity training is associated with increased mortality risk and uh heart disease risk. Um obviously for athletes they might sacrifice those things but uh for the general population that mortality is a big uh concern or like longevity benefits. So is there upper thresholds for how much intensity should you do? Like because you know 10 hours of high intensity training is clearly too much for the general population and too little is also obviously not enough. So is there any sweet spot of 1 to two hours, 3 hours or one and a half hours? >> Right. Right. Um, one I'm not familiar with that literature showing that intensity negatively is associated with uh >> this volume like uh if it's along the lines of over 400 minutes per week along those lines. >> That's an athlete population. >> No, it's a general population. >> Oh, okay. I'm not familiar with that, but I will answer this from just like speculating somewhat. And again, I think this I'm probably just am repeating myself in that like the amount of intensity that you will accumulate will probably just be what you can subjectively recover from. And that I think that's going to be based on an individual like an individual basis because if someone's trying to accumulate the same amount of volume as someone else who only has 5 hours a night to sleep and doesn't prioritize uh good nutrition around their training. Um we're going to recovery is supported by the things outside of exercise. And so if we're not repleting glycogen and going, so say I do a hit training session at night, I don't adequately consume carbohydrates and then I wake up the next morning and I try and do another interval session. I'm not fully recovered from that night before because I didn't replete my glycogen. Um, so my performance is going to be sacrificed likely than the next morning. Um, and if I had a poor sleep, even worse. So our recovery is going to be based on the things that we do outside of training and that's going to probably dictate how much volume we can accumulate at high intensities. And this is where it comes back to like you know you know if you're like getting symptoms of overtraining like if you can't perform if your legs are absolutely crushed and you like can't work out at that intensity that you could a couple days prior. Um but then again we do have longterm hit trials in individuals with cardia in cardiac rehab. Um we have hit trials that have gone on in our department here in individuals with insulin resistance, type two diabetes, like metabolic syndrome type um categories of people who come in I don't know three to uh five times a week and are able to do like following physical activity guidelines and keep on repeating intense exercise. Um and but we also have studies where they've tried to actually overtrain people by doing two a days. So a hit session in the morning, hit session in the evening and those are 3 weeks long, which I mean 3 weeks is a blip in someone's life, but they're they actually never reached the state of overreaching. Um so they would test them each week and make sure that they weren't getting symptoms of overreaching and they were fine up until the 3 week mark. they never had to change anything in the study because all every single participant was able to withstand the two a day hit sessions. Um, so I do I do think that it just is based on the individual. And like I said, also it's just like we don't have to be killing ourselves every day. That's definitely not my like my takeaway or my message. It really is just like do you need zone 2? Like I just don't I think I'm trying to differentiate from oh then the answer is hit from oh you don't actually need to be deliberately doing zone two and I should have just this from the beginning in that zone two is better than nothing. I if someone is going from nothing to zone two I kudos I am so happy. However, if someone's going from loving their 30 minute runs or bike sessions or hit sessions and they can do that day in and day out and they feel great and they're recovering good, but now they're seeing messaging online that they need to be doing zone 2. So now they're subbing in zone 2 for some of their higher intensity days. I think that's where that that could be a disservice and they might be now just blunting what they could be getting out of their exercise bout because they're buying into the messaging that they need to be doing zone 2 when I I don't see the evidence to support that. H yeah, I guess the takeaway should be that you should follow a workout plan that helps you to achieve your physical fitness goals and your these physical activity requirement goals for the week and without damaging your health, without damaging your mental health or social life or something like that. And uh it can involve obviously many different types of exercise, lifting weights, hit zone 2, etc. depending on which ones you prefer and what are your goals. And I think that takeaway shouldn't also be that just because zone 2 isn't superior for mitochondrial adaptations to hit then uh that it's useless or that you shouldn't do it. Like if someone likes to do it, again like I said, >> then they should do it. And uh we have to look at it in the context of the entire workout plan. So for me like I do zone 2 just because if I were to add a lot of hit to to my workout plan then I wouldn't be able to recover from my resistance training sessions. So, I do the zone two because it's low intensity and lower effort and it doesn't interfere with the resistance training goals and it's not going to cause extra exhaustion to my central nervous system so I can recover better for my resistance training sessions. And I might do like a hit session once a week or once every two weeks, but my aerobic exercise is with uh zone 2 on the days that I don't do resistance training. So like it depends a lot on the context of uh the entire workout plan, >> right? >> No, 100%. And like when it comes to health, the amount of physical activity that you need is actually so small to reduce your risk of disease and mortality. Um like just going from nothing to something drops your risk of mortality by like >> 60% or something crazy. And it's like the baseline level of fitness that you need that's associated with longevity or health is is very minimum. And anyone who's physically active is probably in that category. and getting and like I I guess to tie it all together is that all of these different protocols and things are for for individuals like us who just kind of like care about health optimization. Looking at the hard outcomes is going to be worth more than trying to exercise in a way that's buying into a certain mechanism. Um, >> right. >> Like are you how is your glucose tolerance? Like how how do you feel? How are you sleeping? Like all of these things that are markers of health um are the are the outcomes that we're trying to achieve instead of trying to like convince ourselves that we're doing something for a particular to activate a certain pathway. And so like the outcome is health. So exercising in a way that supports better health is is what we should be doing. And I think that there's multiple ways to get those end points. >> Yeah. And with these exercise studies, what I've seen or what you also shared is that there isn't actually a lot of clear conclusions about this because limited studies and not not enough long-term studies or there even with HIT there's, you know, a million different HIT protocols you could do. You could do 30 second intervals, you could do 4minut intervals, you could do anything in between. So uh and as many rounds as you know you could imagine. So there's not even like a standardized hit protocol. So it's hard to I guess uh with the limited data it's hard to be as as you know >> prescriptive >> conclusive conclusive about these things in similar with diet like you wouldn't be able to make a lot of very conclusive definitive answers about the best diet in the world because it's almost impossible to study that long term but you can make some general conclusions in some corrections uh that uh we have information about but we don't have yeah a 100% perfect uh conclusive answer in both the exercise realm and the diet realm. >> Yeah, I think that there's a lot similar to diet. It's just like over complicated messaging and >> adherence is so important when it comes to exercise. Like diet like we eat every day so we have to make decisions around that. But exercise is something we have to add into our life. if it's not just like structured into our daily routine. Like we have to be deliberate about exercise and so finding something that someone can actually do on a consistent basis is probably the most important important factor. So yeah, it is complicated. >> Yeah. Did you get any inspiration or any changes to your own hit protocol? Did you find any specific interval uh duration or frequency that pointed you you you liked from the study or you have changed? Uh no, I just exercise for fun. So I actually enjoy just like going to exhaustion which is probably not common. Um but I will say that doing the HIT protocol. So we often see like the 4x4 protocol within the literature or one minute on one minute it off those type of intervals. Doing them in the lab has been very I guess eye opening and has taught me new tolerance and uh my ability to I don't know withstand discomfort has my tolerance has just gone up since actually doing them. And uh like hit is hard. It's it's supposed to be hard. Um, but actually exposing yourself to that discomfort over time, like it you know what to expect. You you feel really good after. Um, so the only thing I guess I've changed is just being >> less intimidated by hit intervals. Um, especially on the bike. Um, but I haven't changed anything cuz I exercise for fun. Like I already I know that I'm going to move my body most days. I don't really follow a structured I don't follow a structured plan. I just like whatever sounds fun is what I do and I I my like interpretation of the literature is that that is what's important. Something that I'm going to sustain over time. I'm really I'm it's easy for me to go hard. I enjoy it and so I'm not concerned about sticking to a certain hit protocol. But I will say that doing the 4-minute intervals was eyeopening to what I can sustain. And so that that's the only thing that has changed is my my psychology around exercise. >> Right. Yeah. The 4-minut intervals are kind of brutal. >> Yeah. >> And um you need to kind of graduate up from shorter ones like 1 minute first then 2 minutes, 3 minutes and 4 minutes. And I think one misconception as well about these is that you know you wouldn't be able to sprint for four minutes straight. So it's not actually that you're sprinting the entire time at max speed. You are at this 80% or 90% max heart rate which isn't full on sprinting. It's something like 80% of your full speed. So you sustain that speed for 4 minutes. That's where the adaptation comes from. uh you're very close to your max threshold with your EO2 max and your max heart out rate. So you're staying there sub threshold and uh doing it what I've seen is that the longer intervals actually are a bit superior to shorter ones but it might be again that you accumulate more volume from longer intervals and uh if you do more rounds as well you get more volume that ultimately drives the biggest adaptation. >> Yeah. Do you know if they've ever compared like 21 minute intervals to 4x4? Like I don't know what if it they might end up >> I saw one meta analysis that showed uh shorter ones. So less than 30 seconds to over 2 minutes and the over 2 minutes was superior but 30 seconds is very short period of time and you're not getting really that much volume from that. So I think the volume would probably matter the most. If you might do, I don't know, 20 rounds of 30 second intervals, but you do five rounds of two-minute intervals, then maybe the 30 second intervals is better. But they didn't study that specifically, but >> yeah, I've never >> longer intervals tend to accumulate more volume. I think that's the reason. >> Right. Right. Right. Yeah. Well, they're also definitely subjectively I would say they're harder. >> Yeah, for sure. holding a fire output for that long is hard. >> Yeah. Um we can start wrapping up as well. So what you know obviously there was a lot of uh unanswered questions still and a lot of unanswered as you know studies to be done. Are you planning to do something uh in the future on this topic? Well, I'm nearing the end of my PhD, so I don't now I'm not I'm past my study design phase, which is kind of unfortunate because your interests change over the course of four years. Um, but I've wrapped up my fasted versus fed training study. So, I had a fasted group and a carbohydrate fed. And I'm looking at the adaptations to hit and seeing if they're influenced by carbohydrate availability. Um, so that literally starting wet lab stuff today to look at the muscle samples. So that was a biopsy study which is which is awesome being in a lab where we can take biopsies because we can really get to the molecular underpinnings of adaptations to training. Um so hopefully I'll have results for that to share in the near future. I'm still blinded to the intervention so I actually have no idea what >> okay >> what anything is. >> Um and then I'm wrapping up my second study where I'm looking at whether zone 2 um so someone's lactate threshold is that a functional test for assessing mitochondrial content. So biopsy and lactate threshold and looking at mitochondrial content and an individual zone 2 lactate threshold um and seeing if if you could run a lactate threshold is that a way to predict or tell us about mitochondrial content because they are related. So we should be able to clinically maybe running an a lactate threshold is an a way to assess someone's mitochondrial content. Um so I'm just wrapping that up now as well. >> Okay, sounds good. Yeah, we're looking forward to it. Um, and my before ask last question, where can people learn more about you and your work? >> Yeah, I guess I'm most active on Instagram, so my handle is just Christy Storeschuck, which I hope will be linked because I'm not spelling that one out. And uh I am on Twitter as well and LinkedIn, but uh Instagram is probably where I'm most active. >> Yeah, we'll put the links in the show notes. And my last question is, what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? >> Um, I think realizing that life is not that serious. Your problems are probably not as big as you think. >> Yeah, >> that's changed my perspective on all things that bother me because >> you have that perspective, then nothing can bother you. Yeah, it's not that serious if you do zone two or hit as long as you exercise. >> Yeah, exactly. >> Yeah. Well, yeah. Well, it was a great to talk with you and yeah, looking forward to your future work. >> Yeah, this was awesome. Thank you so much for having me on and it's very cool. I've been following you from the beginning, so very awesome to have this conversation. >> Yeah. Well, thank you. >> Thank you. >> All right, that's it for this episode. Make sure you check out my new book, The Longevity Leap on Amazon. I'd also appreciate if you share this episode with a friend or family member. Other than that, my name is Seam. Stay tuned for the next episode.