 in a 1977 study, a group of infertile men did something so simple, and their testosterone almost doubled. I'm talking about going from 450 to over 850 nagrams per deciliter with their testosterone, without injections, without steroids, without optimizing anything else. The only thing that changed was one mineral that most people overlook. When I first saw these results, I couldn't believe it. The mineral I'm talking about is zinc. In the study, 10 infertile men were given 220 mg of zinc 3 times a day for 4-8 weeks. Their testosterone increased from an average 493 nagrams per deciliter to 852. Their sperm count went from 14.6 to 24.8. That's an insane increase, nearly 100% increase in testosterone. To be fair, this was just 10 men, they were infertile, and they had lower levels of testosterone to begin with. So, if you already have high testosterone, you probably won't see a doubling of your testosterone from just zinc. However, when I saw these results, I wanted to dig deeper into the effects of zinc on testosterone. Zinc is an essential mineral, and it's critical for lytic cells, which produce testosterone in the testes. You need adequate zinc for the normal function of lytic cells, and activity of steroid hormones such as testosterone. Zinc is also a cofactor for 5-alpha reductase, which is an enzyme that converts testosterone into dehydrotestosterone, or DHT, which is the more biologically active androgen. With low zinc status, conversion of testosterone into DHT is impaired. Low zinc status also increases aromatization, the conversion of testosterone into estrogen. This same process happens when you have excess body fat, or your testosterone is too high during puberty, or when you're taking testosterone. Lastly, zinc is an antioxidant as part of the copper-zinc superoxide dismutase, and it protects lytic cells against reactive oxygen species that cause oxidative stress. This consistent research showing that low zinc levels are associated with lower testosterone. Supplementing zinc in those individuals increases their testosterone, which suggests that how high your testosterone is is limited by your zinc status. In a 2023 Japanese study, testosterone levels plateaued at 90 micrograms per deciliter of serum zinc, but below 90, the testosterone levels were linearly lower. The same study found that the low serum zinc had no effect on erectile function. So there is a clear relationship between zinc levels and testosterone. What if you're an otherwise healthy person, and you restrict your zinc intake? In a 1996 study on 40 healthy men between ages 20 and 80, restricting zinc from diet for 20 weeks resulted in testosterone dropping from 39.9 nanomoles per liter to 10.6 nanomoles per liter in young men. That's a 73% decrease. In the elderly zinc deficient men taking zinc, the testosterone increased from 8.3 nanomoles per liter to 16. That's about a 93% increase. They supplemented 459 micromoles per day of zinc, which is the equivalent of around 30 milligrams of elemental zinc per day. They took zinc gluconate for 3 to 6 months. Another 2010 clinical trial on hematialysis patients saw that supplementing 250 milligrams a day of zinc sulfate for 6 weeks increased testosterone by 90%. And tripled luteinizing hormone from 4.85 to 15.77 international units per liter. Now, there is zinc status was low, around 55 micrograms per deciliter, whereas normal is 70 to 120. While taking the zinc, there is zinc status increased by 43%, going to 79.4 micrograms per deciliter, so it normalized. Based on this research, the most consistent way to see an increase in testosterone from zinc is one, if your zinc status is low, and two, maybe if your testosterone is also low. There are no high quality human clinical trials showing meaningful effects on testosterone in people who already have high levels of zinc or they have moderate to high levels of testosterone. However, there are some situations where even healthy individuals with normal testosterone appear to benefit from zinc for helping with their testosterone levels. There is a study where 10 young elite wrestlers were told to exercise to exhaustion, which typically lowers testosterone as well as thyroid hormones due to increased stress. However, supplementing 3 milligrams per kilogram per day of zinc sulfate for 4 weeks prevented this effect. Another study on cyclists exercising to exhaustion found the same results. Athletes may lose more zinc through sweat, which is why their zinc demand is higher. But if you take the sauna frequently or you just exercise regularly, you're also likely to lose more zinc through sweat, and the zinc can also counteract some of the stress. So, the clear message is, number one, don't be deficient in zinc. And number two, if you are deficient in zinc, you can expect to see an increase in testosterone by fixing your zinc status. As I shared earlier, zinc's testosterone boosting effects plateau around 90 micrograms per deciliter for serum zinc level. If you're below that, you could be boosting your testosterone slightly. The lower your zinc, the higher you can get your testosterone by increasing zinc status. So how much zinc do you need? The recommended daily allowance for zinc is 11 milligrams per day for men and 8 to 9 milligrams per day for women. Severe zinc deficiency isn't very common, but many are subclinically zinc deficient. In most countries, people are eating enough zinc from foods. It's not hard to reach the RDA for zinc from regular foods. Meat, seafood, oysters, dairy, eggs, nuts, seeds are all high in zinc. Even only 100 grams of red meat gives you 5 to 9 milligrams of zinc, and pumpkin seeds give 7 to 8 milligrams. A single oyster also gives you up to 8 to 10 milligrams of zinc. So it's virtually impossible for someone to be zinc deficient unless they're eating a very low-coloured diet. The bigger problem, and one of the reasons why people might be zinc deficient, is that there are certain factors that reduce zinc absorption. Gut problems and intestinal malabsorption conditions like sickle cell anemia, inflammatory bowel disease and crone disease. Infections like hookworm, kidney disease and liver disease, heavy metal toxicity, obesity and diabetes, they all reduce zinc absorption. In the studies that I mentioned, supplementing 250 milligrams of zinc is quite a lot. I know a lot of people watching this are eager to try it out. They're gonna just try taking 250 or 600 milligrams of zinc like in the study in the beginning. But you need to be aware of some of the side effects of supplementing high amounts of zinc. 250 milligrams of zinc sulfate gives you around 55 to 60 milligrams of elemental zinc. That's slightly above the tolerable upper limit of 40 milligrams per day. Exes zinc can reduce copper absorption, which can lead to anemia as well as immune dysfunction. High amounts of zinc can also cause GI stress, abdominal pain and diarrhea. You'll probably also have a metallic taste in your mouth if you take too much zinc. For general health and supporting some hormones, an intake of around 10 to 25 milligrams of zinc is gonna be enough. These mega doses are gonna be suitable for specific conditions of severe zinc deficiency. Overall, zinc is a very important mineral not only for hormones. And if you're a zinc deficient, your testosterone will clearly suffer. I don't think everyone needs to take a zinc supplement. Most people probably don't because they can get the zinc from their diet. But zinc is a pretty research supplement because it's so common. If you want to know how I rank a hundred other supplements from Worst the Best, then check out this video next.