 changinghthththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththt there are obviously millions of things in the world that could harm our health, but there's also the effect of how big of an effect does it have on our health. So let's say, compared to diabetes, drinking from a plastic bottle is not that big of a concern on your health in the grand scheme of things. Yes, you shouldn't want to drink plastic bottle water all the time, but having diabetes is immensely more harmful to your health. And if you were to look at the association with future mortality, then diabetes would have insanely higher amounts of increased risk of mortality and increased risk of heart disease compared to drinking from a plastic bottle, especially infrequently. So there's no specific study looking at the plastic bottle and mortality risk, but you get the point that if you were to actually look at scientifically how much of an effect something would have on your long-term health risks than things like diabetes, smoking, obesity, having kidney disease, those excess alcohol consumption, those things are significantly worse for their health than eating ramen noodles or eating ginger noodles or something like that. So I should probably make a longer form video and actually look at more studies, specific studies on this and try to grade different factors and different things that could harm your health and see, okay, what is actually harmful for you, what is significantly harmful for you and what is kind of just, you know, like a wellness trend in terms of improving your health and how much does it actually harm your health. But I can off the top of my head say that, you know, smoking is associated with up to 13,000% increased risk of lung cancer. So if you smoke, then that's an insanely higher risk of lung cancer compared to, you know, let's say breathing polluted air. So if you live in a city, the air is slightly more polluted. Yes, it's not the most optimal for your health, but compared to smoking, you know, it's still very small increased risk of lung cancer or just other kind of health problems. Smoking is insanely more harmful for your health. Yes, you should try to breathe as clean air as possible. You know, it's obviously not always likely that you'll be able to do that, but we need to be realistic and we also need to be aware of how big of an effect something really is on your health. But I can give you a list of some of the top factors that I think can move the needle the most for your health and what should be like a priority that you focus on. So number one, I think, you know, yeah, obviously don't smoke, don't drink insane amounts of alcohol, don't sleep your private self, don't experience these circadian mismatches frequently, don't be overweight, don't be obese. Those everyone knows already, but like more detailed, more nuanced factors, I would say having a high VO2 max is based on the studies, one of the biggest predictors of survival, especially later in life, people with a higher VO2 max have significantly lower risk of mortality and low risk of heart disease, low risk of other diseases as well, compared to people with a low VO2 max. And of course, you can get caught up in the minutia of, okay, is it actually training the VO2 max that's good for you, or is it associated with just overall healthy lifestyle? Or, you know, you can get caught up in that kind of discussion, but based on the data, just having a high VO2 max, you know, regardless of how you achieve it, will, will it is associated with a lower mortality and the differences are quite large. For example, people with a low VO2 max, somewhere around 20 milliliters per kilogram per minute, which is quite bad. And if you compare to people with A-50 milliliters per kilogram per minute VO2 max, that's up to a fourfold difference in mortality risk, which is a huge amount. It's much bigger than anything related to diet and it rivals smoking. It's not as bad as smoking, but it's pretty, pretty high up there if you look at it that way. So I would say everyone should have the goal of trying to keep their VO2 max over 50 milliliters per kilogram per minute. Maybe if it's slightly higher than that, could be better, but 50 should be kind of the benchmark or the minimal threshold you want to aim for. Second, I would say visceral fat. So yes, obesity, excess body fat in general is harmful, is more harmful for men than it is for women. But for both men and women, visceral fat is harmful. So it doesn't matter if your visceral fat is excessively high. It doesn't matter if you're following a healthy diet or you're just healthy overall. If you have excessive amounts of visceral fat, then it is still on the subterranean level harming your health. So the fat around the organs, it's what damages the organ functions the most. It's what spreads the most inflammation compared to other types of fat. So you do want to keep our visceral fat also quite low. And having a low visceral fat is characteristic of good health. People with healthier lifestyles tend to have lower visceral fat. And what is a good amount? So in a general population, middle-aged people, younger people, the normal visceral fat tends to be somewhere in the range of 400 to 500, 600 grams. So 400 to 600 range is the general population. And it increases with age. So it's expected to increase the older you get. And I think as a general health goal, you want to keep your visceral fat at least below 300 grams and more optimally below 250 grams. So I don't think you need to go as little as 50 grams. Like I had a year ago right now, it's like 100 grams. So it's probably like a still a healthy sweet spot, somewhere between 50 to 150 grams maybe. So I don't think you need to deliberately get to, you know, 150 grams of visceral fat, but you should at least get it to below 300 and more optimally below 250 grams. How can you measure the visceral fat? Well, an easy way to do it is with a DEXA scan, but MRI is slightly more accurate, but the DEXA scan is good enough. Next up, I would say having a higher omega-3 index because there's a lot of evidence from several studies showing that high omega-3 index is associated with lower dementia, lower heart disease, lower mortality, lower Alzheimer's, and it's very consistent phenomenon. Now, yes, you can have a high omega-3 index, not only because of taking an omega-3 supplement, can also be some other healthy lifestyle factors. But if you look at regions with the highest omega-3 index, then these regions just consume a lot of seafood and fish, for example, Japan, they have one of the highest omega-3 index in the world. They have it 8 to 12% and only 10% of the Japanese population is eating less than the recommended daily allowance for omega-3s. So only 10% of Japanese people consume less than 500 milligrams of omega-3s per day, whereas in America and most of Europe, it's 90% of people aren't consuming enough omega-3s. So you can see a clear reason why Americans have an omega-3 index of 4% and Japanese have an omega-3 index of 8 to 12%. The Japanese just eat insanely more. The Japanese people just eat a lot more omega-3s and seafood, which is why their omega-3 index is also higher. And based on the evidence out there, I think it's a very impactful effect on your risk of future heart disease and Alzheimer's and dementia because the evidence is very consistent that a high omega-3 index is associated with a lower risk of these future diseases. And how do you increase your omega-3 index? First of all, you can take a blood test to measure it, but how do you increase it? Just eating more seafood and omega-3s can be also algae, can be some plant foods like walnuts, chia seeds, they can contain omega-3s, although some individuals genetically aren't able to convert it into the DHA. So therefore, you need to be aware of your best thing to do to measure and see whether or not chia seeds or walnuts can increase your omega-3 index. But for most people, it's going to be easiest to consume just seafood, sea vegetables plus fish, and possibly supplement like omega-3 supplement. The next thing is low inflammation. So having low CRP levels is also associated with reduced mortality, reduced Alzheimer's, reduced diabetes, reduced kidney disease, reduced heart disease. So inflammation is at the crux of pretty much all chronic diseases and low CRP levels typically reflect lower inflammation stats. Now, CRP isn't the only inflammatory marker. You've got a lot of other inflammatory markers as well, but CRP is the most common one. It's the cheapest one to test and it can have the best systematic overview of your inflammation status. It can be the most universal. Because if you have slightly more visceral fat, you have a slightly worse diet, you sleep worse, or you have just an overall unhealthier lifestyle, then your CRP levels typically tend to be above, even not like above the normal range, but higher than what would be optimal. Because CRP, even within the normal reference range, lower is better. So the normal reference range actually doesn't provide you with the lowest mortality risk and the lowest risk of these chronic diseases. With CRP, as low as possible is the most optimal reference range. So CRP less than 0.2 milligrams per liter is the sweet spot for the best health outcomes and as close to zero as possible. The thing with CRP is that if you go to the labs, then the laboratory has different cutoff points for CRP. Some labs just measure only to 0.5. Some do it to only one. Others do 0.2 or 0.1. So they can go more granular or more specific with the measurement. So yeah, if the lab just cuts off at 0.5, it doesn't mean that you have higher than optimal CRP. It just means that the lab might be cutting it short before going into the more specifics. But yeah, if you can get a very specific result, so 0.2 below that would be the sweet spot and 0.1 would be the best. Once I measured a very specific result, it was 0.01. So I think you can't even get closer than that. Another thing is muscle strength. So people know that muscle strength is associated with longevity. People who are healthier tend to have slightly more muscle and better muscle strength compared to the general population. Of course, you can take it too far. If you're a powerlifter or bodybuilder taking steroids, you're insanely strong, but you're generally going to shorten your life as well because of the anabolic steroids. So within the normal, I guess, possibility of human physiology without using any anabolic steroids, the higher muscle strength tends to be better for overall health. Now, the reason why the strength matters is because first of all, if you have muscle strength, then you're exercising regularly. And if you exercise regularly, you're getting the benefits from exercise. If you exercise regularly, you're activating these different pathways that lower inflammation, improve your metabolic health, lower visceral fat, they lower your blood pressure, they activate these anti-aging pathways in the body that are linked to lifespan extension in animals, et cetera, like AMPK, autophagy, serotin, et cetera. So, you know, there's a wide reason why exercise and resistance training is good for you. And you exercise regularly, you're activating these pathways, which is why it's going to be good for you. And second of all, the muscle strength is going to be protective against falls in the future. If you're an elderly person, you're more likely to fall because your balance worsens with age, your stability worsens with age, your mobility worsens with age. So you're more likely to fall off the stairs. You're more likely to trip on something. You're more likely to trip on the ice. And with my higher muscle strength, you're less likely to fall, first of all. And if you are likely to fall, you're less likely to get a hip fracture because of increased muscle density and increased bone density. So yeah, just having more muscle and more strength is good for you. Now, how much is too much? You know, it's hard to say. There's no specific study actually looking at that. I would say, you know, I like to base it on like how much muscle and strength is good. I like to base it on BMI. So BMI is not a very good estimation of your body fat percentage. You can be very lean and be overweight with a BMI because you have more muscle, but a BMI can, on the extremes, be still accurate. So if you have a BMI of 30, then, and you have muscle as well, but in this situation with a BMI of 30, you probably have too much fat as well. If you have a BMI of, let's say, 26, 27, you're lean with muscle, then, you know, that's reasonable. You're not carrying extra body fat. You just have a little bit more muscle. But to reach a BMI of 30, then first of all, you would need to be taking anabolic steroids to have such insane amounts of muscle to have a BMI of 30 with low body fat. Or the second scenario is that, okay, yes, you have some muscle tissue, but you're also carrying a little bit too much body fat. So being this kind of a chunky strong man or a chunky powerlifter, if that makes sense. So, you know, you wouldn't want to have very high BMI, even if it's muscle because excess weight overall. I like to say that bodybuilders are like obese people with cardiomegaly. So they have enlarged heart because of the muscle tissue and increased muscle mass, but they're also just obese in terms of their BMI. Yes, they are lower body weight or lower body fat, but their body weight is disproportionately higher. And the increased weight, the increased muscle tissue is wearing down their organs over the course of decades. So even if you're sub 10% body fat, having too much muscle tissue that will put your BMI at like 30, I think it's harmful. So if you have muscle tissue, then try to keep your BMI still like 27 with low body fat. That will be like the kind of the higher limit, in my opinion, to assess whether or not you're having too much muscle mass for your height and your BMI, if that makes sense. So my BMI right now is 25.5. I'm pretty lean. I'm maybe around 10% body fat usually. So my BMI 25.5, I have a decent amount of muscle, but I'm not trying to pack on more. I'm trying to keep it around this. So yeah, that's what I'm focusing on. And the last important factor is probably having good mental health. I think it's very underrated. So it's debatable whether or not having good mental health has a causal role in making you live longer on and having longevity benefits and improving your health. Partly it probably has because you'll have lower stress hormones, you'll have higher happiness hormones. So these neurochemicals do have like a direct impact on your physiology. But I think it's also just that if you are healthier and happier, then you will make healthier decisions. You're more motivated to do the healthy things and you'll just enjoy it as well. So if you hate being healthy or you have just bad mental health for whatever reason, then you're just less likely to actually do the things that keep you healthy, if that makes sense. So yeah, having good mental health is important. And what is one of the biggest source of mental health is usually relationships for most people, social isolation, loneliness. Those things are associated with depression, anxiety, and poor mental health. Just having a good social relationships, quality relationships, it doesn't have to be like a large amount of relationship. You don't need to have hundreds of friends. But feeling isolated and feeling that your social needs aren't being met, that's the core of loneliness and social isolation. So it's more about whether or not you feel you have access to support, social support, if you want to. So you don't need to get it. But if you feel that you can't have any support from anyone, then that's in research. That is what's characterized as being socially isolated and feeling more lonely. It's not about how much you socialize or how much you interact with people. It's more about how much support you feel you have. And this is very subjective, this how much you feel the support. I want to take a quick break to let you know about the Red Light Hat by Boncharge, which a lot of people have been waiting for a long time. Basically, you're getting some red light therapy on your scalp. It's a regular cap and it just gives you the specific wavelengths of red light that will help with the hair growth and the collagen synthesis in the scalp. Boncharge also has a lot of different types of red light therapy devices like the face mask, which actually has specific studies on where they use split face experiments and they show that the LED red light face masks do improve skin wrinkles and collagen synthesis in the skin. But yeah, Boncharge has a ton of different red light therapy devices as well that they've come out with over the course of years. So this Red Light Hat is the newest one. It's pretty good. I kind of wear it in the mornings just to help with hair growth a little bit. And they obviously also have regular red light panels, the big ones that you're going to sit in front of and also get benefits on your skin, as well as overall energy. Check out the Boncharge red light therapy devices and their new red light hat at boncharge.com forward slash seamland for 15% discount. Next question, what is your take on glycine? I saw that Physionic made a few videos showing that it can increase cancer. I did check out the Physionic video and the video didn't say that glycine increases cancer and the study he referenced also didn't claim that it showed that glycine and serine restriction was helpful for colon cancer patients. So the interesting thing about glycine is that cancers can use it for their own survival. It's not that glycine is promoting cancer, it's that the cancer is utilizing glycine for its own growth. And the same was a few months ago or last year was with taurine as well. They saw that taurine increased cancer. Well, that wasn't the case. It was more so that the cancer used taurine to survive. So the issue with these kind of studies is that people get caught up with the association with the glycine and the cancer, but they fail to realize that the relationship between them isn't that the glycine was increasing or causing the cancer. It was more so that cancer was just stealing resources from the body and using glycine as one of them to survive. And cancers are just so, you know, incredibly clever and they're very tricky. They can use almost any nutrient in the body for their own survival. They can use protein, they can use glucose, they can use ketones, they can use the process of autophagy, which is the cellular clearance protein, clearance process to also scavenge the material for their own survival. They can use the process of angiogenesis, which is the growth of blood vessels for survival. So, you know, growing blood vessels, I think it's an important thing for survival for your own body. You need angiogenesis to a certain extent, but the cancers can use the angiogenesis process for their own survival. They can use autophagy, which is seen to extend lifespan in animals and it's important to, you know, clear out cellular debris. It can use autophagy for its own survival. Glycine is, you know, generally beneficial for your body in terms of helping with glycine synthesis, collagen synthesis, creatine synthesis, etc. But in certain situations, it can be harmful. The same with taurine. Taurine has been seen to have benefits in humans for lipids, blood pressure, exercise performance, etc. But in certain situations, the cancer can use it. So, no, it doesn't mean that glycine is causing cancer. It's more so that the cancer is just so tricky and it adapts always. It's always adapting to the environment, which is your body, and it tries to survive. So, the lesson here is that, okay, maybe if you have cancer or you're at an increased risk of cancer, don't take glycine. But it doesn't mean that you should stop taking glycine if you don't have cancer. So, yeah. It's more a lesson in the adaptability of cancers in and of itself. The cancers are just very clever and tricky and it's hard to overcome them, obviously. So, you know, you can find dozens of different healthy nutrients out there that in some way can promote cancer growth, but they're not necessarily implicated in causing cancer. Next question. Is there any evidence that supplements can affect brain health like creatine omega-3s impact cognitive functions such as IQ scores? There is a big difference between just short-term cognitive function like attention, short-term memory, and focus, and those things versus IQ. IQ is more like a standardized test and it's not, it's more resistant to short-term changes. So, if you, you know, let's say, take a supplement that increases your short-term cognition. You know, there's all, there are some supplements out there that do that. You know, let's say creatine can short-term, especially after sleep deprivation and after a stress to improve your cognition, it's not going to actually increase your IQ in the short-term. So, the long-term increase in IQ is more a matter of, you know, education. You can, yes, in small amounts move the IQ. There is some, you know, evidence that longer education, just learning new things increases IQ slightly. There is some effect on your nutrition as well. If you are severely deficient in certain nutrients, let's say, especially during developmental years, it's more important in the early period of life. Like, iodine deficiency can cause mental developmental issues as well as cognitive issues. So, especially during pregnancy and early in life, making sure that the child gets enough iodine. Omega-3s also have that role iron, you know, creatine probably as well to a certain extent, but creatine, yeah, is a more like acute short-term cognitive enhancer. And it mostly applies if you're in deficient deficiency of, if you've been under some sleep stress or just sleep deprivation. B vitamins are important in the developmental years. And if you are deficient in certain micronutrients, then that can, it just hinders your IQ, hinders your cognitive function. If you start supplementing B vitamins and, let's say, omega-3s, or you just eat more of these foods that contain iron and et cetera, you're not going to essentially increase your IQ. You can only bring back to your normal baseline, if that makes sense. So, if as an adult, you're deficient in creatine or B vitamins or iron or some iodine or omega-3s, et cetera, you can experience some aspects of mental health issues or there's some evidence that depression, like if you have low B vitamins that can give symptoms of depression and, you know, it can give symptoms of cognitive deficits, but it's not really going to enhance your IQ above what's your baseline, if that makes sense, these supplements. For actually increasing IQ, then the most impactful thing is education and the evidence for something like brain games and problem solving, these kind of mental games, it's much weaker. So, the biggest thing is education and, you know, actually learning new skills and learning new things. Can you update us about your current thinking on how the best to exploit autophagy for healthspan? What are the best routines to incorporate throughout the years to optimize autophagy? Yes. So, I was one of the OGs of autophagy YouTubing back in the day, like 2018, 2019. I established myself quite well with creating content on autophagy. I wrote a book on it, Metabolic Autophagy. Obviously, I'm not like some PhD in autophagy, but, you know, I was thinking about it a lot. I was researching a lot. To this day, it's a very important thing. And in 2021, one dysfunctional autophagy was categorized as a new hallmark of aging. So, you could say I was ahead of the curve in that sense. But what I think about autophagy right now, what are the things to optimize it for overall health? I think it's still an incredibly vital process to health and agility. The most important thing is to just, I think the most impactful period of autophagy optimization is in your deep sleep in conjunction with melatonin. So, what you want to do is pretty much have the sleeping hours be optimized for recovery and cellular clearance, cellular cleaning. So, melatonin, it's a powerful antioxidant. It conducts bone growth, but conducts physical repair, memory retention, brain detoxification from various compounds via the lymphatic system, helps to squeeze out even microplastics from the brain via the lymphatic system. So, melatonin is absolute king of physical repair and mental repair in your sleep. And autophagy is also one of those processes that gets coordinated with melatonin in your sleep. So, sleeping in pitch black darkness, having absolutely zero artificial lights in your bedroom that would reach your eyes or reach your brain in some other ways. So, the best way to use like a sleep mask, you know, if you have some blinking smoking detector or something, then yes, you could put like a duct tape over it, but you could also wear a sleep mask. I think it's safer to just still eliminate all possible light sources like on like the power cord, like some sort of a smartphone light, TV light, you know, there's red dots on the TV. If your laptop is charging and the other side of the room, there's the lighting, the charging light is on, you know, those small things, you might think that they don't matter, but they matter quite a lot. So, exposure to artificial light in your sleep is associated with a whole host of health problems. So, you should sleep in as dark room as possible. And, you know, on top of that, wear a sleep mask as well to be absolutely sure. So, that's the most important thing, I think, for autophagy clearance. Maybe that has changed over the last, you know, when I was researching autophagy before. I think that, I think I've prioritized a lot more the deep sleep recovery with melatonin. And I think that's a lot more important because your body, yes, you know, it conducts a lot of different repair processes during the daytime as well that, you know, it has like anti-inflammatory processes during the daytime if you consume certain foods, et cetera. But, you know, the peak of repair, peak of anti-aging occurs in your sleep, in your deep sleep with melatonin. Exercise is important still and cardiovascular exercise, I think, is more potent for autophagy regulation than resistance training, although both exercises will do that. So, doing some form of low-intensity aerobic exercise as well as some high-intensity interval training. High-intensity interval training will increase autophagy faster than low-intensity exercise. So, if you do some sprints, you're expected to get autophagy much faster than you're walking or cycling at low-intensity for that matter. Other things like eating and fasting is obviously very important. Calorie restriction is important. You know, I still confine my eating window in certain time frame. Nowadays, I have probably like a six-hour eating window. So, from the first meal that I have to the last meal. So, that's pretty similar that was in the past. I don't think you need to squeeze all your food into one hour or one meal a day. There's no evidence that it's better. And with extended fasting as well, you know, it arguably will upregulate autophagy, but you will also do that with things like exercise, things like having very deep sleep, supplementing melatonin potentially, just being in a calorie deficit, doing the sauna, all these things increase autophagy. So, there's, you know, no evidence that you need to do some extended fasting to gain benefits of autophagy. And extended fasting might have some negative side effects as well in your health. You might lose muscle. You might have some lower thyroid, etc. So, it's not always better, if that makes sense. And, yeah, I think my, you know, daily autophagy routine just involves some time after eating. I make sure that I stop eating earlier so I could have more melatonin produced by the gut before bed. So, the gut produces a lot of melatonin. And for that, it's better to be fasted. I just have like an emptier stomach rather than a full stomach. And I get very good deep sleep. I exercise during the daytime. I get some sunlight that regulates melatonin production as well as autophagy. And do the sauna quite regularly as well. Yet, there's certain nutrients or certain compounds like green tea increases autophagy. Coffee polyphenols increase autophagy. Various polyphenols in fruits, vegetables, and olive oil increase autophagy. So, yeah, I eat those foods regularly. Next question, what's your thought about total plasma exchange, young plasma exchange? Yeah, so this is the new anti-aging treatment that's becoming popular right now. It's also very expensive. I think it's up to $10,000 in the US. And there was a recent study that showed the biological age score decreased after doing the total plasma exchange. But, you know, this doesn't mean almost anything because you can see those same effects probably if you were to do some calorie restriction for a few days or a few weeks and, you know, following a healthy lifestyle as well. So, just, you know, exchanging the plasma, yes, you're just taking out the, I guess, like junk material in the plasma. So, yes, the plasma looks younger, but it doesn't really translate over to overall lower biological age. At least there's no evidence that it does so right now. So, yeah, it's hard to say if this short-term changes in clearing the plasma or exchanging it, whether or not it actually translates into long-term health improvements. Now, the plasma exchange and certain of these apheresis procedures that filter the blood or filter the plasma, they are being used for certain medical conditions. So, they're used for certain autoimmune conditions. And they clearly work in some aspects of, like, lowering certain antibodies or lowering inflammation. So, maybe it will have long-term effects as well. But then the question is how frequently would you need to do it? Right now, these, I guess, health enthusiasts and influencers or biohackers, they're doing it maybe once a year, twice a year or something like that. But is it enough? Because, yeah, you might do the total plasma exchange. You might do some other apheresis types and procedures. But how long will it last? Is it going to last only one, two days? Or is it going to last few weeks, few months? I don't necessarily have the answer to that. So, the question is, yeah, how frequently should you do it? Or what is the optimal frequency to do it? Is it something that you would need to do, like, every few months? You know, then the problem is that it's super expensive. So, yeah, those are my thoughts. I think it's very interesting that it probably has some biological effect. But, you know, it doesn't replace the other health fundamentals. I think it's more relevant in people with certain medical conditions, certain ultimate conditions, certain inflammatory conditions as a short-term therapeutic to improve their condition. But an otherwise healthy person might need less of that. Yeah, some people use it just to, you know, filter out microplastics or that's their goal. But you can also filter out microplastics with cheaper aphoresis methods, just the regular aphoresis, EBO, extracorporeal blood, osegyination and oxygenation. That's one form of this. It's not the same as the total plasma exchange. But that one also theoretically helps with microplastics and it's a lot cheaper. So, yes, you know, I wouldn't say that most people probably need to do it. But it's kind of a luxury therapy in that sense that it might make people feel good about it, that they feel that they're cleaning their blood and cleaning their plasma. But the actual value for that is maybe a bit more limited or it's significantly lower than the value of, you know, maybe even doing like a fasting mimicking diet or something else like that. That is a lot cheaper and provides similar, not similar, but, you know, provides different types of health benefits in the short term, if that makes sense. Next question. Do you use injectable NAD or gluathane? No, I definitely don't use injectable NAD or gluathane. I haven't used it myself. And to be honest, I'm not really interested in using injectable NAD. First of all, I'm young. I don't have NAD problems. I have high energy on a daily basis. And if I wanted to increase my NAD levels, I would use some cheaper NAD supplements like niacinamide, even NMN or NR, but niacinamide already does the trick. And, you know, earlier I said that things can oftentimes promote survival of cancer. The same applies to NAD. The cancer can, there is evidence that cancers can use NAD as well for their own survival. So, I'm not saying that injectable NAD or NAD supplements would increase the risk of cancer, but it's just something that, you know, the risk-reward ratio is not there for me. So, I'm not interested in NAD IV or NAD injections because I don't need it. And there's no potential benefit to it either. And I think it's important to realize that NAD isn't a molecule that the more, the better that you need to increase your NAD the same way you want to increase your VO2max or muscle strength or something like that. Yes, you know, VO2max also probably has a point of diminishing returns because you, to have a super high VO2max, you need to be training a lot. But with NAD, you can bypass the effort. Most people will not have a very high VO2max because it takes a lot of effort. But NAD injections or just a lot of supplements that you can gain, get intravenously in large quantities like glutathione, larger muscle vitamin C or NAD, they can have oftentimes more harmful effects if taken in large doses and there's no like necessity for it. I'm not saying that this is the case with NAD, but I'm just saying that the idea that you need to have more NAD is not true oftentimes, you know, whether or not you need actually NAD depends if you have low NAD or if you're under some sort of fatigue or under some sort of physiological stress like jet lag or sleep deprivation or just chronic stress. So in those situations, yes, you might benefit from short term boost for lack of a better words from NAD, but it's not a linear relationship that the higher the NAD, the better and the more NAD you take, the better it is. Next question, what can we do if time restricted eating and calorie restriction increases cortisol too much? I was already lean and for a year it was great, but now my morning cortisol is always high and I wake up a lot during sleep. Anything that you can do in excess can be harmful. So too much exercise can raise cortisol too much. Or, you know, I think it's important that one of the benefits of exercise come from the increased cortisol, at least in the short term. So the cortisol is often depicted as a bad guy, but cortisol has essential roles in the body. You need cortisol. In the morning, cortisol helps to kickstart your circadian rhythm and gives you energy and alertness. If you feel tired in the morning, then that can often be that your body isn't producing enough cortisol. Cortisol helps with fat oxidation and the cortisol mediates some of the benefits you get from exercise as well. People who produce more cortisol, if the exercise yields a higher cortisol response, then you might, at least in some studies, you get more benefits. But yeah, the problem is that if the cortisol is chronically elevated or it's elevated at the wrong time. So if the cortisol is elevated before bed, then you'll have a harder time falling asleep. You'll wake up more often, et cetera. If cortisol is elevated throughout the day, you'll just be chronically stressed out, anxious and worn out. So the issue is how much cortisol. Now, for you, you've identified that time-restricted eating and calorie restriction is keeping your body in a heightened state of stress and higher cortisol levels, then maybe take a break, right? So if you said you're already lean, then maybe you're getting too lean. So then just eat more food. If that doesn't fix it, then change the eating window. So the first important thing is the food intake. That can move the needle the most. If you're lean, then stop doing calorie restriction, eat a little bit more food, and see if that fix it. Then you move on with the timing of when you eat. If the food quantity didn't fix it, then maybe you're fasting too long. Your body is currently in a spot where it can't handle going for longer periods of time without eating. So then just introduce a snack, extend your eating window, have breakfast on some days of the week, et cetera. Then you can tinker with the macros. So usually carbohydrates are more anti-cortisol, carbohydrates lower cortisol, and simple sugars tend to do that quite easily because carbohydrates, they raise insulin, they signal your body that there's food abundance. So calorie restriction is harmful for your body because it detects, so excess calorie restriction leads to starvation, and that the signal there is low insulin, low IGF-1, low protein synthesis, so your body thinks that it's starving if you're in chronic calorie restriction. So the cortisol comes from the low insulin and low IGF-1 signaling. In this scenario, if your body hasn't switched into ketosis, but introducing the carbohydrates can raise insulin and it can tell your body that it's not experiencing famine and it's not experiencing starvation. So just increasing the carbohydrate intake can help with that. Carbohydrates for dinner can oftentimes improve your sleep, so they raise a serotonin. Which then gets converted to melatonin. And they also allow tryptophan to get into the brain. So if there's a lot of amino acids in your bloodstream, then the tryptophan can't enter the brain. So with elevation in insulin, like a small insulin elevation, the carbohydrates or the insulin helps to clear the bloodstream from the other amino acids and tryptophan gets to the brain, which then gets converted to serotonin and then melatonin. And carbohydrates can also make you more sleepy and drowsy, so you'll sleep better. So having just a high carb meal for dinner can oftentimes just make you very relaxed and docile in a good way. It lowers your cortisol, makes you fall asleep more. But then, you know, there's other things as well in your life that can increase the cortisol. Things like just work stress, too much exercise, too much sauna or too much cold, whatever the case is. So there's obviously a lot of things that can raise your cortisol, not just time-treated eating or calorie restriction. But I think the order of things, how would I approach it, you can try to replicate. So the first, increase your calories. If that doesn't work, change your eating window, introduce carbohydrates, etc. And the final question of the podcast is, what's your opinion on mini trampolines? Seems like exercising on them come with a lot of benefits, but not a lot of people talk about them. What are your thoughts? Yes, there is evidence that mini trampolines can improve bone density. They can also improve VO2 max. Now, I would expect that the benefits on bone density and VO2 max are more significant in people with low baseline VO2 max and low bone density. So if you're already, you know, in top 5% of VO2 max and bone density for your age, then you're probably going to get less benefits from the mini trampolines. But if your, you know, your bone density is below the standard deviation, below the norm, then you probably will see some benefits on bone density, for example. And if you have low VO2 max, just the small aerobic exercise can also increase your VO2 max. I like to do the mini trampoline because of the lymphatic drainage. So if you're jumping, you're stimulating the lymph flow, you're helping with, you know, the soleus pushup as well, pumping the blood up. So I think everyone should do some form of rebounding on a daily basis. Now, it doesn't have to be a trampoline. You can also just, you know, you can bounce up and down in your room as well or outside, but to get, you know, the lymph flow going. So yes, regular walking can support lymph flow, but it is probably less effective than actually rebounding or just slightly jumping up and down. So yeah, I think some small mini trampoline in the backyard can be quite a good idea. I think that would, at least I would have it in like a, in a perfect home. All right, thanks for watching this video. If you want to know how I rank 100 hill habits from where's the best, then check out this video next.