In 2016, there was a very popular video on YouTube about a vegan powerlifter who ate only one meal a day. I realized I never actually made a video about him back then, but I wanted to see if he's still around. So, that's why I'm making this video. Meet Dr. Nun Savasiva Amenra, or as he likes to call himself, the architecton. >> Greetings all. I am Dr. Nun Savashiva Ammonra, the architecton. If you scroll through his Facebook page, you get the vibes of an ancient Egyptian magician. You have different hieroglyphic scriptures, a scarab idol, a big magic staff, multiple wives, hooded meditations, and a samurai katana. I think it's the wrong timeline. He's definitely a very interesting and mysterious character. Dr. Amenra, he's not a doctor of some medicine. He's a doctor of public health. So, don't get confused with that. Amen's main goal is anti-aging and life extension. He eats one meal a day in the evening after lifting weights and he eats all vegan food. Now, there's no information online about his exact age, but in the 2016 video, he said he had been doing this protocol for 15 years. So, now in 2025, it would be 25 years ago. At minimum, he's 45 years old and at maximum, he could be 50. However, it's also hard to take his exact word on this because he reposts old images all the time and I've never actually seen specific photos of him 25 years ago. So, I don't know which part of his story is true. Here's a picture of him in 2010. And here's his physique of him in June 2025, 15 years later. Now, he has visibly lost some size. As you can see from this picture, his skin is a bit more saggy and stretched out, indicating that his arms and shoulders were bigger before. So, he has lost muscle as he's gotten older, which is normal. Or it might be the 1 me day catching up on him after 10 years. He's competing in the American Drug-Free Powerlifting Federation. Now, this would be a claim that he's natural and he's never taken any steroids, but it's not. You can easily fake steroid tests by timing them perfectly. Lance Armstrong was doping for over a decade at Tour to France without getting caught before he admitted to taking performance-enhancing drugs. And this smaller federation isn't going to come in your house at 3:00 a.m. to get a P test because the stakes aren't that high. Now, I do think that it might be possible that he's natural because he clearly has good genetics, but it's just very unlikely with his lifestyle and diet. Amen. Ra definitely didn't grow into his muscle from this routine. He built his muscle and strength much sooner with probably a regular more conventional bodybuilding diet and potentially some performance-enhancing drugs. And now he's just maintaining his strength with his one meal a day approach. I've also done one meal a day in the past, different versions of it, different eating windows. And what I found was that eating specifically one meal a day within 1 hour as Aman RA does it is very difficult to build muscle and strength. I did it for over a year and I saw no improvements. Only after I introduced the second protein shake to my day. So I had two protein meals per day, I was able to start building muscle and strength. I don't think you need to eat six or even three meals a day to build muscle. But just single one meal a day is probably too hard. You need at least two meals. And I think all of Amen Ra's followers also have this problem. If you look online, then none of his devotees who practice his regimen look like him. None of them are as jacked and muscular as Amen Ra, which is not surprising. All right, so let's take a look at what he's eating. It entails a daily fast of 23 hours in duration. Caloric restriction that is we consume approximately 1,00 to,500 calories a day. >> He basically eats one meal a day in the evening within 1 hour and drinks tea during the day. Here's what his meal looks like. Tomatoes, avocados, nuts, apples, mushrooms, seeds, herbs, etc. Here's another picture. looks like rice crackers, dates or figs, tomatoes, presumably vegan cheese, dark rye bread, dark chocolate or cacao nibs and nuts. >> And then there is the minor meal. And the minor meal is nothing more than a dessert. Typically nuts, dried fruit, often what you might call peanut butter and jelly sandwiches or peanut butter and nessubot sandwiches. >> That doesn't look like a lot of calories, which is true. That's because Amin ra is deliberately eating only about 1500 calories a day. He believes that extreme calorie restriction has life extension benefits which it certainly has been shown to do in animals and because the human body is so adaptive your body can get used to a lower calorie intake over time. So you can maintain muscle mass on a very low calorie diet. Now he does appear to be drinking some amino acid drink that he calls the elixir which is essentially a mix of essential amino acids like leucine, isolucine, glutamine as well as creatine and protein powder. The first thing we consume when we break our 23 plus hour fast is what I call the almond amino elixir consisting of three protein sources. Soy, spirulina, brewer yeast, and ideally a dozen isolated amino acids. >> His workouts are mostly focused on powerlifting with some accessory exercises. He often posts videos of himself doing deadlifts where he's sitting there in silence seemingly meditating and then he goes and lifts the bar. He also does a few accessory exercises like bicep curls or del flies and some weighted balance exercises. What's my overall impression of Amenra? I think he's, you know, certainly very interesting and mysterious, but he's also strange and I don't know if he's, you know, taking himself too seriously. I'm not sure if he's faking his magician persona because he listens to like rap music while lifting weights, which isn't very spiritual of him. >> Now, I do think that he actually follows his lifestyle, that he does eat one meal a day and he lifts every day, etc. Maybe he eats more calories than that. Maybe he has an additional amino acid drink or more protein during the day. I don't know. This is the part that I don't really trust him about. He does sell his books, which are crazy expensive, $300 to $400 each, but I can't imagine he's making a lot of money off them because he doesn't have that big of a following. 14K on Facebook and 16K on YouTube. What I do think is that 95% of people wouldn't be able to follow this regimen and they wouldn't get the same results as Ammon Raw would. That's because he built his muscle and strength before starting the 1 me a day protocol. He was a bodybuilder and powerlifter way before he started his Amenra protocol and now he's just maintaining the muscle because he's not getting bigger and he's not getting that much stronger. The most beneficial lessons you can take away from Amanra is that lifting weights and more strength styles training is good for preserving muscle mass as you age and it supports metabolic health. I do agree with him about intermittent fasting. I think it's better to eat less than three meals a day rather than six or four meals a day. Now, animal research hasn't suggested that intermittent fasting is superior to regular calorie restriction in terms of life extension. And human research shows that intermittent fasting isn't superior for weight loss to regular calorie restriction either. If the calories are the same, intermittent fasting only supports life extension if you eat along the circadian rhythms. But Amenra actually eats at night, which is probably not the most optimal. If you are doing intermittent fasting, then you shouldn't eat too close to bed. And if you have an earlier dinner, you probably sleep better. And if you sleep better, you have better health. I agree with the idea that consuming different dietary polyphenols, herbs and spices and teas is good for you because they mimic calorie restriction and fasting to a certain extent. Next, he appears to be deliberately trying to slow down his metabolism by lowering his body temperature, lowering his calorie intake, and not wasting energy on unnecessary movements. That's why you see him walking and talking so slowly. Now, there is some research that lower calorie intake in animals extends lifespan, but it's not clear if it applies to humans. And at the end of the day, you need to think about what kind of life do you want to live. Do you want to be eating 1500 calories or 1,200 calories for the rest of your life hoping that it's going to add maybe 3 to 5 years to your life? Because that's the most that you can expect from this. Amen protocol isn't going to make him live 10, 20, 50 years longer. It might add only 3 to 5 years to his life. To extend our lifespan by 20, 30, 40, 50 years, we need some new type of technology such as gene editing or some other medicinal therapies that we don't know about yet. We need to discover them within the next few decades. So yes, maintaining good health and doing calorie restriction can improve your health right now, but it's not going to extend your life by decades. If you're looking for a realistic longevity routine that everyone can follow, then check out this video