Let's say the hallmarks of fatty liver are insulin resistance, high triglycerides, inflammation, and then gut microbiome imbalances. So for those individuals, they need to hear that you can optimize your diet, do smart things with your supplements, and hey, even walk 150 minutes a week and you can significantly reduce your liver fat content and reverse the condition. You don't necessarily need to lose 30 kilos. Welcome to the Sean podcast. Our guest today is Andy Dantis. Andy is a registered dietician in Toronto and he has a master's degree in public health nutrition. Andy, welcome to the show. Thank you so much for having me. I'm It's a pleasure to be here. Yeah, I'm happy to have you. And uh you talk a lot about uh the liver, which in a lot of ways is one of the most underrated organs in the body and it's definitely very important and it's also very like I guess unique in the sense that uh you know you could you know lose almost entire entirety of your liver and it would still be able to regenerate. Uh so which is not the case with like your heart or your brain even. So uh yeah maybe we can get started with um you know why is the liver you know so important when it comes to overall health. Yeah. Well the fact of the matter is the liver performs over 500 functions in the human body. Right. On a broad level some of those functions include carbohydrate metabolism, fat metabolism, protein metabolism, iron metabolism. It stores vitamin D. It stores other vitamins. But the most famous function and what it's most known for and you know pretend, you know, arguably its most important function is the uh the detoxification function, right? Because when blood and and I'm sure this will come out in today's discussion, but when blood throws flows through the digestive system, it goes to the liver next before it is suitable to enter the rest of the body. And there's a very important reason for that. It's because, you know, it needs to be detoxified. Certain things need to be recycled and so on. So that would be a glimpse of some of the liver's functionalities. Gotcha. Yeah. And how did you get involved with uh you know making liver your one of the main focuses? Yeah, it's a great question. Essentially what I found is I you know as a professional in the space of nutrition you know over a decade now having several books looked into broad areas helped people with many different issues. What I found is that liver health is a very good proxy for my philosophy, which by that I mean I have AI have a vision for what high level eating is. And if I want to share that vision broadly, well, I have a choice. I can talk about weight loss, which is relevant, but I don't love to put all my eggs in that basket. I could talk about general health, which is not always compelling, or I can speak about liver health. And now the liver, the health of the liver is compromised in a third of the population or more, you know, as it relates to fatty liver. So it just seems like a great proxy for me to send a positive message where people are compelled to listen and act. So that is the reason primarily and there are others, but that's the really big reason why I've chosen specialize on liver health. Yeah. And I guess in the modern world, there's just a lot more things that impose more stress on the liver. So like all these different environmental toxins, chemicals, uh bad diet, alcohol. So yeah, I guess more and more people's livers are overburdened. Yeah, theoretically that's absolutely true. I mean, we're exposed to more and more objects in the air, in our food, and elsewhere. And so the importance of the choices we make around lifestyle, diet, exercise, supplementation. It's not to say that those choices, the the relevance is changes or the nature of them changes, but they're more important because the stakes are higher. So I think that's fair to say. So maybe we can start with um something like that is um I guess more general. So um what would be something that people kind of should do as a foundation in the 21st century to you know keep their liver healthy and I guess maybe we can also backtrack of um you know what happens if you don't have your liver health optimal like what what other like diseases can you get and uh do actually people die to like u poor liver health? Yeah, it's a great question. So let me start with the the second question first. So just last month a study was published in a you know reputable cancer cancer journal and uh it found that fatty liver disease is now the number one cause of liver cancer in Sweden specifically. Now I would expect that as more data becomes available in the years months ahead that this will become a more abundant finding. Okay you having spoken to doctors in this area they expect that fatty liver disease for example will become the number one reason for liver transplant and so on. So the stakes are high in so far as if you don't take care of your liver health in the long term, you know, you can get cerosis, you can get liver cancer, etc. But if you get like a fatty liver diagnosis, it's not urgent in the short term. Now, part of your question is what happens in the medium term, which is between when you first get a diagnosis and between when really bad things happen. And that's a bit of a gray area. And the reason why is the number one symptom of fatty liver generally is fatigue, right? Which is a very general symptom which can occur for a variety of reasons, right? So it's not as if like you can you could have multiple reasons why you're tired and fatty liver could contribute to that. But more interestingly and this is actually the hard part is we don't know how does like slight malfunction in the liver manifest in terms of your daily life. One example I can give you is that what happens is when someone ends up with a fatty liver which is the most common thing to go wrong with the human liver right it affects one in three people globally and it will affect um 4 in 10 by 2050 I believe is the estimate what happens is if that goes unresolved then the liver can accumulate scar tissue right which is known as fibrosis and it becomes more stiff when that happens blood does not flow as well through the liver which means that the detox toxifying cells in the liver may be less likely to access that blood that's flowing through, which means theoretically more stuff is getting through your liver undetected, right? And so there could be an accumulative effect of that in terms of how that affects inflammation and your other body cells exposure to toxins, but that's very hard to quantify if we're being honest about it. Right. Right. So yeah, and so to the other point, and there's a lot of things I could say here, but if I had to give one quick piece of advice before elaborating, I would say really pay attention to the foods that influence your gut bacteria because as I said that the blood throws through the digestive tract, it goes to the liver next. So the state of the gut microbiome has a big role to play in the state of the liver as a result. Right. Can you like reverse that cerosis and the scarring? So the easy answer I would give is the worse it gets, the harder it is to reverse. And I think that's a fair statement because that is the case for the vast majority of health conditions. But in so far as can you reverse fatty liver disease, can you reduce the amount of fat content in your liver? Absolutely. Can you reduce the amount of scarring in your liver? Absolutely. Will that be harder to do the further along it gets? Also, absolutely. Gotcha. Yeah, makes sense. uh and and like why does the fat accumulate in the liver? What is like is there anything specific about it or um is there something um I guess uniquely damaging about it as well? Yeah. So there's a few different ways that we could look at this. The first is, you know, with any health condition, there's always a temptation to pick one item and to say this is it. This causes the problem, right? And for fatty liver disease, the item that comes up generally is fructose and specifically high fructose corn syrup, right? And so you'll you'll see there's there's the charts, right? The ecological that a fructose consumption goes up, fatty liver disease goes up. And of course there's limitations to comparisons of that nature. But what scientists believe is that and so high fructose corn syrup is found mostly in uh in North America, especially in pop for the most part. Sugar like sugar sweetened beverages, energy drinks and pop, right? So scientists speculate that fructose well first of all they know fructose is metabolized in the liver so it's unique and fructose may also negatively influence the gut microbiome right so and and that's a great connector of what I said so far but I will also say that the idea that pop alone like if you let's just say I drink three cans of of soda pop a day but otherwise I'm doing everything perfect in my life probably I'm not a candidate for fatty liver right realistically speaking fatty liver essentially It's a manifestation which is let's say 33% of it is genetic right so it's not hugely genetic and it's not and genetics are not irrelevant but just a manifestation of kind of less than optimal choices accumulating and it just so happened it manifested by fat being stored in your liver like you know uh the accumulation of like less than optimal choices around diet and lifestyle they manifest in different people in different ways right fatty liver is one of those ways it's an increasingly common way and it's also because our understanding and our ability to measure it has gone up. Of course, right? So, that also affects things in terms of how we observe it. Um, but the easiest way to put it is it's just a sign that internally things are not working as well as they should be because fat is not supposed to be stored in your liver. It's supposed to be stored elsewhere or used for other things, right? Uh, is there like a certain amount? Is it like synonymous with the visceral fat, the fat and liver? It so yes, essentially I think that's a reasonable comparison. I mean the extent to which they correlate hard hard to say precisely but I think that's a reasonable a reasonable correlation to say that visceral fat and liver fat are related to a certain extent now generally when you want to put a number on it 5% is the threshold number okay now it's very important for for people to hear this now the human liver let's exactly so the human liver weighs 3 lbs okay approximately so if 5% of that or more is representative of fat. You can have a fatty liver diagnosis. So that is 0.15 lbs. It's not it's not and and in kilos my mental math is poor. It's not a lot of kilos either, right? So we're not talking it's this mount of fat. It's very small amount, right? So it's so it's just these small details, but what happens is that small amount of fat over time can grow larger, lead to inflammation, lead to scarring, and that's where the issues arise. Gotcha. Yeah. So the visceral fat is also like around the other organs pancreas and muscle intramuscular etc. So the visceral fat is usually quantified throughout the entire body and the liver can be part of that but the liver fat is specifically just the liver. Yeah the liver liver fat imaging is distinct from other imaging and other estimations. Absolutely. Before I continue on, I briefly mention to you about one of my favorite longevity gadgets, which is the point charge infrared sauna blanket. It's a cheaper and more convenient way to take the sauna anywhere at any time. I've talked a lot about the benefits of regular sauna use. I believe taking the sauna regularly is the second best thing for your longevity after exercise. In fact, the sauna mimics a lot of the health benefits of exercise. The sauna is also effective for excreting heavy metals and other chemicals we're exposed to on a daily basis. The Bont Charge infrared blanket is made of pure leather and it's low in EMF. It's got a rating of 4.9 out of five based on 176 reviews, which is crazy. But I'm not surprised because I'm using the blanket almost every day and it gets the same job done as a regular sauna. Plus, it's easy to clean and you can store it under your bed. All right, back to the video. And um yeah, like what are like some of the like, you know, key things that determine the liver fat? obviously you mentioned fructose but you also alluded that if you're you know rel otherwise healthy and you're only drinking soda and uh everything else is good then you're not necessarily going to increase liver fat uh so yeah like what is like I guess like the calorie intake is also like just one of the biggest determinants then yeah there's a lot there right so for sure I mean individuals who are at a higher body weight you know all else equal they could be at slightly higher risk why is that I mean insulin resistance plays a massive role insulin resistance is a universal feature essentially a fatty liver which is to say pretty much everyone who has a fatty liver has insulin resistance to some extent right and the simple reason why this is the case is that most people when they think of insulin they think insulin reduces the amount of sugar in my blood to oversimplify it but insulin also reduces the amount of fat flowing in the bloodstream right so and it's oversimplification but still true the more fat that's flowing around the bloodstream in the form of free fatty acids that's not supposed to be there, the more likely it will be inappropriately stored, right? So, some of the like let's say the hallmarks of fatty liver are insulin resistance, high triglycerides, which is one way to think of blood fats, right? Um inflammation, and then gut microbiome imbalances, which I mentioned earlier. Now, there's different ways people can arrive in those states. Like, for example, a history of antibiotic use is a risk factor for fatty liver disease. And the reason why is because of the strong connection between the microbiome and the liver. But there's different ways in terms of the precise choices people make that they can end up with high triglycerides and insulin resistance. But almost all of those ways are due to, you know, inadequacies in the diet. Now, there's also different dietary strategies that can be used to resolve fatty liver. So, it's hard to say exactly how someone ends up there, but there'll definitely be patterns, right? Inadequate protein intake, lack lack of diversity in protein, lack of anti-inflammatory antioxidant compounds in the diet, and so on. M yeah it's like you know some people are obese because of eating too much sugar. Others are obese because of eating too much fat but you know there's like no single diet that everyone who is overweight or has a fatty liver follows. They all have you know different diets. Um but yeah like you said they will develop insulin resistance or hyper triglyceria that leads to liver fat accumulation. Mhm. essentially. Yeah. Right. And and I guess like the resolving that would also be, you know, the opposite of that that you lower triglycerides, lower insulin resistance, lower inflammation, and lose weight. Yeah. Essentially, and let's just talk about that last part for a second. Um the lose weight part. I mean, the most conventional guidance that someone will receive if they've been diagnosed with a fatty liver and they have a limited interaction with a healthcare provider is to lose weight. Mhm. But really, when a doctor tells you to lose weight, what they're really saying is optimize your diet, move your body more, maybe consider strategic supplementation, right? And you very likely will lose some weight if you do those things, but it's really, I mean, hard to attribute to what extent each of these things influences, but a massive part of that influence is the diet itself. And why do I say that? It's because there's ample evidence that dietary changes in physical activity in the absence of significant weight loss reduce liver fat content. And the only reason that's very important to say is because I work with a lot of people in this area and not everyone has the capability to lose a significant amount of weight. Whether the calorie restriction is too unpleasant, they don't have the ability to expend much energy physically because of their age or their physical their status. Right? So for those individuals, they need to hear that you can optimize your diet, do smart things with your supplements. And hey, hey, even walk 150 minutes a week and you can significantly reduce your liver fat content and reverse the condition. You don't necessarily need to lose 30 kilos, but if you want to, you have every right to try hopefully with the help help of a professional. Yeah. So what are like some of these dietary changes that will improve liver fat even without weight loss? Yeah, great question. If I had to put an umbrella term on it, and I'm going to go into the specifics, I would call it a high polyfenel Mediterranean diet that would be curated for the individual, which is which is kind of obvious. I mean, not everyone likes every food that exists that's good. So, you have to find what what someone enjoys. So, a high polyphenol Mediterranean diet is what I would say. Now, what does that mean? Well, the Mediterranean diet at baseline is pretty much asking you to, hey, listen, you probably, when I say you, I mean the general public. You probably don't eat many nuts in your diet right now. You probably don't eat many legumes like lentils and chickpeas, kidney beans. You probably don't have much diversity in your protein intake, which is to say, most people consume a lot of red meat and chicken, and that's all good. That's fine. But they don't consume a lot of fish. Right? Now, if we want to make a connection here, the omega-3 fatty acids EPA and DHA found in fish are quite effective at lowering triglycerides, as are nuts, right? So, I mean, they're directly related to the biomarkers of fatty liver, but then their their benefit goes beyond that. Now, the word polyphenol is also important. So, polyphenols are a group of compounds. They're not vitamins and they're not minerals. So they're not essential in that way, but they are antioxidant, anti-inflammatory compounds that we see time and time again. When their intake is higher, metabolic health is better. One of the reasons for this, besides the fact that they're anti-inflammatory and they have antioxidant capability, is that your gut microbiome quite enjoys them. They have a prebiotic effect on your gut bacteria. Right? So from there, right, there was a quite a famous study done in um in 2021 and what they did is they gave people with a fatty liver a Mediterranean diet or high polyfenel Mediterranean diet and it was done in the gut journal in 2021 if my memory serves me. Okay. What they found is that the high polyfenel Mediterranean diet was significantly better at reducing liver fat content. Right? Now the thing is polyfenelss are found in very specific foods in high amounts. For example, all vegetables have some polyphenels, but artichoke has by far the most. All fruits have some polyphenels, but blueberries have by far the most. Right? Nuts have some polyphenels, but pecans and hazelnuts and almonds and ground flax seed have the most. So, you you you someone could stumble upon a high polyphenol diet, but they could easily not as well. Gotcha. Yeah, that makes sense. And like coffee, teas, those olive oil, those all high. Yes, coffee absolutely. Green tea, absolutely. I mean, there there's abundant observational evidence right now that coffee drinking. I have have a coffee in front of me. Three cups a day on average slows the progression of fatty liver disease, which is to say that coffee drinkers who have a fatty liver generally they show less liver stiffness, less less fibrosis, right? And that is due to the high polyphenol content and generally just the massively high antioxidant content of coffee. And if you take the average person with a average diet, coffee drinking is a massive hack because it's for no effort at all. You're greatly increasing your exposure to these compounds. Right. What about sugar? Um would it be the case that if uh you're not gaining weight but you're eating sugar, would it still increase lower fat? And the same with like the high fructose corn syrup as well. Well, then you get into really fine details in terms of the context and and the average output, right? Because like I said, I mean, like I said earlier, you know, so I g I gave the kind of rudimentary example. If you drink three pops a day, but everything else is perfect, you're probably going to still be able to reverse fatty liver disease. But I suppose it depends how perfect everything else is. It depends on a lot of individual factors like what's an individual's caloric needs. How good is good? Because there's different levels with nutrition, right? And the clearest example is you could you could apply a Mediterranean diet poorly, you could apply it well, you can do a high polyphenol Mediterranean diet and these are just three completely different levels of eating, right? And but the reality is most people doing a Mediterranean diet poorly or eating like what I should say is, you know, I think the term like Mediterranean diet is limited. It's just a vision for for pointing out what you're probably not doing enough of and that you should do more. It has limitations. Like for example, the Mediterranean diet says not to eat yogurt, but yogurt is a great facilitator for berries and nuts, right? And we have ample evidence that yogurt, which influences the gut microbiome, actually helps with fatty liver. So, I'm not AI'm not a Mediterranean diet, you know, blindfold go all in on that. Curated for the curated for individuals and and new science. But it is really tough. I mean to say you to say you you can eat sugar and reverse fatty liver, but it really just depends on what it is that you're doing and the totality of what you're doing, right? Yeah. And it depends on, you know, how serious it is. Probably you can prevent prevent getting it if everything is kind of moderate and uh you're generally healthy and you don't go overboard with it. But once you got it, then it's going to be a bit harder for sure. I mean the more issues that you've accumulated I think the more serious you have to be to resolve them you know but fatty liver is a a condition where there's multiple levels you know you could have 6% of your fat being of your liver being consumed of fat which is quite mild and you could probably reverse that within 3 months but then you could also have 60 or 70% you know consumed by fat and that could take you 18 months right and the thing is all of this stuff is contingent on a high level of implementation And it's very hard to assume the average person is going to go flip a switch and then do my vision for a perfect diet. It's not really reasonable. So there's a lot of nuance there as well. Right. If like a healthy does does a healthy liver have then like zero fat or is it like is there some like 1% or 2% is it is it like uh normal? Yeah, I would say one two 3% in in the context of other markers of your health being fine is pretty innocuous. You know that amount and there's different ways to to to get the liver imaging like that amount may not even be detectable on a on some imaging tests, right? There there's something called a fibro scan which is the best imaging we have. But some people will get ultrasounds which can look can see liver fat but they cannot quantify it as well as let's say a fibro scan can. So just and but fibrocan technology is not as abundantly available as ultrasound technology right so there's also those kind of factors play a role as well yeah is the MRI like better or uh is it more accurate MRI is very accurate however it is you know it's a very you know it's an expensive elusive piece of technology so even in studies okay they may have MRI but I don't know too many people who are getting MRIs for their liver that's the reality uh in in the context of limited resources. Yeah. Yeah. And quicker and easier with a fiber scan than I've had a fibrocan personally. It's it's it's very very quick and easy. Yeah. And and the output is fascinating because it measures liver fat and liver stiffness which is related to the scarring. How uh how much does it cost and where can people usually get it? Like which physician do they need to visit? So I mean I think it'll depend a lot on geography. Um, so here in Toronto where I'm at, um, you're looking at, I think, $125 Canadian for one scan, okay? Which is, you know, that's cheaper than it's to see me privately, for sure, right? So, it's not incredibly expensive. And I think with a fibro scan, the reality is you get one, you change your life, and you get another one 3 to 6 months. you know, it's not like something you got to be checking in constantly because once you have the vision right, you're doing the right things, you're okay. Now, what we can also what we can also do is we can talk about what if somebody has no access to a fibro scan because not everywhere has a lot and not everyone can get one. What I would say is there's blood work you want to look at. Okay, so let's just say we have an individual who has high triglycerides, low HDL, which is, you know, the quote unquote good cholesterol, high APOB, which is a a marker of cardioabolic health. When Apo is high, triglycerides are high and HDL is low, we have a very high level of confidence that things are not going well in the liver. So if you improve all those markers in the right direction, in the absence of imaging, the reverse is true. you can actually be quite confident that things are getting better in your liver. And those markers together are more valuable than looking at one or two liver enzymes, which is a mistake people make. Uh liver enzymes take time to change and they don't always accurately reflect what's going on in the liver. Clearest example of this is I've seen a study um was in the diabetes care journal 12 months 50% reduction in liver fat. Liver enzymes did not change. So, you know, the smartest people, the smartest guidelines, they don't tell you to put all your eggs in liver enzyme basket for those reasons. Yeah. And I I've also seen that exercise can raise liver enzymes, right? Because of the intensity, especially lifting weights. Yeah. It it dep for sure. It depends on the context. I mean, even milk thistle, which is like a famous supplement in the world of um fatty liver, in some people actually raises liver enzymes. It doesn't lower them universally. So, so yeah, there's there's variables there. They're just not a use they're not as useful as a marker because they just don't accurately reflect what we're looking to reflect. Gotcha. And is like the waist circumference like any any good estimate as well of some liver fat? So, it is there is a calculation it's called the fatty liver index and the fatty liver index takes into consideration waist circumference. It takes into consideration triglycerides and it also takes into consideration one of the liver enzymes. So this is actually a good segue. So the liver enzyme it takes into consideration is not A or ALT which are more talked about. It's GGGT. So if one was to value any liver enzyme, GGGT is the most predictive. So I would also put that out there. Okay. Gotcha. Uh, and the rest of them are ASD, ALT, ASP, ALP, uh, ALP. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Those are the ones that you'll most likely find in uh, in blood work. Yep. Gotcha. Um, what about alcohol? So, that's, you know, quite notoriously known to be bad for your liver. How does it affect liver health and liver fat? So, there are, I mean, with fatty liver as a condition, there is different types, right? The much more common type is the type that's not to do with, you know, alcohol abuse, right? So that's why I mean it's old terminology, but I still it's called non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. There is new terminology, but I think it's too scientific and the average person has never heard the terms before, so I don't use it yet. Maybe in the future I will. So, you know, to be diagnosed with a fatty liver for metabolic reasons, what they generally do is they rule out the fact that you haven't been drinking 20 alcoholic drinks a week because that ends you up when which is a very large number and which to be fair does is not really representative of most people, right? Which is why alcoholic liver disease is not the hottest topic. It's for a subset of the population it's relevant. Uh but yeah, it's safe to say that if you have a fatty liver um and really for any purpose as we know as guidelines continuously get re revised that you know alcohol is the quintessential example that less is more right as little as possible for optimal long-term health. So I think it's reasonable advice for anyone to to reduce their alcohol intake if they can particularly if they're concerned about liver health. But you know again it's kind of it's kind of the same thing with the pop. Like you could drink seven drinks a week, which now in in Canadian regulations is is not advisable, right? But have and be doing perfect elsewhere. You're not getting fatty liver from that. Right. So, right. Is there also any difference between the type of alcohol and the the strength? So, is like vodka or pure spirits worse or better than like cocktails? Well, generally if you have I mean I suppose it depends on the individual and how they uh interact with those beverages, right? Because all else equal if you have a a standard drink, you are being exposed to the same amount of alcohol and grams. So it really depends like if someone if they have a beer, they don't like beer and they just they have one and they're good. But if they have a gin and tonic and they suck four down because they taste good, you know, I think that is relevant. But I wouldn't say beyond that. I mean beer has a very high glycemic index. So maybe there's extra dam I mean potentially if someone already has problems with blood sugar regulation there's extra you know less than optimal things like I think the glycemic index of beer is the same as white bread it's 100 um there are different types of beer of course but right what about wine like it has these polyphenols like could it like counteract the alcohol yeah I think that the pol I I don't think so I think that there's too many other foods where you can get polyphenels from that you know look if wine was the only food that contained polyphenols and polyphenels were very beneficial maybe it's a different conversation but there's too many other ways that you can optimize your polyphenol intake and I think the cost benefit for wine generally it does not go does not trend towards benefit right I think I I'm I'm not sure but I would imagine that the French or Spanish people probably have like lower rates of uh fatty liver and non-alcoholic fatty liver or if I'm not mistaken Yeah, it's it's it's it's going to be lower, you know, to some extent than North America, but there's, you know, there's so many differences. And we talk about Mediterranean diet, pattern of eating. I mean, that's probably the most the most obvious, I suppose. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Um, so yeah, you're not going to be no no point in trying to get the polyphenols from wine. Maybe a little bit, but uh not a lot. I personally never told someone to do Yeah. There's something about that guidance that I wouldn't I personally would wouldn't feel comfortable. Yeah. Yeah. Um what about like u like these different types of fats? So um omega-3s, uh bofas, saturated fat, etc. Yeah. No, it's a great question. It's something that I've been I've been exploring for the last several years, but even more so actually last few weeks. So we have to go through these one at a time because there's different types here. So first of all, omega-3 fatty acids and particularly EPA and DHA. So we have to start by understanding these are only found in fatty fish. Salmon, sardines, trout, herring, mackerel, perhaps some different types in other geographical geographical locations, but those are the usual suspects. So people who have a higher exposure to omega-3s have a lower risk of fatty liver. When an individual with a fatty liver increases their omega-3 intake, liver fat levels go down. Now why is this? Now also if we have ve any vegans or vegetarians, you can supplement EPA and DHA from algae based supplements. So it's not as if it's only for people who eat fish. And many people do not like fish. That's also a reality because I talk to people all the time what they eat. Whatever the reason is, their partner doesn't like the smell. They can't bring it to the office because of the smell. It's too expensive. All good. You don't need to eat it, but you have to supplement it. So, omega-3s definitely help with insulin sensitivity, definitely are anti-inflammatory, and they definitely help with fat metabolism. Now, fat metabolism is a super broad term, but the easiest way for me to put it is that it means when fat metabolism is optimal, and one way to help optimize is through eating omega-3s. It basically means your body is doing with fats what it should be doing. So, being stored in the liver is not what it should be doing. being used for energy stored elsewhere for hormone production is what it should be doing, right? So, omega-3s help to correct that balance. And I've actually I've seen evidence that people with a fatty liver actually have less omega-3 less omega-3 fats implanted in their liver cell membranes. So, that's also a fascinating finding. Okay, so that's one. Then you get into monounsaturated fats, right? again, they have very monounsaturated fat intake goes up, assuming it's not in a massive calorie excess, then liver fat goes down. If you're consuming 2,000 extra calories, gaining weight, it may not be the case that that happens. Um, and there's actually, and I'll talk there's a study I I encountered the other day, but I'll talk about that in a moment. So, monounsaturated fat, what is that? Avocado, nuts, olives, and olive oil, right? So, again, great example of the Mediterranean diet. Most people don't view nuts as foods to be consumed regularly. I think if you, you know, if you tell someone, hey, I eat broccoli once a week. That's my vegetable for the week. Inherently, most people are going to know that's not quite right. You know, I mean, this day and age, of course, you know, things are evolving in terms of how some people think, but let's just go go with the traditional guidance. Um, but if you tell someone you have nuts on a Monday and Friday, good for you, right? So I think there's a gap there in people's um perceived value of these foods and and not to mention the fact nuts have magnesium, vitamin E, polyphenols and so on. So monounsaturated fats, lower liver fat, lower insulin resistance. Okay? And then you get, you know, PUFAs, the omega the omega sixes and like the seed oils. So here's the thing, okay? In studies that compare saturated fats with PUFAs on liver fat specifically, which is my outcome of interest, PUFAs are like so sunflower oil has been demonstrated in human trials to be superior to butter in terms of its effect on reducing liver fat. Right? People can talk about other things, all good. But if we're talking about the outcome of liver fat in terms of human evidence that we have, hufas are superior. But monounsaturated fats and omega-3s are the pinnacle. That's where energy should be spent. You know, and I'm not here to tell someone not to eat red meat or not to use use butter or whatever the case may be. But objectively speaking, if your concern is liver fat content and the health of your liver, I I don't see the argument, for example, that butter would be superior to olive oil to cook with, it's just it's not it's certainly not based on human evidence. Yeah. Yeah. And it's the same example of your pop example that you know if you're you know only eating butter and red meat for example which a lot of people are you're excluding all the other things then you know chances are you're okay still granted you're not you know eating I don't know 10,000 5500,000 calories or something like that. So uh yeah like it's u it depends on the context again like uh there's ways people can manage around it the same way people can you know drink pop and to not get fatty liver. Yeah, exactly right. There's all these things that you could take liberties in, but if you take liberties at every opportunity, you're right. I mean, that's a problem in of itself, but also it's a problem because it displaces the other foods that are important, right? So, that's absolutely correct. Yeah. And I guess the studies are if all things are equal, like if the color intakes are the same and they're controlling all the variables, that's the way you do like a study to see, okay, which of these specific I guess ingredients uh influence the outcome. Yeah. Well, let me let me give you a more precise example. So the study that I'm referring to which I was discussing on my social media the other day. I think there was a 2018 study I believe out of the diabetes care journal. What they did is they overfed people either saturated fat or monounsaturated fat. Right? So overfeeding means all else equal they give them a thousand more calories. Okay. The saturated fat which came from butter um primarily. Okay. That led to a 55% increase in liver fat content and it also led to reduction sorry increase in insulin resistance. The monounsaturated fat from pecans and olive oil led to only a 15% increase in liver fat. Now remember the context is overfeeding by thousand calories. So we're not necessarily expecting a great outcome and it led to no negative influence on on insulin resistance, right? So if we did a swap study, I would expect the monounsaturated fat outcome would be great, right? But because it was an excess, it obviously skews a little bit what the outcome is. Yeah. Yeah. I guess it also matters what you replace it with. So uh you know in a lot of these heart disease studies as well if you replace you know sugar sweetened beverages and refined grains with butter you do better but uh but if you replace you know omega-3 fats and monounsaturated fats with butter you do better than the butter. So there's like you know kind of ears to it. So the best is like omega-3s and monounsaturated fats and I guess uh some of these uh you know nuts and seeds 100%. And I I look at nutrition as a game of averages and also a game of balance. So you other message I would offer people is to think about you know what you've consumed most up to this point in your life, right? Like statistically speaking, you've likely had more butter and red meat than you've had salmon and almonds, right? And that's what and you know it's not to say that's to blame for where you are, but there's a balance to strike because different foods have different benefits, right? And they expose you to different compounds. So it's not again it's not one thing good, one thing bad per se. It's a matter of balance and and if you've been underexposed to one thing and overexposed to something else, then if your goal is optimizing your health, you have a balance to strike for the next phase of your life. And that's very often how I pose the uh the argument, I guess. Yeah. Uh what about supplements? So, uh there's a bunch of different supplements out there and I guess often people can also say that uh too many supplements or some some specific supplements can also damage the liver. So yeah, maybe we can start with what supplements are, you know, healthy for the liver and help with like liver enzymes or liver fat. Yeah. So the two most wellstudied supplements for liver health, and when I say liver health, I mean fatty liver because fatty liver is the thing that goes wrong with the liver, right, in the majority of cases are, and this won't this won't be surprising based on what we've talked about, omega-3 fatty acids, right? And probiotics. Now neither I mean neither of these are essential but if we go through things right if an individual does not eat fatty fish there's no exposure to EPA and DHA so an omega-3 supplement in barring very unique situations where they have medications that interact with it whatever the case may be it's it's pretty much an obvious choice right because you're not getting exposed to that compound that compound has a clear benefit on your body right omega-3s are quite well studied They improve markers of liver health. Probiotics, same thing. Most people or I mean many people with a fatty liver have an over representation in their gut microbiome of less than helpful bacteria. Well, gram negative bacteria is a technical term which are just they produce compounds that go to your liver and do damage. Not good, right? Probiotics have a role. I mean, look, a probiotic alone is not going to change your life, but probiotics help to optimize the environment in the gut so that healthier bacteria can thrive and at least have a fighting chance, especially if you feed them well with polyphenols and other compounds, right? So, probiotics and omega-3s are the most wellstied supplements. Now, what I'll also tell you, which I forgot to mention earlier, is I've I've even seen evidence that omega-3s help to lower some of the bad bacterial levels that are common in fatty liver because increasingly scientists actually believe that omega-3s have a prebiotic effect, which is a fancy way to say they help your gut microbiome. So, that's very interesting as well. It speaks to the interconnectedness, right, of the body. Um, so those two stand above and beyond everything else. Okay. from there. Okay. So, for example, there was a study in the cell journal, I believe it was, that gave people um the dried extract of a camo camo, which is an Amazonian berry, which is And so, what what makes this thing unique? It's very high in polyphenels, right? It found it modestly reduce liver fat. Now, here's the thing. You give that to the average person with a low polyphenol diet, it's going to have a meaningful benefit. But you have an individual who's eating a high polyphenol diet, there's going to be diminishing returns. that supplement probably is not going to do anything because you're already heavily exposed or adequately exposed to those compounds. So, the best supplements are what fill in the gaps of what you're not doing, right? I think that's that's also important. I'll be honest, beyond that, you're going to you can find one-off studies. Hey, CoQ10 does this or turmeric does that and maybe it helps a little bit. And what I say to that those cases is if you have an overlapping concern like CoQ10 might also help with migraines, might help with muscle pain on with people on statins. If you have all those three concerns, okay, it makes sense. Let's go for it. Take CoQ10, why not? High risk, low reward. But for fatty liver, um, per se, it's, you know, the evidence isn't really there. Gotcha. Even milk thistle, you know, which is very popular. It doesn't have a lot of evidence. Well, so milk thistle might lower liver enzyme levels, but the only problem is we just finished going through why liver enzyme levels are not even that important. And the compound in milk thistle, the active ingredient is called pselarin. It's a lignon and and lignens are also found in ground flax seed which are also high in polyphenels. So I would just say have some ground flax seed, you know. Yeah. Um what about like bourberine? that's also commonly mentioned. Yeah, I mean bourberine does help with insulin resistance and it could have a benefit. Um you pe people have trouble with it sometimes with the digestive consequences and so on. Um and it's not the same as the other supplements where it fills an explicit gap and and so it's yeah it's one of those things. It's not something I personally in my practice recommend just simply because I think what it offers we can replicate through the diet strongly. You know what I mean? Which is not the case with omega-3s if you don't eat fish. Yeah, makes sense. Um, and the supplements that damage the liver or potentially are harmful. I've seen a lot of like reports that certain herbal supplements, especially like the ones that might be contaminated with, you know, heavy metals or something like that, they can have negative effects on the liver. Yeah. I mean, to that I would say I I guess it I guess it depends, right? Because you could you could make an argument that certain supplements, especially I don't know if they're not third party tests or they're random herbal supplements are bad for the liver, but how is that going to manifest? Are you taking this random herbal supplement for life? Are you taking for a week? Why are you taking it in the first place? You know what I mean? So, I would do, you know, do research in those areas. Consult health professionals if you can, but it's it's it's hard to say that you're going to take this one supplement. It's going to compromise your liver health for life and that you need to be fearful of any herbal supplement that exists. But yeah, you can find evidence of the misuse of supplement of any supplement potentially having a problem with the liver given that um given the liver's role in the body, but it's not something that that I think is massively um relevant, but it could be relevant for some people if they're doing interesting things. Yeah. So let's say for example, you're taking an ashwagandha um that is a herb and let's say it is purely digested. It's kind of pure. If you take I guess larger amounts, I don't know like 1,000 milligrams or something like that or above for many months, would that have any effect on the liver fat, liver injury or liver enzymes or anything of that? Yeah, I mean I've not seen that broadly. I know there are cases that are reported, right? You see cases, right? This person to gosh for this period of time, but there's a few things there. I mean there's a lot of contextual factors like how's this individual's health to begin with? what else are they doing right you know how vulnerable have they made themselves to something like this as a result of their other choices I think that's relevant now also it's also about appropriate use like ashwagandha is AI see ashwagandha as a short-term stress management supplement so if you're using in a prolonged fashion I don't believe and I've spoken with naturopathic doctors about this that that is the proper use so the in improper prolonged use of any supplement theoretically could have a negative influence on your liver health for sure. So I would just say if anyone out there uses ultra and it is one of the most popular herbal supplements and everyone is stressed and I understand that it's not really intended for forever use. I mean you have to at some point have other stress management tactics to offer you some benefit and maybe deep breathing exercises which by the way I've seen evidence lowers cortisol levels lowers blood sugar levels right in conjunction with other changes. So I think that's the bigger issue. More so to say that ashwagandha is toxic to the liver. Uh you know which is not the case with short-term use proper use an otherwise healthy person. Yeah. I've also uh heard that NSAIDES so like aspirin and these other anti-inflammatory pharmaceuticals they can be damaging to the liver. Yeah. I mean there I mean so you made a mention about the uh about the liver regenerating capacity and what I've seen in the literature is I think I think individuals who lose a lot of their liver from I think a set of menophen um poisoning like taking way too much and I for whatever the reason the liver can recover from that right so just to go to your point I mean yeah theoretically I mean given the given that the liver is the detoxifying agent in the body and and to be fair like what that means it means either it transforms something into a healthier state, which usually what it is does for drugs, right? Drugs come into the body, the liver transforms them so they're less toxic. So yeah, if you overexpose your liver to and and NSAIDs are very common medications, which is why it comes up, right? So yeah, misuse of any medication is not good. That includes antibiotics, that includes painkillers, whatever the case may be. Absolutely. Um people need to be intimately aware of that and the liver is only one of the many reasons why that's not good. Gotcha. Um, NEC is one supplement that is also often mentioned for like alcohol intake and um, liver health. Is there any evidence that it has benefits? In regards to in regards to what specifically? Uh, liver. What? Yeah. Yeah. So, in people who consume large amounts of alcohol, NAC offers some sort of um protective effect just generally as well for the liver. Yeah. I mean, so that I've not seen that. So that that doesn't mean I can't confirm or deny that's the case. Um I I think that if you have like if you have a choice to consume less alcohol, I I don't think any supplement protects you from excessive alcohol use. I'll just say that statement. I've not seen the evidence in that area. That's one area I haven't looked into, but I will now. Um but I think the easy answer is there's no supplement that can protect you from prolonged overuse of alcohol. And um even if NAC offers some protection like whether via an antioxidant mechanism, you know, you can get that through optimization in your diet, right? And through really making a proper lifestyle change. Um what I'll offer in lie of answering that question is a is something interesting. So the the cells in the liver that are responsible for detoxification are called the Kooper cells. Okay, these are the cells that do the roles that we associate with detoxification in the liver. Now, physical activity, which we haven't really talked about too much, definitely helps, but specifically highintensity physical activity has actually been demonstrated, and I believe this was a 2017 study. I think it was in the scientific reports journal. High-intensity in interval training um not resistance training, not study state cardio is actually shown to increase the detoxifying ability of these cells. And it also reduced liver stiffness which is a very hard thing to do. Maybe because highintensity interval training really increases heart rate and blood flow uh and that that has carryover effects. And to be fair, it was only in one trial. So we'll see what more research has to say. But that's another fun finding to share. Um gotcha. Exercise then is obviously beneficial. Um does it does it help with liver health irrespective of weight loss? Um you mentioned the blood flow. Is that one of the other mechanisms? So physical activity absolutely helps in the absence of weight loss. That's clear. Right now someone could do physical activity and eat well and lose weight. Of course they can. But the benefits of physical activity are not contingent on weight loss when it comes to reducing liver fat. Right? And again, this this should make sense to people. And this is why at the beginning I said it's 0.12 pounds of fat on the liver. It's not a huge amount, right? So when you when you do physical activity, insulin resistance gets better. It activates certain proteins in the body that help with fat metabolism. And so it's that carryover effect, right? That has the that has the influence on the liver. And and what I said in regards to HIT activity is that was some speculation on my part. Then the reason why I speculate that the intensity of the blood flow may be relevant um is that when the liver is more stiff right blood flow is more poor which means that like I said there's less access to these coupe forer cells right blood could miss them right so but and we saw that only hit workouts increased uh or decreased liver stiffness increase the functionality of those cells so that's why I offer that bit of speculation I mean I could be totally wrong someone who's uh smarter than me might refute that but it's just a a speculation based on the studies I've seen. Gotcha. Is there any difference between aerobic and resistance training? There is in terms of how it influences different proteins in the body. Um so so they basically help the liver in different ways is what I would say. Um but beyond that I think like with physical activity there's there's different levels, right? If you take an individual who's doing nothing and then you you tell them to walk 150 minutes a week riskly that will make a change in their liver health. If they already do that then what's the next level? Well, you have resistance training, you have high intensity interval training, you have cardiovascular training and really it comes down to what are they willing and inclined to do. I mean you know resistance training has obvious benefits for healthy aging. You know having a you know good heart good heart health has obvious benefits. So it's it's like depends what an individual is willing to do. And like HIT activity has unique benefits for the liver, but it's unpleasant and not everyone has the capability to go work at 80 85% of their V2 max, right? So that's another factor to consider. So it's really individualized. Yeah. Anything is better than nothing. But uh ideally you should do both aerobic and resist training. Yeah. And if you can't don't underestimate walking, right? Again, doing nothing versus walking 150 minutes a week is a massive difference, right? So, can't underestimate that. Yeah. You mentioned uh stress and cortisol and often say people say that you know stress is also something that promotes visceral fat and liver fat. Um is there any like differences between the type of stressors and u does it actually like increase your liver fat irrespective of the let's say calorie intake? Well, I would say irrespective of calorie intake perhaps not. But here's what I here's what I'll say is that stress and you know there's been there's been studies done on this but when you expose someone to the amount of cortisol they might experience in a stressful situation actually reduces blood flow to parts of the brain that are responsible for food choice and appetite regulation. Right? So that's actually that's obviously one of the reasons why stress influences food behaviors. So I think it's very hard to disentangle stress from uh from affecting food behaviors right it's only I think many people are vulnerable to the effects of stress on food behaviors which is which is why you know you see deep breathing exercises and meditation can you know reduce blood sugar levels and reduce cortisol levels right there's obviously something there but I mean the extent to which stress affects one's food intake varies from person to person I think that is where the real effect will be on the liver I mean someone could do you know there are people who thrive under stressful situations in the long term. Is that better than having everything perfect and not being stressed? Um, maybe not. Maybe it's better not to be stressed potentially. But, um, it's tough. I think there's not a lot of evidence for me to make a high level claim connecting cortisol with fatty liver. I think I'd be I'd be speculating, right? So, yeah, it's more about the behavior that uh stress promotes, not the innate effects of cortisol itself. Yes. And it's also it's also due to how resilient is someone to stress, right? Because I've again obviously I look at a lot of studies which is why I keep saying this. I mean there was a a trial where they gave people omega-3 supplementation, EPA and DHA for several months and they tested the severity of the cortisol response and it decreased following a period of EPA and DHA supplementation. So how well are you living such that you can be resilient to the effects of stress? That's also a big question to ask, right? Yeah. In this context and sleep I guess has some role as well you know reducing stress and managing food behavior and you know there are studies that if you're in a calorie deficit but you sleep you know 5 hours then you lose proportionally more muscle than fat compared to sleeping 8 hours so um I guess the two questions here are again like you know does a sleep duration and sleep quality affect the liver fat irrespective of the calorie intake and vice versa if you're in a calorie deficit it, you know, will you lose or will you keep more liver fat if you sleep shorter? Yeah. Yeah. Know this is a this is a great question a very fun question. So so let's go through a few things then. Okay. So first of all there is so scientists are increasingly interested in brain insulin sensitivity. So specifically to how sensitive the parts of the brain are to insulin. Okay. And what we see in long-term studies is that people with better brain insulin sensitivity generally lose more visceral fat during a weight loss intervention. Okay, so now I'm starting to get warmer in terms of what you asked me. Now, it's also the case that short sleep duration, which is to sleep less than 7 hours a night, is not good for insulin resistance and insulin sensitivity. Okay, so you can kind of see the connection there, right? You can see kind of how that could happen. Now, now there's obviously poor sleep also negatively affects the gut microbiome. So, yeah, I mean all else equal you you're going to make challenges for yourself self if you don't sleep well. That's because of negative influences on the gut bacteria, negative influences on insulin resistance and insulin sensitivity, right? And obviously, you know, to your point, poor sleep also affects your food choices. It affects parts of the brain that are responsible for making good choices around food and appetite regulation. Now, I'll offer some good news and some important news is that very often when people are not going to get enough sleep, I'm guilty of this myself. Like, if I'm not going to get 8 hours of sleep or 7 hours, I'm like, you know what? If I'm going to get six or five, I'm going to be tired anyway. Whatever. Doesn't matter. And scientifically, that's incorrect. What I've seen evidence-wise is if you sleep less than 7 hours a night and less than or less than 6 hours a night and you can get 45 minutes more sleep to go over the 6 or 7 hour threshold that change alone can protect you from the negative effects of sleep loss. So which is to say like you know don't underestimate the importance of an extra 45 minutes even if you're getting less than optimal sleep. But I think people need to hear that because I think we're all guilty of of that um to some extent. But physiologically there's a benefit for an extra 45 minutes even if you're not sleeping enough. But yes, low sleep can destroy your insulin sensitivity. Um so but in terms of exact correlations, the studies aren't there. I'm I I'm aware of this because I'm constantly looking at the evidence. I don't see like there's obvious evidence that poor sleep is associated with high risk of fatty liver. I mean that's obvious. It's associated with everything bad, right? But in terms of like highle refined uh conclusions about that, they don't exist as far as what I've seen. Gotcha. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if you're if you had like a bad sleep, then even short 20-minute nap can be a huge game changer even just how you feel. Um 100%. As much as you uh can with the sleep. Um yeah. Is there anything else specific that we didn't cover that is worth mentioning when it comes to liver health and liver fat? Well, what I would say which is something that everyone can apply is to eat slow eat slowly and mindfully. Okay. Um, fast eating is strongly associated with insulin resistance. Um, so that's one thing for for individuals who eat let's say B, you know, a quote unquote balanced traditional meal, which is to say they have a carbohydrate, a vegetable, and a protein. If they struggle with satiation or they struggle with insulin resistance, I could offer an additional piece of guidance, which is to eat the protein and vegetables at your meal first. Now, the better your diet quality is, the less important it is to do this because if you're eating lentils, broccoli, and salmon, you know, it's pretty much all good how you eat the meal, right? But the more help you need, the further behind you are um in terms of catching up with your health, the more beneficial details like that will be. Okay. The only other thing I'll add um is so I consider personally legumes which are lentils, chickpeas, Canadian beans, and black beans to be the most underappreciated family of foods. Okay, they have legumes have a very strong influence on the gut microbiome. Right? So if you're thinking what can I eat that's going to have a you know that science is telling me is going to improve the levels of healthy gut bacteria which in turn is going to improve my liver health, I would think about legumes. And uh people don't really appreciate their value and they're economical. They're easy to eat. They're very satiating. All the things that someone wants when they're trying to improve metabolic health and liver health. Legumes offer and you don't even need that many. Half a cup at one meal a day. A quarter cup even I've seen studies even a quarter cup a day reduces li insulin resistance and liver cells. So I would offer that guidance as well. Um and but beyond that I think yeah was a a great comprehensive conversation. Great questions. Yeah I I also like black beans and kidney beans. They're very tasty. Um, yeah. Before I ask my last question, where can people learn more about you and your work? Yeah. Um, on I'd say Instagram and Tik Tok. So, Andy VRD is my uh is my handle and all the stuff I'm talking about today. I talk about these studies and these facts. It won't be hard to find them because I I share them openly on my social media. So, yeah, I would say those two places. Awesome. We'll put the links in the show notes. And my last question is, what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? Oh wow. You know what I would say? I became a dietician because I needed to be I needed a dietitian when I was younger. So I wish when I was 16 instead of taking a fiveyear convoluted path to learn what I meant to eat well, I saw a dietitian. I would have saved myself a lot of unnecessary suffering. So it's a a big props to my profession. All right, that sounds good. Well, yeah, thanks for coming to the show. It was very insightful and educational and yeah, I'll be happy to have you back in the future. Appreciate you having me on. It was a great chat. All right, see you around. All right, that's it for this episode. Make sure you check out my new book, The Longevity Leap, on Amazon. I'd also appreciate if you share this episode with a friend or family member. Other than that, my name is Seam. Stay tuned for the next episode. Stay empowered.