 and the thing about mammal males is they eat producing sperm throughout adulthood. So where females get all of the cells that can become oocytes, you know, early in life and then they lose them, that's because of our longevity, we have this big fraction of our adulthood that is like mine, postmenopausal, right? Well, that's not true of our closest living relatives, the other great apes, chimpanzees and bonobos and gorillas and orangutans. That for them, adult mortality is higher and they usually don't outlive their fertility. It all had to do with adult mortality. If it's high, then you can't really spend a lot of time growing up because chances are you'll get nailed and you won't leave any descendants. And if it's lower, well, then you can take a longer time and grow bigger before you stop growing and start putting it into reproduction. Dr. Kristen, welcome to the show. Thank you. I'm excited to have you on the podcast and you're one of the first anthropologists as well on the show to discuss about something that's very interesting. And many people haven't, I guess it's not like the most mainstream theory of or part of human longevity. So, yeah, today we're going to talk about one of the main theories that you proposed, which is the grandmother hypothesis. So, it sounds very interesting, at least for me. So, maybe we can start with how did you come up with the idea behind it and what it is as well? Well, you know, I'm terrible at short answers, so you'll have to interrupt me. But when my first, I started out as a sort of garden variety cultural anthropologist. My dissertation field work was in Highland New Guinea with people who are gardeners and pig keepers. And when I then, again, there's a long story, how I came under the influence of a theoretical biologist, Eric Charnoff, when I was at the University of Utah. And began to realize there were all of these amazing tools in evolutionary biology for explaining this ape. And so, good heavens, my first ethnographic work was with people who actually know how to live on wild foods in eastern Paraguay. And the question we were directed toward then was specifically, how do people choose which resources to take? And I thought, as did my collaborators, they were my students at the time, but it wouldn't have happened without them. We all thought that we knew that the hunting hypothesis was the story of us. That what happened with climate change was hunting became a better way to make a living if you were in those savannah environments. And so, that meant that males, ancestral males, were spending time going after vertebrate animals, big animals. Actually, there's a story about that because we learned pretty quickly that there are other apes that hunt vertebrates. Chimpanzees are also hunters. But anyway, that what happened with our ancestors was males started going after big animals and bringing home the bacon to their mates and offspring. And that meant that moms could have pile up the babies. And that was essentially what was going on. And what we found, because we were collecting quantitative data, people were wonderful. They let us follow them around and weigh what they took and time how long. And then, because of special things about this ethnographic context, because these foragers, they move almost all the time. And that meant, and they're in the forest, and it meant that they didn't clear an enormous space. And so, everybody was very close together. And so, we could not only record what food resources people took, but also what stomachs it went into. And there were the data showing that it was not the case that what men were doing was acquiring things that went especially to their wives and kids. No. No. In fact, if that's what they were aiming to do, they wouldn't be doing what they're doing. So, that meant this question of what the heck is going on. So, I came out of that project with this, what in the heck are, well, not that I wasn't always wondering about male strategies living a human life. But anyway, what is it that is the underlying payoff, fitness-related, for what these guys are doing? And then, so lucky to be invited to join this project that Nick Blurton-Jones, who was at UCLA, was starting with Hadza foragers in northern Tanzania. And he invited me and my colleague at Utah at the time, an archaeologist, Jim O'Connell. He invited us to join him in this project. And O'Connell, an archaeologist who had – he started out as working in North America and realized that if he wanted to figure out what was going on with all the archaeology, if he could actually watch people doing stuff that resulted in that distribution of stuff, that he'd be in much better shape to figure it out. So, that was his question. And mine, still, what's going on with males? But because the kind of observation we were doing, once again, was quantitative. You know, again, the Hadza folks were so welcoming and let us, you know, hang out, follow them around, time, everything. And we were both doing spot observations in the residential base, but also following people when they went off to forage. And so, I was following the women and the kids and seeing what they did and timing it and all those things. And actually, what we were seeing was the same thing that James Woodburn, who started working there in the 50s, had described. And his descriptions weren't quantitative. And so, to our initial surprise, in fact, one of the first papers that we wrote about this was that the older women, because the women and kids, except maybe some of the youngest kids, didn't go, but they all went off together and were acquiring plant foods for the most part. And that the rate that the older women were getting for their digging was just as high as the women in the childbearing ages. And, in fact, they were spending more time at this, especially, you know, trying to dig these deeply buried tubers, these underground storage organs, the kind of plant that really does well in savannah. And so, there it was, these hardworking hodds grandmothers. And so, that led to beginning, again, back to some modeling that Charnob had been doing. See, Slim, I could see my problem. Here I am going on and on and on. Shall I stop? No, no, no. You can keep going. I think it's a very good backstory of, you know, how did you come to the… Well, yeah, so… We're getting to the conclusion or the main idea, but yeah, I think it's a very good backstory. Well, so this is where it started, but Charnob, who was the theoretical biologist who had… And, of course, there's a story about how I ended up crossing paths with him. But one of his really important contributions to, you know, trying to understand how animals behave was trying to figure out what is it that accounts for the variation in adult mortality across… Actually, vertebrate lineages, but we want to talk about the mammals because that's where we belong. And he had models to explain this broad variation across the mammals, you know, mouse to elephant, right? And you think about that variation. Elephants are really big and it takes them a long time to get there. And then they have really big babies at a relatively slow rate and put a lot into them. And mice at the other end, they don't live very long as adults. And so they really rush to get to adulthood and have lots and lots of babies and don't put very much into any of them. And anyway, so that kind of variation across the mammals, Charnob had built a model to explain. And so we took advantage of Charnob's modeling and the things that he had recognized to be underlying regularities that all had to do with adult mortality. If it's high, then you can't really spend a lot of time growing up because chances are you'll get nailed and you won't leave any descendants. And if it's lower, well, then you can take a longer time and grow bigger before you stop growing and start putting it into reproduction. So our first papers taking advantage of this were taking advantage of his modeling and his models were all about only females. Now, one of his other major contributions is to sex allocation because that's one of the other big regularities across the living world. You know, we are sexual reproducers. Not everybody does it the way we do, but that's the way we do it. So we do it. We are dioecious sexual. You know, each one of us is one or the other. And we have one mother and one father and we get half our genes from mom and half our genes from dad. Well, our initial model was just about the females. And then I was so lucky again to cross paths with this mathematical biologist, Peter Kim. And there was a paper that I couldn't understand how they'd gotten the result they did. And I was, you know, trying to say, help me figure this out. And I met Peter and I was talking about this probably initially to somebody else because I didn't know him at the time. But he said, oh, you know, that's the kind of modeling I do. So, hooray! So he took some time. We spent a lot of the summer, me and Peter and a few graduate students who were interested, where he was explaining to us how this worked. And then we saw what had gone on in the modeling that got the result that I had questioned and why. What, from my perspective, we'd count as mistakes. And so then Peter and I, maybe it was him, maybe it was me, said, why don't we do it right? So that was Peter adding, building models that have two sexes. So Rick's model, Charnov's models, were just about the females. And that's where we got the grandmothers and the increased postmenopausal longevity that subsidized the fertility of the younger, still fertile females. So they had shorter birth intervals. So, you know, we had that all, okay, we got how that works. But when Peter was making this a two sex model, well, one of the things about mammal males, and you're one, our taxa is full of them. And the thing about mammal males is they keep producing sperm throughout adulthood. So where females get all of the cells that can become oocytes, you know, early in life, and then they lose them. And, you know, in us, that's because of our longevity. We have this big fraction of our adulthood that is like mine, postmenopausal, right? And in human populations everywhere, there are all these postmenopausal women. Well, that's not true of our closest living relatives. The other great apes, chimpanzees and bonobos and gorillas and orangutans, that for them, adult mortality is higher and they usually don't outlive their fertility. But now with this increased longevity in us, postmenopausal women, now there are all these old males who are still producing sperm. And there can't be any more paternities than there are babies. So when these old guys succeed in competing for a paternity, what they're doing is outcompeting the younger guys. And so not only do we now have pieces that can help us explain this habit that we have of pair bonding, and that in general, actually the patterns in the birds are so informative about this. And when the sex ratio in the fertile ages is male biased, well, then there's all this competition, of course. And when that's the case, the strategy that often wins is not to just compete for every one, but to grab one, flame her, and defend that claim. And so mate guarding is a pattern in modeling, you know, shows that kind of thing. Well, that looks like a way that we could explain our pair bonding habit. And this pattern of the older guys being ahead in establishing, you know, their social position, that makes them dominant to the younger guys. And so we have pieces of this story that, from this perspective, looks like is part of our evolved life history that can explain why patriarchy continually is recurrent in human populations. So we started out just trying to explain why postmenopausal longevity is a thing. And now pair bonding, patriarchy, and, oh, most especially crucial to what we're doing right here, what I'm trying to do. And this is a thing that actually Sarah Hurdy had been talking about for decades. I mean, in her 99 book, Mother Nature, one of the things she spends a lot of time on, the whole last third of the book, is this thing about how human babies are so precociously social, even though they are essentially helpless. You know, they're just babies. And, you know, as she will say over and over again, chimpanzee infants of the same age can run circles around human babies. But what human babies do, they are motorically helpless. But, oh, am I not, you know, smiling at you? You know, you'd think about it smiles at you and you smile back. And developmental psychologists have been really interested in that question for a while, not from an evolutionary perspective, but just what the heck is going on? And there are people like Alison Gopnik and her collaborators, and I think especially of Vasudevi Revy, who has a book called How Infants Know Minds. And the book is all about these, you know, trying to attract you to interact with them. And what Herdy was pointing out is that if it's the case that the only way these, our infants can survive is if somebody attends to them, make sure they get fed. Because what goes on with chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, orangutans, we have good quantitative data from the field showing that those infants actually start, their mom is carrying them around, she's feeding herself. And they start doing that too. I mean, Jane Goodall talked about this so many decades ago. They start actually acquiring solid foods for themselves by the time they're one year old. And then when they're finally weaned, mom will have another one, and that one will be an independent feeder. So that difference is fundamental to relationships, social relationships, given priority over everything else. Well, you know, many people have investigated that from, you know, alternative perspectives with different lines of evidence. But that, boy, is that a big deal for us. I want to take a quick break to tell you about the Bond Charge infrared sauna blankets, my go-to way of getting 20-minute sauna sessions on the go without needing to spend an hour to warm up a regular sauna. Taking the sauna is, in my opinion, one of the best things for your overall health and heart function. Studies show that taking the sauna regularly is associated with 63% lower risk of sudden cardiac death, 63% reduced heart disease mortality, 46% lower risk of hypertension, and 40% reduced all-cause mortality. This is mediated by an increase in body temperature and increased heart rate that mimic a cardiovascular workout while at the same time improving arterial stiffness, endothelial function, blood flow, immune system function, blood pressure, and metabolic health. It doesn't matter if it's a traditional wooden sauna, an infrared sauna, an infrared sauna blanket, or anything else that elevates your body temperature above what's normal. Bond Charge infrared sauna blankets have the advantage of shining far infrared light that can penetrate deeper into your tissues than regular saunas can. It warms up in two minutes to the optimal temperature of 70 degrees Celsius, and it's low in EMF. You can get a 15% discount by heading over to bondcharge.com forward slash seamlund and use the code seam for 15% discount. Yeah, that's a very, you give a very thorough, I guess, like overview of human social anthropology and how did we evolve as a social species and a lot of these, you know, questions people have about, or you're very descriptive about what, why did we all evolve in such a way that we did. I guess some of the main points is that human babies are very, I guess, not independent. So they're very dependent for many years and the humans, you know, they develop these social interactions, et cetera, to survive, or they're used for their, the babies use their social, this mannerism and crying, et cetera, as a way to, you know, survive for themselves. They're used for themselves to manipulate the parents to, you know, give them attention and give them food. Their parents or somebody else, right? Or grandmother or an older sibling. We differ from like chimpanzees and other apes where the babies become very independent very fast. So, yeah, that's, I guess, the biggest difference that the developmental period for the human babies is very long. And what is, you know, the evolutionary explanation for this in combination also with menopause, as you alluded to, that, you know, menopause happens, yeah, like at the middle point of most females' lives. So, you know, why do we, why do those females still live so long after menopause when males can live also quite, you know, long for many decades and they can maintain their fertility, like relatively speaking, all the way until the end. So, what is like some of the reasons to that? That's, yeah. And there's another piece, which is, to me, absolutely astonishing. And another amazing stroke of luck that I happened to cross paths with Barbara Finlay, who's a cognitive neuroscientist. And she was interested in brains, especially, what the heck is going on in brains. And actually, it goes back to Harry Jarrison in the 60s, who was so interested in brains and who had looked at the variation across mammals and noticed that, well, the larger you are, the bigger your adult body size, the bigger your brain is. But brain size doesn't increase quite as fast as body size does. And if you look at the non-primate mammals, you can see what that allometry looks like. But primates have slightly larger brains for body size. And Jarrison thought, well, wait a minute. If we could subtract the part that's just associated with having a bigger machine to run, then what would be left is a measure of intelligence. And so he argued that the encephalization quotient, which is the size of the brain, the ratio of that to an average mammal of that size is a measure of intelligence. And, you know, I mentioned the hunting hypothesis that, you know, I thought, and as did my associates in the Ache project, that that was a story of us. Yeah, we do have these big brains. And the way that gets incorporated into the hunting hypothesis and the hunting hypothesis, you know, that's a label for lots of different things. But one of the especially influential versions puts brains at the center. That the thing is, yes, there are other apes that hunt like chimpanzees. But the thing about us is we have these bigger brains. And the bigger brains made more effective hunters who were better predators and can go for the really big animals. And then, of course, go off and get those big animals, bring home the bacon to mom and the kids and the rest of that story. Well, Finlay had been interested in how wide the variation is across the mammals in both total brain size and then these various components of the brain. And she and Richard Darlington in 1995 had written about that and had considered there has to be a developmental story behind this. And they had a relatively small sample then, but the sample, what was it, five or seven different taxa. But what they showed then was not only that the final brain size was related to the duration of development, but the size of the relative components depended not only on the duration of development, but the order of development. And if you're going to build a mammal brain, that's the order it gets built in. You know, that's sort of a phylogenetic constraint. I mean, of course, there must be mutations that kind of adjusted a little, but mostly that's not working. So sticking to that order. And in fact, by, was it 2013, something like that? Alan Workman was the first author. Anyway, this is Finlay and her group adding more taxa, more where they had data on brain, final brain size, and also these various events, and they called it the event scale in the development of the brain. And boy, the regularity is just astonishingly tight. You know, the correlation is like 0.99 something. You know, I mean, it's almost perfectly straight. And the thing about the size of the thing and the cortex finishes last, so the bigger the brain, the more of it is frontal cortex, that the thing that accounts for that is entirely the duration of development. So there we are back at life history. And actually, Charnov's initial mammal model, it's not only adult mortality. Well, adult mortality is the thing that sets how selection is going to make the duration of development last. Shorter if you're a mouse or longer if you're an elephant. So that duration of development thing is right there in the model we were working with to begin with. So now we've got on the table all these pieces, not only why there are so many postmenopausal women, but our short birth intervals relative to the other great apes, or the patriarchal tendencies that go with old males, the pair bonding thing, claim her and defend her. And older males had the ones that show their stuff dominating the younger guys and this. All a consequence of the, or connected to this shift in our life. I mean, already the hominids, the family, the other great apes and us, longest lived, biggest brained, actually longest birth intervals of all the primates. And then there's us, even longer lived, even later first birth. But these are really short intervals. And, you know, so all those pieces look like they're very connected. Yeah, so to like summarize for the listeners, you mentioned that humans have very big brains relative to our body size. And one of the big determinants of that is how long the pregnancy lasts. So the longer pregnancy. Not just the pregnancy, because that's the thing. This was already, Charnob had already tumbled to this. And infant mammals, when birth happens, kind of moves around. Because that's, you know, there's a conflict of interest or both mom, what she can do, and infant. And so really how well, how far along in this development of the brain birth happens varies. So if you, this is really an important thing. If you use birth as the starting point, then all the regularities that Finlay and her colleagues were talking about are obscured. So you have to start at conception. And so post-conception days. And so, you know, so much has happened in us by the time of birth. And so, again, the order of all of that stuff matters. And actually, birth in us is compared, for example, to chimpanzees slightly earlier. But the thing that's really strike, as, you know, Finlay and her colleagues notice, the thing that's really early in us relative to this progress of brain development is weaning. And so we've got all this stuff about, again, our babies that are motorically so slow and so helpless and then weaned when, of course, they're still, even though, boy, are they ever social, they're still relatively immature compared to chimpanzees. And boy, especially orangutans, but gorillas and bonobos as well. Yeah, I guess a good example is, you know, elephants or giraffes, you know, when they're born, they pretty much immediately stand up and they can, you know, move around, start eating. And they're, like, conscious and, you know, they go about their lives pretty much immediately. And, but their trade-off to that is that they have pretty, they're not, like, super intelligent compared to humans. And they also have smaller brain size relative to their body weight. But humans, yeah, they have long pregnancy. Plus, their trade-off is that during the weaning period of, you know, for several years, they're very dependent of their parents and grandparents for survival. So, the benefit of that is that they have a longer, so all the energy goes into building the bigger brain and bigger intelligence because of this very intensive caregiving that is required for many years for the babies before they actually start moving, before they, you know, I mean, even, you know, 10 years, they're in pretty high danger compared to giraffes or elephants who can be too. Well, elephants are such a wonderful example because they have brains that are way bigger than ours, right? But they are way bigger than we are. But those cute little elephant babies, and I think we actually think that the babies are cuter than their own moms do because we're selected for this. You're right about those babies are, you know, standing up, starting to feed themselves, building that enormous brain that they'll eventually have eating grass. So, think about that. But, you know, if you're, it's not quite as bad for elephants, but, you know, if you're something like a wildebeest, the baby drops, and if it can't get up and run, it's, you know, it's going to be somebody's lunch. And so, that thing about this, I don't know, coordination between mom and the baby and how much development there's been by the time of birth, it really varies with all of the things about the basic circumstances. Yeah, it's a very high degree of social intelligence that the baby, you know, subconsciously is trying to communicate to the other humans around him that help me or, you know, help me survive, give me food. And likewise, the mother and, you know, other people look at the baby, they recognize the facial expressions, they develop social intelligence around that interaction. So, it's, yeah, it's a two-way street of the social intelligence that requires a very big brain, in a sense, and a big development. But, yeah, the grandparents, so grandmothers, so I guess this is where the grandmothers also come in, that with the help of grandmothers, they can help to take care of these babies who require a very long period of helping for many years. So, the grandmothers help with their survival, and this explains their, this explains why women live relatively long after menopause when their reproductive window has closed. Right, and the short intervals. So, the thing about, about what happens with the other great apes is, you know, it's very much one at a time, and, you know, so this baby depends on mother's milk, but is starting to get the solid food. And then when it's, finally, no more, it can manage with no more milk, then it's eating on its own, and then she has another one. So, it's all one at a time. But, in us, you know, those short intervals are favored because the kids, the dependents, are subsidized by grandmothers. And, you know, again, credit to those hardworking hodds of grandmothers that there it was right before our, I mean, so much about ethnography, and I think most ethnographers end up saying things like this. You know, all kinds of stuff was happening in front of my eyes that I didn't, it just took me so long to see what I was actually looking at. And, you know, there it's going into my notebooks. And only when, wow, look at that, beginning to see, and initially thinking as this focus only on the female side, and I had been really interested in male strategies and thinking, boy, what a wasted life. I was paying attention to that, but now realizing that all those things about what's going on with males are part of the same story, or at least from this perspective, they are. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Was there any specific, like, did you see something in the fieldwork that just hit the light lighting bulb of, hey, maybe this is this with a grandmother hypothesis? Well, again, on early paper, I mean, Ocana was doing all this really, because he, because the ethnoarchaeology, you know, trying to see how the archeological record is actually produced. And because the paleoanthropology is all these big—the faunal record is all these big animals and stone tools. So every single big animal that was taken while we were in the field, he made sure to record what happened to all of it. So we had that record, and then we saw that, good heavens, these guys are amazing. In fact, here they are with their very powerful bows and arrows, very successful at both hunting and aggressive scavenging, taking carcasses away from lions and hyenas. In fact, you know, I always tell this story. There was one time when one of the lions didn't get away, didn't move away fast enough, and we had lion for dinner. So these guys—but because we, you know, had this quantitative record, it turns out that the success rate for these guys, and they go every day, is less than 5%. Wow. So they are failing, you know, to a statistical fare they well. They're going to go out to, quote, bring home the bacon and be empty-handed. So, wait a minute, if you've got these kids that can't manage to feed themselves, and those data were, you know, we were looking at what the little kids were doing, how successful they were, and seeing, boy, they try. I mean, this is of special interest to Nick. Like, what is going on with those little kids? And they do try, but these—and for some things, like when it's berry season, those little hands can be pretty good, but that's only a very seasonal resource. And so the year-round staple is these underground storage organs. And there are a few that are not very deeply buried, and, you know, the kids can't get them, but they cannot—they're not big enough and strong enough to get the deeply buried ones that are the main staple year-round for Hadza folks. So, seeing that the kids couldn't actually manage, and because, again, people were so wonderful and let us not only follow them around, but weigh them. And so—and I wish we'd done more of it, but—so we did that, and with initially a very small sample, although then Nick later in his full-blown demography in his book, but we had this small sample, and there it was in the data that the kids, how well they were growing, was correlated with their mother's work until she had a new baby. And then that correlation went away, and then the correlation was with grandmother's work. So, oh, right in front of us, that it is really the support that's supplied by the economic productivity of those old ladies—I say old ladies, you know—that was running the show in a lot of ways. So, all of those pieces were strikingly coming together and distinguishing us. I mean, the first places that we actually invoked the regularities in Charnov's mammal model were highlighting these things that he had picked out across the mammals, the ways these pieces of life history are related to each other. And then the exception for us, these short birth intervals, of course, lower adult mortality, later maturity. So that's in Charnov's model. But if we're talking elephants or mouse to elephant, it's also longer birth intervals. But no, there it was, right? So if what's going on in these post-menopausal, sometimes called post-reproductive years, if they're actually here because they are reproducing genes, you know, actually contributing to more descendants because daughters and nieces are piling them up, then, you know, all the pieces start to look like they go together. And that was still just focusing on the females. But now, holy Toledo, the males because of Peter's work, and then all of his wonderful post-docs and graduate students and so on, and all the things that have come up, the modeling, you know, wish we had a time machine, so we end up using models to help us fill that in. You know, you think of what Darwin did in the middle of the 19th century. I mean, he didn't even have email. Oh, in the world. And then, you know, so not only getting what's going on with the boys, but then the brains from Finland. It's, you know, it is, it took a long time to see how, wow, those really look like they're part of the same story. Yeah, so the grandmothers helping with gathering and that allows younger females to have more offspring as well, because, you know, they wouldn't have to spend six, seven or eight years taking care of the child when the grandparents can help. And, yeah, you mentioned that the success rate of the hunts was less than 5%, which, yeah, many people, I guess, don't really appreciate or acknowledge that, you know, the hunter-gatherers, it's a gatherer as well. It's even more, you know, on a daily menu side of things, appears to be more bigger contributor to the regular food intake than the hunting. Well, yeah, hunting is going to be successful every once in a while, but most of the time it's the gathering that contributes to the calorie intake of children and others. Right. Well, men too. I mean, the men go off, and actually Woodburn had described this. Men, they're going off to go hunting, but they also are taking all these plant foods to feed themselves, to, quote, snack. And so they know how to do all that, but their main target is the big animals. They, in fact, and Woodburn described this too, but, you know, O'Connell was doing all these follows on men that every once in a while, if a small animal, you know, sort of ran across a guy's foot, okay, I'll take it. But they would be very likely to just cook it and eat it right there. It's the big ones they're really after. And this enormous failure rate, you know, again, it's, I can't remember, 3.7% on average of days. So it's like essentially once a month on average one of these big animals is taken. And then, of course, it's this enormous bonanza. And everybody, except the littlest kids, comes to the kill site. And, you know, in fact, what Hadza folks say is this is the people's meat. And people arrive and say, where's mine? You know, eat as much as they can. And, you know, these big animals are bloody enormous. So they can't eat all of it because the animals are so big. If we just take the average, which is so frequently done, if we take the average, it's double what the Ache guys get. And, again, it's because animals are so big. Well, the biggest, a taper is pretty big, but they're so rare now in the South American forest. So we have long stretches where nobody even, you know, thinks about a taper. So the biggest animal, which is regularly taken by those Ache guys, is a white-lipped peccary. And that's about the same size as a warthog, which is the smallest big animal for the Hadza guys. Because the Hadza guys are, you know, they're right on the edge of the Serengeti. And, you know, you think about, I mean, all those amazing ungulates, all those amazing herbivores. And, I mean, they are astonishing. And so if you take the average, the Hadza guys' average is double what the Ache guys get. But, you know, you have to eat every day, especially if you're a little kid, right? And if you're a little chimpanzee, well, you're still in the forest and you're feeding yourself. But our life history and the kinds of things we depend on has resulted in serious dependency motorically. And besides, you know, all the rest of the socioecologies that we've constructed, especially, you know, in the Holocene. But anyway, yeah. So, I don't know. I mean, I'm always wondering as I try to lay this out with all these lines of evidence, which part of it seems like it's, no, I can't buy that. I mean, what would you say? It makes sense that the evolutionary pressures for postmenopausal longevity for humans, I think that part makes very much sense of why women after menopause would have some, you know, the reproductive window has ended. And, you know, evolutionary speaking, that is the biggest priority for an organism. If we're looking at it from the perspective of like the selfish gene, for example, that you have your own children, which are your genes, essentially. So, how do you promote their survival and how do you promote the survival of your grandchildren? Then, yeah, you do help to take care of them. So, that there's also the social intelligence element that, you know, subconsciously you're trying to help the survival of your own genes by, as a grandparent, helping to take care of them as well. So, I mean, I think that makes perfect sense for me, at least. There is interesting, recently I had another podcast with Dr. Michael Crawford, who is a nutrition researcher as well. And he researched a lot about DHA, the fatty acids, and its role in human brain development. And he's of the belief that, you know, that consumption of a lot of seafood that's very rich in DHA is one of the big reasons why we have big brains and why we developed our cognition. And he mentioned, actually, that in these East African plains, that women, you know, would gather a lot of these seashells and clams, et cetera, and consume like seafood from there, which is high in DHA. And we've discussed already that women and grandparents, et cetera, they're gathering most of the things. Maybe, you know, hearts are in less of a marine environment, but, you know, where humans are thought to have evolved in the West, in Eastern Africa, there are these, quite more of these lakes and rivers and more seafood available. So, possibly that they were gathering a lot of these seafood, which, you know, for children and during pregnancy, the intake of certain nutrients, especially DHA and iodine and others that you get from seafood, that plays like a pretty powerful effect on intelligence. You know, there's a, I think, like the more, if you're like deficient in DHA, for example, then that is a big limitation on the child's intelligence and brain development. So, you know, these things are all parts of the puzzle that make up the whole picture of how did we evolve. And, of course, yeah, I mean, there's questions to be had about, okay, which came first, right? Or what was the initial domino? But, yeah, I mean, here we are. I guess we've managed to make it so far. Right. Well, right. It's... Not the case for Hadza folks that seafood is a part of the diet and... Yeah, but, I mean, they evolved from those first humans, right? So the... Yeah, we all did. That's right. Yeah, and, you know, there are people in Mongolia. One of the things about seafood, some of it anyway, is that a lot of those things are... Our little kids can be pretty good at acquiring... Actually, so can monkeys, right? So we have these data for long-tailed macaques, and they're pretty effective at taking shellfish. And so, yeah, that whole suite of hormonal features of our profile, I so agree. Those are so very interesting. And, yeah, I... I have a question about... Yeah, I have a question about... So, if we look at the evolutionary importance from our discussion of grandparents and especially grandmothers who are, you know, more helping with the offspring, what was, like, their social hierarchy in the Hadza group? Was there any... Like, in... I guess, in some societies, there is, like, greater reverence for elderly people. Was it... Is it the case also in hunter-gatherers? Like, is there any higher reverence to grandparents and grandmothers who help to take care of the children? Well, like a lot of things, you know, enormously variable, as one of the really striking things coming from the Ache, who are... They are so... Well, so many things, but so gentle about almost anything. And if... If... Actually, if people start doing this with little kids, so a little kid, you know, has some... A piece of an armadillo, and it's just going to be so good, and starting to... And somebody will hold out their hand, and then, oh, and when somebody holds out their hand for it, you always have to give it up. And so this thing about just looking, holding out your hand, and things will be shared. I mean, the amount of sharing, as I said, this is an unusual ethnographic context in which everybody is so close together because they are continually moving through the forest, and so they don't clear out an enormous place. And in fact, there isn't even any structure unless it's actually raining, and then. But coming from that ethnographic context to the Hadza, one of the striking things was, boy, the etiquette is so different in the Hadza context. And our first...the first visit, when we had just come to say, what do you think, you guys? Can we hang out? Is it going to be okay with you? And I was...I had joined some women who were in a structure sitting there and foolishly experienced ethnographer. I should have known better. I was wearing my favorite silver earrings. And so, as I sat there, you know, somebody took one of my earrings and put it on herself. And I was realizing what a...wait a minute. And there...and a little kid reached into...there was a basket that had berries in it. And a little kid reached into the basket to take a handful and got smashed. You have to go get your own berries, which little kids can do. But...so the pattern of etiquette is so different. And people raised their voices in Hadza communities in ways you would never...we never heard with Ache folks. It's very different. So a lot of these...well, you know, cultural variation is so interesting in itself. And, you know, one of the ways I think about it, given my...how I think our life history has...set up our biology as we are growing up and trying to figure out, how do I fit in here? How...is that right? Am I doing it that right? Is this the way we do it? You know, this trying to...and one of the unfortunate consequences of that is, okay, yeah, I got it. I got it. This is how we do it. We do it this way. They don't. And so we get this, us versus them, serious antagonism things which, well, boy, make us a danger to each other and... Right. For sure. ...the rest of the planet, for heaven's sake. So, I mean, there are all these sides, all this...all the kind of variation that can create these antagonisms that are...can be lethal. What about grandfathers? So... Yeah. Did they help with taking care of the offspring or what was their role? Well, first of all, our grandmother hypothesis is not about babysitting. And I know it's the thing that comes to mind to people. You know, they think of the old lady in the rocking chair and she's doing her knitting and the kids are playing there and so on. But our hypothesis is about the economic productivity that is so crucial. And, right, the obvious question, what about the grandfathers? Well, boy, we have these data from both the Ache and the Hadza. And there are all kinds of...well, two figures I would like to show you, two figures from both Hill and Hurtado's Ache Life History and, for Nick's, Demography of the Hadza, showing that there are a bunch of guys at ages well past the end of female fertility who are getting paternities. And there are a bunch of kids. And there are babies. And any that those guys get, they are shutting out the younger guys. And in both the Ache and the Hadza, you see...first of all, you can look at the averages. And you see that on average, and then some of your audience might know how, boy, there's so much variation. You know, there was this astonishing thing last year, I think. Well, I don't know, within the last couple of years, there was a woman who was...was she 63 and had her 13th baby? Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Mm! But...so there is a lot of variation. I've written about some of this variation. But the average, anyway, is that for women, fertility asymptotes near zero before 50. But that's not the case for men. And, you know, one of the reasons that so much of Charnov's life history modeling was focused on females, that when you try to collect data for all kinds of animals, it's way easier to know who mom is than who's your daddy, right? Now, now it's the case that a lot of field primatologists will complain that, gee, I spend all my time just collecting pee and poo. Because if you have those data, then you can actually calculate who...how are all these individuals related and who is getting so many paternities and so many interesting questions. Things that actually...inferences that were made just from observing the behavior that when you have the genetic evidence, wait a minute, wow, I thought those guys were brothers and they're not. And anyway, so...but this started when you said, what about the grandfathers? And it is not the case. I mean, there were a couple of guys in our time with the Hadza who were relatively past it, in a sense. But guys who are well into their 70s are still going hunting. And the case that's often made is, well, you know, their vision, there are all these things. Well, yeah. But, and boy, there are differences. Our data show with a range. Oh, and this is true for the Aceh, too. Some guys are way better, way more skilled, way have way higher success rates. And it turns out that in both cases, our data show that the guys who are more successful also spend more time at it. You know, which sort of contributes to what seemed initially this riddle about the idea that hunting is all about bringing home the bacon to wife and kids. That actually what's happening is those guys are continually getting more that goes to everybody. So what the heck? What could be the selection pressure that would make that kind of pattern one that we repeatedly see? But once again, this, as I bet you know, slam this thing about male competition over practically everything. I was on a fishing trip with some friends last summer. Hope there will be more this summer. We're in the, you know, northern, well, it's way too warm here. It's just turned spring and we, it's way warmer than usual here. But anyway, with some friends on a fishing trip and just watching, watching those guys who peed over who was going to actually be the one to catch the fish. Well, and, you know, developmental psychologists describe this for the most part from sort of Western industrial socioecologies. But it is not a pattern that's unique to socioecologies like that. And some guys really have this reputation, which then they continue to contribute to and hang on to. And it means that the other guys defer to them. So Nick's data shows, I mean, one of the striking things for both the Ache and the Hadza is how fragile pair bonds are. This pair bonding thing, it's a habit we all, all, every human society that's been described, you know, there's something like pair bonding of various kinds. Marriage is a thing for us, not for chimpanzees or bonobos or gorillas or orangutans, but they're fragile. And so they break up. And Nick's data shows that through those fertile years for women, about 20% of the women at any time are not married. Now, you don't have to be married to the guy to eat the meat from his kills. But it also is an analysis that, well, and you also see in Nick's data that when a female fertility ends, then a lot of those women don't bother being married. But there are a bunch of those older guys who do. And it is the case, excuse me, that Nick did this analysis. He has this figure in his book showing that if you separate the guys who have reputations as really skilled hunters from what he calls the ordinary Joes, what you see is that the guys who have that kind of reputation, not only when the fertility of their current wife comes to an end, that marriage usually breaks up and the guy marries a younger wife, but that during those earlier years, the time to the next marriage for the guys who are better hunters is way shorter. So they spend most of their lives sleeping with a wife. And the consequences are that they end up having noticeably, measurably higher reproductive success, not because their kids survive better, they don't, but because they have more of them. Yeah, so it's, yeah, you would presume that, you know, younger men would just physically outcompete the older men because of, you know, muscle mass declines with age or fitness and et cetera declines with age. But, yeah, as you said, these older hunters, they can be as successful at hunting. And in this situation, sharing the game with the entire tribe, I guess, increases their relative status. So the more successful they are as a hunter, the higher the status it is in their tribe. And that higher status gives them more access to, you know, women. Gives them more influence in everything, right? Yeah, they're just more revered. Right. And the language you just used, we have used, and I wish we could maybe not say it that way, to talk about them sharing it, because actually that suggests that they own it and then they are generous with it. But as I said, in the case of the Hadza, that's not at all the way people talk about it. But here is this, you know, this giraffe carcass, and I have arrived. And, of course, I know who gets the credit for the fact that we're all here having a feast, but where's mine? Right? It is not the case that the guy who gets the credit is then deciding whether or not he wants to be generous to me. And in the case of the Ache, it is the guy who definitely gets the credit. But everybody knows. I mean, I have anecdotes that I always think of when I talk about this. Here I am following a woman. She has a baby and another little kid, and that little kid is not so sure about me. And then here we are walking through the—I'm recording everything she's doing. And she stopped to put down her basket. And the little kid starts dancing around saying, We're going to eat the peccary that my daddy killed. We're going to eat the peccary. You know, even the little kid knows. Now, how? I don't know. But everybody—the credit question always seems pretty clear. But when it comes to who actually eats it, it is not only that it doesn't belong to the guy who gets the credit. He's not even the one who distributes it. It's somebody else. And in the case of the Aceh, everybody is, you know, looking to see what's going as the piles that are going to different fires. And they commit. Oh, wait. No, they're more over there. You know, everybody has an opinion. So it's not that the hunter is sharing—well, you know, that suggests that the hunter is generously sharing. Where another way to look at it—and I have written about this, and I've not been able to persuade very many people to think about it this way—but it's—they're really contributing to what's treated like a public good. And this is a thing that we all will consume. We all have claims on. That guy is paying more for it. And, you know, there are people who've written about these, quote, selective incentives that we, you know, recognize in our own socioecology. People endowing a hospital, and their name is on the hospital. And, you know, there are all kinds of ways in which contributions to public goods are associated with the opinions we have of people. But it doesn't mean that they are then in control of the way those things are used or consumed. I mean, again, you know, it's like what my taxes are spent on. You know, I pay them. They go into the treasury. I don't get to say, stop spending it on that. More on—I mean, I do try. I complain, but I don't control it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And in the modern world, I think that there is still some, I guess, selective pressures for grandparents still that, you know, grandparents are still a big part of helping with raising children and grandchildren as well. So even though we're not living in this kind of ancestral environment anymore, the same, I guess, idea is still applicable or important. And there are people who have measured some of those things, calculated them, and show exactly what you're saying, that that is the case. But, you know, one of the things that so strikes me, the way we organize our lives in contrast to my ethnographic experience with people in these very face-to-face societies, is that we—the privacy that we want in our families living behind closed doors, and what that does is it makes every single relationship carry so much weight. Whereas in—with the Hadza, with the Ache, this is also true in Bidamari and in New Guinea, there are—you have all these other relationships all the time. Everybody's in each other's pockets. You have a little spat with mom. There are all kinds of other women. It's not a big deal. And, you know, again, I talked about how fragile the parabons are in the case of both the—especially in the Ache, but also in the Hadza, you know, they break up. And, you know, of course, they do in our socioecology as well. But all the stuff that goes on, you know, behind closed doors, there are all kinds of very negative domestic abuse kinds of things that couldn't happen. Not that there aren't arguments about relationships, especially, quote, romantic relationships. You know, while Richard Lee for the Jun Kwasi was described for the Kung speaking, his dataset showing the homicide rate. And mostly it's men killing other men when there's a dispute about a woman. And anyway, there's a lot to say about those differences that are, well, seem really, really palpable. How the context of domestic versus public life that characterizes our—you know, we talk about life-work balance and all these things. And that kind of separation is just, you know, you don't have it in the kinds of socioecologies that, well, you know, we got to be this animal long, long before the Holocene and all the things that went with that. Yeah. Well, I think this has been a very good overview and very detailed story as well. The background story is especially interesting. How did you come to these conclusions? But yeah, we can start wrapping up. Before I ask my last question, where can people learn more about you and your work? Oh, well, I am not a writer of books, you know, so there are all these scientific papers which absolutely I wish everybody would read. So all I'm doing is really talking about fundamental evolutionary biology applied to us. And, oh, George Williams. Boy, it was Charnoff who—his main effect on me was directing my reading, you know. I thought I knew enough biology to be okay. And then, wow, George Williams, you know, just William 66, his book is so amazing. But he does have this fundamental paper in 1957 about senescence and how aging is as senescence, that decline in fitness-related performance with age, is actually a consequence of natural selection. And he was building on Peter Medawar's insights and so on. And the paper is so important. You know, once again, this is what Charnoff is picking up on this. It's adult mortality that's doing all these things. But Williams gets menopause wrong in his 57 paper. And I, you know, I was so influenced by Williams in so many ways. And I wish he were still around. Both because it's so amazing to lose somebody who had the insights that he did. But to have him tell me—wait a minute, do you think I'm getting some of this wrong? Anyway, so there are, you know, biology is just full of brilliant ideas, people coming across them. And then, of course, actually Hamilton himself, he has a paper on senescence. And he's the one who says grandmothers, actually, in his 66 paper. But then, as he says himself when he's, you know, talking about his career, but then he got so interested in this mystery of sexual reproduction that that's where he turned his attention. So these things are all out there. It's just that what they're—there's so much out there. And so how do you—I don't know. How do you—and that, of course, is my problem. I don't stay in my own lane. I am just fascinated by seeing how brilliant these people working with way fewer tools than we have, how they saw things that really contribute to— solving puzzles that we still—well, I don't know. Some of us think we got a lot of these pieces. And, you know, I would hardly say that I have a consensus view. What do you think, Slim? I mean, if Michael Crawford still wants to say it's all about seafood, I want to— I don't think—I don't think—he doesn't like, you know, say that it's only the seafood. It's, you know, it's like a nutritional component of the brain that is absolutely essential for the development of intelligence and brain. And, you know, it fits the grandmother hypothesis in a sense that gatherers, when they were picking the clams and the seafood, then, you know, that's—that's a big source of DHA that acts like this springboard for human brain evolution. And that, you know, I guess, yeah, allows our species to evolve. But, yeah, we'll put the links to some of the papers as well for people in the show notes. Oh, thank you. Thank you. And my last question is, what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? I think I have to say that, you know, the variation is essentially infinite. Every minute is different. I'm not the same as I was when we started, and neither are you. And so if you want to—well, I mean, the lesson—Darwin is just such a standout lesson to all of us—you have to simplify. And the basic theoretical tools that we have seem so powerful. This—the theory of natural selection—it's the most powerful theory about anything, really, that we've got. And founding your notion about what might be important about the particular puzzle you're working on, founding your thinking there to explain, wait a minute, why is that going on over there and not over there, explaining the variation, starting there, and then you, you know, you build this little toy world in which whatever you think is what's happening and what happens in that little model world. And then you take that and you use it to develop, what should I see? And then, is it what you see? Is that? That you have to have the empirical observations. And of course, for questions like how we got to be this ape, it happened a long time ago. And we don't—well, we have tools that are almost time machines, but not exactly. And so we have to figure out how to use all of the lines of evidence. Yeah. So, I don't know. I mean, I guess I still—I haven't figured out what that tool is I'm not using. Maybe it'll come to you and you'll tell me, Slim, or come to one of your listeners and they'll tell me. Yeah. Well, thank you for coming to the podcast. It's been great to talk with you. And thank you for sharing the story of your discovery. Thank you. Thank you so much. If you want to learn more about how to improve your biological age and overall health span without spending hours at the gym, without spending thousands on supplements, and get yourself to top 1% of health without obsessing about it, then check out my online community, Youthman Society. It's where you can learn more detailed programs and protocols from me. Link in the description. Thank you.