You've probably heard Brian Johnson say this. >> I am the healthiest person on planet Earth. Yeah. I have the best comprehensive biomarkers of anybody. >> Anybody. >> Not just 47 year olds, >> bro. You earned it. >> Anybody in the world. >> I have the best biomarkers of anybody on the planet. So, if there were an Olympic sport for health, I would be the gold medalist. >> Every time he says it, I'm like, yeah, that's not true. There are hundreds of people out there who have better biomarkers than Brian Johnson. I analyzed Brian's most recent test results and compared them to my own. 44 of them I have better results. Nine of them Brian has better results and 12 of them were equal. I think that's a very one-sided victory. In this video, I'm going to walk you through all of the biomarkers and talk about them because number one, you will learn a lot about analyzing your own biomarkers. Number two, you'll know what's optimal for over 65 biomarkers. Number three, you'll generally know how to improve those biomarkers. And number four is just good content. As a disclaimer, I'm not saying that I'm the healthiest person in the world, but I have factually better biomarkers than Brian Johnson. Here's a quick summary of the differences between our biomarkers. Brian has good metabolic health, but I have slightly better. Brian has suboptimal kidney function. Mine is excellent. We have semi-equal liver values and the same liver fat percentage, but I have significantly lower visceral fat. We also have semi-equal lipids, but mine are natural without medication. Brian's fitness like strength and viote are good for his age but not elite by any means. Mine is significantly better and in the elite category. We both have normal hormone levels but I have slightly better. Brian's pheno age which is biological age based on blood markers is 8.81 years lower than his chronological age but mine is 18.5 years lower. That's a 10 plus year gap. Now I know what you're thinking. Se is 31. Brian is 47. Of course he has better bioarkers. Well that's exactly the point. Brian says he has the best biomarkers of anyone in the world, no matter their age. >> And I just that's 47 year olds. >> Bro, you earned it. >> I think it's obvious that the healthiest person in the world will always be someone who's like 16, 18 or 20 years old. With all things being equal, of course, some 47 year olds are healthier than some 18year-olds, but there are tens of thousands of 18year-olds that have better biomarkers than Brian Johnson. Now that this is out of the way, let's get started. So this all started a few weeks ago or a few months ago even when yeah Brian Johnson says I have the best bar markers in the world. I'm the healthiest person in the world and if anyone has better bar markers then they should post it. So here I am and let's get started with the fitness markers. So things related to physical fitness. So Brian Johnson's VMX is 54.2 which is good for his age. It's not um elite even for 18 year olds or you know Vtomax peaks when you're 18 years old. That's naturally when your V2 max should be the highest and that's not really an elite level for 18 year olds. Now it's good for 47 year olds but it's not elite for 47 year olds either. I know actually some people in their early 40s who don't do any cardio and their V2 max is 51 or 52 or something like that. So 50 54 isn't that big of a cons like you know flex 54 V2 max. It's uh good. It's um what you would want to get at least over 50 is a good optimal range for V2 max but it's definitely not in the elite category. And there's a few reasons why brands VOT Max is a little bit lower. I'll talk about it later. But the short story uh or long story short it's because of uh lower iron status and some of this absudo anemia that he might have. I'll share about that a bit later. So um you know hemoglobin and blood oxygenation status that plays a huge role in V2 max which essentially describes maximum oxygen consumption. So yeah my V2 max is 66. Now the test was done um one and a half years ago when I got the result of 66 but um I uh right now it's probably still around like low 60s. My last test was low 60s. So it's still significantly higher than Brian Johnson and 60 a V2 max of 60 can be considered elite category for 18 year olds grip strength. So uh this is just a dynamometer where you squeeze it and grip strength is a good uh general biomarker for overall health and overall muscle mass and muscle strength especially for upper body strength. Now the uh thing is that um it's not going to be okay I'm just going to train my grip and I'm going to live longer. Uh it's more about yeah just having good grip means that you're generally healthier and you have a better diet and uh you just have slightly more muscle mass. His uh result 132 lbs in his graph that he shared, I'm not sure if it reflects the total of both arms. Usually you do this test where you measure both arms and then you sum it up and then you get a result. Uh I don't know if it was one arm or both arms. If this was both arms together, 132 pounds, then it would be pretty low, but I think it's just one arm. He's a best arm. Maybe right arm or left arm, not sure. So, yeah, we'll we'll just presume it's just one arm. My grip strength from the dynamometer highest is 150 lbs. That's around 68 kg. And my combined arms is 298 lb or 67 68 kg for both uh arms. bench press uh bronze bench press 240 pounds which is around 110 kilograms. It's uh not let's say elite category again someone who is 18year-old if they bench 240 lbs then uh that's impressive for an 18y old but the problem here is that muscle strength doesn't peak when you're 18 years old. Someone who is in the 30s and 40s will always be muscularly stronger than an 18 year old. That because of muscle maturity and just the age in men muscle mass peaks mid30s early 40s. So uh comparing your bench press to an 18-year-old is not impressive because 18 year olds don't have high bench or high squat or something like that. But let's say for 47y old a bench of 240 110 kilos it's you know well above average. It's much average much higher than an average person. Uh but it's not some powerlifting uh level strength. Of course, that's not his goal, but uh yeah, still my best result 300 lb. So that's 135 kg. And uh that's considered not elite either. So it's not some something that would be super impressive. It's uh significantly well above average. It's um I guess you could call it in the more advanced tier, lower level of advanced tier, but it's not elite uh category for let's say advanced strength trainees. Leg press. So this test now this refers to this kind of a quarter depth of leg press. That is a you know it's a medical test where you do the leg press but you don't go all the way to the depth. You just do like some of even before the knees are parallel. So it's kind of a quarter leg press. And uh Brian's the result for that is 850 pounds which is um something like 380 kilograms or something. Now these numbers are big 850 pounds for the average person it sounds a lot but if you've ever gone to the gym then you know you can bench press or you can leg press 200 kg even in your first week at the gym. So, a leg press of 850 isn't uh super significant. And uh the leg press isn't the best. I guess it's you know, useful test for just measuring leg press or leg strength in isolation. But um yeah, most gym goers actually don't consider the leg press to be some gold standard strength metric. But uh yeah, that's what he used 850 lbs. If I were to guesstimate then uh 850 lb leg press, quarter leg press would be the equivalent of maybe 115 kilogram uh squat. So, uh, that's again above average, especially for a 47y old. It's not, you know, useful to compare it to an 18year-old. But for an average 30 yearear-old male who, you know, let's say decently fit, they can u they can squat 120 kilos maybe. So, this is kind of an average result for a general fitness enthusiast in their 30s. Uh my leg press result for this would be over 1,000 lbs and um you know I've done parallel squats but with a barbell 160 kg so my leg leg strength is significantly higher. My squat is actually one of my best um lifts. My all-time best squat, it wasn't below parallel, but it was, let's say, yeah, you know, almost the parallel was 180 kgs. I did it that a few years ago, but right now I can do 160 kg with a parallel squat lung strength. So, this is measuring with um this device that you just exhale as hard as possible. It uh just measures your u lung strength. And if yeah, by the way, if you want to see the receipts, the actual test results, then you can just head over to my uh Twitter. I'll put the link in the description. I have all the test results as well down there. So, uh yeah, you don't have to take my word for any of uh this uh body composition markers. So, these are just muscle mass and uh fat mass. So, visceral fat. Uh Brian's visceral fat mass which uh is the fat around the organs is around uh 0.56 lers uh whereas mine is 0.25 L and um the interesting thing about that is this was after I was bulking so I was actually 2 kg heavier than I am right now and what I'm normally so uh plausibly my visceral fat right now as I've lost some of that extra weight after the mini bulk uh could be even lower. So my visual effect on a DEXA scan was zero was 54 grams and on the MRI it uh could be something like let's say 100 g 150 g 100 let's say 100 100 milliliters. So that's you know twice two to three times lower than a Brian Johnson's which is you know quite interesting. Uh so a visceral fat of 0.56 L isn't uh like a bad result. It's what you would consider within the normal range and uh if it if it were to be higher than that then it could be considered more concerning. So visceral fat of over 600 L would be something yeah you need to lose it. 56 0.56 L is acceptable still but optimally you would want to have it closer to 300 milliliters rather than 560 milliliters. uh liver fat. Uh liver fat also MRI both of ours is 1.5%. So that's uh low and that's a good good result. Muscle mass. So I haven't done an MRI for muscle mass or the MRI that I did didn't measure muscle mass specifically. Uh but yeah, Brian Johnson's muscle mass based on MRI is 18.1 lers. Uh but uh you know I'm around five to six even up to eight kilograms heavier than Brian Johnson and um I have similar body fat percentage. So I I could say that yeah I probably have more muscle mass than than Brian Johnson uh as well based on just the visible output and the based on the visceral fat and the and the the other body composition markers. So I can say that yeah I have better muscle mass as well. Now, of course, uh I am younger, so muscle mass in males peaks around mid30s. So, I'm not at the peak yet. I'm 31 right now. So, I'm not even at the peak of what naturally is considered the peak of muscle mass in males. Uh but, uh but still, so uh yeah, just this comparing it again to 18 year olds is u kind of not accurate because uh muscle mass doesn't peak in 18 year olds. A 30-year-old male has more muscle than an 18year-old athlete almost unless that's a strength athlete. So yeah, that's it. Next we have bone density. So this is kind of interesting. Uh both of our bone density is quite high and u there's two ways to go about it. So one you can just look at the total bone density I guess bone mass and uh here I have slightly higher bone mass. So I have 1.541 grams per square centimeters whereas branch is 1.47 70 g per square centimeters. So I have total amount of more bone mass. But if you were to look at it relative to age which is used with this TNZ score then he has a bit higher 2.9 versus mine 1.3. So that's a standard deviations above normal. So Brian's bone density is 2.9 standard deviations higher than what is normal for his age. So what is normal for a 47y old. So that's a very high uh bone density for his age. Uh and mine is a 1.3 standard deviations higher than what's normal for a 30-year-old or 31y old or I was I was 30 when I did that test uh the bone density test. So uh it just means yeah that uh both of our bone densities several standard deviations higher than normal but I have relatively speaking uh or not relatively but objectively speaking higher bone density uh he has relatively speaking a higher bone density for his age. If you were to look at just the age difference now if your bone density is lower let's say your bone density is below zero standard deviations what's normal. So that's um that's considered the osteopenia and osteoporosis. The lower it goes the the higher the risk of fractures and the lower the bone density is. So if your bone density is less than zero then that's a concern. You would want to address that with um in most cases it has just involve dietary intervention and um resistance training exercise. So the reason both of us have high bone density is because of increased resistance training. All right, moving on with inflammation and immune markers starting with homocyine bronze is uh seven micro moles per liter. So that's a good result but it could be slightly lower. It's nothing something that you would want to be concerned about. An optimal homoysteine is pretty much five micro moles per liter and uh you know it's very rare that it will be five but if it's above 10 then that can be considered something to um you know be more deliberate about. Usually it's going to involve taking a B vitamin complex supplementation. People who have poorer methylation will have higher homocyine. So higher homoyine can predict heart disease or can be a causal factor for heart disease damages the blood vessels etc. So you don't want to have high homocyine you don't want to have homoyine above 10 and especially above 15 micro moles per liter. uh both of our results are kind of optimal. Mine is slightly uh lower and uh I did actually some specific things to lower my homoysteine from from even nine to 5.9 and u it involved trimethoglycine supplementation two grams a day and also hyperbaric oxygen therapy which Brian does as well quite a lot. I think he has made many posts about that he takes hyperbaric oxygen therapy pretty regularly. So those things uh can actually lower homocyine levels. HSCP so inflammation both of ours are very low 0.3 versus 0.1. Now it might be that the test that he used just capped out at 0.3. So his CRP might also be 0.1. We don't know. And uh you know mine could also be lower than 0.1 because the test capped out at 0.1. I've also got 0.01 on on one of the tests for my CRP. So uh it just depends a lot on what kind of lab you use. So, but regardless, both of our CRP levels are close to zero or virtually zero. And the optimal CRP level for health and longevity is as close to zero as possible. Pretty much uh less than 0.1 is what you want to get with CRP. And the higher the CRP, especially if it's above one milligram per liter, then um that's something to try to intervene with. And usually it involves improving metabolic health, improving sleep, uh losing weight in a lot of cases and um supporting the body's antioxidant defense with uh you know some supplements or hyperbaric oxygen therapy or exercise or something like that. TNF that's another inflammatory marker both of ours is uh low close to zero 0.8 glutathione. So this is uh the body's considered the body's master antioxidant and um both of our results are in the 200s. Mine is slightly higher 240 versus 219. And you know this is something that I think doesn't I guess matter that much because uh it can probably fluctuate a lot. If you got some infection recently it can be lower if you take glutathione precursors like glycine NAC in large doses. If you take uh if you take introvenous glutathione you can you know in short term increase your glutathione status quite a lot. So this is kind of those markers then um you know can fluctuate a lot and wouldn't be something to really worry about. Uric acid so kidney marker and inflammation marker Brian 4.2 mine 5.14. Now this is a marker that some people have different opinions about. Some people think that it should be as low as possible. Other people think that uh it should be somewhere you know in the moderate around five. I personally think that yeah too low uric acid can be a problem problem and uh as as we talk about kidney markers a bit later then it makes sense why it's a bit lower. So yeah I would you know personally I would say that yeah 5.14 is better than 4.2 too. But some people might have different opinions, but regardless in the context of Brian's a kidney markers, as we'll show, it uh isn't like the more optimal range. White blood cells. So, Brian's white blood cells 3.1, which is below the reference range. So, these are immune cells, and mine was a 4.8, which uh is uh optimal. So, it's a healthy immune system. Now, it might be low because of some recent infection. You recently were sick. Let's say a few weeks ago even you had minor cold, some cough or whatever it is. Uh that can just reduce the white blood cells and it can stay low for a few weeks. So again it's not an indication of some systemic health. It's just a short-term marker that fluctuates quite a lot. Uh the same with lymphocy percentage 38% is uh below the reference range and it's quite low. Mine is 49.6%. So a much better result. All right. Right. Metabolic health markers, hemoglobin A1c, average blood sugar levels. Brian's is a 5.1%, mine is 4.9%. And um you know, they're pretty equal, but the 4.9 is still better than 5.1. And interestingly, you know, Brian is taking Metformin and a few other supplements that lower blood sugar. I'm not. So, um yeah, it's just indication of better metabolic health from my part. uh triglycerides both are in the optimal range although mine is uh significantly better actually 39 milligs per deciliter compared to 55. So um triglycerides as well if they're lower that's better. If your triglycerides are above 150 even like over 100 then that can be indication of more um poor metabolic health and um even some aspects of insulin resistance. Obviously, Bryce isn't that. He's a 55, which is uh good, but uh below 50 is even better than above uh 50. And triglycerides usually can rise because of increased carbohydrate intake or also increased fat intake or just poor clearance of these um I guess nutrients from the bloodstream. And uh Brian isn't eating some high carb diet. He's eating actually quite low carb, lowish carb. Um I'm eating a lot of carbs. I eating uh you know 200 300 grams of carbs. So um yeah my triglycer triglycerides are significantly lower despite me eating that many carbohydrates which just is just illustrates my very good metabolic health. Uh insulin both are optimal insulin optimally should be like two three four less than five and uh the lower is not always that the lower the better. If you have zero insulin, then that's probably also not uh healthy. If it's very high, if it's above 15, then that can be indication of insulin resistance or some diabetes. But yeah, both of our insulin levels are very good. Mine is a slightly better uh blood glucose. So, this is a CGM based continuous glucose monitor and uh just looking at the fluctuations of all the blood sugar across the entire day 24/7. So my average was 81 milligs per deciliter when I did the test while eating 300 grams of carbohydrates per day and Brian's was 91 milligrams per dec liter and uh you know the reason why I am able to eat that many carbohydrates and maintain insulin sensitivity is because of my increased fitness increased muscle mass physical activity all those things although I'm exercising less than Brian Johnson I exercise at least maybe a few hours less per week than Brian Johnson so yeah I um you know maybe it's my younger age whatever it is but I also think that insulin is a muscle that if you don't train you lose it similar to other functions in the body so if you're on a low carb zero carb diet then you will create this pseudo insulin resistance state where your body isn't you just loses the muscle to uh let's say produce insulin slightly now it's not pathological insulin resistance because um it's more self-induced or it's a pseudo insulin resistance that the whenever you were to be eating carbohydrates, then you would have a harder time to clear the bloodstream from the glucose. So, if you never use insulin, then your body loses the ability to to use it essentially. And by introducing more carbohydrates to my diet, my blood sugar actually lowers because of increased insulin sensitivity. So, a lot of let's say carnivore dieters out there as well, they have pretty bad blood sugar levels despite eating zero carbohydrates, right? So some carnivore influencers you can see their blood work they have pre-diabetic blood work uh pre-diabetic u blood sugar levels which is not you know a good sign given the fact that they're eating zero carbohydrates. Now maybe it's not a big concern we don't know but it's just illustrates the point that if you never use insulin you never eat carbohydrates then you lose the insulin sensitivity slightly. uh fasting glucose. Brian's 97 milligrams, mine 80 milligrams. 97 is a bit high. If it's over 100, then that's more worrisome. 115 is a pre-diabetes. 125 is uh considered diabetes. Now, the 97 might be because of, I don't know, he had some bad sleep or he was stressed out or something like that. So the fasting glucose can fluctuate a lot obviously but um you know given his u let's say body composition of being leaner eating a low calorie diet eating not many carbohydrates then 97 is a bit high especially if he's taking metformin as well uh cardiovascular markers so heart disease markers apo 70 milligrams for brown mine 58 and I'm not taking any lipid lowering medications or anything like that my apo is low just through diet changes. So, um I eat a lot of fiber. I probably eat like 40 50 grams of fiber a day. And the fiber helps with yeah lipids, AOB, and cholesterol. And I'm also eating less saturated fat. I'm eating more, let's say. You know, the only fats I eat is olive oil, fish, walnuts usually, and uh from meat, eggs as well. But I eat a lot of fiber that helps to bind to the lipids and lower them. And also triglycerides. The increased fiber can help with blood sugar and increased helps with lowering triglycerides as well. So APOE what's optimal you know 70 is already pretty optimal but 58 is better like if your AOB is 40 50 60 then uh your risk of uh aththeroscotic plaque accumulation is quite low. If your AOB is over 120 then the risk of that is uh slightly higher. Uh but uh yeah 58 is uh much better than 70 in this scenario. Apo A1. So that's another APO lipoprotein. Uh both of our results are quite optimal now. He has a a few different results. 133 143 range. Mine is 140 in my last test results. So I would say they're kind of equal in that regard. LDL as well. Brian has a few different results. His lowest has been 47. His last was 68. Mine last one was 58. So that's also both are I would say equal. Um but yeah, he is taking some sort of lipid lowering drug if I'm not mistaken. I'm not sure exactly which one or if it's 100% true, but I have I think I've seen some posts or heard that he's taking some lipid lowering drug whereas I'm not taking anything. uh total cholesterol both are quite optimal both are quite equal 125 to 130 HDL cholesterol Brian is 51 um 62 and um so u HDL cholesterol is a better marker of insulin sensitivity than it is of cardiovascular disease risk so a low HDL is usually a sign of insulin resistance and diabetes so uh it's not that the higher the actually excessively high HDL is u and is associated with increased heart disease risk as well. So, and HDL of 50 and 62, they're both optimal in that sense. 62 tends to be a bit better. And it probably is because of my improved um insulin sensitivity. Uh LP little A. So, this is a genetically influenced heart disease marker lipoprotein. And uh you know, uh obviously there's a genetics involved here. So, I have lower result. Now, these are different units. Brian's is 23.8 8 nanomles per liter minus 3.1 mg per diliter. But if you were to convert this 3.1 mg to nanom moles then it will be something like 7 or 8 nanom moles. So even if you were to do the conversion it would m my result would be lower. So uh yeah it doesn't matter which conversion you use. So uh 23 is a is not bad. There are some people who have 100 150 300 even. So uh those individuals are at a significantly higher risk of heart disease due to genetics. A result of 23.8 isn't yeah like uh very bad but uh my result of let's say seven nanomles if you were to do the conversion is significantly better. Now there's genetics involved here. So yeah you can't you know you can't point at any specific lifestyle or dietary intervention here. oxidized LDL. So 31 nanogs per milliliter for Brian and for me my result was uh below the reference range which means that I have almost non detectable oxidized LDL which is you know very good that it means I have you know zero inflammation and zero oxidation of um cholesterol in in my body and uh a result of 31 isn't yeah it's u you know it's not uh catastrophic or alarming but uh yeah it's uh you know higher than you would expect from someone who is following a very pristine lifestyle. BMP. So this is a cardiovascular marker. It reflects a heart health especially a heart stress. I haven't measured this specific marker myself. I've tried to measure it. I looked at different labs even in Estonia in India. Um, none of the labs actually got the specific test of BMP, but I got measured what's called NT ProBmp, which is not the same marker, but it's kind of a like a pseudo similar marker, and you can't convert it. So, you can't convert my result to the BMP of brands. So, uh, if you were to, you know, do some sort of a conversion, you can use like chat GBD. Okay, if you were to do the conversion, although it's not possible, what would it be like? So uh you know that would be give you like a result of around 3 to 12 pog grams per milliliter for me and 18 for Brian. So I would say yeah I think we're equal in that sense and it's unlikely that I have some sort of cardiac stress given that I have uh much better heart markers than uh Brian. So, uh, you know, case in point, resting heart rate. Brian's best result is 39 that he's, uh, had over the last few weeks I've seen his average is 48. Now, mine best is 35. It's actually been, you know, 34 as well in the in in the past and on average is 39, 38, something like that. Now, of course, if your resting heart rate is zero, you're dead. So it's not that the lower the better, but there is a linear association between resting heart rate above 45 and increased risk of all causality in a meta analysis involving over 1.2 million individuals. So a higher resting heart rate, a resting heart rate that's above normal or above average, you know, the average person's resting heart rate is too high. The average person has poor fitness, poor cardiovascular health, and their average resting heart rate is also too high. So uh a lower racing heart rate is generally better marker of better heart health and uh my result of 35 39 is yeah better result than um than Brian's and if it's if it were to be lower than that I think 39 35 is kind of the lowest you want to go. If your resting heart rate is 30 then u you know it might be might be too low. HRV heart rate variability. So this measures the interval between heartbeats. uh Brian's is around 50s, mine is um over 100. So yeah, it's um significantly higher. Now there is some genetic differences in HIV as well. Some individuals just have their HIV capped at 60 or 70 whatever it is. Um but uh generally speaking a higher HIV 100 is better than 50 generally speaking. Uh blood pressure both our blood pressures are quite optimal you know slightly lower than average is better. So less than 120/80 is slightly better. Uh but you also have to obviously look at all the other markers. If you have very low blood pressure, you're malnourished, you have poor grip strength, low bone density, low VMX, then this low blood pressure can be a sign of just frailty and u increased risk of death because of that. But in the context of good fitness and good cardiovascular health a blood pressure of you know 110 is a a better result than 120 in most cases. Now blood pressure also fluctuates on some nights or some days it can be 120 others 125 others 105 110. So uh yeah just don't take each individual marker at face value. And how do you lower blood pressure? just, you know, general fitness, general improved heart health with I like sauna. I take a lot of saunas. I've been taking sauna since I was, you know, 2 years old. So, I've taken a sauna for, you know, 30 years of my life almost. And um I think Brian has started to do some saunas over the last few uh weeks or months only. So, yeah, maybe his uh heart metrics will improve, maybe his HIV will also increase. I do think that the sauna has a pretty big effect on HIV, especially if you combine it with cold therapy. You do the hot and cold back and forth that just, you know, feels amazing and uh helps with HIV and um resting heart rate as well. Omega-3 index. So, this reflects the uh omega-3 fats in your red blood cells. And uh an omega3 index of over 6.5% is uh kind of a threshold for lower mortality risk compared to a lower score. And um you want to get it at least like 8% is a is a more like a sweet spot. His uh Brian is 9.9. Mine is 9%. So he he has a slightly better result. Uh and the way you increase this percentage is through omega-3 supplementation. eating more omega-3 foods um or yeah so there is some argument to me that omega6 fatty acids from nuts and seeds or something like that can also let's say downgrade your omega-3 index but um I haven't seen like very clear proof of that it's more about yeah just how much omega-3s are you eating that's the biggest uh factor rdw red cell distribution width both are optimal His uh recent result was 12.1% average 11.5% mine 11.9%. So I would say yeah we're pretty equal in that scenario. MCV that's a mean corpuscular volume. Brian's result is 101. Mine is 91 and mine is a better over 100 is too high. If it's over 98 even then that can be considered a bit too high. Mine is actually in the like a sweet spot hemoglobin. So this is um yeah just reflects uh blood oxygenation status and iron status. So Brian's is a bit low 13.6 g per deciliter and mine is 14.7 g per deciliter. So I mentioned earlier that this is one of the limiting factors to his EOMX which is my theory that yeah he has lower iron status lower hemoglobin status because of his u plant-based diet and apparently he's not supplementing iron either. So uh his hemoglobin is a bit low and that limits his V2 max. So he just can't push himself as hard due to the low oxygenation status. So that's actually below the reference range. So something like 14.5 would be quite good minus 14.7. Um but uh if you were to really try to maximize V2 max, you would want to get your hemoglobin to something like 15.5 even. Uh platelets. So this reflects a blood clotting and Brian's result of 165 is a bit too low. So you don't want to have zero platelets because it means that your blood isn't clotting. that increases risk of bleeding. So you want to have healthy amount of platelets. Of course, if your platelets are too high, if they're above 350, then uh that can be a concern for blood clots, thrombosis, things like that. Uh but a result of 165 is a bit too low. So a sweet spot would be like 200 to 250, 200 to 300. It's kind of a sweet spot. uh MCH. So this is a mean corpuscular hemoglobin and Brian's is 32.8 pigs minus 29.4 I guess. Yeah, I would consider them equal. Creatinin so this is a kidney marker and uh this is quite interesting brands creatinine levels are 21 mg per deciliter which is above the reference range. Mine is 0.8 8 milligrams per deciliter and um you know the optimal range for creatin is something like 0.6 six to 0.9 uh maybe one at the most but if it's above one then I would consider that suboptimal now it's interesting because usually what raises creatinine status or creatinine levels are muscle mass physical exercise because uh it reflects protein breakdown right if you break down a lot of protein due to higher muscle mass or exercise you will have higher creatinine in the blood or eating also higher protein especially actually animal protein that tends to influence creatinine levels. But for Brian, you know, he's not eating animal protein. He's uh has less muscle mass than me. So, he has 56 kg less muscle mass of lean tissue than me. And uh the only thing that could explain his increased creatinine level uh would be his exercise, which he does a bit more than me. But, you know, it's not like I don't exercise at all. I exercise almost every day. I exercise shorter than him. And I in total I exercise maybe 2 hours less per week uh than him. So uh it's quite interesting. And I have more muscle mass. I eat more protein. I eat more animal protein. And I have a significantly lower creatinine levels. Now he is taking creatine. I think he's taking like 10 grams of creatine, but it shouldn't raise his creatinine levels that high. Uh the creatin creatine supplementation. I've taken also creatine in the past. I took, you know, 20 grams. You can check out my video. I took 20 grams of creatine and uh and my creatine creatinine levels were only like 0.94 0.95 or something like that. So even at that case my creatinine levels never went that high. So, I don't think he has, you know, kidney disease. But, um, his creatinine levels are surprisingly high. Uh, despite not eating any animal protein, despite having less muscle mass, you know, he doesn't have a ton of muscle mass, right? He's low body fat and he's uh muscular, but he's not he doesn't have mass, if that makes sense. So, the only thing is the very high amount of exercise that he does, which I think is unnecessarily high amounts of exercise. in the context of uh creatinine levels. Cat in C this is a better kidney marker and he's a 0.87 milligrams per deciliter minus 0.67 67 he's a bit uh high now it's not kidney disease high right but um optimally it should be less than uh 75 or less than seven even even better and mine is u much better now eGFR so eGFR glular filtration rate so it's a umbrella kidney health marker and uh he's based on the creatinine calculation was 74 and if you were to do the estimation of eGFR from cisin C his result would be 99 so less than 100 would indicate suboptimal kidney function less than 90 is first stage of kidney disease now based on creatinine status yeah he has kidney disease but again I don't think he has actual kidney disease it's because of the increased creatinine due to excessive exercise so uh his creatinine is 99 if we were to calculate it from cyaten c it's still much lower than my 112 calculated from cyanin C. So mine 112 is you know peak kidney health in that sense albamine so this um most abundant protein in the blood usually reflects the nutrition status 4.5 for Brian mine is 4.6 six. Now I have slightly higher. It's not a huge difference. Um but yeah, if it were to be lower than that, so let's say 4.3, then he would probably just need to increase his calorie intake. So we both have slightly lower albamine compared to let's say someone were to be eating a ton of calories because of uh you know, we obviously don't eat insane amounts of calories to maintain lower body fat percentage. Now 4.6 is I think like a sweet spot. 4.6 to 4.8 is a sweet spot. 4.5 is something I think yeah just reflects nutrition intake total protein. So these are other proteins in the blood. Total protein BR is 5.9 g per deciliter. That's a bit low. Mine 6.73 g per deciliter. Um globalin another protein marker brands is 1.4. Mine is 2.31. So again his globaline is a bit too low. BUN blood ura nitrogen another kidney marker both are optimal. Mine is slightly lower. Vitamin B12 and uh this is in the kidney category because usually B12 levels I put it here because uh Brian's kidney so Brian's B12 levels are above the reference range. They're actually quite high. It's twice as high as mine. And you know, higher B12 isn't always a good sign because so your your kidneys filter things including B vitamins. And if you have elevated B12 levels, then that could be indication that your kidneys aren't working optimally and they're not filtering out the excess. So he's taking obviously a B vitamin complex or B B supplementation because he's not getting it from um from the plant foods. So um his B12 is very high because of the supplementation plus the kidney is not filtering it out. That's my analysis of that situation. And uh elevated B12 levels are actually associated with increased mortality because of the kidney component. So very high B12 levels isn't a good sign. The same with folate. So he's probably supplementing folate. He's he's over 20. That's also a bit too high above the reference range. Minus 17.4 that's in the reference range and um optimal. What will be some improvements for his kidney markers? Uh as I said there's probably some component of exercise, excessive exercise raising his creatinine levels, but you know it's beyond the creatinine. There's also the elevated B12, elevated folate, low protein status. So, um I suspect there is something in his supplementation or pharmaceuticals that worsens his kidney health. Maybe lithium, maybe something else, maybe some other mystery uh compound he's taking currently. So, yeah, these are the reasons why he has the kidney status that he has. And yeah, it could be better if his creatine was lower and uh this total protein would be also higher. Perhaps if he were to increase protein intake, he would actually see an improvement in kidney markers, which um has been documented to be possible. Liver markers. So yeah, GGT 8 minus 10.7 he has a little bit better, but both are pretty optimal. GGT below 15 is optimal. Now, if your liver enzymes are also zero, then I don't think that's healthy either. And with all these other liver enzymes are lower isn't always better, although some people, you know, would like to think that. Uh so because there is a certain amount of uh let's say physiological stress your body needs to maintain health and if you let's say have very low liver enzymes but you have poor V2 max then a higher VMAX is based on the evidence much better indication of long-term health than these very low liver markers but yeah GDGT both of ours are optimal brineus 10 as both are optimal for us mine is a little bit lower 24 versus 23 ALT bronze is a bit lower 21 22 22 so I guess you know there's no real difference significant difference uh Brian's ALP result so that's another liver enzymes but it's also involved in inflammation and uh Brian's is 77 minus 51 so 77 is a bit high 51 you could consider it the sweet spot I don't think an ALP of below 45 is actually that good because Again, if you have low ALP, you probably also have low strength and low V2 max because you're not really doing anything that would raise liver enzymes. You know, exercise can raise ALP levels and liver enzymes. And um if you were to look at the evidence, then Vtomax and grip strength are better indication of long-term health than ALP or some other liver enzyme. Um so yeah, 51 I think is actually the sweet spot in my opinion. 51 to 55 below 60 at least is a sweet spot. 45 to 45 to 60 let's say for ALP is a sweet spot. 77 is a bit too high. Now again it might be because of his uh very high amounts of exercise. So um yeah that could explain it because he's not you know drinking alcohol. His other liver enzymes are fine. So the only thing that explains it is the exercise. Billy Rubin both optimal and um yeah nothing to really add there. Now if people have elevated liver enzymes, the biggest reason for that is usually alcohol intake or excess sugar intake. If you improve your metabolic health, you uh lower your blood sugar levels with diet, exercise, weight loss, those kind of things. Uh then you will also see improvements in liver health. But uh remember the visceral fat component. So uh there's specific things that help with visceral fat loss. So dietary polyphenols, green tea, olive oil, uh vegetables, berries, those kind of things. High polyphenol diet lowers visceral fat and might and will help with liver enzymes by doing that as well and help with liver fat. Plus there's the component of a glycine supplementation which I'll talk about later as well when I try to improve brands results. But yeah, there the component of glycine, higher amounts of glycine help with lowering liver fat and visceral fat compared to methane. But Brian isn't taking a glycine that much. He takes only one gram of glycine, which I think is a bit too low. Hormones, so testosterone, Brian 712, seamus 767, you know, they're both in the same ballpark. Mine is uh slightly higher. Free testosterone. So this is the bioactive form of testosterone that's more important than regular testosterone. Brian 8.8 sema 13.8. So I have significantly higher free testosterone and the reason for that is SHBG. So SHBG sex hormone binding goblin. It's a binding protein that binds to uh testosterone and um if you have high SHBG like Brian 56.2 then um you end up with a lower free testosterone. So the optimal SHBG would be below 50 which mine is 47. And um usually what raises SHBG is calorie restriction, carbohydrate restriction, iron accumulation, and um liver damage. So for Brian, he doesn't have high iron levels. He actually has low iron levels and he doesn't have, you know, uh liver damage either, per se. So, uh, the high SHBG is because of the severe calorie restriction that he has and the lower carbohydrate intake. So, you can, you know, I'm also not eating a ton of calories. I'm not in massive calorie surplus. Otherwise, it wouldn't maintain leanness that much. But the key here is uh insulin signaling. So, insulin is a pro-anabolic hormone and insulin signals the body that there's abundance of nutrients. So uh by being on a low carb diet, you see an increase in SHBG because of the carbohydrate restriction. So there's it's very well documented high protein low carb diets raise S H S H S H S H S H S H S H S H S H S H SHBG levels and they lower testosterone levels in men whereas even low protein high carb diets tend to lower SHG levels and they end up with higher testosterone levels as a result of that. Now I'm not eating low protein. I'm eating semi- high protein but also high carb in intake. So that's why I have you know in the optimal range for SSPG and um increase the free testosterone levels as well. Uh LH FSH both are optimal and both are in the same ballpark. DHEA there's a precursor to testosterone there. Yeah, in the same ballparks. Brian is a slightly more increased 230 versus 214, but um you know I have a better uh testosterone. So DHEA only matters to the extent of testosterone. You know DHA alone isn't that big of a concern. It's more about the actual testosterone IGF-1. So um this is um pretty relevant to longevity. Very high IGF-1 levels are associated with cancer. Very low IGF-1 levels are associated with increased risk of neuro degeneration and dementia later in life because you need IGF-1. You need this growth for neurons but very high IG of one levels can also be involved in uh cancerous growth. Both our IG of one levels are on the lower end usually yeah around 100. The lowest I've been has been like 94. Brian's is also something like 90 100 something like that. So I we're equal in that scenario. Now some people okay is it good or bad for longevity. So the sweet spot for longevity is something like 110 to 120 nanogs per milliliter of IG-1. But uh both of ours is slightly lower. And you know I'm I'm okay with that. I think it's actually good because it reduces the risk of cancer and um I'm in no risk of frailty in that sense because I have high bone bone density high bone muscle mass good uh nutrition status you know I don't think it's a concern for Brian either because his bone density is high he has you know decent muscle mass so he's not at risk of frailty uh directly so uh I think personally I consider an IGF-1 of 100 nanogs per milliliter to be uh pretty and more optimal for longevity because of the reduced cancer risk. But if it were to be lower than that, let's say 50, then that could be that could be too low. And you know, how do you increase IG of 1? You just eat more calories, more protein, more carbohydrates. And the key part is also more frequently. What I found is that how much protein or how much carbs I eat has no effect on my IG of 1 levels. The uh the way I achieve low IG of 1 is through in fasting. Eating less often tends to result in lower age of one in my experience and you know Brian does also some aspects of time restricted eating. Vitamin D 77 NOGS per milliliter for Brian. Mine is a 56. Now 77 could be too high. You know, he's taking vitamin D supplement probably. And uh you know, they could be too high. So very high vitamin D levels are associated with increased mortality as well. But um it depends how you achieve it. If you were to achieve such high vitamin D levels through natural sunlight, then it probably isn't going to be a concern. But in his case, he's achieving it with supplementation. He's not, you know, sunbathing or something like that. So, um, in that case, it might be too high. But yeah, depends on a lot of other biomarkers. Thyroid stimulating hormone both are optimal for us. So, a Brian is uh lower, but he's taking some thyroid medication. which uh improves his thyroid function. So uh if he were to not take the thyroid medication, his uh thyroid markers would be much lower and much worse. Uh but yeah, because of the calorie restriction. Mine is uh slightly higher. It means that my body's signaling the production of thyroid hormones, but they're not very high. They're still in the normal range. Free T4 both in the same ballpark. 1.48 48 to 1.32. So in the hormone section, you know, the biggest takeaway would be that yeah, the presence of nutrients, especially presence of carbohydrates and insulin plays a big role in um sex hormones. So carbohydrate restriction, calorie restriction, even protein restriction can result in low sex hormones. All right, now let's move on with some of the experimental tests and yeah, these involve some of these biological age tests and those kind of things. Dun needed and pace. So this is the rejuvenation Olympics test that measures your speed of aging or as it's called it's a speed of aging test but I don't think it actually measures your biological age or your speed of aging. It's just a label that is attached to the test. In reality this test measures just acute inflammation. If you look at, you know, my own results, Brian's results, if you look at some of the studies on these tests, then you can see that they fluctuate a ton. They can be higher in the morning, lower in the evening. They can fluctuate day by day. Immediately after exercise, they're worse. Before exercise, they're better. Whatever it is, like they just fluctuate a lot. So, you really can't make any conclusions about your biological aging with this test because of the fluctuation. And they're also unpredictable. You can follow the, you know, very healthy or very optimized lifestyle. you can sleep a lot, no stress, no exercise, whatever it is, and get a worse result just out of randomness. So, um, yeah, I've tasted a few few of these, maybe four times, and they give quite a lot of different fluctuations. Matt Cberlain, who's a PhD in geroscience, longevity science, and uh, he did tests, two of the tests at the same time with multiple different companies, all gave different results. So how is it possible if you test at the same at the same time and you get different results? So it doesn't make sense or it makes sense if the test is wrong if the test isn't actually measuring what you think it's measuring. But result regardless you know Brian's best result for this test 0.54 is average 0.67. So the so the interesting thing here is that Brian tests this test a lot like several times a month. here in the document he had he tests 25 times this test per year. So uh obviously he's going to get a lot of different results and uh if you test long enough you're going to get a result like 0.54 you're going to get a result of 0.45 0.3 whatever it is if you test long enough you're going to get the result that you want. So, you know, I've taken Yeah. four times in my life. This test, Brian tests it 25 times a year. And of course, he going to get whatever test result that he wishes. Yeah. My best result was 0.62. And um yeah, I just stopped doing the test because I think it's kind of useless and it doesn't really tell you what people think it does. Telmir length. So, I haven't tested this in um you know, more accurate way. I haven't done a specific telomeir test. I got a telmer test result from the Dunadine PACE test. It was part of the component, but I don't think it was an actual most accurate telmmer test, but that test result gave me 7.9, but I haven't done yet like a proper tie test brands 11.4. Now, here as well, you could argue that very long tie can be actually not good. So, a telomease, this enzyme that grows tie is also involved in cancer. So excessive tie growth is a hallmark of cancer or you don't want to have super long tie. It's more about the speed of tie attrition. How fast the tie's shorten is what matters and what you want to pay attention to. Next we have pheno age. So this is the biological age estimation based on 10 blood markers created by Dr. Morgan Levine. And uh yeah it involves tests like creatinine, glucose, CRP, lymphosy percentage, white blood cells, RDW, alkaline phosphotase and MCV. So uh you put these things into like a calculator. You can find it online. Just Google phenom age calculator. You can do add the test and it estimates your biological age, phenotypic age based on those blood markers. And you also need to put your chronological age because the chronological age actually has a huge influence on the test results because if you're 60 years old, it's very unlikely you have a biological age of 15 as a phenotypic age. But if you're 35 or 30 like me, you can have a phenotypic age of 15 because the gap between 15 and 30 is much smaller than 65 and 15 if that makes sense. So yeah, because of that reason, you know, Brian, as we said, he had very high creatinine, he had slightly high glucose, he had low white blood cells, low lymphosy percentage. All those factors resulted in his pheno age of 8.81 years lower than his chronological age. So his phenotypic age is um 39 something like that. Mine uh 18.5 years lower. So it's 12. So, uh, there's a 18-year difference between my phenotypic age and my, um, chronological age and a 8.8 year difference in Brian's phenotypic age and his chronological age. Now, if you were to put the same numbers that I had, my creatinin, my glucose, my lymphosy percentage, my CRP and all those markers into Brian's calculator and you put his chronological age of 47, then his pheno age would be 20 20 years lower. He would be 27 phenotypically. So, as you can see, the chronological age plays a huge role in influencing the pheno age. If you're someone who is 45, 55 and you have very good creatinine levels, very good glucose levels, the delta or the gap between your pheno age and your chronological age can be much higher. Now, it would be very hard for me as a 30-year-old to have a pheno age that's 20 years lower than my chronological age. It would be extremely hard for me to achieve a pheno age of 10. Right now based on this this test result the latest ones it would be 12 which is possible as I've just shown but it would be much harder for me to have a pheno age of 10 with a gap of 20 years but it is possible for Brian because you know my if you were to put my results to his chronological age my creatinin my glucose my CRP my lymphosytes etc then he would get a pheno age of 20 years lower and uh interestingly there's this website longevity world And uh it just uh is a kind of similar leaderboard as the rejuvenation Olympics, but it's more crowdsourced or more independent. And they use the pheno age based calculations. And Brian's result wouldn't put him in the top 60 people in the longevity world cup, meaning that there are at least 60 people who have enrolled in this competition that who have better biomarkers than Brian. So, you know, Michael Osgarden, who's a friend of the channel, uh he's been on a podcast, his result is 23.9 years lower. So, he's I think he's 55 chronologically. So, his uh pheno age is um 40 uh sorry, 30 something like that. 32 is his pheno age and that's a significantly better result than Brian. But yeah, Brian's phen score based on his latest result wouldn't put him in the top 60 of people in the longe world cup, which just means that there's a ton of people out there who have much better biomarkers than Brian. I have better biomarkers than Brian. Michael Losgard has better bioarkers than Brian and 59 other people have better biomarkers based on the pheno age at least uh than Brian. Now they probably haven't measured as comprehensively as Brian yet. Brian has measured I don't know few hundred markers. These individuals probably have measured maybe a few dozen at most. But uh the pheno age which is a umbrella marker for overall is is obviously has its flaws. You can have high blood sugar on one day. You can have low lymphosy low white blood cell because of infection or something like that. So it obviously fluctuates as well similar to the Dunian paste test but it's a bit more practical because it includes 10 other biomarkers. It includes creatinine, it includes CRP, ALP, RDW, all those things that you can know what to focus on. Whereas with the Dunian and paste test, you don't really know what you need to focus on if you get a result because the test can obviously fluctuate quite a lot. All right, so I went through all these markers over 65 of them. My general consensus or analysis of his markers is that, you know, he doesn't have bad markers. A few of them are worse than others, but he's not based on the blood markers in some sort of bad health. He has above average health compared to an average 45, 47 year old, even an average uh, you know, 40year-old, 35year-old, he has better markers than those individuals, but they're not, you know, the best in the world. I've just factually shown you that I have, you know, significantly better markers. 44 versus 9, that's a overwhelming um majority of markers I have uh better than him. And on top of that, there's, you know, 59, 60 people on the longevity world cup that beat him on the Pheno age test. So there you have it. There's like dozens of people who have better biomarkers than Ryan. And you know, the claim that he has the best markers in the world is just I guess it's just marketing. It's there's the saying that if you repeat a lie long enough, then it will become true. So I I feel like that's the strategy here. You just repeat this long enough and eventually people will believe it. So you know for a layman brand's markers sound very impressive and scientific for someone who understands blood markers and understands what's optimal like me and many others like Michael Loskarden other PhDs other doctors then for them you know they're not very impressive. They're yeah better than average but they're not insanely amazing. I reversed my age by 25 years 10 15 years. They're yeah better than average but they're not uh insanely impressive. So there you have it. I just made this video because Brian repeatedly claimed I have the best biomarkers in the world. I'm the healthiest person in the world. I just, you know, someone had to put a stop to his and factually show that it's not the case. And like I said, there's dozens, hundreds of people probably out there that have better biomarkers than him as well. If you want to know the full details of what I do for my longevity and overall health, then I've got an evidence-based longevity routine video that you can watch