 These, geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m geral, m so I thought there might be something there. However, after digging deeper into the guy who discovered this peptide and researched it, I've become a lot more skeptical. You'll find what I mean in this video. But let's start with what is epithelium and why are people excited. We need to start with epithelamine. Epithelamine is extracted from the brain of cows. It's a mixture of many small peptides, not a single molecule. In rats, it's seen to reduce markers of oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation by enhancing antioxidant enzymes like superoxide dismutase. Scientists discovered that this tetrapeptide fragment inside epithelamine had strong biological activity, so they chemically synthesized it into epithelium. Epithelium is the synthetic tetrapeptide with the sequence ALA-GLU-ASP-GLI or AEDG. It's considered a bioregulator, a molecule that mimics the body's own short peptides to regulate gene expression, tissue repair, and regeneration. Both epithelium and epithelamine were discovered in the 1970s by Russian researchers Dr. Vladimir Kavinsson and Dr. Vyacheslav Morozov. Both of them worked at the St. Petersburg Institute of Bioregulation and Gerontology in the Soviet Union. Kavinsson was the director of the institute later in Russia. Kavinsson was called Putin's anti-aging doctor, as he had close ties with the Kremlin. We don't know if he was actually Putin's physician personally, but in 2017, Putin awarded him the order of friendship in the Kremlin. Kavinsson also claimed that some Soviet leaders and Russian officials used his treatments, but there's no confirmation by the Kremlin. Surprisingly, Kavinsson died at age 77 in 2024. The cause of his death is not public, so we can only speculate why he died. There's no official report of a heart attack, stroke, or cancer. This is interesting because Kavinsson claimed that he had been using his peptides for many years over 30 years and that it would make him live to the age of 120. But he died at 77, which is close to the average male life expectancy in developed countries like Germany and Canada, and 10 years longer than the average Russian male life expectancy. One big criticism of Kavinsson's work is that the studies he conducted on Epitalin aren't that good quality. Many studies are small or poorly controlled, leaving them open to bias and manipulation of data. Some were published in low impact journals, there's no large randomized clinical trials, and a lot of them are observational. Professor and Vice President of the Russian Society of Evidence-Based Medicine Specialists, Vasily Vlasov, has said that the evidence for these peptides made by Kavinsson is very small. It's important to be aware of this because Kavinsson and his colleagues held patents for these peptides that they were researching. This obviously creates a massive financial conflict of interest, especially in a country like Russia that's notorious for its corruption. If Kavinsson was indeed connected to the Kremlin, you have to keep this in mind because Russia is an oligarchy and it essentially functions like a mafia state. Nobody gets close to the Kremlin by chance. Kavinsson did build multiple businesses selling peptides. In 2024, the combined annual income of these companies reached 400 million rubles, which is around 5 million dollars currently, but before the Russian annexation of Crimea in 2014, it would have been over 13 million US dollars. That's the background information we need to start off with, because it's important to know who we're dealing with. And it actually gets a lot more spicier, but before that, let's talk about the actual research on epitalin. In the early 2000s, Kavinsson was doing studies on epitalin on humans and animals. In Fruit Flies, a 2000 study saw that epitalin increased lifespan by 11 to 16%. The effect appeared independent of dose within the tested range. The authors interpreted this as evidence that epitalin may act as a geoprotector, possibly through antioxidant and regulatory mechanisms. In mice, epitalin treatment extended maximum lifespan by 12.3%, but not mean lifespan. Last 10% of survivors lived 13.3% longer. There was also no difference in overall cancer rate, although leukemia was six-fold lower compared to control mice. Well, these are animal studies. What about humans? There is a prospective study on elderly Russian and Ukrainian adults over the age of 60. They were given epitalin and thymoline for 2 to 3 years and followed up for 6 to 8 years. Those who received these peptides saw improved physiological function and experienced a 2 to 2.4x lower incidence of heart disease, hypertension, osteoporosis, and osteoarthritis. Mortality risk was also lower. Thymoline alone, 2 to 2.1x lower. Epithelamine alone, 1.6 to 1.8x lower. Thymoline plus epithelamine, 2.5x lower. And getting annual treatment for 6 years resulted in 4.1x lower risk of mortality. That's an insane reduction in mortality risk. It's pretty much unheard of when we're talking about any other standard therapies. Another prospective study with a 15-year follow-up on 39 coronary heart disease patients receiving epithelamine saw that they had A-50% lower rate of heart disease mortality, 50% lower cardiovascular failure, and 28% lower rate of overall mortality. They did have better circadian rhythm regulation, lower cholesterol, and better physical function than people not receiving the treatment. Again, if this were to be true, then number one, this would be the longest anti-aging clinical trial in the world, and epithelamine would be the most powerful anti-aging drug in the world. But these two studies have major methodological flaws. First, it's virtually impossible to conduct a 15-year randomized clinical study. Second, the abstract of the paper says it's randomized, but they don't clearly describe the randomization method. It's not stated whether the patients or the doctors were fully blinded either, so it's likely that the study wasn't fully randomized, and the doctors knew who were getting epithelamine, and they were giving them special treatment. It could also be confounded by socioeconomic status that the people who were receiving these things were able to afford it. Covinson has also claimed that in the 2000s, he was doing experiments on Gazprom employees, and their morbidity was cut in half. But Gazprom has denied the use of any peptides in the company, and they denied any studies on the topic. This is an important point. It might be that Covinson is lying in multiple instances. Covinson has also claimed that he was nominated for a Nobel Prize in 2010, but there's no official acknowledgement of that by the Nobel Committee. So my impression is that this guy chronically lied about certain things to boost his prestige and credibility as a scientist and as a doctor. It's not clear that he's lying about his peptides, but the evidence for his peptides based on the studies that he's done is very weak. It's more than likely that Covinson was just overhyping these peptides because of the financial conflicts of interest. It doesn't mean that epithelamine or other peptides don't work. They probably do work to some degree. Covinson must have seen some benefits in his experiments, but it's likely that the benefits are grossly over-exaggerated and oversold. What I want to see is proper randomness control trials on epithelamine and these other peptides to see if they actually work. Right now, pretty much all of the studies are done in Russia by Covinson and his colleagues. They own the patents to these peptides. Covinson has been caught about lying some things and he probably was lying about other things. And three, these studies aren't very well-controlled studies. They're very open to some sort of bias and misinterpretation of the data. I think it's also interesting to see whether or not we will get any future studies with the epithelamine because Covinson is now dead. The companies that Covinson started are still active and they're holding the patents for these peptides. Obviously, you will develop a business around the medicines that work. It's not a bad or a warning sign in and of itself. The problem is that the evidence for that they work is quite limited and done exclusively by Covinson. Let's continue with some of the other experiments done on epithelamine by Covinson. The primary idea of epithelamine is that it's a brain longevity peptide that helps the pineal gland make melatonin and protect the brain from aging. With age, circadian rhythms become dysfunctional, which messes up sleep. A 2020 study saw that sublingual epithelamine at a dose of 0.5 mg a day for 20 days in 75 women improved melatonin production through modulation of the circadian clock system. It's also been shown to do that in elderly people and old monkeys. To be honest, this is one of the more interesting and promising parts about epithelamine, that it helps to regulate the circadian rhythms and restore circadian clock function. Circadian clock dysfunction is one of the emerging goal marks of aging that appears to be responsible for the reason why older people sleep worse. In human cells, epithelamine extends telomere length. However, it can do so in both cancer cells and normal cells. In this study, epithelamine extended cancer telomeres by 4 to 8 kilobytes within 4 days. Normal cell telomeres extended only by about 1.45 to 1.47 fold after 3 weeks. An important link with the circadian clock dysfunction and aging is your eye health and retinas because the retinas transmit their light signals to the brain. Epithelamine increases neurogenesis to growth of brain cells in human gingival mesenchymal stem cells. This explains the reason why epithelamine affects things like telomere length and melatonin synthesis, as well as circadian rhythm regulation. Even getting epithelamine intranasally increases neuronal activity in rats by up to 2 to 2.5x as epithelamine easily crosses the blood-brain barrier. In 2002, a clinical trial in Russia on 162 patients with retinitis pigmentosa, which is a genetic condition of progressive retinal degeneration and vision loss, saw that epithelamine could improve visual acuity and 64.8% of them saw a broadened total visual field by 90 to 120 degrees. Overall, I think epithelamine has some promise, but it needs more controlled studies. When I started researching epithelamine initially, I was very optimistic about it. But after learning more about Covington and seeing the methodological flaws in these studies, I'm a lot more skeptical about the actual effects of epithelamine. As I said, I think epithelamine probably has some effects. It's just that they're probably over-exaggerated. And if we were to do more controlled studies on this, we would see that maybe there are some benefits, but they're not that massive as they're being sold. I know there's going to be dozens of people typing in the comments, I tried epithelamine, it worked amazing, now I have an IQ of 150 or whatever. As I said, there's probably an element of truth in epithelamine. But placebo is also one hell of a drug. If you believe that it works, it's going to work, which is why we need to double-blind placebo-controlled, randomness-controlled trials. What I'm saying is that the evidence right now is somewhat limited. Number one, the studies are poorly controlled trials. Number two, they're all done in Russia by the same doctor and his colleagues who owned the patents and who was making millions of dollars off these patents. Number three, the said doctor seems to have been lying about many things. So he's not a reliable person. At least epithelamine is one of the peptides that actually has some human studies. You can't say that about many other peptides. Take those studies with a grain of salt, but at least there are some studies. Most peptides don't have human studies. There are a few that do, but most of them don't. Check out my video where I researched all the available human studies on the most common peptides next.