I've been taking asexanthin for about a year now and I'm going to share with you my results. In fact, I've been mega dosing it. A double dose of what's standard. The biggest things I've noticed are that my skin is a little bit more colorful and pigmented even without a tan. I get less ice drain from working in front of the computer. My HDL cholesterol is up a little bit and my LDL cholesterol is down a little bit. The reason I started taking asexanthin was because in 2023 there was a study showing that asexanthin extended the lifespan of male mice by 12%. This was the reason I started taking asexanthin. But upon researching more about asexanthin, I realized that it's actually quite a good supplement. One of the major effects asthin has is its antioxidant potential. In fact, asexanthin is said to have 6,000 times more antioxidant capacity than vitamin C. In this 2023 meta analysis of clinical trials, asexanthin supplementation at a dose of over 12 milligs a day for over 12 weeks was seen to reduce HSCP levels, which is a marker of inflammation, by 19 to 26%. That's quite significant. Doses below 12 milligs and shorter than 12 weeks didn't have an effect on CRP. I personally didn't see an effect of asexanthin on my CRP levels because my CRP levels were already close to zero. But if I were to have elevated CRP levels, then asexthin has been proven to be beneficial for that at a dose of over 12 milligs a day. In the same 2020 meta analysis, they also found that asexanthin at a dose of over 12 milligrams a day had the most consistent effect in raising HDL cholesterol by about 3%, which isn't a massive amount, but still statistically significant. My HDL cholesterol has increased from 58 mg per deciliter last year to 62 milligs per deciliter this year. That's about a 7% increase, which means that there are probably other things that contributed to it, but perhaps 3% of it came from asexantin. What about LDL cholesterol? Another 2022 meta analysis of clinical trials saw about a 3.5% decrease in LDL cholesterol from asexanthin doses of 4 to 20 milligs a day. They saw about a 0.9% decrease in total cholesterol but it wasn't statistically significant. My LDL is down from 78 mg to 58 millig per deciliter which is a 25% drop. This is because of other things besides asexin, mostly changes in my diet, but maybe asexthinine again contributed 3%. Overall, aexanthin appears to be quite favorable for people with metabolic dysfunction and dysipidemia. If you have high LDL, low HDL, and high inflammation, you can benefit from aexanthin supplementation at a dose of over 12 milligs a day. Let's move on with skin benefits because aexanthin is a potent compound seen to protect against photoagging. A 2021 systematic review and meta analysis of randomized control trials found that oral asexantin supplementation 2 to 12 milligrams a day for 4 to 16 weeks was able to improve skin moisturization by about 10 to 15% and elasticity by 3 to 10%. However, they saw no reduction in wrinkle depth. Now I can't say if asexan had benefits on my skin wrinkles because you I had no skin wrinkles to begin with. But what I did notice was my skin was a bit more pigmented and slightly more colorful even without the tan. That's because asexin is a carotenoid and you get carotenoids from orange, pink, purple and red types of foods. So consuming these carotenoids like lutein, asexantin, beta carotene, you can see an improvement in coloration in your skin especially in high doses. Those carotenoids also protect the skin against UV radiation from the sun which results in reduced photoagging. I don't know if it has had an effect on that because I don't get sunburned either. These carotonoids also protect the eyes against oxidative stress. And the biggest source of oxidative stress to the eyes is artificial screens and artificial light. A 2025 randomiz control trial on children aged 10 to 14 saw that 4 milligrams a day of asexanthin for 84 days reduced digital eye strain and improved visual fatigue. I can say that my eyes do feel less tired when I'm using the computer. And asexin has been the biggest thing I've changed in regards to that. One of the comments people have about asexanthin is that it lowers DHT. DHT or dehydrotestosterone is an androgen that plays an important role in sexual development and masculine features during puberty. The truth is that after puberty, DHT has almost no significant role in physical development. It does during puberty but not afterwards. During adulthood, DHT promotes facial hair growth, body hair growth, and the growth of your prostate, which isn't actually a good thing because it can increase the risk of prostate cancer. There are studies that asexanthin suppresses DHT and inhibits the growth of prostate cancer cells in rats. I would say that's a good thing. Now, if you don't have prostate cancer, then you probably don't need to worry about DHT or testosterone that much. But if you have prostate cancer, then suppressing androgens like DHT as well as testosterone is one of the medical treatment options. DHT is also implicated in hair loss and asexanthin has been seen to protect human hair follicle cells against oxidative stress which means it might help with hair loss by number one lowering DHT and number two protecting the hair against oxidative stress. I don't know if asexantin has had an effect on my hair growth because I haven't paid attention to that. I obviously now have longer hair than I did one year ago but that's because I stopped cutting it short. So yeah, I don't know if it has had an effect on my hair growth. But even when asexin lowers DHT, it's been seen to increase testosterone production and improve sperm function in animal studies. So I think it's a win-win. You lower DHT, which reduces the risk of prostate cancer and reduces the risk of hair loss. And you still might see an increase in testosterone and sperm function. So it's a win-win scenario in my opinion. Based on my blood work, my testosterone is up a little bit from the low 700s to the high 700s and low 800s. But testosterone fluctuates so much. So a single test is something that you can't really you know make conclusions about. Testosterone fluctuates day by day. Overall I think asexanthin is a solid god tier supplement. It improves skin aging. It lowers inflammation. It modestly improves the lipid profile. It improves eye strain. It lowers DHT and slightly increases testosterone. So that's why I've been very happy of adding asexin and I'm probably going to keep taking it forever. Now the dose needs to be right based on the studies that I've shared with you. The optimal dose is over 12 milligs a day. Most of the time I take 12 milligrams, but I've also experimented with 24 milligrams, so double dose. I ranked asexanthin in the god tier of supplements, but I also ranked 99 other supplements in the tier list. Check out my video about the 100 supplements ranked