Over the last few years, I've measured hundreds of biomarkers, taken dozens of blood tests, and read dozens of scientific studies on what truly predicts long-term health. And here's what I've learned. Not all biomarkers are equal. Some have a massive impact on your longevity, whereas others have a smaller effect. So, in this video, I'm going to rank 100 biomarkers from the most critical to your longevity all the way down to the least important based on my reading of the literature and opinion. Timestamps for everything are down below. And to make it even easier, I've put together a free blood work cheat sheet that you can find in the description. All right, let's begin. The first marker is a resting heart rate. Now, obviously, your heart rate is the most critical biomarker you have because if you don't have a heart rate, then you're dead. And um you know, when it comes to overall health and uh associations with heart disease mortality, overall all cause mortality, then uh resting heart rate does have a pretty significant effect. There is a pretty linear relationship between higher resting heart rate and increased risk of mortality. One meta analysis of over 1.2 million people did find out that everything above 45 beats per minute was associated with increased risk of uh mortality. And usually people with lower resting heart rates have better cardiovascular fitness, better cardiac function, they have less cardiac stress, etc. So, uh a healthy heart doesn't beat super fast. That's just the truth to it. Now, of course, there are some situations where a low resting heart rate can predict mortality, but it usually coincides with also a low HRV. So, if your heart rate is slow and you also have a low HRV, so there is less interval between the heartbeats, then that is typically a sign of um you know, usually it's a sign of aging. Uh but it can also be a sign of some coorbidities that predict future mortality. So a healthy heart goes with a slow resting heart rate. So something like less than 45 beats per minute, less than 50 beats per minute. And also a high HRV. So there's a high variation between those heartbeats. Resting heart rate and HRV are also a good indicator of your nervous system balance, your autonomic nervous system balance. So it's a good proxy of overall recovery and stress as well. So, I'm going to put it in the vital tier because u I do think that it's pretty reliable and uh it can be a good indicator of overall fitness, cardiovascular fitness and cardiac uh function. Next up, I'll take uh HSCP, highly sensitive C-reactive protein. So this is a marker of systemic inflammation and uh similar to resting heart rate there is a linear relationship between higher CRP levels and all core mortality risk and heart disease risk as well and I do think that it's a pretty uh reliable as well. Of course, hs-CRP can fluctuate. If you get some infection, doesn't have to be some serious illness, just a bacterial infection or something like that. Your CRP levels can acutely uh rise. But, uh, generally speaking, it is a pretty good marker of overall systemic inflammation. If you're otherwise healthy person, then your CRP levels tend to be close to zero, something like 0.1, 0.2, 0.4 or something like that. And anything above 1.0 zero tends to be indication of um unwanted inflammation that could be improved upon. So I'm going to put it in the vitals here because uh it's a very I guess universally you can find very uh strong associations with all different types of chronic diseases with high CRP levels. Next VLDL. So this is a type of lipoprotein and this is different from all these other types of u cholesterol and lipoproteins and VLDLDL tends to be more aogenic than other types of uh cholesterol and lipoproteins. So I'm going to put it in the vital tier. It has a stronger association LDLP. So this uh refers to particle count LDL particle count low density lipoprotein particle count. And um when it comes to aththeroscerosis and heart disease than um the particle count is u a much stronger predictor of um risk than um the the amount of cholesterol, the amount of LDL for example alone. So the particle count generally is a much better predictor. Of course there's going to be some situations where people with high particle count necessarily don't develop heart disease, but in um the vast majority of cases, you know, want to take the risk. So I'm going to put it in the vital tier for that homocyine. So this is um a marker of inflammation as well. High homocyine can increase endothelial dysfunction and cause endothelial inflammation. So and it is associated with heart disease risk as well. It can be also a proxy of methylation. So if you have poorer methylation then you tend to have higher homoyine levels. um but the association with heart disease for example is much weaker and uh compared to some other markers like hes CRP and VLDLDL. So I do think it is important but um I wouldn't uh become very worrisome or very worried from uh slightly elevated homoyine because it can also fluctuate quite a lot depending on if you've been infected with some virus recently or some bacterial infection or something like that. Uh so uh yeah it is quite important but not in the vital uh tier. Respiratory rate. So this biomarker you can measure also during your sleep. For example, Oruring measures your respiratory rate. Other sleep trackers can measure this. It essentially just refers to how many how fast you breathe during your sleep. And um generally speaking, healthier bodies, healthier hearts, uh healthier humans, they tend to breathe slower in their sleep because u it's it's about like oxygen efficiency. So you don't need to have a very fast heart rate. You don't need to breathe very fast. A lower respirator respiratory rate is a sign of better overall health. And um you know the association with mortality is not that researched. There are a few studies showing that a respirator rate above 16 breaths per minute is associated with increased mortality and the lower respirator rate is associated with lower mortality. So I'm going to put it in important tier just because of the um limited amount of research in this in this biomarker. V2 max. So V2 max refers to your maximum oxygen consumption during exercise and um you know you've probably heard a lot that V2X is one of the biggest predictors of longevity in humans which to a certain extent can be true but it obviously has some limitations. Uh so V2X is a good umbrella marker of your overall cardiorespiratory fitness as well as how your other organ systems are functioning. So to have a good V2 max you not only need to have you know a fit heart but you also need to have fit lungs and uh good circulatory system good metabolic health generally speaking because to achieve a high V2 max you need to be exercising. You're not going to have a high V2 max by just sitting around and having a bad diet etc. So if you have a high V2 max that warrants that you are exercising or training your V2 max to some degree. Generally if you have high V2 max then you're doing a lot of things right. So that's why I'll put it in the vital tier. Let's take something like a body fat. So body fat percentage you know everyone knows that if you're obese then you're harming your health. I think we're past that phase by now. And uh body fat uh is interesting. It can tell you a lot about your metabolic health. If you just look at someone's body fat percentage, you can pretty much predict what their blood work is also going to be with a quite good accuracy. You can predict their viax as well with their body fat percentage quite accurately. Other biomarkers as well. So it is a good you know uh rule of thumb to kind of this okams razor that okay if you just look at your body fat percentage you can get a pretty good overview of someone's health. Now it is more important for men in women there's a smaller association with body fat percentage and mortality risk unless you're in the severe obesity category. For men it's anything above 15% body fat is associated with increased mortality. So men need to be slightly leaner with subcutaneous fat. So fat under the skin. For women, the subcutaneous fat matters a lot less or there's a much weaker association with mortality. But uh regardless, body fat percentage alone can have its flaws. I'm going to be putting it in the important tier because of that reason that it doesn't fully grasp the nuances of someone's metabolic health and overall health. You need to look at all the subtypes of body fat mostly like visceral fat mass and subcutaneous fat mass etc. liver fat etc. You know if someone has a high body fat percentage then they also have high amounts of visceral fat that's uh you know we can be pretty sure of that in most cases but uh body fat alone can be misleading. What about BMI? So this notorious uh biomarker of um body fatness or estimated body fatness. Now, of course, BMI has a lot of flaws. If you have a lot of muscle, then your BMI can be in the overweight category. So, for example, my BMI is 25.5. So, I'm slightly over the limit for normal body weight, but my body fat percentage is 10%. My waist circumference is very low. My visceral fat is extremely low. My metabolic health is excellent. So, uh I have a higher BMI because of my muscle mass. Now, some people take it too far. So they'll say, "Although my BMI is 31, I have muscle and therefore BMI is useless because I have muscle and I'm healthy." Well, to have a BMI of 31, you still have slightly too much body fat for your frame, for your height. Uh because even if you're muscular, to have a BMI of 31, you will need to be having too much body fat to reach that BMI to begin with. So, you're probably something like, okay, 15% body fat, which isn't the end of the world, but it's not the most optimal as well for males especially. Now, if you're some sort of pro bodybuilder, then maybe you can have a BMI of 31 32 with some 10% body fat. But, uh, you know, in even in that scenario of being a pro bodybuilder, a mass monster with a BMI of 32, of leanness, of pure muscle, then it's still not healthy. I think that having that much mass is going to wear down your organs eventually and just you know to maintain that amount of muscle mass you need to be doing something you know either anabolic steroids or just eating insane amounts of food or something like that. So even if you are sub 10% body fat but your BMI is 31 then I would argue it's not healthy. So this the BMI is more of like a population um like a tool to analyze populations not individuals specifically. So I would you know put it in the not significant category. It has some validity. Like I said if your BMI is 31 then you probably have too much body fat or you are just you know a mass monster which is also not healthy. So I wouldn't ignore the BMI completely. But if your BMI is let's say 25.5 26 maybe 27 at the most then it might be that yes you have slightly more muscle than the average person which increases your BMI and that not isn't necessarily a bad thing but u at some point the insane BMI numbers even with very leanness a lot of leanness can be still harmful to overall health HRV so heart rate variability I mentioned it in the context of the resting heart rate that if you have low resting heart rate and high HIV, then that's a good sign of heart health and uh it also tends to be a sign of lower biological age because of when you're younger you have a lower resting heart rate and you have a higher HRV. With age, you see the opposite of that that your heart rate increases and your HRV decreases. So if you have low heart rate and high HIV, then that can be a good sign of lower biological age. Now the thing with HRV is that at least with these commercial devices like the Oring Whoop other you know fitness trackers people get a lot of different results with them. My average HRV is 100 100 plus where some other people might have a HIV of 40 50 60 20 or something like that and they are generally still healthy. They exercise regularly. They eat a good diet. They sleep etc. So they follow all the things they need to do but their HRV is still you know let's say 45 doesn't matter what they do it stays at 45. So there might be some um just individual differences between people that some people just have a lower HIV. What matters more in the context of HIV is how does it fluctuate? If you see that your HIV is always the same, doesn't increase, doesn't decrease, then there's nothing, there's not that much to worry about. Even if it's, you know, 45 or 35. Um, what matters more is that, okay, is it increasing or is it decreasing? If you see a sudden drop in your HIV, then that can be a predictor of some infection. Usually your HIV drops a few days before you get sick or if you have some infection, you can pretty accurately predict getting future sickness with your HIV. Um, but ideally, you know, your HIV should slightly be increasing over time. If it stays the same, then it's not the end of the world. If it's slowly decreasing, then that could be something to uh be worried about that okay, maybe you're too stressed out, maybe you're not getting enough sleep, maybe you're not walking enough, you're not getting enough um downtime, whatever the case may be. So, I'm going to put it in the important tier that HIV is important, but uh it has again limitations and a lot of individual differences. Let's take waist circumference. So waist circumference just measuring the narrowest point of your waist which is usually around your belly button. And uh waist circumference can be a good predictor of your visceral fat mass. So visceral fat around the organs in between the muscles. If you have a very big waist circumference, you just have like this beer belly, this pot belly, uh that is a usually a sign of high amounts of visceral fat. So that can be you know useful tool to just assess um your vis visceral fat mass and there we there are studies finding an association between higher waist circumference and increased risk of mortality in a linear fashion. So lower waist circumference tends to be a sign of better metabolic health and better body composition that you have less visceral fat mass but waist circumference can al of course be influenced also by your height your just genetics where you store your fat etc. So it is important but it doesn't tell the full story. What tells the full story is the waist to hip ratio. So waist to hip ratio is a better marker than waist circumference because you measure your waist and you measure your hip circumference. You divide your waist circumference with your hip circumference and then you get a particular number. The lower the number then the better it is. So your waist should always be narrower than your hips uh because of that reason. So, um, if your body stores fat around the hips, which is what females tend to do more, then that's a sign of better health. If your body stores a lot of fat around the belly and your hip hips don't have that much body fat, then uh that means your body is preferentially storing the body fat as v visceral fat mass, which um is worse for your health than uh the subcutaneous body fat. So while we're on the topic of fat mass then visceral fat mass I do think that it's vital. So visceral fat is both a cause and a driver of insulin resistance and diabetes. So visceral fat accumulates around the organs in between muscles and uh around the liver around heart etc. So um it is uh quite bad that it increases the risk of heart disease and definitely drives metabolic syndrome, drives metabolic diseases like diabetes, insulin resistance, etc. So you do want to have lower visceral fat generally speaking. Now of course you can have you you probably won't be able to have zero visceral fat. Zero is probably going to be unhealthy, but on the lower end less than average is what you want to aim for. So the average person might have 500 gram of visceral fat. That's um you know I would consider it okay but um not ideal. A more optimal amount of visceral fat mass would be something like 300 grams and below that. So let's say 100 to 150 grams would be excellent result. You know my lowest viseral fat score was 54 grams. Now I don't know if it's too low or not. There's no data about having such extremely low visceral fat atmas because um it would be very rare for someone to have that much and probably there aren't enough people to research that. Uh but you know I'm not you know particularly trying to keep my visceral fat at 54 maybe 100 150 is already you know excellent and uh no need to keep it lower than that. and liver fat as well. I would put it in the important tier for the same reason. It's you know pretty much another another location of the visceral fat. You can measure it separately. You can measure your visal fat mass with a dexa scan for the with an MRI and liver fat you can also measure with a full body MRI or there's also these um liver scans that you can do separately. So higher amounts of liver fat will will increase the risk of uh non-fatt non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and also increases the risk of insulin resistance for example and the threshold for that is 5%. If your liver fat is over 5% then that's categorized as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. A healthy amount of liver fat is something like two to the 3% or average amount is two to 3%. Mine was a 1.5% the last measurement. So um that is u lower than average which u is better generally speaking. Let's take white blood cells. So, a type of immune cells that uh do fluctuate based on infections and inflammation and they do vary quite a lot. So, if you're you've been secretly sick or something you um you were exposed to some pathogen, even if you don't notice it, you know, your body gets quote unquote sick several times throughout the year without you ever getting symptoms. Now, you're not technically sick, but you get exposed to various bacteria from your food or from the environment, various viruses when you're traveling around. And u in most cases, you don't ever actually feel the symptoms, but your immune system but your immune cells do respond to those uh infections. So, um that's why I would, you know, put it okay. White blood cells um can be very noisy because of that reason. But um chronically low white blood cell count for example can be indication of poor immune system functioning. If they're too high then they can be a sign of autoimmunity. But u generally speaking there's a very wide range of white blood cells that can be categorized as healthy because of the reason that it you know fluctuates quite a lot. as long as they're chronic as long as they're not chronically low and as long as they're not chronically very elevated then uh they tend to have um a lot of variety in in that. So I think it's okay in in that sense. Lymphosytes as well another type of white blood cell and um they are these white blood cells and lymphosytes are part of the pheno age calculator that is used to assess phenotypic age but uh they do fluctuate quite a lot because of the reasons that I alluded to earlier. So I'm going to put it in the okay uh tier albamin. So this is the most abundant protein in the body. It's also part of the pheno age uh calculator and um albamine I would put in important tier. It's mostly a reflection of your nutrition status. So uh how much protein are you eating, how many calories are you eating, etc. And uh individuals with malnutrition tend to have low albamine status. So albamine is important but um I would say it's not as vital as these other biomarkers here. What about muscle mass? So you've probably all heard uh muscle mass is associated with reduced mortality and longevity which is true to a certain extent but um obviously people take it too far that uh you know bodybuilding isn't associated with increased longevity. So, uh, there's obviously an optimal amount of muscle mass that matters. If you're a mass monster, then that shortens your lifespan. If you're sarcopenic, frail, you're skinny, skinny fat, whatever you want to call it, that also is associated with increased mortality. So, with muscle mass, you just want to be lean and athletic, slightly lower body fat, and with adequate muscle mass. I like to think of it, okay, look at like gymnasts or calisthenic athletes. These individuals tend to have the optimal amount of muscle mass in my opinion. They're not too bulky. They're not massive. They have lower body fat percentage and they're athletic. So, and even then muscle mass is a is a weaker predictor of mortality than muscle strength or even muscle power. So, I'm going to put it, you know, it's not sign it's not insignificant obviously because if you have sarcopenia and low muscle mass, you're frail, then you are increasing your risk of mortality. So, I'm going to put in the okay tier because um just focusing on the muscle mass alone is it misses the full picture that the reason you want the reason you get the muscle mass is through strength training and strength training is a bigger predictor of mortality than than muscle mass and it's also a better predictor of overall health whereas too much muscle mass can even be harmful and counterproductive. So, grip strength is usually to used to assess your upper body strength. So it is um you know similar to V2X that is just a sign of okay how much are you exercising how good is your diet how good is your overall health but the problem is that you can be like a fat powerlifter with insane grip strength like a arm wrestler or something but uh still be overweight and still be obese even. So that's why grip strength in my opinion alone individually is not a good marker because yeah you can be a fat powerlifter and have hypertension have diabetes and all those things. So but it's also not insignificant because if you have weak grip strength you're otherwise healthy then that's a sign of poor muscle strength and uh we know especially the older you get the more important muscle mass and muscle strength become. So, I'm going to put it in the okay tier because of the limitations of body composition. With V2X, it's different because to have a high V2 max, you also need to be with at least normal body weight and slightly leaner and you need to have, you know, good metabolic health as well because you're exercising to achieve a higher V2 max. You It's very It's almost impossible to have like elite V2 max and also be obese at the same time. Whereas with grip strength, you can be obese and have insane amounts of grip strength, if that makes sense. So grip strength in combination with low body fat, good resting heart rate, lower blood pressure, etc. That's what you want. But just focusing on the grip strength um isn't necessarily the the way to go. Append appendicular lean mass index. So this is a subt type of muscle mass. It measures only the amount of muscle mass in your arms and legs. And um I do think that it's slightly better than total muscle mass because it specifically looks at your arms and legs, which are the limbs that are most active during strength training. So to have big arms and legs, to have a lot of muscle mass in your arms and legs, you need to be doing some form of strength training. You know, let's say it's calisthenics or you're bench pressing a lot or doing squats or something like that. We know that you're with this marker, it tends to be more associated with healthy behaviors as well. Whereas with total muscle mass, you can be quite let's say overweight and still have quite a lot of muscle mass. Of course, the same can apply to the appendicular lean mass index. It doesn't look at body fat. Uh it doesn't include body fat into this calculation. So you can have high body fat and high appendicular lean mass as well. So I'm going to put in okay tier because of that reason. But yeah, generally speaking, higher muscle mass in the arms and legs is AI think a better marker than total muscle mass because it's uh something that you can build specifically with uh strength training that trains arms and legs. Creatin so a marker of kidney function. Now creatinine is influenced by a lot of things such as you know your muscle mass. If you have more muscle, then you're breaking down more protein. Your protein turnover is higher. That creates more creatin. Your kidneys have to filter it. So, your creatinine marker can be higher if you have more muscle mass and especially if you exercise as well on top of that. So, your protein breakdown is higher from the exercise. And uh protein, high protein diets can also increase creatinine. Taking creatine can increase creatinine in some individuals. Now I think that generally healthy kidneys will maintain normal creatinine even if someone is exercising and even if someone has higher muscle mass and even even if they are taking creatine for example you know I have quite a high amount of muscle mass relatively speaking I exercise regularly I've taken creatine and my creatine levels are quite low there are less than one gram per deciliter whereas some individuals who also exercise they eat you know the same amount of protein or even less and and they take creatine, they might have much higher creatinine levels. So 1.2 or something like that. If creatinine is above the reference range, I would I would still suggest that it's suboptimal even if you are otherwise healthy because it either means that your kidneys are with slightly worse worse function that they're not able to keep up with the increased protein intake or the increased muscle mass. Or it might refer to yeah that you you just have too much muscle or you're just exercising too much. Either or that uh you know you don't necessarily need to exercise hours and hours at the gym to be in good health. And uh arguably excessive exercise will be harmful to your overall health. So I don't think that insane high creatinine is something to just ignore, but it obviously is very influenced by things like muscle mass and things like um your protein intake. So yeah, don't ignore creatinine if it's especially above the reference range. If it's slightly elevated, let's say it's one or 1.1, then yeah, it might be influenced by muscle mass. If you don't exercise, you uh don't have particularly a lot of muscle mass, you don't eat a lot of protein, and your creatinine levels are elevated, then u yeah, that would be something to more be more concerned about. eGFR is um a systemic kidney health marker. So umbrella kidney health marker uh reflects to more like filtration rate of the kidneys. How well are your kidneys are working and uh eGFR can be calculated from creatinin which I just said has some limitations. If you calculate eGFR from creatinin then uh you can get a worse outcome. you can have a lower eGFR and you might be even in the kidney disease range if you calculate your eGFR from creatinine in some cases. So that's not so in that case it's not a good marker if you calculate it from creatinin but you can calculate eGFR from cyatin C which makes it more accurate because estatin C isn't influenced by muscle mass is not influenced by exercise etc. Look at like your pure kidney function. So, I'm going to put eGFR into the vital tier because I think kidney disease is quite underrated. It's not in the top, well, it is in the top 10 killers of the world, but it's not in the top five. Um, but, uh, kidney disease does contribute to heart disease, and most people with kidney disease die to heart disease. So, eGFR is important, and with age, even if you're healthy, you're expected to see a decline in kidney function because of natural aging. like all organs wear out eventually and kidneys tend to be one of the ones that go first. Cyanin C I just alluded to that it's better than creatinine. I'm going to put in the vitals here because it uh actually reflects your actual kidney function. What about epigenetic age tests? So these are these different types of um biological age tests. Now, I'm going to put them in a noise tier because there's quite a lot of studies showing that these markers fluctuate day by day. They can fluctuate based on the time of the day. If you get sick, they increase. If you recover, they decrease. I mean, it makes sense that it does. So, but that's because of there's a lot of noise or it just illustrates how much noise these tests can have. You're not going to get a reliable reading of your biological age with most of these commercial tests out there. Now again they might be useful in the research area and for assessing general population health but um if you are individually trying to okay calculate your biological age keep track of your biological age then you'll never know when is the best time to test it. Is it is it is today the best time? Is it tomorrow? Is it at 10:00 a.m.? Is it at 2 p.m.? You know do you need to be fasted or not fasted? So you end up just wasting your money by trying to figure out what's the best way to test these things and you end up with a lot of noise that even doesn't tell you anything useful. So let's say you take a whatever biological age test based on a blood spot. The number says, okay, you're five years younger than than your biological age. What are you going to do with that information? You're probably not going to change anything in your lifestyle. you're probably going to still follow the same workout plan, follow the same diet plan. Hey, because I'm 5 years younger, I'm going to keep trying to do the same general lifestyle routine. And uh you know, maybe the next time you get a different result, you might get a higher result because Matt Cberlain, he uh did an experiment on I think four tests. He took two of the tests at the same time, so eight tests in total. And all of them gave different results. All of them had even he took the tests at the same exact time. He had one test said okay five years younger the other said seven years younger or whatever the number is. So even if you take the two tests at the same time you're going to get different results which just means that there's a lot of noise with these uh most of these tests. I would put the Dunian pace here as well in the noise for the same reason. Now, it might be slightly better than most of these other epigenetic tests, but it has I guess like it feels like there's this inherent noise built into the test because of the unpredictableness of your speed of aging and your biological age. Like it makes sense, yes, that your biological age would fluctuate depending if you're sick or not, how much you exercise, how much you sleep. It makes sense. And it also makes sense that it might fluctuate with the circadian rhythms that in the morning it a different result and in the evening it's a different result. But uh you know you as a consumer are just end up with an empty wallet by doing that because you don't know the most optimal time to test this and even if you do follow the optimal time you can get insanely different results even if you test them at the same time. So yeah I would put it in the noise tier for that reason. pheno age. So this is uh also a biological age test that's calculated from 10 blood markers things like white blood cells lymphosytes albamin creatinin blood sugar MCV RDW alkaline phosphatase etc and your chronological age so it can be a bit more accurate because of that reason you can actually see specific blood markers and see which test or which marker is out of the range you can see okay you have high blood sugar yes that's going to increase your phenotypic age you have high inflammation high CRP your pheno is going to be higher than if it's if it's low so it's more practical in that sense you can see okay your kidneys is bad your liver is bad your blood sugar is bad your inflammation is bad whatever it is but the pheno obviously has it limitation as well because all of these markers fluctuate your CRP fluctuates your white blood cells fluctu fl fluctuate lymphosy fluctuate creatinine can be influenced by if you take creatine or if you have a muscle mass etc so even then it's not an actual representation of your biological age. But it's better than these epigenetic age tests in my opinion because you it's first of all it's cheaper. You just do the 10 blood tests. It's going to cost you maybe $70, less than 100 for sure. Uh and you will see specific markers that need improvement. Okay, you need to get your creatinine creatinine lower. You need to get your alkaline phosphotase lower, whatever the case may be. But as a number itself, it is insignificant. I guess it's just wrong to call it biological age. It's not an actual represent representation of a biological age. It's more about okay what is your blood markers predict your phenotypic age would be. Next we have bone density. So bone density I think is very underrated and uh when you're older let's say you're over 65 then low bone density can be a matter of life and death quite literally. Uh because if you fall off the stairs or you fall on ice or something like that, you break a hip, then um there's like 25% of people who break a hip after the age of 70 or something like that. U they're going to die within the next year. So uh a huge death sentence falling and breaking a hip in elderly people. And to reduce the risk of dying, you need higher bone density and higher muscle mass. And the individuals with higher muscle mass and higher grip strength and higher bone density, they're less likely to fall in the first place. So, uh, bone density is just a good marker of overall health and robustness. How robust is your physical body. If you're going to fall, are you going to break a hip? Are you going to break your spine or something? Um, you know, it's uh your physical robustness and physical resilience. So, I do think that it's vital in that sense. uh bone density peaks when you're 30 and um you can measure it with a dexa scan. I think everyone should get a dexa scan at least before the age of 45, you know, once just to see what their bone density is because after the age of 45, it's going to be much harder to build bone density. Especially women, you want to get your bone density measured before menopause because after menopause, you see a pretty big drop off in bone density because of u the loss of estrogen. FEV1. So this is a marker of lung health and lung force. There are like actually some Amazon devices you can use to breathe into it to measure it and um you know obviously it contributes to your V2X. If you have high lung function your um lung or if you have high lung function yeah your V2X will also be predictably higher. But individually it's I would say it's okay. It's not insignificant but you know vottomaxis is going to be more important than your this specific lung marker. In my opinion it's um you know it's more specific for some lung disease as COPD for example uh that smokers probably will see a much rapid drop off in this lung function. But if you compare vtomax to this lung function marker then vtomax will be more important generally speaking. Let's take LP little a. So um this is an aogenic lipoprotein and u it's a pretty established marker of atheroscerosis and it's unfortunately genetic. I will put it in the vitals here because uh it's causally linked to aththeroscerosis and it's something you don't want to necessarily ignore. You can measure it once and see what is your genetic set point. There's not a lot you can do to influence this or lower it. Yes, you can lower it to a reasonable degree with lifestyle. The healthier diet, losing uh weight, inflammation, these things, they can move LP little a slightly, but the it's very unlikely that you'll take your LP little a from 300 to 10 less than 10, which would be the optimal range. um but you want to be at least aware of your LPLA levels. The same way you want to know your APOV4 uh genotype. So um just measuring it once can be insightful and then you can be more careful with the other risk factors. So if you have high LPLA then okay you need to be more careful with the other lipids because your LPLA is already high oxidized LDL. So, uh, LDL that is oxidized is more likely to be agogenic. I'll put it in the vital tier. Usually, if you have high inflammation, then um and high oxidative stress, then your LDL is also more likely to be oxidized. And when it comes to oxidized LDL, then um lower tends to be um better. Now, LDL isn't the only thing that can oxidized. HDL can also get oxidized. So, oxidized HDL is as harmful as oxidized LDL. So just keep that in mind because HDL is often called to be like a good cholesterol but um oxidized HDL and HDL can get oxidized. So oxidized HDL is also aogenic. Moving on with testosterone and uh this is a marker that most guys care most about. They don't care about their you know other blood markers usually. They only care about their testosterone. But when it comes to overall health, then you know testosterone is obviously important, but it's not particularly vital um yes low testosterone can increase your risk of diabetes and can increase your risk of obesity and heart disease. But it's not the low testosterone itself. It's u the obesity that ensues or the metabolic disipidmia and insulin resistance that ensues from that. the chasing high testo or like you know chasing high testosterone isn't going to protect you from developing heart disease or developing insulin resistance. Uh you can be obese and have high testosterone. You can u be on anabolic steroids. Obviously bodybuilders inject steroids and they inject testosterone and they can have very high testosterone levels but uh they can still have a high risk of heart disease for other reasons. So testosterone is cardioroprotective in I guess like normal amounts and there's actually not a very strong association between testosterone levels and muscle mass which is usually what um men um care about when it comes to testosterone that I'm going to boost my testosterone so I have you know of course higher libido higher sex drive but also higher muscle mass. uh but there is actually no strong association between testosterone and muscle mass. There was a one clinical trial that looked at young healthy adults, males and uh testosterone and DHT which is uh the um the androgen primary androgen in the body in males uh testosterone nor DHT predicted muscle mass. What did predict muscle mass was androgen receptor density. So uh androgen receptors are you can think of them like these uh docks harbors on top of cells onto which testosterone attaches to and then exerts the gene expression protein synthesis all those things that actually make the muscles grow. If you have low amount of androgen receptors, you have a lot of testosterone circulating in the blood, but there's no harbors, there's no ducks for the testosterone to get attached to, then it's, you know, I wouldn't say useless, but uh, you know, it has less, it has no effect on muscle growth then because there's no these docks where it can attach to. So these androgen receptors are what predict muscle growth more than testosterone and DHT. Now androgen receptor density is very genetic. Some individuals just have a lot more androgen receptors. You can boost or increase androgen receptor density as well with certain uh things like creatine does it. Higher protein intake does it. Uh lifting weights. So strength training does it. High volume training. All those things can increase androgen receptor density. But obviously it's very genetically determined as well. But yeah testosterone is important. You don't want to have low testosterone but there's no reason to try to aim for whatever very high testosterone. If you look at let's say um lifespan studies then very high testosterone might shorten lifespan maximum lifespan. Now of course uh it's it's a balancing act again. So the takeaway message would be that you don't want to have low testosterone but there's no inherent benefit to having insanely high testosterone either. If you look at the studies of testosterone and associations with mortality then over 700 is associated with lower mortality. Um so maybe let's say okay 800 is a sweet spot for naturals. 800 testosterone total tes uh the total testosterone you know when it comes to testosterone then free testosterone obviously is more important than regular testosterone. So free testosterone is the bioactive testosterone and it is more important than regular but the same reasons u testosterone can only get you so far when it comes to body composition but you don't want to have low testosterone. LH and FSH. Um, these are hormones that support testosterone production. And um, yeah, I think they're obviously important. So, I'll put them here in the same group as these other testosterone SHBG. So, this uh is a binding protein sex hormone binding goblin and uh, it attaches to testosterone resulting in lower free testosterone. So if you have very high testosterone but low free testosterone which is what we want. We actually want to you know prioritize free testosterone. There is association with high SSBG and increased mortality because SSBG usually uh rises due to certain dietary restrictions and just getting older. With age you see an increase in SSBG. Uh severe calorie restriction can increase SSHG. carbohydrate restriction does it. And um you can lower SHBG by increasing carbohydrate intake and increasing calorie intake for example. So I'll put it in the okay tier. I think uh there are situations where you can have high SAPG and also have adequate testosterone and adequate free testosterone. So it's more about symptom management. Okay. Do you have symptoms of low testosterone? Do you have symptoms of high SBG? And SHBG can also rise if you have um liver dysfunction or iron accumulation in the liver. So there are other things that SHBG can indicate. But uh most commonly SHBG reflects energy status. How much calories are you eating as well as a carbohydrate intake? If you are low carb, then your SHBG tends to be high and your festosterone tends to be lower. And that's why in pretty much all studies um high protein low carb diets tend to result in lower free testosterone for that reason because of the increased SHBG levels. What about estradiol? So E2 the primary female hormone. Uh it's also important for males. It's a cardoprotective. So uh if you have extremely low estradile levels, it might increase your risk of heart disease. Uh so there is a sweet spot for both males and females when it comes to estradiol. I'll put it in the important tier. Um I wouldn't call it vital because it's not literally determining your progression of certain current diseases but it's a again like a proxy measure of your total health status. And of course after menopause estradile levels estrogen levels in women decline quite a lot. And um you know even for quality of life it's very important. So a lot of women do hormone replacement therapy after menopause and that improves their sleep, improves their body composition, improves their aesthetics, increases their bone density etc. So um after menopause you know depending on who you are like some hormone doctors would say that estradiol is uh vital after menopause. Some people would say that it's overhyped and it's not necessarily that important. So I'll put in the important. I do think that after menopause most women would benefit from hormone replacement therapy probably in in most cases resting metabolic rate. So this is interesting. So you can measure it at a lab and um you know depends on your goals. If you're trying to lose weight then yes having a higher resting metabolic rate will be quite useful. You'll be able to eat more calories and still be able to lose weight. When it comes to let's say maximum lifespan in a lot of animal studies a higher resting metabolic rate is usually associated with shorter lifespans and uh you know calorie restriction works through reducing your resting metabolic rate to a certain extent. That is that's one of the mechanisms. Um it's obviously there's no strong relationship between resting metabolic rate and longevity in humans. It's probably not studied and it's virtually impossible to study it. So, I'll put it in not significant. And I'm not sure how accurate these tests are either. You know, I've measured my resting metabolic rate. It was very high. I'm not even sure that I'm eating that many calories as my resting metabolic rate showed. Um because uh you know, I'm eating maybe 2500 calories a day. And my resting metabolic rate showed the test showed that it my resting metabolic rate was 3,100. Uh which is sounds a bit high. So again the test might be inaccurate uh but generally speaking you know everyone has their energy balance even if you don't measure it there's a certain energy balance your body has that is influenced by many factors your health your diet your exercise etc. your resting metalic rate is mostly influenced by your muscle mass um and uh hormonal health and metabolic health. But uh I would put it in there not significant because uh yeah the test can give you a number but your real real calorie intake needed to maintain your body composition might be completely different. So the only way the most accurate way to know your metabolic rate, your resting metabolic rate would be to track your calories and uh weigh the food to weigh the food do it for a few weeks and see how your body composition changes. If you're gaining weight then you're in an energy surplus. If you're losing weight then you're in an energy deficit. So that would be more accurate way to measure it. Another thing that is often talked about in this context is body temperature and um yes lower body temperatures are associated with higher lifespan in animals but in humans again it's very limited evidence. Interestingly, obese people have higher body temperature because, you know, they're eating more food and uh their body is processing more food if that makes sense. So, your metabolic furnace is higher. So, yes, I guess like in the extreme examples, body temperature can be insightful. If you have very high body temperature, you know, I wouldn't say that a high body temperature alone is harmful. You have to look at all the other factors. If you're obese, and you have high body temperature, then it just means that you're probably just eating too many calories, and you're obese. If you have high body temperature, you're lean, you're healthy, you're metabolically healthy, then it's potentially a good thing because you'll feel warm, you'll um you'll probably feel better a little bit and uh and you'll have more energy. And likewise, very low body temperature, like being hypothermic, is obviously also not good. If you So your body temperature decreases at old age as well. So old people tend to be colder. If you've um you know hugged your grandma or especially people on their deathbed, you know, their hands and feet are very cold. So their metabolic rate is decreasing, their body temperature is decreasing, etc. as a sign of uh dying for lack of a better word. Um so you know, I wouldn't think that you want to have hypothermic body temperature. I don't think it's an indication of good health. you're just going to feel cold all the time. Your hands and feet are going to be cold. You know, I've been in those kind of situations in the past where I was, you know, not deliberately restricting my calories. It just ended up being like that way. So, I wouldn't say that it's a good sign of anything. So, I would put it in the not significant. It depends all on the other markers. What's your racing heart rate? What's your other blood blood markers? What's your body composition, etc. If you have slightly lower body temperature and a lower metabolic rate but you're lean, you have good metabolic health, other bioarkers are good, your resting heart rate is good, your V2 max is good, your grip strength is good, you enjoy life, you have high quality of living, then uh they don't matter that that much that you have low body temperature or low resting metabolic rate. But if you have low body temperature, low resting metal rate, you're obese, you have other co-obidities, you have poor fitness etc. then uh in that case they're just you know I guess yeah it just depends on the other markers ALT as GDT so these are liver enzymes I'm going to put them in the important tier because they do matter and um you know obviously liver disease if you're drinking a lot of alcohol these liver enzymes are going to increase if you're taking certain medications these markers can also increase so it just reflects uh liver burden So, so um yeah, depends on your lifestyle. If you have very high liver enzymes, but you're otherwise healthy, then it usually can be traced back to some, let's say, underlying not not infection, but uh you know, heavy metal toxicity or some environmental toxicity. Mold toxicity can raise liver enzymes. So, uh it it warrants some further investigation if you have high liver enzymes and you're not drinking alcohol, for example. If you're drinking alcohol and you have high liver enzymes, then you know you know the reason for that. ALP as well is um I put it separately from these liver enzymes because it tends to tell a little bit more than just regular liver enzymes. It can also reflect inflammation. So I'm going to put it in the important tier as well for that reason. It's um something that can be influenced by exercise. So that's why it's not in like the vital tier that it absolutely tells a perfect story. It um is influenced by multiple factors. APOB. So um I'm going to put it in the vital tier because I do think that there's enough evidence to suggest that APOB is causally implicated in atheroscerosis and APOB again is better marker than regular cholesterol because um it reflects the particle count. So the particle count is what matters for atheroscerosis and um APOB reflects particle count whereas regular LDL cholesterol doesn't necessarily reflect particle count. There can be an association between high LDL and high AOB but not always. So uh you what you want to do is still measure your APB for a better overview of your cardiovascular risk. And of course atheroscerosis is a disease of many decades. It's is about taking um less less risky option. I personally don't want to take a risk with lipoproteins. I have a family history of heart disease. So I don't want to like just take a chance that okay maybe it's not associated with risk and I don't necessarily need to. There's no health benefits to having high APOB. So you know that's the way I see it. If there's no benefits and there is a potential risk even if the potential risk is you know 5% 10% then I don't need to take the risk. It's the same with a a seat belt. You know if you go to the store that's 1 kilometer away you know the route. Yeah. I mean, in most cases, it's nothing's going to happen, but there might be just this one single occasion where not wearing a seat belt means that you're going to get hit by a truck, and in that case, you know, you might die. And wearing a seat belt might save your life in that situation. So, why take the risk? It's the same with like a helmet. Uh, IGF-1, so insulin like growth factor one. It's interesting. A lot of bodybuilders also use IGF-1 for increasing muscle mass. IG of one uh in high levels can be or it is associated with uh cancer is also associated with heart disease and diabetes. So um it's more like a hormone of growth. If you have very high IGF-1 levels then um it means your body is in a more growth state and that the growth can be pathological. You can grow cancer cells. uh again bodybuilders use that growth to build muscles and grow muscles but uh high IG1 levels are associated with cancer and it uh definitely can promote development of cancer. So I'll put it in the important tier. I personally do consider IGF-1 also one of the hormones related to maximum lifespan in humans. There's quite interesting uh association between the longest living people and lower IO1 levels. So the super centinarians they tend to have lower IG-1 levels and um IGF-1 levels are the highest during puberty when your body is growing the most in that state of life it can be quite useful because you know you can have low bone density you can be shorter if you have low I of one so there are reasons you need IG of one especially during puberty but it's uh at a certain age it flips it's this antagonistic pleotropy which is a very common phenomenon in across biology across species and there's evidence that it occurs in humans as well that what's good for you in early life isn't necessarily good for you later in life. So this constant growth if you're a baby yes you need to grow it makes sense you need to grow you need to develop into an adult to um just develop physically and uh and uh achieve good muscle mass and bone density etc. But later in life this excess growth can lead to cancer and we can see it from the studies where high IG1 levels are associated with increased cancer. So yeah super centinarians tend to have lower IG of 1 levels which might you know there's a lot of things that determine living very long but the genes that regulate IG of1 are one of the potential candidates for that. Apo A. So this is another lipoprotein usually a counterpart to APOB. You can have a very good um overview of your metabolic health and cardiovascular risk by looking at the APOB APOA ratio. But I do think that it's less important than APOB actually going to put it in the So if you have very low APOA then uh it usually works hand inhand with insulin resistance and some aspects of metabolic dysfunction. So in that sense it's useful but I'm going to put it in the okay tier because of uh it's not directly related to your metabolic health if that makes sense. Blood pressure. So um the biggest cause of death in the world is heart disease and high blood pressure is one of the biggest drivers of heart disease. High blood pressure also increases your risk of Alzheimer's, dementia or cause mortality, stroke, nothing that you want. So um you want to get your blood pressure pretty normal as fast as possible when you do discover you have elevated blood pressure. Now blood pressure obviously fluctuates every day. It's higher in the morning, lower in the evening. The lowest point is at 6 PM. So, if you are measuring your blood pressure, you should measure it every at the same time every day. Getting your blood pressure drawn at the doctor once a year is not going to tell you anything because you might be nervous. You're probably nervous at the doctor like, "Oh my god, what's my blood pressure?" So, that's going to increase your blood pressure. So, what you want to do is sit down for at least 5, 10, 15 minutes and uh relax. you know, don't be caffeinated, etc. Then measure your blood pressure at the same time every day to see a certain trend. But yeah, high blood pressure is um is called a silent killer because you can't feel it. You can't feel if you have a high blood pressure. So, uh it needs to be measured. CAC, so coronary artery calcification. So, it looks at the amount of calcium in your arteries. Now this is obviously vital because if you already have calcium in your arteries then it means that you have advanced stages of heart disease and plaque accumulation. So the calcium is the last stage of plaque accumulation in the arteries. It means that there was already previous damage and the body has repaired it. So it's the last stage. Now calcium it means that the calcium is keeping the plaque more stable. It's less volatile. So it is safer than the soft plaque that is uh not calcified. It's more volatile. It can lead to blood clots and a stroke. So so calcium in the arteries is is a you know it's it's healthier than soft plaque but it means that there's first of all been previous damage and it means that you already have advanced stage of heart disease aththeroscerosis. So it's just like a retrospective marker of previous damage. So if you have higher amounts of calcium, the higher it is, the higher the risk tends to be for future heart disease because it means that you've gone through aththeroscrosis and it means that you already have advanced stage of a heart disease. CINT so this is carroted in media thickness. It can be done with an ultrasound. So zero radiation, very cheap, very fast and uh it looks at the narrowing of the arteries with the ultrasound and um this can be useful for identifying also soft plaque. So something that's not calcified yet. Now the the most accurate way to assess soft is with u is with a CT andog unfortunately that has a lot of radiation. So you don't necessarily want to do it unless there is a medical need. Um, but the CINT has zero radiation and it's pretty uh cheap and I'm going to put it in the vital tier because uh of that reason that it also reflects your atheroscis u burden. The CA cac coronary calcium score. So this one obviously involves some radiation. If you're young person you don't need to do it or you shouldn't really do it unless there are some risk factors. Um but at some point you let's say after your 50s it's generally recommended to get at least one calcium score analysis just to see what your risk is because uh the older you get the higher the risk of heart disease is and um you know heart disease is a disease of decades. It progresses. It starts already in your youth and it takes a very long time to progress and in your 50s you can start to see the calcium accumulation in the um arteries. It can also happen sooner obviously. So the the issue with the CAC is that because it's so um you know it has a higher radiation exposure you can't do it you know something like once a month or something. Uh even once a year is not recommended for most people. So you never know okay what is the intervention that increased your CAC or what are interventions that lower it. So you don't necessarily know okay when did the calcium come and why did it come for for what lifestyle factors. What we do know is that high blood pressure, insulin resistance, diabetes, smoking, dysipidemia, being overweight, not sleeping enough, those things uh are all risk factors for heart disease and aththeroscerosis. Smoking is the biggest one, diabetes is the second one, high blood pressure is the third one. So you want to obviously manage all your risk factors, but um you can't u predict it that linearly that even if you're not smoking, you can still develop uh coronary atheroscerosis. It's just that if you are smoking the risk is significantly higher. Iodine so first mineral first nutrient biomarker you know I think iodine does influence your thyroid functioning. If you're low in iodine, your risk of hypothyroidism is higher. But in my interpretation of the literature, iodine isn't necessarily going to prevent hypothyroidism. You can have normal iodine level. You can eat all the nor adequate amount of iodine from a diet even without supplementation and you can still have hypothyroidism or you can have the symptoms of low thyroid. So you know you could put it in the not significant category based on that but low iodine status in pregnant women especially does seem to predict certain birth defects and me mental capacities in the children. So it is important for that but I'm going to put it in the okay tier because um just taking iodine or increasing your iodine intake isn't necessarily going to fix hypothyroidism which is the most common reason people take iodine. Um, pregnant women do it for their pregnancy, but um, you know, it's not always something you want to do because high iodine status, high iodine intake can also lead to uh, autoimmunity and hyperthyroidism. So, you want you it's one of those supplements you want to be careful with. You do want to consume adequate dietary iodine. Milk, seafood, uh, iodized salts are the most common sources of iodine. Uh so um yeah, you do want to eat iodine foods, but um I wouldn't necessarily start taking iodine supplements. And it's very easy to get your RDA for iodine. Like a glass of milk already has u something like 50 to 60% of your RDA for iodine. So let's talk about thyroid hormones. T3 and T4. I'm going to put them in the okay tier because I, you know, I think that um you can have so so rather than just chasing numbers, I think it's more important to chase the symptoms of hypothyroidism. So let's say you can have slightly lower T3, the active form of thyroid hormones, but you can be still in perfect health, you can have high energy, you can have excellent body composition, you can have good metabolic health, etc. because you can have zero symptoms of low thyroid but have slightly suboptimal T3 levels or T4 levels. So in that perspective u there's nothing to worry about T3 and T4. If you have symptoms of low thyroid functioning such as you're gaining weight, you have brittle nails, hair loss, uh those things um some insulin resistance can also be caused by low thyroid then um yes you want you want to improve those markers. Maybe that involves improving your iron status. Maybe it involves just eating more calories, which I think is the most common reason for low thyroid hormones. People are just not eating adequate amount of calories. Uh so there are other things that influence these numbers and it's more important to focus on the symptoms. And when we're talking about again longevity or lifespan then um low thyroid levels similar to IG of one tend to predict longevity in humans. So like like a lower resting metabolic rate, a lower resting metabolic rate in animals at least there is some association with increased lifespan. In humans as well, there's tends to be some association with lower thyroid functioning and um greater longevity. Now, having low thyroid functioning can be a double-edged sword because if you have low thyroid functioning, you're gaining weight, you're going to get high blood sugar, etc. So, uh in that case, it's harmful to longevity because you increase the risk of heart disease, you increase the risk of metabolic syndrome, etc. Um so, yeah, I would, you know, I guess I put it in the okay tier. I'm personally not particularly worried about T3, T4. If they're in the normal range, then I'm happy. If they're slightly below the normal range, then I wouldn't immediately be concerned. You would have to look at all the other biomarkers as well, such as your metabolic health. If you have good metabolic health, you're lean, you have good sleep, good sex drive, all those things, your skin is good, your hair is good, then uh just the T3, T4 um aren't that important. Maybe increasing your calories or increasing your carbohydrate intake will fix that. So, um yeah, there's a lot that goes here. So, next up, we'll take progesterone. And this is most relevant for women for pregnancy and menstrual cycle. So, it's obviously important for that. It's a important uh marker of overall fertility and sexual health. So, I'll put it in the important tier. pregnenolone is um a precursor to other steroid hormones like testosterone in men as well. So yeah, I'll put it in the important tier that um so it doesn't have that much like clinical relevance if that if that makes sense that uh pregnendolone levels aren't going to predict your future risk of heart disease as much as these other biomarkers even apo even albamine and even homocyine in here but I'll put it in the important tier because it uh is a precursor to the other sex hormones thyroid stimulating hormone so we just talked about thyroid And um you know my opinion is the same. If you have high TSH levels it means that your body is trying to produce more thyroid hormones. It it detects inadequate thyroid hormones. Um but TSH there's a a very weak link with longevity in humans. So in or actually even in some of the centinarians high TSH levels are associated with longevity. So it's again goes back to the idea that low thyroid might have some beneficial effects of on longevity. But again you have to take into account all the other biomarkers. TSH alone is uh you know not significant although I'm going to put it in the okay tier because you know it does tell a story of okay is your body trying to produce more thyroid hormones or not? B and P. So this is a marker of cardiac stress. I'm going to put it in the important tier. So let's say in the extreme examples, if it's very elevated, then u it can predict future outcomes. Um in most people, it's just going to be in like a normal reference range somewhere in there. So I wouldn't try to chase this number that okay, I'm need to get my BMP into some optimal range. I don't need to you do you need to do that. If it is elevated then um I mean it's usually going to be associated with cardiac problems already to begin with hemoglobin so um refers to red blood cell status iron status and oxygenation so I think it is important there's u you know it's going to most impactfully impact so it's most impactfully going to influence your energy status your exercise performance if you have low hemoglobin then you'll probably just feel winded, tired, uh chronic fatigue, uh those things. If you have higher hemoglobin, then you'll have more energy. You'll u be able to exercise more, etc. There's a relationship between higher hemoglobin and higher BMX because your body is able to carry more oxygen around or it is carrying oxygen around. So, it is important from a quality of life perspective for sure. And with hemoglobin as well as other red blood cells, there's tend to be like a U-shaped association with longevity and mortality that if it's too high that is associated with increased risk and if it's too low uh that's also associated with increased risk. iron I think it is I would you know put it in the vital tier because um very high iron levels will cause damage to the endothelium and increase the risk of heart disease. So iron is something you don't want to ignore. men are more vulnerable to high iron levels or not more vulnerable they tend to have higher iron levels because men don't menstruate and they accumulate iron more because of that reason. So uh high iron levels are something that you definitely want to address. The fastest way to do it is blood donation and um other ways have to do with um increasing gelating iron. So fiber, coffee, different types of uh polyphenols or foods that contain polyphenols with fiber tend to gelate iron. But the fastest way if you have very high iron levels, something like 300, 400, 500, then um blood donation is the fastest way to do that. And there are potential health benefits to blood tonation as well independent of the the removal of blood. Maybe a lot of it is due to iron but uh you know there might be some other mechanisms as well that actually can be helpful and uh good for your overall longevity. Feritin I'll also put it here for the same reason vital here uh for the association between iron and atheroscerosis uric acid. So um uric acid is an antioxidant and uh if it's very high then that can be a sign of um increased oxidative stress in the body increased inflammation but there is actually an association between low uric acid levels and dementia and other diseases as well that um has been identified. So I do think it's important now how high should it be? How how low is too low? How high is too high? That depends a lot on the individual. If you exercise more, you might have slightly higher uric acid levels. If you don't exercise at all, you have low uric acid levels, then um that is associated with increased risk of dementia for example as well. So a healthy amount of uric acid uh somewhere in reference range tends to be optimal. HDL cholesterol. Now HDL is important but the thing with HDL is that higher HDL doesn't uh reduce the risk of um heart disease. We've uh known that because of uh the clinical trials where you raise HDL with interventions such as nasin and it doesn't reduce the risk of future heart disease events. So HDL is more like a a marker of your metabolic health. People with insulin resistance tend to have low HDL. If you're in good metabolic health, you tend to have higher HDL. Um, the thing with HDL, as I said earlier, is that it can also get oxidized. Oxidized HDL is also a oxidized HDL increases the risk of aththeroscerosis. So, um, yeah, extremely high HDL isn't necessary. It's not better. uh something like uh 40 to 60 maybe 80 40 to 80 is a a good sweet spot for HDL. If your HDL is super low then that's usually the sign of um metabolic syndrome or insulin resistance. Hemoglobin A1c an average your average blood sugar and uh glycation marker. So I think it's vital because um you know blood sugar is quite important and uh if your hemoglobin C is elevated it means that your average blood sugar is going to be higher as well. So definitely better to keep it lower. So something like 5% is better than 5.5% or 5.8%. 5.8 being uh pre-diabetes. Um you don't necessarily need to keep it super low like 4% is probably unnecessary. 4.5% is also probably unnecessary. If it is 4.5% then you know that's excellent but uh let's say 5% I would say is optimal less than 5% is optimal sweet spot. Fasting insulin as well a vital marker of overall metabolic health. If your fasting insulin is very high then it tends to be a sign of insulin resistance and poor metabolic health and uh typically lower fasting insulin is uh better. So less than seven is associated with lower mortality risk. fasting glucose. So, I do think fasting glucose is important, but you know, the issue with fasting glucose is that it can fluctuate a lot. You got a bad night's sleep, your morning fasting glucose is higher. You, you know, exercised a little bit too close to bed or something like that, your fasting glucose is going to be higher. You're stressed out, your fasting glucose is going to be higher. So, you know, individual fasting glucose markers aren't illustrative of the entire story of your overall health. Um, what's probably better is uh a CGM reading. So, what's your average blood sugar across the day? How does your blood sugar respond to different foods that you eat? How does it fluctuate throughout the day? So, a CGM experiment is something that most people could do, and I think it's very useful. Don't get too caught up with uh some swings in your blood sugar. uh what matters more is that okay if it goes up if it stays elevated that's a sign of this insulin resistance that your body isn't producing enough insulin to lower the blood sugar. If if it goes up and comes down then uh that's a sign that your body is producing enough insulin but yeah fasting glucose usually is influenced by your sleep quality and stress levels and those things even how much carbohydrates you've been eating over the last few days. So it's it's got its limitations if you just look at it in the morning for example. Fructoseamine another glycation marker uh specifically I'll put it in the important tier. Now it's not you know as bigger of a predictor of longevity as uric acid or liver enzymes or something. uh but let's say for skin health there is some association between fructosamine and skin aging as well because uh it reflects glycation of proteins um so yeah I mean the clinical value is lower than uric acid for example so I say I'll put in the okay tier for that reason for you know if you're specifically interested in skin and aging then it can be important it's not as important as a hemoglobin or you know other things But it's um still relevant. Triglycerides I personally think that triglycerides are vital because um they tend to be a good reflection of your overall metabolic health. If you have very high triglycerides then it means your body is not able to burn the fatty acids for fuel and usually it happens in insulin resistance and diabetes. So your body has low metabolic flexibility. With healthy metabolic flexibility, your body is able to switch between fat and carbs or glucose for fuel. So you should have normal blood sugar and normal triglycerides. Uh but very high triglycerides are yeah a sign of metabolic syndrome and um diabetes and pre-diabetes. And you'll also have high triglycerides with if you consume more alcohol that tends to raise triglycerides and if you have a lot of visceral fat and liver fat because um visceral fat is a proxy of insulin resistance. Omega-3 index. So yeah, in my opinion, omega-3 index is vital because um there is a pretty strong association between higher omega-3 index which reflects your omega-3 status, your red blood cell omega-3 status and um people with a higher omega-3 index have lower mortality, lower heart disease, lower Alzheimer's, and lower dementia. And uh the only reliable method of raising your omega-3 status is consumption of omega-3 fatty acids. Now the source can be omega-3 supplements, can be fish, can be seafood, can be know chia seeds if someone is able to convert ALA to DHA, which a lot of people aren't able to do due to genetics. But generally speaking, a higher omega-3 index reflects higher omega-3 intake. So, fish, seafood, grass-fed meat, uh omega-3 supplements, chia seeds, gi oil is actually equally as good as marine based omega-3 supplements. So, you don't necessarily need to consume um fishbased omega-3s. GG oil, I think, is actually probably better even than most uh most omega-3s from fish. Omega 6 to3 ratio. So this reflects the ratio between omega-3s and omega sixs. Yes, there is an established um association between higher omega 6 to3 ratio and increased risk of mortality and heart disease. I would say it's uh usually due to the low omega-3 index. So you can have a high omega 6 to3 ratio especially if you have low omega-3 index. If you have high omega-3 index, then the omega 6 status matters a bit less when when you control for that RDW red cell distribution with it's a marker of red blood cells and uh I'll put it in important tier. So it reflects um yeah red blood cell function and anemia uh risk and it's also one of the markers in the pheno age. Next up we have platelets. So platelets are important for the risk of um blood clotting. So they help to uh wound heal they help with wound healing and but in high amounts if your blood is too clotting then that increases the risk of stroke and um thrombosis for example. So there is a sweet spot. If you have very low platelets then you can't stop bleeding. You might have internal bleedings and other problems, easily bruised, you know, those things. Um, especially for older people. If uh if you're not able to um stop bleeding as an elderly person, then you're more likely to die if you fall. For example, again, if your platelets are too high, then that can be a risk of stroke and thrombosis. So, I do think platelets are quite vital. Uh most people tend to have normal platelets. So, again, it has a pretty wide reference range. only in the extreme examples if it's too high or if it's too low you need to be worried about but as a marker itself it tends to be vital MCV so mean corpuscular volume it looks at the size of your red blood cells and obviously it can um be useful for diagnosing some blood disorders anemia etc so I'll put it in important tier similar to RDW LDL cholesterol so this is obviously going to get a lot of you different opinions about that. You know, again, I've said earlier already, it's the LDL particle count, the other lipoproteins like LPA, APOB and those kind of things that m actually drive the process of atheroscerosis. LDL alone individually is okay. I think u you know it's not uh the most accurate way to assess your heart cardiovascular disease risk. AOB is better. oxidized LDL is better. LPA is better. LDL L LDL particle count is better. So, um you know, I'll put in the OK tier for that reason. Next up, we have mean corpuscular hemoglobin. And this looks at your average quantity of hemoglobin. I'll put in important because again more related to blood oxygenation status and um anemia risk. BUN blood ura nitrogen is a marker of kidney health. and nitrogen um balance on putting it in the important tier. So if it's too high that can be indication of a slightly worse kidney function. It can also mean that you're just um eating too much protein or your body is getting excessive amounts of protein more than it needs. DHEA sulfate. So um another androgen and um it's okay I think for men at least um DHEA has um very little relevance or at least um the practical outcome from DHEA is much less relevant than it is for women. So um very rarely would you want to like optimize your DHEA levels. um it's more about the testosterone other androgens and other sex hormones it is okay you know in most cases if you have optimal testosterone you'll also have optimal DHA but uh just let's say for men for men boosting your DHA levels is not going to do much for your reg average testosterone levels for women it tends to be a lot I guess more impactful it can might even improve body composition for women um but um yeah I'll just put in the okay tier vitamin D I would say is vital especially unsupplemented vitamin D it would uh just reflect how much sunlight are you getting are you getting adequate amount of sunlight and um we know that vitamin D is involved in your immune system functioning inflammation hormones virtually every other process inside the body so definitely normal vitamin D levels are critical to health and ideally you want to have your vitamin D levels normal without supplementation now it is healthy clearer to supplement your way out of low vitamin D than to keep your vitamin D levels low. Uh but you're not getting all the benefits of the sunlight from just the vitamin D supplement. So um yeah, ideally get vitamin D from the sunlight. If it's the winter time and you can't get sunlight, then um take the supplement and try to keep it there. If your vitamin D levels are very high, you get sunlight and you take the supplement, then um insanely high vitamin D levels in that combination might be harmful because vitamin D does increase calcium levels in the blood. So if you are taking vitamin D, you should also combine it with vitamin K2 and magnesium and ideally boron. Homir homeostatic model of insulin resistance. So this is just calculated from your fasting insulin and fasting glucose. So it is a you know pretty useful calculation just to look at your insulin sensitivity. But because your fasting glucose does fluctuate quite a lot. I'm going to put it in the important tier. Red blood cells are also important. So quality of life even energy levels fatigue levels all these red blood cell markers that I've talked about I'll put in the important tier. So um another red blood cell marker and uh high hematocrit can be independent predictor of a stroke again similar to platelets. So I'll put it in the vital tier for that reason. Most people are going to have semi-normal hematocrit levels but you still don't definitely want to don't want to ignore it. ESR it's um arythraite sedimentation rate. So it's a red blood cell marker but more related to inflammation. It's uh quite useful similar to CRP. It has just a little bit less data overall when it comes to uh mortality risk or something like that. You know I'll put it in the important tier for that reason. and uh it's lower than CRP for example although it's a different marker uh because it because of it has less data available LPPLA2 so this is a marker of vascular health and um you know it can be a proxy of soft plaque accumulation for example um I'm going to put it in the you know it's vital in that sense if your LPPLA2 levels are very high then um I mean it's going to be walk it's going you're walking hand inhand with other of these vital markers. If you have very high LPPLA2, then you'll probably have very high APOB, you'll probably have very high platelets, for example. Put it in the vital tier. So, it's definitely something you don't want to um ignore. Electrolytes, so electrolytes, sodium, potassium, bicarbonate, etc., magnesium, electrolytes are vital for health. You need electrolytes. Without electrolytes, you wouldn't be alive. And electrolytes, at least sodium, can be a good marker of kidney health as well. If you have very high sodium levels, higher than normal, then that can be a sign of a poor kidney function. So, I'm going to and there is like a very tight range for electrolytes that's optimal. So, their body puts a lot of effort in trying to maintain normal electrolyte levels. And if things are out of balance, then it tends to be okay either a sign of severe dehydration, malnutrition, or poor kidney function. But I'm going to I'm going to put them in the vital tier. Yeah, because um it's one of the first things that, you know, get measured. Total cholesterol, I'm going to put it in the okay tier. It's not insanely insightful for the same reasons I discussed about LDL. It's more about the other lipoproteins, lipoprotein count, particle count, etc. Uh, B vitamins, B vitamins are important because um, you know, first of all, they're essential. You need B vitamins for survival. Um, but they're also related to methylation, etc. If you have let's say high homocyine then one of the first things to look at are your B vitamin status specifically B12 and the folate B9. So you know supplementing B vitamins can lower homocyine as well and um deficient B vitamins are harmful for your long-term health. But the thing with like anything else, very high levels of B vitamins are also associated with worse cell outcomes. So necessarily just having your B12 in like 1200,400 is not a sign of better health than compared to let's say 400 or 700 TIBC. So total iron binding capacity um I think is less relevant than iron and feritin but um because iron is such a critical player in heart disease and tends to be ignored I'm still going to put it in the important tier because I think iron and feritin tends to be better markers transfer and saturation as well and other iron marker it's important but Um just a high iron status for example is more relevant for aththeroscrosis and usually you can assess anemia already with iron and feritin heavy metals so things like lead mercury I think yes so let's say you have insanely high lead insanely high mercury then you want to get it fixed as fast as possible similar to like blood pressure over the course of many years. If it stays elevated for many years, heavy metal toxicity will destroy your health, physical and mental. Um, so I would put it in the vital tier. Now, it's something that most people don't measure that often. And to be honest, it's something that you don't really need to measure, you know, very diligently because, uh, it's more again like symptom based. uh if you have certain symptoms of heavy metal toxicity then um measuring heavy metals is one of the first things you you would want to do but uh it's not something that I would measure in your annual let's say semi semianual uh blood test you definitely don't need to measure it like every month or something like that because um you know you might even be exposed to some environmental heavy metals so let's say you breathe in air pollution, you drink some water that was uh exposed to some lead or mercury or whatever it is. Uh those things will influence your heavy metal test results in the blood at least. So um it's not so that can cause a lot of confusion if you just see okay, oh my god, my lead is high. Well, it might be just high for one week and then after that it goes back to normal because you were exposed to some lead in your drinking water or something like that. So it's more about yeah like symptom based uh assessment microplastics. So yes you can test for microplastics currently the microplastic tests first of all I think the tests so so so we're not able to measure all the microplastics in your blood body. We're able to measure only a fraction of them. So even if you get whatever number or test result with the microplastic tests that are out there, it doesn't mean that you're scuttree or that you are somehow uh with zero microplastics. Um but let's say as a marker, if we were to be able to assess your microplastic count, then I do think it's important. So like the problem is that we don't have that much data about what does exposure to microplastics do to your long-term health. Yes. Over the last few years, there have been a lot of studies finding that higher microplastic levels in the atheroma, for example, are associated with increased heart disease events in people. But the reason these individuals might have higher amounts of microplastics in their auroma might be that they just follow unhealthier lifestyles or they eat diets that expose them to more microplastics and those diets tend to be more processed foods, more packaged foods, etc., which tend to be worse for your health. So obviously I do think that there is a causal role with microplastics and atheroscerosis and other ailments but we don't know how big the risk is. So let's say smoking is probably still worse for you than drinking from a plastic bottle. Um so I do think that microplastics are important. You know there's going to be more research done on them over the next few years. Um yeah interesting to see what we will find. But right now, I do think that you don't want to ignore microplastics. You don't need to go crazy with microplastics. You just need to structure your life in a way that minimizes your exposure to unnecessary microplastics such as, you know, not drinking from a plastic bottle if there's no need, not microwaving your food in plastic Tupperware and those kind of things. Cortisol, so stress hormone, but also very important for circadian rhythm regulation. a lot of people. So as a biioarker cortisol is not very useful at least as a single blood test because um you can have high cortisol in the morning because of jet lag, sleep deprivation, you had some nightmares or something like that. You know, you didn't get very good sleep um whatever the case may be. So it fluctuates a lot similar to your fasting glucose. So I'll put it in okay tier. So it's uh even less insightful than fasting glucose because um because of it just depends mostly on your sleep quality etc. Um to know actually okay do you have high cortisol or not you would need to do the Dutch test. So that measures uh cortisol melatonin at different times of the day. So um that would actually tell you is your circadian rhythms aligned first of all and um if you have excessively high cortisol because cortisol is supposed to be high in the morning and drops low during the day. If your cortisol levels are chronically elevated throughout the day then that tends to be a sign of more this sympathetic overdrive and chronic stress TNF alpha. So um this is another inflammation marker but it is very sensitive. It's more sensitive than CRP and um to be honest I wouldn't really find a lot of value from TNF at least from a single test. You would need to test it again multiple times and uh it can be just high for again you might exposed to some heavy metals you might have some infection etc. Those things all influence this result. So I'll put in okay tier. If it's chronically elevated, then that means your body's under higher inflammation. Next we have strength lifts. So it's not specifically like a biomarker. I put it here for okay your bench, squat and deadlift. So how uh and you know what are tests? pull-ups, maximum pull-ups, you know, just strength exercise, not grip strength, but uh your actual lifts and numbers on these exercises. Um, so obviously we talked that muscle strength is a predictor of longevity and mortality. If you have low muscle strength, then it means that you might have low muscle mass as well. And people who are weaker tend to have shorter lifespans and people who have higher strength tend to be healthier. But the obvious obvious limitation to this is that it doesn't necessarily apply to powerlifterss. You don't need to become a powerlifter and uh obviously none of the longest living people had some insane bench squat and deadlift. So, you know, if you are with a very good back squat, you have a pretty good deadlift for your age. I'm not talking about some sort of elite powerlter numbers, but let's say you're able to squat, you know, at least 1.5 times your body weight, ideally two times your body weight. That's more that's like I think maximal benefits for longevity purposes. You don't need to squat three times your body weight or something like that. Two times is already more than enough. I would say 1.5 times body weight for um 1.25 times for the bench, and 2x for the deadlift of your body weight. Those are already maximal benefits for longevity purposes. It means that you're, you know, stronger than the average person, but you're not really like a crazy powerlifter or you're not even an amateur powerlifter. Um, it doesn't mean that amateur powerlifting would be harmful. It just means that you need to be in some insane strength. you have yeah 1.25 for the bench, 2x body weight for deadlift, 1.5 for the squat. That's I think a pretty good uh place to be. So I'll put it in the okay tier that uh it's not very important to have very high lifts with bench squat, deadlift, etc. But uh it's nice to have as long as you're not overweight, as long as you don't have high blood pressure, as long as you don't have high visceral fatmas, you don't have diabetes, etc. Now, Cooper test, so this Cooper test can be used to measure your V2X and uh it's a more performance-based test. So, in some ways, it's better than the V2X test because it means that you can actually run as well. uh with the V2 max test it doesn't take into account your physical performance but with the Cooper test it considers your physical performance directly and based on the Cooper test result you can assess your V2 max now I do do I think that is vital um well I think that V2 max still uh grasps some other components of health that don't that can't be measured with a Cooper test although if you have very good Cooper test results you will have a very good V2 max. So they're, you know, equal in that sense. So it's lower than V2 max. I guess I'll put it in the important tier. If you're able to run fast, that means you're healthier, you're fitter, and you have a lower risk of mortality. All things being equal. And the last biomarker, which isn't a single biomarker, but it's, let's say, microbiome diversity. It's a very popular topic. At least it was very popular seven, eight years ago. microbiome tests, gut health, etc. Now, the problem with the microbiome is that it's very complicated and complex. Yes, gut health has important role in your health and there are certain strains of bacteria that we know are healthier or better for your health or associated with better health outcomes. The issue is that it's still very complicated. So um and if you do let's say a microbi microbiome diversity test higher diversity tends to be associated with better health outcomes and it tends to be a better like a reflection of your diet quality. If you have a very diverse diet, you eat a healthy diet, you'll have higher microbiome diversity and that is associated with better health outcomes. So it's definitely not insignificant. If you have poor microbiome diversity then um you know first of all your gut health might be worse and u second of all based on the available evidence it would uh be associated with worse health outcomes in the future but I'm not sure how big of a emphasis I would put on that. I'll still put it in um I'll put it in okay tier because I think the strength lifts are more important than the microbiome diversity uh because uh yeah the the gut health topic is very complicated and the microbiome is complicated. So just the commercial tests themselves can be often misleading. So that's why I wouldn't put that much emphasis on those uh results. So here we go. This was a insane amount of time over one and a half hours and yeah it took me a lot of time to record this in one go. Uh but you know as a disclaimer this is my opinion about the topic based on my research and um I try to yeah grade it based on um how influential a particular biomarker is going to be on your future risk of mortality and other kind of chronic diseases. things like blood pressure, resting heart rate, bone density, calcium score, uh vitamin D levels, they are all pretty good predictors of long-term future health outcomes. Whereas things like, you know, the Dunian pace feno age, um they have much smaller predictive u power. So yeah, take it for what you will. Hope you found it useful. Check out the free blood work cheat sheet from the description. And yeah, thanks for watching this