 spondrondondrofondro, ericoondrodea, explodeda, explodeda, It seems that everyone online is taking something, BPC-157, MOTC, Thymocin-Alpha-1, Epitelan, etc., claiming they help with recovery, longevity, fat loss, even brain repair. But here's the problem. Most of these peptides have little to no human evidence. Some of them do, some of them don't. And that's exactly what I wanted to find out. So I went through every human clinical trial I could find on the most popular peptides. And the truth is surprising. In this video, I'm going to go through the human evidence peptide by peptide. As a disclaimer, I'm in no way promoting these peptides. I just want to know what's the research behind them. I've divided the video into segments. Joint and regenerative peptides like BPC-157, TB4, Thymocin-Alpha-1. Brain or neurological peptides or mitochondrial peptides such as Epitelan, MOTC, Humanin, Cerebrolycin, and CMAX. Growth Hormone Secretagogues, CJC-1295, MK-677, Tesamorelin, and IGF-1-LR3. Lastly, aesthetics and lux peptides. Copper GHK, Melanotan, and Redatrutide. Timestamps are below if you want to jump into specific compounds. Let's get on to it. Let's start with one of the most known peptides used for joint healing. Thymocin-beta-4 or TB4 is a 43-aminoacid peptide. Your body produces TB4 naturally and is concentrated in platelets, the thymus, immune cells, endothelium, and injured tissues. Its main job is to repair, help with cell migration, regeneration, stem cell function, and controlling inflammation. TB4 was originally identified in thymic extracts and shown to influence lymphoid stem cell maturation. The thymus gland is what regulates your immune cells. High levels of TB4 in serum or fluid correlate with better health outcomes in liver failure, coronary artery disease, and scleroderma lung disease, which means that people who have higher TB4, whether because they're slightly healthier or their body produces more of it for some reason, have better outcomes in certain chronic diseases. Now, people online are taking TB4 or TB-500 for the sake of joint healing and sometimes wound healing. In a 1999 study on rats, TB4 both topically and injected accelerated wound healing. TB4-treated wounds closed up 61-62% faster than saline-treated controls by day 7. That's a highly significant improvement in healing speed. There is some preclinical and early clinical data suggesting that TB4 accelerates wound healing and treatment of ulcers. In mice, TB4 enhances fracture healing. They also see greater bone mineralization and increase in bone stiffness. Unfortunately, there are no human clinical trials on TB4 or TB-500 at the moment, at least in the context of joint healing and wound healing. However, there are clinical trials on TB4 for the use of eye health. In 2006, topical TB4 eyedrops were first used to treat persistent corneal wound due to diabetes. By day 11 of taking TB4 four times a day, the patient had significant reduction in ocular inflammation and the cornea had re-epithelialized. A 2010 study took nine patients with chronic non-healing neurotrophic corneal defects and gave them TB4 eyedrops for 28 or 49 days. Six patients saw dramatic healing, whereas three had no clear improvement. To be fair, the sample size of this study was quite small and 30% of the patients saw no improvement. So it's not possible to say if TB4 conclusively improves corneal inflammation. A 2015 Phase 2 clinical trial saw that TB4 eyedrops in 72 patients with dry eye syndrome had no significant effect on corneal discomfort or staining, but they did show measurable protection against worsening symptoms and corneal damage. Another 2015 Phase 2 trial saw the same. TB4 improved signs and symptoms of severe dry eye. Now, there are quite a lot of human clinical trials on TB4 and its safety. A 2010 Phase 1 randomized controlled trial gave intravenous TB4 to 80 healthy adults aged 18 to 79. The procedure was seen to be safe and without toxicity. Another 2010 randomized controlled trial on 10 healthy volunteers saw also good safety data from IV TB4. In a 2021 Phase 1 clinical trial on 84 healthy volunteers, TB4 was well tolerated at 25 micrograms per kilogram as a single dose and 5 micrograms per kilogram in multiple doses for 10 days. TB4 was shown to have very low immunogenicity, which means that it evoked no significant immune response. So TB4 seems to be at least safe. It's been tested in humans several times, even in large doses, and doesn't seem to cause any negative side effects. In animals, it also appears to help with wound healing and inflammation. But there's no data in humans. The human data we do have suggests that it protects the cornea of the eyes. Overall, my rating for TB4 based on the studies that I read is 3.5 out of 5. It's only limited by the lack of human evidence for joint healing. Next up, we have thymocin alpha-1. Thymocin alpha-1 is a 28 amino acid peptide naturally found in the thymus. It's known for its immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory, antiviral, and anti-tumor activities. Thymocin alpha-1 acts by stimulating the innate and adaptive immune system, primarily through toll-like receptor activation, T-cell maturation and restoration, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, and anti-tumor effects. The synthetic version of thymocin alpha-1, thymalfazine, also called zadaxine, is clinically approved in over 35 countries for diseases such as chronic hepatitis blast and cruise, sepsis, HIV, certain cancers, and as a vaccine adjuvant. As I said earlier, the thymus is an organ that regulates the immune system, but unfortunately, it loses its function during aging. Pre-clinical and clinical studies show that thymocin alpha-1 can improve vaccine response in the elderly and mitigate immunosenescence via the thymus. This is especially relevant since 70-year-olds have less than 10% of the thymic size since they were born, and that thymic tissue is being replaced with fat tissue and perivascular space. If something like thymocin alpha-1 could counteract that degradation or make up for the loss of immune system function, it would extend the healthspan of elderly people who have a weaker immune system. Usually, biohackers and health enthusiasts take thymocin alpha-1 to support their immune system, especially in regards to the thymic volume and as a general anti-aging peptide. Here's what the clinical evidence in humans supports. It enhances thymic T-cell output, restores immune function in aged and immunosuppressed individuals, and reverses functional size of immunosenescence. There's no evidence that it increases thymic mass or thymic volume, or that it would reverse thymic involution structurally. Overall, my rating for thymocin alpha-1 based on the studies is 4.5 out of 5. There is plenty of human clinical trials, and it's already approved in 35 countries. Moving on with the most popular and known peptide for joint healing, BPC-157. BPC-157 is a 15-aminoacid fragment. It's not found in nature, and it's derived from another protein called body protection compound, or BPC, in the stomach. Studies have shown that BPC-157 has promising effects on healing various tissues, such as the tendons, ligaments, muscles, and even bones. When it comes to the mechanisms of effect, then BPC-157 supports nitric oxide and blood flow. It also uproglates growth hormone and increases collagen synthesis. As a disclaimer, all the studies on BPC-157 are done in rodents or other animals. There's no human clinical trials right now. Research on rodents has shown that BPC-157 improves recovery and healing after tendon injuries. What's more, the recovered tendons appear to have higher functionality and are able to tolerate greater load until tendon failure. A 2006 study also found that BPC-157 is able to promote tendon-to-bone healing after the Achilles tendon was detached from the bone, whereas control animals don't close the gap. BPC-157 had those effects despite the presence of corticosteroids. BPC-157 can also promote skeletal muscle healing. In a 2006 study on rats, BPC-157 was able to restore the functionality of a transected quadricep muscle. Natural healing processes were unable to compensate for the injury, whereas BPC-157 for up to 72 days was. The BPC-157-treated muscles also had higher failure load compared to control animals, which means they were stronger and more resistant to heavy loads than before. Besides injuries, BPC-157 has been found to promote skin wound healing in rats. It also counteracts bleeding, platelet stabilization, and resolves clots. BPC-157 appears to have anti-inflammatory effects that improves liver lesions, brain lesions, gut-brain function, and central nervous system disorders. In a 2019 study, scientists caused spinal cord injury to rats and gave some of them BPC-157 at a dose of 200 or 2 micrograms per kilogram, and the others got saline water. As you can see from the graph, the control animals who got saline water, as shown by the white rhombus, didn't recover, and they had spinal cord injury. Both BPC groups, as shown by the black square and triangle, recovered. BPC-157 also promotes gastrointestinal healing, and this may recover gut-brain axis and gut-brain axis function. There are two human clinical trials from 2002 and 2003 on ulcerative colitis patients cited in the BPC-157 literature, but I'm not sure if those trials were ever finished because I haven't found any further details about these studies online. Overall, my rating for BPC-157 is 3 out of 5. It's definitely the most popular peptide, and it has the most anecdotal evidence. It's usually the first peptide that people use, but it unfortunately doesn't have any human clinical evidence. Personally, I've also seen that BPC helped with my elbow. I want to take a break to invite you to our online community called Youth Span Society. Youth Span Society is an evidence-based online community on school, where we have a ton of different online courses and mini-courses on health optimization, longevity, and anti-aging, starting with things like exercise, fitness, body composition, and ending with things like skincare, sleep, and nutrition. Youth Span Society just launched three of the introductionary courses, a seven-day free longevity Kickstarter challenge, a 14-day body composition challenge, and a 30-day longevity consistency challenge. You can join the community for free for seven days and cancel any time. In addition to the courses, you'll get access to the online discussion board, where you can ask questions from me and other members of the community. We have live weekly calls, where we discuss new research, talk about our most cutting-edge protocols for anti-aging and longevity, and just answer questions. So if you like my videos and you want to learn more, then our online community, Youth Span Society, is the best place to do so. Check out the link in the description and start the challenge. Moving on with the peptides that target the brain. Epitalin is a synthetic tetrapeptide. It's considered a bioregulator, a molecule that mimics the body's own short peptides to regulate gene expression, tissue repair, and regeneration. Epitalin was discovered by a Russian researcher, Dr. Vladimir Havinson. He's also the person leading the most research on epitalin. In 2002, a clinical trial in Russia on 162 patients with retinitis pigmentosa, a genetic condition of progressive retinal degeneration and vision loss, saw that epitalin could improve visual acuity, and 64.8% of them broadened the total visual field by 90 to 120 degrees. They injected 5 micrograms per eye, parabulberly, for 10 consecutive days. None of the epitalin-treated patients experienced side effects. A 2020 study saw that sublingual epitalin at a dose of 0.5 mg a day for 20 days, in 75 women, improved melatonin production, through modulation of the circadian clock system. It's been also shown to do that in elderly people and old monkeys. Epitalin activates chromatin, which is a mass of DNA in your brain that regulates the circadian rhythm. To be honest, this is the most exciting and interesting thing about epitalin. If epitalin is able to counteract the circadian clock dysfunction that happens with aging, it could potentially also help with a lot of neurodegenerative conditions. I've shared on the channel before that the circadian clock dysfunction will eventually be considered a new hallmark of aging, but epitalin does a lot more than that. In human cells, epitalin extends telomere length. However, it can do so in both cancer cells and normal cells. In this study, epitalin at a dose of 0.1 to 1 microgram per milliliter extended cancer telomeres by 4 to 8 kilobases within 4 days. Normal cell telomeres extended by about 1.45 fold after 3 weeks. In tuberculosis patients, epitalin has been seen to reduce chromosomal aberrations and stabilize the genome, but not fully reverse genome fragility. Epitalin basically didn't correct the structural aberrations associated with telomere shortening from tuberculosis, but it had some protective effects against future damage. Epitalin increases neurogenesis the growth of brain cells in human gingival mesenchymal stem cells. This explains the reason why epitalin affects things like telomere length and melatonin synthesis, as well as circadian rhythm regulation. Even getting epitalin intranasally increases neuronal activity in rats by up to 2 to 2.5 times, as epitalin easily crosses the blood-brain barrier. These sound all very interesting and speculative, but would epitalin make you live longer? In mice, epitalin treatment does extend maximum lifespan by 12.3%, but not the mean lifespan. The last 10% of the survivors live 13.3% longer. There's also no difference in overall cancer rate, although leukemia was six-fold lower compared to the control mice in this study. There is a prospective study on elderly Russian and Ukrainian adults over the age of 60. They were given epitalin and thymoline for 2 to 3 years, and they were followed up for 6 to 8 years. Those who received these peptides saw improved physiological function and experienced a 2 to 2.4x lower incidence of heart disease, hypertension, osteoporosis, and osteoarthritis. Their mortality was also lower. The group who got thymoline alone had about 2 times lower mortality compared to controls. Epithelamine alone had 1.6 to 1.8 times lower risk. The combination of thymoline and epithelamine, 2.5x lower, and annual treatment for 6 years, 4.1x lower. Another prospective study with a 15-year follow-up on 39 coronary heart disease patients who received epitalin saw that they had 50% lower rate of heart disease mortality, 50% lower cardiovascular failure, and 28% lower rate of overall mortality. They did have better circadian rhythm regulation, lower cholesterol, and better physical function than people not receiving the treatment. Now, these results sound quite astonishing, and they are astonishing if they were to be true. We don't know necessarily how true these results are, because these studies have several limitations. Number one, they're not randomized controlled trials, so they're mostly observational, and we don't know the full methodology or the data set. We don't know how these individuals were randomized or if randomized at all, and how were they treated. Second of all, the research is done in Russia, led by Dr. Havinson. He's also the one who owns patents to the epitalin, so there is conflict of interest here. The guy who discovered this peptide also owns the patents to this peptide, and his studies get these amazing results. It just means that we would need to reproduce these studies in other populations, in other countries, by other researchers, to see if those effects are actually true. Overall, my rating for epitalin is 4 out of 5. I think it has a lot of promise if you look at the mechanistic evidence and the preclinical evidence. And you can't deny that at least it has quite a lot of human studies, even though those studies can be somewhat limited. Next, we have a mitochondrial peptide called MOTS-C. MOTS-C, or mitochondrial ORF, of the 12-S RNA type C, is a mitochondrial-derived peptide composed of 16 amino acids encoded by the 12-S RNA region of the mitochondrial genome. It gets activated during metabolic stress in the nucleus, and it activates AMPK, which is an energy sensor that's been seen to be good for longevity. Because of its role in the mitochondria, it balances inflammation, improves glucose metabolism, muscle function, and overall redox balance. As a result, it might improve insulin resistance, heart disease, and overall aging. Obese mice fed a high-fat diet, see reduced insulin resistance when given MOTS-C. In type 2 diabetic mice, MOTS-C restores mitochondrial function in the heart and improves glucose levels. In obese humans, circulating MOTS-C levels are decreased, and low MOTS-C levels are associated with insulin resistance in humans. MOTS-C levels are also lower in kidney disease patients and people with liver disease. Interestingly, MOTS-C levels are similar between obese and normal weight individuals. So it seems that only age and insulin resistance lowers MOTS-C levels, but obesity doesn't do that. This study showed that MOTS-C levels decline with age in mice, and they're lower in humans with diabetes. In aged and diabetic mouse models, systemic treatment with MOTS-C reduced beta-cell senescence markers in pancreatic islets and improved glucose control. The authors propose that MOTS-C acts by suppressing mTORC1 signaling, which is the body's growth switch, and by doing that, it preserves mitochondrial function and beta-cell health. This doesn't necessarily mean that MOTS-C would fix diabetes, but it might mean that people with diabetes or they're obese probably aren't exercising enough, so which is the reason why they have lower MOTS-C levels. People who are exercising and they're otherwise lean have higher MOTS-C because they're engaged in physical activity. In fact, there is human evidence that serum MOTS-C positively correlates with lower body strength, lower body power, and muscle mass, although not aerobic capacity. In mice and humans, exercise increases MOTS-C levels. In this study, 10 healthy young men did high-intensity interval cycling, 10 rounds of 60 seconds at peak power, and their MOTS-C levels in their skeletal muscle increased 11.9-fold immediately after the exercise and it remained elevated for 4 hours afterwards. Circulating plasma MOTS-C increased 1.6-fold during exercise and 1.5-fold immediately after exercise. So the argument for using MOTS-C as a peptide is that it's like an exercise in a bottle. You increase MOTS-C levels as if you were exercising, and then MOTS-C has benefits on your metabolism and overall health. My first reaction to this is that why wouldn't you just exercise then, because it's a lot cheaper and safer. Now, of course, it would be cool to have a literal exercise in a bottle. Maybe you can exercise a bit less, you can cut your exercise in half and get the same benefits. Maybe MOTS-C has these kinds of effects. But of course, it could also apply to certain situations where you can't exercise, such as the elderly population or if you're hospitalized. And lastly, injecting MOTS-C as a peptide probably raises MOTS-C levels a lot more than exercise does, at least in the short term. Exercise will still raise MOTS-C levels more in the skeletal muscle, but in the plasma, injecting MOTS-C would probably result in higher MOTS-C levels. Interestingly, MOTS-C is a myostatin inhibitor. Myostatin is a protein that stops your body from building muscle. Exercise inhibits myostatin, and part of that might be because of increased MOTS-C levels. So MOTS-C could help to prevent muscle loss during aging. There's also mechanistic evidence that MOTS-C can help with bone growth and osteoporosis. Exercise does so as well, obviously, and MOTS-C might mediate some of those effects. MOTS-C doesn't have any human clinical trials. Here's what we do know. MOTS-C levels are decreased in people with diabetes and other metabolic diseases. MOTS-C in mice improves insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance. MOTS-C levels increase during exercise. People who exercise have higher MOTS-C. MOTS-C might mediate some of the benefits of exercise on muscle growth, insulin sensitivity, and bone growth. My overall rating for MOTS-C based on animal research is 4 out of 5, but because there are no human studies, I'll have to give you the 3 out of 5. Humanin is a 24-aminoacid mitochondrial-derived peptide that improves mitochondrial function, inflammation, and metabolism. The most common effect of humanin is that it protects the brain against inflammation and oxidative stress. That's because the brain has a lot of mitochondria. In mice, humanin prevents age-related cognitive decline, and in humans, humanin levels are associated with better cognitive function. In humans, humanin levels are lower in Alzheimer's patients than in healthy controls, and low mitochondrial DNA copy number is also associated with lower humanin levels. It means that people who are unhealthier have lower humanin. There are no human studies looking at the effects of humanin for Alzheimer's or dementia. But in rats, humanin does attenuate cognitive deficits and pathological brain changes caused by amyloid beta in the brain. So there is some preclinical data showing that humanin might help with neurodegeneration, but there's no human studies yet. Humanin is one of the few peptides that has life extension data that I've seen. Humanin overexpression is seen to increase lifespan in roundworms by about 7.3%. The mechanism why humanin might extend lifespan has to do with multiple pathways. It increases autobagy, which is the process of cell clearance. And humanin treatment in mice is seen to be associated with lower IGF-1 levels. Lower IGF-1 levels are associated with greater longevity in humans, as well as animals. IGF-1 lowers humanin, and lower IGF-1 increases humanin. There's no effect on humanin from growth hormone. It's interesting to see that despite humanin lowering IGF-1 levels, it still improves cognition, in mice at least, because you do need IGF-1 for growing brain cells. And in humans, low IGF-1 levels are associated with increased risk of dementia. Humanin levels are also lowering people with diabetes and prediabetes. Humanin levels decrease with age. Younger than 66 years of age have higher humanin than older individuals. Overall, my rating for humanin is 3 out of 5. It's a similar situation as with MOTC. Unfortunately, it doesn't have any human clinical trials. One of the most promising and interesting brain peptides is cerebrolysine. It's a mix of different peptides and brain growth factors that could help with neurodegenerative conditions. In fact, cerebrolysine has been in clinical use for 30 years. It's used in some countries, but is not necessarily government-approved. Cerebrolysine has neuroprotective effects by improving inflammation, blood flow to the brain, and thrombolytic effects that reduces blood-brain barrier permeability. A 2019 Cochrane review of six studies saw that cerebrolysine treatment had beneficial effects on memory and thinking and daily functioning. There was no reported risk of side effects with the treatment. There's no evidence that cerebrolysine would prevent Alzheimer's, treat it, or improve cognition in otherwise healthy individuals. It's more likely that cerebrolysine supports brain health and brain integrity under some physical stress or some neurological stress, things like traumatic brain injury, stroke, Alzheimer's, or other forms of brain trauma. A 2017 Randomness Control Trial saw that giving cerebrolysine 18 hours after a stroke for 30 days improved certain markers of neurological recovery by day 30. Cerebrolysine combined with speech therapy in stroke patients has been seen to support greater language recovery than speech therapy alone in a 2025 Randomness Control Trial. However, a 2020 Randomness Control Trial saw that at the six-month mark, there was no difference in cognition between cerebrolysine and the placebo group in patients with aneurysm. So there is quite a lot of human research showing that cerebrolysine speeds up recovery from certain traumatic brain damage, such as stroke, traumatic brain injury, possibly neurodegeneration. But it seems to work in the short term. Up to six months, it becomes less effective. But in the short term, it makes up for the gap. A 2023 Cochrane review of seven Randomness Control Trial found that cerebrolysine after a stroke doesn't reduce mortality rates either. So cerebrolysine seems to improve cognition recovery in the short term, but its effects over the long term are limited. A 2023 systematic review of 10 studies on cerebrolysine for traumatic brain injury showed short-term neurological improvements, but no benefit on mortality or hospitalization either. Overall, my rating for cerebrolysine is 4.5 out of 5. It's got quite a lot of human studies and it's actively used in some countries for things like stroke recovery, traumatic brain injury, and neurodegeneration. CMAX is another Russian brain peptide and is actually in the Russian list of vital and essential drugs. In Russia, CMAX is used to treat patients with neuropathy, stroke, nerve disease, or cognitive disorders. However, CMAX is not approved for use in other countries. All of the human trials are done in Russia, so they haven't been reproduced by other countries. The mechanisms of CMAX aren't fully clear either. It does seem to upregulate brain growth factors like BDNF and others. But it also increases dopamine and serotonin, which is why CMAX is often used as an atropic or a smart peptide. In mice, CMAX has been seen to reduce beta-amyloid by about 50% and improve cognition modestly. This doesn't mean that it will work in humans, but it's something. The difference between CMAX and other peptides is that you can also do it intranasally. Overall, my rating for CMAX is 3.5 out of 5. Yes, it's being used in Russia, it has clinical trials in Russia, but that's about it. Moving on with some compounds that are called growth hormone secretagogues. They basically make the body produce more growth hormone. CJC-1295 is a synthetic, long-acting, growth hormone-releasing hormone analog that stimulates the pituitary gland to increase growth hormone and IgH1 production. It's often used to improve body composition, recovery, and enhance sleep. In a 2006 randomized controlled trial, healthy adults aged 21 to 61 were given CJC in single doses as well as multiple weekly or bi-weekly doses. Their growth hormone increased 2 to 10-fold above baseline, and it sustained for over 6 days in a dose-dependent manner. Their IgH1 levels increased 1.5 to 3-fold above baseline, sustained for 9 to 10 days. After multiple doses, the IgH1 remained elevated up to 28 days. Another 2010 randomized controlled trial saw a 2 to 10x increase in growth hormone and up to 3-fold increase in IgH1 as well. Growth hormone and IgH1 have effects on bone growth, muscle growth, and body composition, which is why a lot of biohikers and bodybuilders are taking it. In mice who are genetically growth hormone deficient, once-a-day CJC treatment normalizes their growth and development, which means that it might help with people who are growth hormone deficient. CJC was being investigated as a treatment for lipodystrophy and growth hormone deficiency in humans. However, it was discontinued in a phase 2 clinical trial when one of the subjects suddenly died. It was thought that the patient had asymptomatic heart disease and they experienced a plaque rupture, so it was unrelated to the CJC treatment, but the research was still terminated. And ironically, CJC still has quite a lot of human clinical evidence, at least in the realm of increasing growth hormone in IgH1. Now, keep in mind, ipomorelin or CJC is water prohibited, so if you are competing in sports, you would get disqualified for it. Overall, my rating for CJC-1295 is 4 out of 5. MK-677, also called ibutamorin, is another growth hormone secretagogue that makes the pituitary gland increase growth hormone. It is often used by bodybuilders to improve body composition, but it was also researched in clinical studies for counteracting age-related muscle loss in older people. A 2008 randomized controlled trial on healthy adults aged 60 to 81 saw that 12 months of 25 mg of MK-677 per day increased growth hormone by 1.8 fold and IgH1 by 1.5 fold. Their muscle mass also increased by 1.1 kg compared to the loss of 0.5 kg in the placebo group. About half the muscle gain was in the arms and legs. There was no significant effects in visceral fat or subcutaneous fat mass. They also saw no improvement in muscle strength, walking speed, stair climbing, or quality of life. They just had more muscle. A 1998 study saw that 25 mg of MK-677 during calorie restriction helped to preserve muscle tissue and reverse nitrogen loss and protein wasting. The MK-677 group even achieved a positive nitrogen balance compared to the placebo group. The MK-677 group had higher growth hormone and IgH1, which explains the anticalabolic effects. MK-677 has been seen to improve sleep in young and older adults. In young subjects, high-dose MK-677 resulted in an approximately 50% increase in the duration of deep sleep and in more than 20% increase in REM sleep. In older adults, the treatment with MK-677 was associated with a nearly 50% increase in REM sleep. One of the side effects of MK-677 is that it causes water retention or edema, and it makes you hungrier. That's because MK-677 is a ghrelin mimetic. It increases ghrelin production. Ghrelin being the hunger hormone. And the hunger hormone is what increases your growth hormone production. MK-677 is also water prohibited, so you get disqualified in sports. My overall rating for MK-677 is 4 out of 5 because there are some human clinical studies, but we don't necessarily know what the long-term effects are. Tesamoralin is another growth hormone secretagogue. It's actually FDA approved for reducing visceral fat in HIV-infected adults with lipodystrophy. I'm not going to spend much time talking about this compound because it's already FDA approved. To keep it short, tesamoralin reduces fat mass and maintains muscle in HIV patients. In a 2010 randomized controlled trial, tesamoralin for 52 weeks resulted in a significant reduction in visceral fat mass. The tesamoralin group saw about 17.5% reduction in visceral fat. By 26 weeks, they had lost already 15.4% of visceral fat. People who were initially placebo but then switched to tesamoralin, P2T, saw about 15% reduction in visceral fat. Overall, tesamoralin is 4.5 out of 5. While we're on the topic of growth hormone secretogues, IGF-1-LR3 is a synthetic peptide of the natural hormone IGF-1. It has a total of 83 amino acids compared to the 70 of natural IGF-1. There are studies in animals showing that IGF-1-LR3 increases growth, but there are no human clinical trials. However, there are plenty of human trials with the regular IGF-1 hormone. IGF-1 as a hormone is actually FDA approved for treating certain growth disorders, but it's not approved for general anti-aging or bodybuilding purposes. Now, I'll move on with peptides that are often used for aesthetic reasons, either to improve skin health, skin anti-aging, or skin pigmentation. Copper peptide GHK is a small naturally occurring tripeptide that's released from tissues after an injury. Copper is needed for the cross-linking of collagen that makes collagen very strong. A copper-dependent enzyme called lysyl oxidase makes collagen fibrils wound together extremely tightly, making it stronger than steel. That's why you need copper in addition to vitamin C for collagen synthesis. The biggest application of copper peptide GHK is skin regeneration and anti-aging. The GHK peptide content in human skin is the highest at age 20, around 200 nanograms per milliliter, and by the age of 60, it declines to 80 nanograms per milliliter. That's almost a threefold decrease, which explains partly why you see an increase in wrinkles and sagging skin with age. Can GHK reverse that or slow it down? GHK stimulates the synthesis of collagen, glycosaminoglycans, and small proteoglycan decarine, which supports skin repair and wound healing. In a 2007 study, skin cells exposed to GHK saw a 230% increase in fibroblast growth factor and 70% higher collagen synthesis compared to baseline. Cell viability also increased by 12.5-fold, which refers to the amount of healthy cells in a given cell population. But are there any human clinical trials demonstrating that GHK reverses skin aging? There are several clinical trials showing that topical copper GHK serums or creams improve skin density and thickness, while reducing wrinkles and fine lines around the eyes. In a 1998 study, copper peptide GHK improved collagen synthesis in the most amount of women compared to vitamin C and retinoic acid. 70% of women using GHK versus 50% for vitamin C and 40% for retinoic acid. In a 2016 study, copper peptide GHK serum reduced wrinkle volume by 55.8% and wrinkle depth by 32.8%, more than the placebo control serum. That's quite an impressive result. In addition to skin anti-aging, GHK also supports wound healing. In rats, treatment with collagen dressing, with incorporated GHK has been seen to accelerate wound healing in diabetic as well as healthy rats. In healthy rats, wounds treated with the copper formula increased copper concentration at the wound by nine-fold, which indicates higher wound healing. Also hair growth. In cell studies, copper peptide stimulates the growth of human hair follicles by stimulating the proliferation and preventing the death of dermal papilla cells, which are fibroblasts specialized for human hair follicle growth. Unfortunately, there are no human clinical trials on oral copper peptide or injectable copper peptide for skin anti-aging. So the current evidence only suggests that topical copper peptide might have some skin anti-aging effects. So overall, my rating for copper peptide GHK is 4 out of 5. Lastly, I'm going to talk about redotrutide. Redotrutide is a triple GLP-1 agonist that's taking the weight loss world by storm. It's supposedly significantly more effective in weight loss than the previous GLP-1 agonists like ozempic. A 2023 Phase 2 clinical trial on redotrutide saw that it resulted in 24% mean weight loss at 48 weeks compared to semaglutide's 15% weight loss at 68 weeks and therizepatide's 21% weight loss. Some people even lost over 30% of weight on redotrutide. A 2025 meta-analysis of three clinical trials on redotrutide saw that it resulted on average 14.3% weight loss in a dose-dependent manner while also improving things like blood pressure, fasting glucose, and hemoglobin A1c. Overall, my rating for redotrutide is 4.5 out of 5. It doesn't have the most evidence, although the evidence we do have is high quality, but it's probably the most powerful peptide in this list. It has the highest likelihood of increasing someone's longevity and overall healthspan because by losing weight, you would see pretty much all of your healthy biomarkers move in the right direction. Of course, you could lose muscle with it, but that is easily counteracted with things like diet and exercise. Or you could use some other peptides that help with the muscle preservation. But in terms of the magnitude of effect for your overall health, redotrutide is the most powerful in this list. Maybe not for otherwise healthy people. There's no evidence that otherwise healthy people, non-obese people, would see some longevity benefits from these GLP-1 agonists. Theoretically, they could, but there's no evidence for that. For the otherwise healthy individual, they would get benefit from some other peptides. For the otherwise healthy, non-obese individual, they're better off doing something else. Melanotin-2 or MT-2 is the so-called tanning peptide. It's supposed to make your skin more tan without sunlight. Basically, melanotin upregulates the production of melanin in your skin. Melanotin also has effects on erectile function and is used to help with erectile dysfunction. A 2014 review of melanotin based on 18 clinical trials found that melanotin-2 does increase skin pigmentation and tanning. In fair-skinned individuals, it appears to also reduce UV-induced skin damage, since melanin is what protects the skin against UV damage. The review also found that MT-2 increases sexual arousal. Now, it also has some side effects. There are a few case reports of melanomas after melanotin use, or darkening of pre-existing moles. While there is no clinically established causal link, melanotin might upregulate melanin production too much, so people who are darker skin have to be more careful. An additional effect of melanotin-2 is weight loss. Melanotin-2 has been seen to reduce appetite and reduce body fat without calorie restriction in rats. The intra-abdominal fat in those rats decreased by 35-55% after 40 days. The mechanism for that is the melanocortin receptors suppress appetite. Maybe that's the reason why you feel less hungry if you're more in the sun, so melanotin has synergistic effects on the different brain chemistry, similar to sunlight. Because of that, melanotin-2 has also some preclinical evidence for brain and cognitive function. In fish, it's been seen to reverse short-term memory impairment caused by a high-fat diet. That's why my overall rating for melanotin is 3.5 out of 5. Alright, I think that's an insane amount of information. Definitely bookmark this video for future use and research. Here's a final tally of human trials on these peptides. PPC-137, zero human studies, but two ulcerative colitis trials with no accessible data. Thymacin-beta-4, about 6 human trials. Thymacin-alpha-1, dozens of human trials, approved in over 35 countries. Copper-GHK, around 3-4 human cosmetic trials. Epitalin, around 4 human clinical trials. Most of them are prospective data, not randomized controlled trials. MOTC, no human clinical trials. Humanin, no human clinical trials. Cerebrolysin, around 6-7 randomized controlled trials, in this video, but in reality, a lot more. CMAX, around 3-5 small human trials. CJC-1295, around 4 human trials. MK-677, around 3 human trials. Tessamoralin, 1-2 human trials in this video, but realistically more. FDA approved. IGF-1-LR3, no human clinical trials, but the regular IGF-1 is FDA approved. Melanotin, around 18 human trials, but likely more. Redatrutide, around 3-4 human randomized controlled trials. Here's what we can say based on these studies and the preclinical data. BPC-157, suggested for tendon repair, ligament healing, muscle regeneration, bone healing, gut repair, and neuroprotection. Nothing is proven in humans, because there are no completed clinical trials. Thymocin-beta-4, suggested for wound healing, joint repair, fracture healing, and tissue regeneration. Proven to be safe in humans, with modest benefits for corneal healing and dry eye. Not proven for joint or tendon repair. Thymocin-alpha-1, suggested for anti-aging, immune rejuvenation, and thymus regrowth. Proven for improving immune function, and used clinically for hepatitis B, C, sepsis, HIV, certain cancers, and enhancing vaccine efficacy. No evidence that it regrows thymus structurally. Copper GHK, suggested for skin anti-aging, collagen boost, hair growth, and wound healing. Proven to improve skin thickness, elasticity, and wrinkle reduction topically. Epitalin, suggested for telomere lengthening, circadian repair, circadian clock function, and anti-aging. Proven to improve melatonin production and circadian markers. Small human studies, suggested improves health markers, but there are no large Western clinical trials confirming the longevity effects. MOTC, suggested as an exercise medic, improves insidensitivity, muscle growth, and anti-aging. There are no human trials, only biomarker and exercise correlation studies. Humanin, suggested for neuroprotection, brain health, and metabolic health. No human trials, only association data linking lower levels to aging and disease. Cerebrolysin, suggested for brain repair, stroke recovery, dementia treatment, and neuroprotection. Proven in multiple clinical trials to show modest short-term improvements in stroke recovery and some dementia outcomes, but doesn't reduce mortality. CMAX, suggested for cognitive enhancement, stroke recovery, and neuroprotection. Small Russian trials, show benefit in stroke and neuropathy, but there are no high-quality Western clinical trials. CJC-1295, suggested for muscle growth, fat loss, and anti-aging via growth hormone. Proven to reliably increase growth hormone and IGF-1, body composition effects are not well established. MK-677, suggested for muscle growth, fat loss, better sleep. Proven to increase growth hormone and IGF-1, and increases lean mass in older adults. Might also improve sleep, but doesn't improve strength or reduce fat. Tessa Morelin, suggested for fat loss and metabolic health. Proven to significantly reduce visceral fat in HIV-associated lipodystrophy, which is why it's FDA approved. Also preserves muscle mass. IGF-1-LR3, suggested for muscle growth and fat loss. No human clinical trials prove this, only animal data. Melanotan-2, suggested for tanning without sun, as well as fat loss and libido enhancement. Proven to increase skin pigmentation and sexual arousal. Apathase suppression is observed, but there are no clinical trials on cognition. Red-at-truth diet, suggested for extreme weight loss, metabolic improvement, possibly some health benefits. Proven in clinical trials to show major weight loss. Improved blood pressure, hemoglobin A1c, blood sugar, and other health markers. But it's not yet approved, and there's no longevity data in healthy individuals. Overall, the world of peptides is most certainly a gray area. But I was surprised to see that some of these peptides have a significant amount of human studies. However, some peptides have zero human data, so you don't even know if they are safe for humans. As I said, I'm not advocating for these peptides. I just did this video for my own sake to know what does the research say about these peptides. So I just wanted to share it with you. The biggest problem with peptides is the sourcing. If you're buying some random Chinese peptides, first of all, you don't even know the thing that you're getting actually has the thing that you want. And second of all, it might be contaminated with other contaminants, some heavy metals or some other industrial residue. So it's very risky for your health to buy random peptides online. I would only use peptides from compounding pharmacies and work with a doctor. If you want to know how I rank 100 over-the-counter supplements that have evidence for various effects in humans, then check out this video next.