I've tested hundreds of supplements to find out what actually works. Along the way, I also discovered the ones that didn't work for me. No noticeable effects on my blood work or fitness. In this video, I'm going to share the supplements that had zero effects on me. It doesn't mean that these supplements don't work. Some of them actually have evidence that they do work in clinical trials, but for me, they didn't move the needle. The first supplement is a popular one, torine. Don't get me wrong, torine has a tremendous amount of research supporting its benefits for metabolic health, such as blood pressure, insulin sensitivity, and lipids. It's just that personally I saw no effects from torine on my metabolic health markers, probably because my blood work was already optimized to begin with, and I have excellent metabolic health. There are also studies on torine improving exercise performance, specifically endurance, V2 max, and strength. Now, this is where I did notice some improvements. The biggest effect I see is in explosiveness and speed and power. It's similar to creatine. I have a bigger gas tank and I can do a few more reps, but the effects aren't as big as for creatine. Overall, torine is great and it is backed up by evidence for supporting metabolic health and exercise performance. I just personally didn't see effects on my metabolic health, but it's proven to work for people who have poor metabolic health. The next supplement is 6 activator, which is made from a seaweed that's supposed to activate a certuine called 6. Search 6 is the only certuin seen to extend lifespan in animals and it does so through DNA repair, energy homeostasis, NAD synthesis and antioxidant defense. However, there aren't any human clinical trials on search 6 and I personally didn't notice any effects when I was taking it even for over a year. Now, this doesn't mean it has no benefits. We just don't know because it hasn't been researched that much and I obviously can't tell if it is going to extend my lifespan in 50 years. I personally didn't feel any difference in terms of DNA repair or energy synthesis or anything like that. That's probably because I'm already very healthy. I have virtually zero inflammation and I have high energy levels to begin with because I'm young and I have a healthy lifestyle. So, some unhealthier individuals might notice a difference. The next supplement is CoQ10. CoQ10 is an enzyme involved in mitochondrial energy production and it's used to supplement for fatigue and heart failure. There is pretty compelling evidence for reducing fatigue and reducing mortality in heart failure patients. There's also evidence that CoQ10 supplementation reduces muscle damage from exercise. Again, I didn't notice effects because I don't have any energy problems. I don't have poorly working mitochondria and I don't have heart failure. I'm also so used to exercising that I don't notice muscle soreness either unless I take a break from the exercise for a few weeks. CoQ10 is worthwhile for people who have chronic fatigue, they have some mitochondrial issues, or they have poor metabolic health. There is research coin increases and anorobic performance. So, it is a worthwhile supplement in that regard. Next up is methyline blue, which isn't a supplement, but it is available over the counter and it is used in medicine for certain medical conditions. I took methyline blue because a lot of people report that it changed their life. It unlocked their brain, increase their energy, and reverse their age. When I took it for several weeks, I noticed no effects. Maybe I need a larger dose, but maybe my mitochondria are already working optimally and I don't need it. You see, methyline blue is an alternative electron donor and it bypasses the mitochondrial complex one and complex 3 which helps the mitochondria to produce energy during mitochondrial dysfunction when one of the complexes is broken. I would be willing to take methodin blue when I am experiencing some sort of energy stress or mitochondrial dysfunction such as during longhaul flights or if I got like an X-ray or something like that, but I'm not going to take it every day because I don't notice any effects and I don't think it's reasonable for me to try to triple or quadruple my dose just to find an effect. Now TMG is something that worked very well for me. When I took two grams of TMG, I dropped my homoyine level slightly. However, increasing my TMG dose from 2 g to 4 g had no additional effects on reducing homoyine, which is fine. There are also some studies showing that TMG might support muscle growth or strength development, but in my opinion, the evidence for that is very conflicting and not clear. That's why I can't say whether or not TMG is going to support body composition and muscle. So TMG worked great for reducing homoyine but I don't know if it improved my muscle mass or muscle strength. I did notice some improvements in my muscle mass as shown by a dexa scan throughout this period but it might have been also something else because the studies about TMG and muscle growth are kind of mixed. So I don't know but let's say the number one reason I take TMG isn't the muscle mass anyway it's for the homoyine. There are also some general antioxidants and multivitamin supplements that I don't notice an effect from vitamin E and a multivitamin. Interestingly, I do notice an effect from vitamin C. For NAC, there is research that it helps with muscle strength if you take it before exercise, but I haven't tested it that much. And I don't notice a reduction in inflammation from NASA because my inflammation is already low. So, there you have it. These are the supplements I noticed no effects from or I couldn't tell if they were working or not. It doesn't mean that these supplements don't work. Torine, TMG, CoQ10, NAC, vitamin C, they all have been shown to have some benefits. My challenge for you is to go through your supplement stack and think whether or not it's actually working or if it's a waste of money. Is there any human clinical evidence for this supplement? If not, then you can fall victim to placebo or good marketing. How do you feel when taking the supplement? Do you notice a significant effect on your mood, energy, sleep, metabolism, or exercise performance? If yes, then it might have an effect, but be careful with not falling victim to placebo due to marketing. Let me help you with some supplements that have been proven to work based on human studies. Check out my video about the top 15 supplements