We know for a fact that if you are in the lower 25 percentile of V2 max, you are twice as likely to be ill. Twice the amount. That That's blows my mind. More is never more. Balance is more. >> Dr. Eli, welcome to the show. >> Thank you for having me. I appreciate it. Yeah, we uh met I think like two a few weeks ago at this conference and where we both spoke at and one of the my um acquaintances or friends uh he introduced me to you as someone who had a V2 max of 70 in their 50s which is a very phenomenal result. So I was of course very interested to know who you are and you know how did you achieve such a feat of fitness. So yeah I'm um happy to speak with you today. >> Thank you so much. Thank you. I've I've always admired what you do and how you do it. It's incredible. I think you are the Isn't it the the number one youngest biological biologically? Isn't it right? Like in the in the world right now in the Olympics. >> Uh well I mean depends on I I don't think so. I'm I'm sure there's uh many people with a lower score and you know this the validity of these tests can be debated about but uh >> it's still super impressive sim please don't don't don't be so humble it's still super impressive >> right well thank you um but yeah I mean um you know in the podcast I wanted to talk about uh what you do you have a center in Dubai you do a lot of coaching you um are also obviously walking the talk so uh yeah I I think we'll have a very interesting discussion. So, I wanted to start off with um how did you get into this health optimization and just longevity and wellness? >> Yeah, of course. Um so, you know, I don't know what your journey is like, but with me at some point, I think for most people that I've discussed this with or discussed their own wellness journey, there's always like a pivotal event that gets you into uh this path. Um, for me, as I was going through it and I began introspection and working on my um, kind of trauma release and things like that, I realized it started earlier than I than I thought it did. Um, so I grew up in in Beirut, Lebanon, uh, as a teenager and the time was very very uh, tumultuous. There was so much happening. Uh, and I'm an only boy and they were basically picking up anyone who was able to kind of be on the street or fight or whatever. Um and obviously you know I was trying to very desperately to avoid that. Um so uh I launched into uh physical fitness. So I began calisthenics at maybe the age of 14. Um and uh I really focused on it. Now later on in life, fast forward, you know, a couple of decades, um when I started working on myself a little bit more seriously, um I realized that this was my protective mechanism that that put me on a path ironically um of of wellness for all my life. So what started as a as a point of adversity and self-p protection uh turned out to be a a lifelong journey of of uh uh the pursuit of well-being. Um and then obviously the my life is punctuated with these events you know either family members are sick with cancer or um you know heart problems or whatever all of this different stuff around you and then they kind of this acts as like another launch pad for you to kind of delve deeper do more understand better and so on. Um and then I I opened my first uh uh uh corporate wellness business um in 2006 2005 in Dubai. Um which then became a lot more um focused on on that side. Um and granted earlier than what most people were doing but only because I didn't think of it as a business. I thought of it as a as a lifestyle as you know everyone is doing it be it at work at home or at school or wherever you are. Um so uh and hence where the journey kind of officially began. Um and then I launched into mountaineering um marathons, anything that I could basically get my hands on. Um and then down the line I eventually did more than 50 marathons, climbed quite a few m mountains around the world, did quite a few tres all sorts of stuff. Uh that kind of put your body into um uh into the test to to say the least. Um and therefore this took me in another rabbit hole where I wanted to understand how can I um keep my body optimized and that's really what I do right now. Um so yeah the center that you mentioned is called restore and we focus on one of the main pillars of my journey and the program and my talks and everything that I do which is recovery. It's the most understated pillar in everything that we do and it's where adaptation and strength actually happens. Um I hope you agree with that. And then obviously I run a program called limitless human. Um and with that I integrate pillars u together including recovery and several others. a lot of the things that you yourself talk about and and uh um sort of work around. Um but the the the slight difference for me is that as a Middle Eastern man living in the Middle East, I focus on that and all of the um uh the influences that are around us. Be it in lifestyle, be it in culture, be it in family life, um be it in in the pace of business, uh be it the dust, the water, the sun, the heat, like all of these different things. So these are all taken into consideration into what we do in the program uh from a lifestyle perspective or from um a medical intervention perspective, which is a tiny part of it. we focus a lot more on um uh sort of a lifestyle um because the you know for for us most of the people that we deal with are already healthy individuals that want to go to the next level. Um so therefore um you know that it's it's been a lifelong thing. Um and then when I realized in my 40s that I am fitter than most people around me um I I realized that I was doing something right. And then in my 50s now um you know with extremely low um uh body fat percentage, high HRV, high V2 max um I I seem to have cracked for me um what works uh you know so and and uh uh the to spoiler alert all of it revolves around uh recovery. >> Gotcha. Yeah, I definitely agree that the recovery is a very underrated aspect of uh health and longevity and like you said that's where the magic happens but I guess >> you know recovery is only warranted if you put in the work or if there is a reason to recover from so let's say if you you know never lift weights or never do exercise then I mean yeah there's a lot of other stressors in the environment that are you know harmful to us and we would need to recover from but uh you know the growth happens only if you first you know put in the stimulus which is the positive adaptation or the positive like the signal to the body in the form of exercise and then the recover is where the magic happens. So I guess yeah there's for some individuals it could be the danger that they need to relax too much which you know is uh you need both you need to have like the stimulus and um the recovery which you know your your protocols uh focus on. >> Yeah. And they confuse it also with with rest or comfort. So with so many escalators, so many conveniences, so many people are you know they're they're they treat that um uh you know as like a something that I deserve to do. Why walk if I can stand? Why stand if I can sit? Why walk from one place to another if I can drive and so on you know um so also these these small lifestyle adaptations can contribute greatly to your recovery. So recovery is not passive but also it's not as enjoyable as activity right so people um don't they don't look forward to it um until you realize how much benefit you get from that versus what you do um now the only slight difference I would say with us here is that um the the strain that we also get beyond the exercise and on our muscles uh and on on other systems uh is also the strain of our environment and I I think you're beginning to feel it too, you know. Um there are stuff that we need to detox from. There are there's are approaches here that we need to be doing um uh you know to be able to sustain. Like for example, I get people that are well recovered. They work out well, they move, they're healthy, all of that. But then their HRV is is very low in the 20s or 30s. Um so they're extremely active people. So they're very serious about their recovery, but the nervous system is is really under a huge loads. Um so recovery covers all of not just your biological system, but also your nervous system. Um so uh not just the muscularkeeletal uh system, but also the the the nervous system. So, um I focus a little bit on that too because I find for myself is that I wake up energized and ready for the gym to kind of have a proper session when also my nervous system is aligned. Um so I find myself you know kind of recovered and my you know I'm I'm okay to kind of do things but when my HRV is slightly lower I don't perform as well as I can. And also your mind starts playing tricks with you with that too. one less rep. Um, skip this exercise, you know, that sort of thing. Like sit down a little bit more. Um, so you begin to kind of uh um sort of go into shortcuts, if you know what I mean. But yeah, I 100% agree with you that uh people can go the opposite direction just like with everything. I find people that go into training way too much uh especially women and end up with all sorts of um hormonal issues. Same with men you know uh and they don't realize how because they look super healthy they look super fit uh that doesn't mean that you are healthy um so um and I think you see that quite quite quite a lot with uh in your work too >> yeah yeah absolutely it's uh tends to be a lot of this or the other so like a lot of exercise and not enough recovery or too much recovery and not enough exercise or too much cardio and not enough weights or just weights and no cardio. So yeah, it's a more >> balance for sure. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> But uh maybe yeah, we can start with the fitness component. So um V2 max of 70. That's you know very very extremely good result especially for someone in their 50s. You said you're like 55, right? >> I'm 54. Just turned 54 this month. Yes. >> Okay. Yeah. So that's you know um definitely in the you know top I would say even like top 0.1% of V2 max for people in their 50s. So, um, were you an athlete or you obviously said you had a history of exercise, but how long did it take for you to like get this particular? >> So, to be honest, I I didn't take my B2 max very seriously until um I began the journey with Limitless Human about uh 5 years ago. Um, and this is when I included it in my in my program as the number one um metric that we use for people to help them become healthier. Um so be ahead of anything else, ahead of genome, ahead of blood tests, ahead of everything else. So we focus on B2 max, we focus on um uh sort of uh general strength of the body, alignment, uh even grip strength and and foot strength and things like that. And then the other things come second. So then I began to pay attention to my B2 max. Now giving my history in in marathons um uh I I I think I was naturally already in a good place as V2 max without without actually working actively working on it. So therefore I I already had a good base and then I was able to build on it and keep up keep at it. And as I was exploring my journey, what works for me physically and you know for my age and and what I do and obviously I live a very modest lifestyle. I'm not uh I'm not big on uh socializing or going out late or I don't drink for example. There's a lot that I don't do that affect my system and kind of because as you said earlier it's complete balance there. There are no specific hacks that you can do, for example, to improve V2 max or HRV or whatever it is that you're working on. It's it's a combination of things. There are some that are more influential, but it's a combination of all of these things. Um, so I was already at a good place to be fair. Um, and then therefore what I was able to do is try to understand what was impacting my B2 max. What is it that was um affecting it? Um and I realized that you know I can train it. I could do um uh hit high intensity intervals that directly contributed by understanding what my zones are, what my um uh ventilatory thresholds are. I was able then to work on improving them because as exactly what you do, you measure, you understand, you fix, you move on, etc., etc. So, it's the same um with uh with V2 max. You measure first of all, test it. Find out what your actual V2 max is, not the one on your wearable. Um most people take this for granted because even though wearables um they actually do uh live or even they buy data from proper V2 max testing equipment in order to calibrate their algorithm to give a good estimate of what your possible V2 max is based on the data that is being collected by the wearable is still not accurate. Right? So um it's you know it's not the wearable is not 100% infallible when it comes to sort of exercise what you're doing. It's measuring temperature, heart rate, uh movement, a few things and these are none none of them are measuring the amount of air coming in and the amount of air coming out of your lungs. >> So therefore it's an estimate. So I highly recommend for people to actually do a V2 max um test and then understand their true metrics and then it acts as as a base that you could build upon no matter what age you are in. And we know for a fact that um if you are in the lower 25 percentile of V2 max u number, you are twice as likely to be ill. twice twice the twice the amount. That that blows my mind. You know, we're already fragile. Imagine if you doubled that that risk um later on in life to have chronic diseases, uh heart problems, um uh diabetes, all sorts of other things including um uh sort of uh brain situations, you know. So, uh, I take it seriously because I don't I am not aware, let me put it this way, I'm not aware of a better longevity metric than V2 max. So, therefore, if you're serious about, you know, living your life healthy until the last moment to have the longest possible health span, um, you have to prioritize V2 max. >> I want to take a quick break to tell you about the Bon Charge infrared sauna blankets. my go-to way of getting 20-minut sauna sessions on the go without needing to spend an hour to warm up a regular sauna. Taking a sauna is, in my opinion, one of the best things for your overall health and heart function. Studies show that taking a sauna regularly is associated with 63% lower risk of sudden cardiac death, 63% reduced heart disease mortality, 46% lower risk of hypertension, and 40% reduced all cause mortality. This is mediated by an increase in body temperature and increased heart rate that mimic a cardiovascular workout while at the same time improving arterial stiffness, endothelial function, blood flow, immune system function, blood pressure, and metabolic health. It doesn't matter if it's a traditional wooden sauna, an infrared sauna and infrared sauna blanket, or anything else that elevates your body temperature above what's normal. It warms up in 2 minutes to the optimal temperature of 70° C, and it's low in EMF. You can get a 15% discount by heading over to bunchcharge.com/seamlund and use the code seam for 15% discount. All right, back to the video. >> Yeah, absolutely. I I agree. And uh you know it is just a collection of a lot of uh systems in your body. So to have a good V2 max, you need to have a well functioning heart. >> You need to have a well functioning lungs, well functioning muscle system. You need to probably be on a lower body fat side of things. Mhm. >> You need to be doing exercise on a regular basis, you know, you need to be recovering well. So, it's yeah, like a single marker for pretty much everything that you do. It's your like like your health lifestyle biomarker in a lot of uh ways. >> Agreed. Agreed. 100%. And my favorite bit about it is that you cannot cheat on it. >> There's nothing you could actually take to directly influence it. You cannot work out for two weeks and then ace a V2 max test, you know. Yeah. >> Um it's it's it's a definitive lifestyle metric or biioarker. Uh like there there is no way around it. Yes, >> you know, breath work, hyperbaric, uh lots of little things that may help. Um but truly it's that that that complete collection of of u uh sort of organs, lifestyle uh even you know what's happening with your nervous system and so on uh that uh that contribute to it. Yeah, you can't yet cheat on it because uh you might be able to with some like you said hyperbaric or some breath work technique you could very shortterm increases maybe by a little bit but I would imagine maybe 10 20% but uh yeah you're not going to be able to go from unfit to fit in just even even a few weeks or months even whereas with you know certain let's say um longevity tests out there maybe certain biological age tests or something like that you you know you can see a lot of variety in the results. You can, you know, be otherwise unhealthy but for some reason get a very good biological age score. Yeah. Because of the variety or unpredictability of those particular tests, at least the commercial ones. Um, so yeah. Uh, but um, yeah, you mentioned that you establish a baseline with knowing what your VMAX is and you took a very scientific approach to the training. So you see when you for those of you who don't know you when you do a V2 max test you're running on the treadmill you're breathing in with the oxygen mask measuring your heart rate and by the end of the test you get your V2 max result but you also get these different heart rate zones based on the test. So it will estimate what's your max heart rate, what's your zone 2, zone three, zone four. So different heart rate zones and each of these different heart rate zones has you know slightly different obviously just doing cardio just you know running and whatever type of running will increase your VOMX but if you know your heart rate zones you can be I guess more scientific about it and um I guess faster as well because you're uh more accurate with it rather than just going for runs and just hoping for the best hoping for your V2 max up you're actually looking at the data and then structuring your workout plan around your particular ular body and what your heart rate zones are. >> Yeah. And I I found also without obsessing because when I when I obsessed about it, it actually affected my B2 max ne negatively because I was being stressed. My cortisol was higher. I wasn't able to run as comfortably as I would run but I'm not as comfortably or any cardio that I was doing. Um so without obsessing this is the key because there are no there the needle is not it does not move from one to the other. is more about averages uh and how you can kind of fit within that particular zone and how much time you spend in it rather than am I here am I there like let me look at my zones every two minutes as I'm running like it's that adds to and and I went through that I had to learn the wrong way the the the hard way um that doing that can contribute negatively to my overall well-being but also to my B2 max so yeah surely I mean there is no better way than to approach things scientifically especially when it comes to your health. Um, we know for a fact how much science have contributed to our longevity and and our lifestyle and and overall life quality in general. Um, so when you're approaching it, okay, I'm I'm running, I'm going to the gym three, four times, etc. Your your health deser deserves a lot more than that. And you and I, I think we are testament for this to the amount of time that and and care that we spend on our health in order to stay optimal. Um, which then permeates, I don't know about you, but for me, it permeates into everything else in my life, like how my relationships are, how my business is running, because when you're healthier, you're clearer mind, you're making better decisions, you're more patient, you're able to withstand more. Um, you you you do more. Um, so it's a combination of all these things, and it's a gift that keeps on giving. So that's why if I put V2 max in the center of this, >> I don't think there is anything better to replace it with. Um I don't know if anyone can prove me wrong, but so far this is what I know. >> Yeah. Yeah, for sure. I I agree with that. Um so um you figured out your heart rate zones and you trained according to that. You also said you did marathons before trying to deliberately increase your V2 max. So you had a very good base. So more like a low intensity aerobic base. >> Exactly. So you did uh you know tons of hours of just running at this uh low intensity closer to more like zone two style of training and then you started to incorporate more interval training if if I'm not mistaken. >> Correct. Yes. So the high intensity is actually increased my um resilience and increased my uh uh the my zones also um and therefore I was able to do more at higher intensity than I was able to do before. So if I'm doing sprints for example, now I'm able to to maintain that even for seconds uh more it's a massive impact on your overall system and therefore your your lungs are able to um receive more and process more oxygen into the body and therefore provide more energy for the muscles and so on. Um so yeah I mean it's um it's not rocket science. It's simply you know consistency. It's simply understanding your base um working on that base and be being uh consistent with them without adding too much anxiety to yourself. Um and understand that a combination of these different zones between high intensity between zone 2 um between um doing a variety of cardiovascular rather than sticking to one because cycling uh sorry running is a high impact sport right? So your knees will you know feel it, your ankles will feel it, your hips will feel it, your lower back will feel it etc. So I would do a variety. So I I do for example um you know quite a bit of cycling also which is super important as you see behind me. Uh so for me that's really important. Um I do a lot of uphill hiking or mountain climbing. Uh that also is is an amazing cardiovascular activity and it's in nature. you're you're clean you're breathing cleaner air instead of being on the road and so on you know so it's a combination of these things so when you take it seriously you're able to um uh sort of plan a little bit better and as you know you and I know when when something is a priority it just everything falls into place you know >> uh I think for most people that say oh I don't whatever I whatever I'm trying I'm not able to improve my V2 max well that for me simply translate is that it's not your priority um you like it because you want to have it, but you're just simply not committing enough of your um uh time and and mental space for it. >> Yeah. Yeah. I agree that the combination of exercise is key here, at least uh over the long term. I've never seen really anyone with a very high VMAX, I'm talking like 60s and 70s, who just does interval training. Like everyone who has a very high VMax above the 60s, >> they uh you know build up a huge aerobic base with low intensity training over many years and then they also do some form of interval training. So you know based on the research both of these methods can increase V2 max. Some of these shorter term trials they show that high intensity is more time efficient in a sense that you're getting the same effects but you're you know spending a lot less time exercising. So a lot of people conclude that uh the high intensity interval is as good and you just you know save time and you don't need to do low intensity cardio. But yeah as I said everyone who has a very high V2 max especially later in life they've accumulated a ton of hours of this low inensity exercise as well and they obviously do some interval training um as well. >> 100%. Yes. and being aware being aware of your resilience being aware of your HRV also contributes to it in my experience. Um I don't know how true it is for everyone else or or if there's any actual scientific backing to that but that's from my own experience. HRV is was a a great contributor to my V2 max because I felt it indirectly not necessarily directly but indirectly. So may what may when my HRV is a little bit lower I wasn't able to do as much exercise as I want to u only because of maybe um not enough patience uh not enough focus generally my my mental state was not where it needs to be in order for me to achieve these things that I really care about um so um managing your nervous system I think is very very important um and people take that for granted too. M yeah you mentioned that when you did interval training you were able to like push the zones higher. >> Yeah. >> So uh and I think that applies also to your maximum heart rate. So as you get fitter your maximum heart rate is slightly able to increase. Yes. >> Whereas with age it tends to decrease. So counteracting some of that age related decline. And usually you know the maximum heart rate is said to be calculated with 220 minus your age. >> Mhm. But um you know there that obviously doesn't apply if you're a slightly fitter individual compared to your age. So uh what is your idea of how can people estimate their max heart rate and how can they calculate their zones from that? >> Yeah. So that definitely um so the the formula that you shared the 220 minus your age is a very very generic one. Um so at at that one is kind of like the absolute um uh minimum if you like. Uh, and when someone is training like the average Joe, that's the that's the the the kind of measure that you would use so you don't get into a danger zone. But as someone like you and I that do this quite a bit, we understand how we can push that into a particular area that is still under our control um, and be be aware of it. And I I feel my max heart rate without looking at it. I I know when when I've reached my max heart rate without having something to tell me that I've reached it. Um and um there is no better. I mean obviously lifestyle again matters. So if you're eating fried food, if you're not eating heart healthy stuff, uh uh if you don't include uh you know olive oil, if you don't include you know heart-healthy uh nutrition um and if you don't move enough um it's uh going to impact you. So when you're working on improving your max heart rate and for me again that's really important not just from a V2 perspective which is the main goal that I work when it comes to my health span um but also as a general lifestyle uh uh you know I I I see people in their 20s going up a flight of stairs and being out of breath like for me that blows my mind. uh we know for a fact that our last uh decade or two of our lives this is where you know we are most miserable but also it's the time where we can have perhaps some of the best time of our lives you know with wisdom um with and if you have um and I say this all the time one of my favorite thing about this decade for me in my 50s is that I have I've gained quite a bit of wisdom and I'm still seeking quite a bit uh but also I kept my vitality so to have these two together is incredible, you know. So, um and and it it contributes so much to um the sort of life satisfaction in everything that you do. Um so pushing your max heart rate I think should and it's it's a byproduct I believe of working on your V2 max. Um it's not necessarily something that you should only focus on. Um, if you're serious about your V2 max, you are most likely improving your max heart rate anyway. >> Um, and uh um, again goes back to the same thing that you and I were saying about the variety of exercise truly matters. Um, so um, the body is capable is far more capable than we think. And then we end up kind of putting it in a little box. we say I do I play paddle or I do crossfit or I do this while the body is is I mean you know for for millennia we've been you know um shifting moving digging carrying you know pushing pulling all sorts of different things um and all of a sudden if you go and sit on a machine and do a few things this is a workout the body is far more capable than that um so doing a variety of things it's not just good for the body for your V2 max for your overall joint brain health and and everything but also is good for the mind because it's more um uh sort of involving the mind if you like. >> So I try to be as as as um varied as possible uh within kind of reason because obviously um you know there's a lot going on in my life. So that's why I have you know my bike in my office literally I have the sauna in my office literally. So I have no excuses and that's what I feel that these um devices uh are meant for convenience rather than to replace um what what you would uh do normally you know so uh and I and I I quite like that so I I don't give myself excuses not to do something that is good for me and sauna is another one um that contributes to heart health to better be able to contribute I say does not influence it directly. Um and uh um yeah overall you know other systems that then can they consider they um contribute to a better heart health and a better uh V2 max. >> So um uh these these uh few tools that you could have in your in your toolkit will will will come a long way with you to get you to where you need to be. As I said uh at the beginning, if you prioritize your health, which you know everyone should. >> Yeah, absolutely. And um yeah, like you what you said that uh the increase in max heart rate is more like a byproduct of the training and the byproduct of having a high VHMax, you know, doesn't make sense to specifically try to focus on that. It's more of yeah, as you get fitter, you know, the max heart rate tends to increase and improve. And um you know in some ways that can also apply to V2 max. So that uh yes you obviously um can use V2 max as a metric of your general overall health and fitness but uh you know the metric for improving V2 max is you know how fast how well are you able to do cardio. So, how fast are you able to run? You know, you can you can use some proxy tests as well to estimate your V2 max like a Cooper test or a onem run or something like like a like a 10k run or something like that >> to and as you get f fitter in those particular tests then it means that your V2 max has improved uh in in most cases. Yeah, it's very rarely that it wouldn't improve. But um you know, if you're able to run a 10K faster or a Cooper test faster, then your V2 max is also higher. And you know, on a you're not able to test the V2 max every day or even like most people will test it maybe once a year. So um on on this kind of a training cycle side of things, you focus on just running faster. The same way if you're trying to build muscle or get stronger, you're focusing on the lifts that you know trying to lift more or do more push-ups or do more pull-ups, whatever the case may be. >> Yeah. Yeah. I I you you've touched on something super important also, the frequency of testing V2 max. Um people are so enthusiastic sometimes and they want to test it every 3 months or every six months. That's too short. As we said earlier there V2 max is not influenced in in short periods of time. It is a a longer time lifestyle. Uh and therefore you know less than a you know once a year. I don't think unless you're someone who is really doing a lot and that's their focus. Maybe it's what you do as a profession. Maybe you're an athlete. Um but as a general Joe like myself um you know once a year is more than enough uh to kind of do that. And then beyond that, what you said is exactly right. Um there are several ways where you feel that your V2 is M. So if you are um if you feel better that this time that you've done 10K versus the one, you know, you were doing it last month, you're most likely having better V2 max. You're absolutely right. You don't have to test it every month in order for you to where you were to know where you are. And obviously also, you know, trackers, wearables, etc. will hopefully show an improvement in your V2 max. Again, as we said earlier, it is not uh an accurate measure, but they may give you an indication that yes, my V2 max is improving too. Um so I wouldn't run every, you know, 2 3 months to a place where to do my V2 max um uh as as a health metric. Um but uh um there are many other ways for you to kind of feel that your V2 max is improving because a lot of different aspects of your life improve too. Even your metabolism improves, your hormones improve, your sleep improves, a lot of things kind of fall into place. Um which is awesome. >> Yeah. Maybe we touch a bit on more like practical things. So, >> yep. >> You know, what is your I guess go-to workout that you do? Um, and uh like like um how long should people do when they're doing low inensity cardio and what kind of intervals do you think are more um effective? >> Yeah. So, for me um obviously I always say for me because for my height, my weight, my age, etc., you know, the amount of food that I take, what my BMI, BMI is, all of that. I kind of I don't, again, I don't stress on any of that, but I take that into consideration and I apply this. So, most people want to copy someone else's workout routine. That doesn't apply. And I think hopefully you agree with that with me. Um, some things may be intriguing, you know, you want to try, etc., but you have to work on developing a workout routine that works for you. There may be similarities uh between people. That's great. But you have to work out something. So for me, no two days look the same. Um I really value um uh sort of the variety of workouts that I do and I it contributes greatly because I truly value one of my in my in my top 10 things is is mental health. Um, so I actively include types of workouts that also contribute to my mental health. Um, so it could be um maybe a circuit that I would implement in in in my workouts. For those that don't know what a circuit is, is that when you have um several types of workouts kind of one after the other where you would do a certain reps in this one, a certain uh um sort of movement in that one. And it could be a combination of functional as well as maybe high intensity. Um and I like doing that because it keeps my mind sharp because you have to keep track of what you've done for how long going to the next one, etc., etc. So it makes it a little more engaging with therefore engaging my mind a little bit more. So I value that quite a bit and I highly recommend for people especially as they as they reach their 40s to uh take their mental health a lot a lot more seriously. Um and uh sort of focus on that. But going back to the workouts, so no two days look the same for me. Um and uh I try to do as much variety as I possibly can. On most days I try to work out twice a day. If I don't if I'm not able to work out and it two workouts per day may seem extreme for certain people. But by a workout I would mean in the morning for example if I've done highintensity um interval workouts where maybe it could be like a high rock style workout um in the evening um to help me wind down I would do maybe 20 minutes on my on my bike um on a zone 2 type situation. It helps me sleep. It helps me to detox. It helps to activate my lymphatic system. Um and uh uh it also it helps my metabolism and so on. So I normally do it after my last meal. Uh I eat early in the evening. That's really important for me. Uh but I eat um uh uh protein rich so it doesn't affect my blood sugar overnight so it doesn't interrupt my sleep and and things like that. Um so um so most days I work out twice a day. Uh if I'm not able to, I go for a walk after dinner. If let's say I don't feel like it, if I feel like my body doesn't really need that workout today, I go for a walk at least about 3 kilometers, 3 to 5 kilometers, um which then is about uh you know the 30 minutes maybe or 35 minutes something like that or 40 minutes. Um so that is incredible. I find walking is perhaps um one of the best exercises um you can have. The only problem with it is that it's time consuming and especially in our in our uh part of the world is not always possible. Um I have a um a u walking pad in in my desk as you could see I'm in a standing desk. I never I never sit down. I try not to sit down as as much as I can because having my core activated is also part of if you want my my workout routine across. Um, I go to the gym for example, um, people literally be waiting until they find the nearest parking space next to the entrance. I literally go to the end of the parking because that's part of my workout is the walk from the car to the, you know, so it becomes a mental thing. Um, and these these small things that you do in between in my case, I feel they contribute more to my fitness than the actual 45 minutes or 60 minutes or your 90 minutes of a workout overall, you know. So um and if you if you combine them all from you know your the amount of walking that you do how you um you know going to the airport for example is another pet peeve of mine because people would go to the airport on a flight you know they're going on a flight for 78 hours and they reach the airport and they're desperately looking for the first chair they could find to sit on even though they're going to be sitting on the plane for seven to eight hours. So for me being aware of that I like I I would not sit down until I absolutely have to on the plane um you know for many reasons that we don't need to go into right now but uh it's it's also like your approach and being aware of this and as I said earlier when you are um when you're focused on your health then everything that you do be it from food to hydration to movement to driving to you know what you do throughout the day contribut contributes to your fitness journey uh beyond like a one hack type of exercise. Um but marketers, influencers and so on on social media want to teach you the best um bicep workout, you know, and oddly enough, people because of my age, you know, and I don't know, maybe one of the reasons is my age, but I get the most comments on my biceps, like, "What is your workout routine for your biceps?" Um, and I I I do not have one. It's a combination of everything that I do. Like they think I have a hack to build my biceps. It's just I move always and it's it's I I it's not something that I would focus on specifically. Um, but unfortunately a lot of the noise that is out there um uh you know want to give you hacks your you know 7 minute abs and you know the best bicep workout ever and and this and that. Uh so it's more aesthetics rather than healthbased. Um and that's why I for a lot of people maybe um six out of 10 people are turned off by me when I say my focus is V2 max. This is what we're going to do in your journey of health. This is when you join Limitless Human. That's one of the first things that we'll test. Um people don't want that. They want the hack. How can I get from A to B the quickest way possible? Um and as you and I know um this never works. Uh it works for a short period maybe um you know if if it's done strategically it may help an existing wellestablished system um but it is not is not a health journey for sure. So uh variety is key. Um I move throughout the day and sometimes work out twice a day. Um I um challenge myself even if I am on a treadmill. Uh I try not to do the same thing twice either with incline, decline, uh speed, um uh sort of uh um having a weighted vest. Uh I I'm I'm always um shocking the body one way or the other in order not for it to get into a comfort zone and plateau. Um, and then the other side of that, as we said at the beginning, recovery. Um, and that's easier than most people think. Um, but recovery is perhaps the most influential thing that you could do, uh, in your workout journey. >> What kind of recovery strategies do you use? >> So, the the number one for me is, and I I I'm yet to find something better um, more influential overall is sleep. So I prioritize my sleep. Um so I aim and I actively work on that. Um so I I aim to get uh 7 and 1/2 hours of sleep. Uh lots of deep and rest, lots of sleep and REM. Um and I sleep at 8:30 in the evening. It's when everything kind of goes most days obviously unless there is something that needs to happen. Um and I wake up at 4 and this is where my journey starts. So, um, and, uh, I found that there are lots of other things that you could do that are helpful, uh, when you're recovering, such as mindful walking, uh, breath work, uh, red light, sauna is definitely on the top of the list, too. All of these things, all of these tools are great. Um, but my best so far, my best, you know, by far is sleep. the quality of that and being able to um be intentional with it. Um uh from a from a mental perspective, from a physical perspective, from general recovery, you know, everything I think there nothing beats sleep. Uh so you do all of these other things to help to improve sleep that is has the greatest return on investment. Um but also I find that um uh being in nature, moving in nature, uh is is incredibly healing for the body and the mind. Uh that's why I I do on a monthly basis. Every month I do like a public hike where you know I people meet me just in somewhere here and then we hike up a mountain. We see the sunrise uh we breathe you know um uh sort of mountain rocky mountain air uh and then we come back. That is also another sort of pit stop in my recovery. So, just like every approach that I have, um it's not uh a a specific hack, but more of a recovery lifestyle, a fitness lifestyle, um a nutritional lifestyle. Um and I think if more people are are are recognizing what that means, um and how you could sort of include it in your life. Um so I think you know there there is it there is no there's nothing special that I do it's just what I do perhaps special is that um I have discovered what works for me from that perspective uh and how I can make it work even better for me and constantly optimize it and I get excited about it because as you know um like I I literally sometimes be you know I wake up in the morning looking forward to do my next thing the walk the run, the hike, the cycle, the whatever. Um, >> you know, because it is something that I value. Um, and it took me, you know, this is something that I worked on obviously. Um, I don't know, you know, for for people that are discovering, um, their their health journey at the moment, this may be a little harder. Um, but for me, it comes a little uh a little more naturally. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean if you don't uh even sleep enough then uh the body doesn't have the time to uh actually get stronger and adapt to the new stimulus. >> Yes. >> So yeah, it's a super critical component uh of of the recovery. And I mean I like the SAS as well. They're um one of the best like recovery tools out there and uh they also help with actually improving some of the V2 max because you're you know essentially just sitting in this uh box with um your heart rate being elevated a little bit higher than >> if you were to be sitting or standing. >> So yeah, it's a small mini cardio workout. >> 100% I agree with you. >> Um and the nutrition. So that's also very critical. What is your views on nutrition? There's a lot of different opinions about nutrition, but what and I you know personally think that it's very individual. You know there's a lot of differences in between people's metabolism and requirements. >> So what kind of nutrition has works for you >> and and age um there's gender, there's age, there's you know where you are geographic, what's available, you know all of these different things, but also your your what what happens during the day. Um, so if you're someone, you know, who works 12 hour 12 hours a day, um, you know, may not have access to to, you know, the the the food that is best for you, um, maybe it's a little harder. So again, these these, um, content creators, influencers, etc., they always want you to um, see, think that they have the the hack for that, but it's obviously you and I know it's it's it's not that simple. Um, so for me personally, obviously growing up in the Middle East, I've always had a Mediterranean diet. Um and uh uh even before knowing that you know the the the scientific and medical world uh recognizing as it recognizes it as one of the best diets around for the variety of things in it um and the spices and and as I said earlier the olive oils and and uh um you know the the the variety of of nutrition nutritional values um so that helped me too. So I I had a good foundation. So we never, you know, ate at a McDonald as kids. We never it was it wasn't like that. It was always um a an experience which also contributed to a better relationship with food. Um it's never like on the go. We would put a spread on the table. We would sit together. We would eat. and made that made the food a lot more nutritional um in a in a you know maybe not in a scientific way but it just it feels this way. Um so uh for me I focus quite a bit on uh protein of course especially as uh you know A-50 plus um man uh and especially because I want to maintain my muscle. Um, but I also need my uh complex carbs for my activity level and the amount of cardiovascular that I do and for my energy reserves. Um, so I obviously, you know, have the the the the whole thing and my my fiber and all of that stuff, right? Um, but uh uh to keep it simple for most people, what I say is that for me on my plate, I need to see colors. The more colors I see, the happier I am. Um, and uh uh I focus I I prioritize protein in all of my meals. I have about four to five meals per day. They're not huge meals. Um so that works for me for my um physical needs for me and the amount of activity that I do, but this doesn't mean that would work for anyone else uh or for everyone else I should say. Um so you need to be able to understand what is your BMI, understand what your body's uh output um understand uh how well recovered you are, understand what are your intolerances for example um and uh decide on what your priorities are and then focus on that. So I I focus on on uh brain healthy foods uh uh muscle healthy foods, heart healthy foods and stuff that will help with the gut. Um, and naturally in in our uh where I come from from the Lebanese cuisine, I don't know if you've had Lebanese food yet. I'm sure you have. Um, so there are naturally they pair um, uh, meals that work well together. So, for example, we have a lentil meal that is um, you know, vegetarian. Um, so it's called mujad and it's a it's a it's a dish that you can have for lunch, for dinner, etc. It's made predominantly from lentils and rice uh and olive oil basically. Um and it's mashed together and it's always served with a cabbage salad. Um now this pairing is not you know uh uh sort of uh um by chance or or half-hazardly. Um, so it was put together because the enzymes in the cabbage helps to break down the the the protein in the lentils. Um, and that's what I love about our diet, our Mediterranean diet, specifically Lebanese, Syrians, Palestinian, etc. Um, is that a lot of these dishes, the way they're put together, they put together with a lot of um, uh, sort of uh, wisdom of the ages, with a lot of wisdom from our parents, their parents, and their and their parents. um in the parents before them. So uh there's a lot of wisdom in the food and in the meals that were created. So I'm very fortunate to be part of that contributing to a better relationship with food um better understanding of of what is good for me um and a variety of of uh nutritional uh sources. Um so I don't stress too much except with the fact that I as I said um that I prioritize um uh protein and complex carbs for my particular lifestyle. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's very interesting that you know people from Lebanon they or and other the traditional cuisines they don't know didn't know back in the day you know thousands of years ago that pairing the lentils with the cabbage would uh you know improve the protein breakdown like they obviously didn't have no way to know that >> y >> uh but uh it did actually you know turn out that way through I guess some form of cultural selection >> that over the course of time people u intuitively figured it out that it pairs well and uh it became like a tradition to combine those foods and you know applies I'm sure to applies a lot of other dishes out there as well in the world. >> Yeah. >> Why certain foods are combined >> 100%. I mean we use okra we use parsley as like a a whole salad. >> Other cuisines use it as a as a garnish. We have it in almost everything. Um, >> so the way we approach our relationship with food is is a little more advanced than um perhaps other cuisines. So, uh, that, you know, is is, uh, um, is is something that I didn't have to work hard for. >> Mhm. What about supplements? Are you a fan of supplements? And which ones are you taking? >> Um, I am a fan of supplements. uh as far as um supplementing what is deficient. So for me um in the last 5 years or so as I improved my relationship with my own health and body and understanding and using science as we said earlier um I began to really understand um uh sort of my relationship with supplements. Before it was more about you know the the more is better. Uh and I quickly realized uh within the last decade that uh that is opposite to true. Um more is never better when it comes to supplements. It's precision that is better. Um and in order for you to do that, what I do is every 3 months I have a blood test. I understand what my deficiencies. I then adjust what my intakes of supplements. Um if I can have it through diet, I would. If I cannot have it through diet for whatever reason, um then I would supplement it with something else. Um so um at the moment like right this moment of time actually three months ago I did I did the blood test and I realized that I needed um vitamin D, I needed vitamin E, um I needed um uh more omega uh foods for example and a few things like that and I optimized that. So I focused on my supplements being that I retested two weeks ago and I didn't need any of that anymore. So now I'm actually zero supplements. I take no supplements whatsoever. I am on a couple of peptides but that's a different process altogether. Um so um on supplements at the moment I'm on zero. I I'm not taking anything at all. I occasionally use um enzymes digestive enzymes because of the amount of protein that I try to take per day. I want to try to maximize um uh uh my my protein synthesis. Um and sometimes I would use enzymes to help me with that. Um, but that's that's the approach to supplements and it shouldn't be anything else. For most people, it's it's convenience. They want again a shortcut. That's why a lot of these new brands are coming up with like a one sache for all, you know, type where bunch of supplements, everything that you possibly could need in one thing, so you don't have to kind of, you know, find out which is what and whatever. Um, and uh, yeah, I mean, as I said, it's a my my relationship with supplements has been kind of lovehate. Um, because I feel that a lot of it just turned it into expensive pee. Um, uh, unless you're understanding what your body is going through and what it needs. Um, there are certain things that we know that, um, is difficult for us to receive, such as vitamin D, for example, which is really not a vitamin as you know. Um so uh uh espec es especially in this part of the world where we try to avoid the sun. Uh maybe also from where you come from. I think you come from Estonia, right? >> Yeah. I mean there's not a lot of sun there. So >> yeah. >> Um but uh I think you can still avoid being deficient if Yeah. you supplement wisely or >> Yeah. >> you get like a ton of vitamin D during the summer. >> Right. Right. Exactly. Um, so, uh, just being aware of these things instead of just taking it just in case or multivitamins from whatever or, um, vitamin sources that are, um, maybe not the best, uh, because we know it's a unregulated industry. There's they they they make tons of money out of marketing more than anything else. Um, the dosages are not nearly as accurate or or strong enough for most people. if they're deficient in certain things and so on. So there's lots of complexities there. So selecting the right type of supplement is important. Um understanding if they're third party tested, yes or no, all of the stuff that we preach that you and I preach about um when it comes to this sort of thing is very important. you can be super selective and with that uh um sort of um uh discerning approach to supplements, you will actually feel much better than just taking 120 different supplements, you know. So, and that's something that I've proven to myself more than once. Um I for example uh you know um quite regularly take magnesium for example because I I I need it for my muscles, I need it for my sleep, I need it for my ligaments and so on. Um but uh only if I'm deficient um and that's really where everything changes. >> Yeah. So you mentioned earlier that uh people in your center mostly are advanced individuals who are you know doing all the basics they want to optimize more. Uh so maybe you can briefly say okay because my my audience is also mostly like above um beginner level so more advanced >> uh but there's also some people who are more beginners. So what would you say like a next step for uh people of uh those uh groups? So if someone is interested in starting to you know optimize their fitness and health from the beginning, what would you tell them and what would you tell for people who are already doing the basics kind of um and uh they just want to get to the more advanced level? >> Yeah. So if you are someone who is right at the beginning of your journey, I always say to people is that truly introspect of are you really prioritizing this or are you doing it because it's a hype and people around you are just doing it. There's a big difference to your approach if you're doing it for yourself or if you're doing it as as for peer pressure or you know because it's cool or it's a hype or whatever. Your approach will be very different. The moment you properly recognize that it is your priority, it becomes your priority. It will instinctively just like everything else in life when you prioritize your career, you're able to move ahead with that. When you prioritize your kids, you have a better relationship with them. When you prioritize your partnership, you comes better. When you prioritize your your health, you will instinctively do more better things for it. So for a complete beginner, I would say start there. Are you really op sort of prioritizing your health? Ask yourself that question. Um so and then once you you know true to yourself have the right answer with that you're able then to move forward because if you have not if you can if you if you sacrifice things that could be health beneficial for other things in life um you're likely not going to move very far in your in your journey in uh into health span. For people that are doing the basics and needing to move to the next bit, I would say data is key. Not obsession with data, but a an an approach to understanding scientifically what is happening in your body. Right? Understand that there is balance in everything. More is never more. Balance is more. When you begin to understand where is the balance in your body when it comes to supplement when it becomes when it comes to workout versus recovery when it comes to your nervous system uh triggers when it becomes to the sources of stresses that are coming around you be it from your environment be it from paint be it from the clothes that you wear be it from um additives to food processed whatever um to mold and ACs to um uh toxic relationships even you know in your own mind with your own thoughts. Um you begin to uh build the balance um and with that data you're then able to optimize. It is impossible in my experience to optimize without data. Um that's why as I said we when we've discussed quite a bit on the O2 max and things like that. So as someone who's doing the basics I would then now focus on um looking at your data in in a holistic way and see the triggers. I occasionally do, for example, CGMs to find out what is impacting my blood sugar and has anything changed, but I don't obsess with it. I do it once or twice a year. Um, I wear wearables, but I don't look at them every day. I look at them maybe every two weeks and I look back at the two weeks and say, "Okay, so how did I do? Am I trending up, trending down?" That's it. Um so um you know everyone you know be it be it the wearable companies or or um the as I said the content creators or whatever want you to obsess with them that's not that's not healthy um life does not happen in those moments it happens in between um and for someone a lot more advanced um then it becomes a lot more on nuances um and again being sincere and understanding your body and having a good relationship with it. Uh, and understanding that everything that you do in your life from where you sleep to the air that you breathe to the amount of time that you spend in nature to the the type of exercise that you do to how you um, you know, you provide your nutrients to relationship with others. All of them to your mental health and all of that contribute to you becoming uh, I hate this word but like a superior in your health journey, you know. So um uh and and believe me when I say you know I say to everyone you know my guys your guys is that there are no um magic pills uh like once and for all like you know put that poster on your wall there are no magic pills for true health journeys uh and you're a testament to this sim also uh the amount of work that you put into your health is is you know second to none almost. >> Mhm. Uh well thank you. Yeah well I do nail the fundamentals but I'm yeah definitely not obsessing about about the basic or the small small things. >> Yeah agreed. >> Um well yeah it's been great uh to talk with you and uh before I ask my last question where can people learn more about you and your work? >> Yeah so um my my the center is called Restore Restore Fitness. Uh we are in JRA in Dubai. Um, and uh the my program is called Limitless Human. It's limitless human. As the website and my socials, if you want to connect with me is Ellie. Limitless. Uh, sorry, Ellie. Um, I will send you this. So, maybe you can include it in your in your descriptions or whatever, but I'll be happy to hear from anyone. If I could help, I will help. >> Sounds good. I'll put the links in the show notes. And my last question is, what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you'd upd? Um, I wish I prioritized my um, uh, sort of relationship with myself a little bit more. I was sort of like a pendulum going from one side to the other between I am not good enough to oh, I'm superior to others. I'm not good enough and superior to others. Um, and which which became a toxic relationship as far as I was concerned with myself. um the ability I think one of the most powerful things that I've learned in the last decade uh that I shout off rooftops um is having a better relationship with love. Love with humanity, love to other people regardless of what's happening and judging less. Um love perhaps is the most powerful thing and and and obviously I don't mean love in a Hollywood sense. I mean like true human love to other other beings. Um that that has contributed to kind of almost like a a a huge um upscale in everything that I do in my life. Uh how my relationships are with my body, with my with the people that I love, with the you know those that love me. Um and that made the most important because at the end of the day um having a great health span but living miserably you know maybe is not the greatest idea. So um I focus on that quite a bit right now. >> Yeah, that's a very good uh advice. Well uh it's been great to talk with you and uh yeah, thanks for coming. >> Of course and thank you for having me and I look forward to seeing you soon. Thank you.