 amnoninterested in taking 50 or 100 supplements a day. It's expensive, it's unnecessary, and most of it doesn't move the needle. But if I had to narrow it down to just 5 supplements from the hundreds on the market, these would be the ones. In fact, these are part of my core stack, the supplements I take consistently, and the ones I believe have the highest return on investment. In this video, I'm gonna break down exactly what they are, and why they made a cut. Number 1 is Aztexanthin. Aztexanthin has become one of my favorite supplements, because number 1 it has a lot of human clinical evidence, number 2 it's not only good for metabolic health, but also has skin and aging effects, and 3 it's got a good safety profile. I've been taking Aztexanthin for almost 2 years now, and here are the reasons. To be honest, the main reason I'm taking Aztexanthin is to protect my skin against UV radiation. Aztexanthin is a powerful carotenoid that mitigates the oxidative stress in the skin caused by UV radiation. A 2021 systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials found that oral Aztexanthin, at a dose of 2-12mg a day, was able to improve skin moisture reduction by about 10-15% and elasticity by 3-10%. Secondly, Aztexanthin protects the eyes, which is another reason I take it, because I work a lot of hours in front of the computer. A 2025 randomized controlled trial on children aged 10-14 saw that 4mg a day of Aztexanthin reduced digital eye strain and improved visual fatigue. Aztexanthin also improves health biomarkers like inflammation and cholesterol. Although these effects aren't very significant, they're a nice bonus. In this 2020 meta-analysis of clinical trials, Aztexanthin at a dose of over 12mg was seen to reduce CRP levels by 19-26%, which is quite significant. Doses below 12mg and shorter than 12 weeks didn't have an effect. In the same study they also found that Aztexanthin at 12mg had the most consistent effect in raising HDL cholesterol by about 3%, which isn't a massive amount but still statistically significant. Another 2022 meta-analysis of clinical trials saw about a 3.5% decrease in LDL cholesterol from doses of 4-20mg a day. Overall, Aztexanthin is amazing and I have no intentions to stop taking it. 2. Omega-3s Over the last few years I've become more and more convinced that having a high Omega-3 index and high amounts of Omega-3 fats in your bloodstream is one of the easiest wins for your metabolic health, cardiovascular health and brain health. The amount of Omega-3s in your blood is termed the Omega-3 index. It's a long-term marker of your intake of Omega-3 fats, whether from food or supplements. There's consistent research linking a higher Omega-3 index to lower rates of heart disease, Alzheimer's and mortality. A 2021 meta-analysis of 17 studies saw that people with the highest Omega-3 index, over 7.55%, had a 15-18% lower risk of total mortality. A 2022 study also found that the risk of Alzheimer's disease, among the highest red blood cell DHA quintile, over 6.1%, was 49% lower compared to the lowest quintile, below 3.8%. The Omega-3 index associated with the lowest heart disease mortality is over 8%, whereas an index of 4% or below is linked to the highest risk. So I'm aiming to keep my Omega-3 index above 8%. I do consume seafood, fish and different ice of sea vegetables, but I don't do it every day, which is why I take an Omega-3 supplement on a daily basis, just cover my daily Omega-3 intake. Moving on with glycine, which is my favorite supplement. In the Interventions Testing Program, glycine has been seen to extend lifespan of mice by 4-6%, which doesn't sound like a lot, but it's still significant. In terms of the hallmarks of aging, glycine induces autophagy, glycine lowers inflammation, it mimics methionine restriction, and has other systemic health benefits. In the human studies, glycine helps with sleep, lowers blood sugar, protects the skin against advanced allocation in products that cause skin aging, and it protects the liver against oxidative stress and visceral fat. I'm one of the few people who has been megalosing glycine, and the reason for that is your body produces only 3 grams of glycine a day. Those 3 grams will be used for essential functions, such as glutathione synthesis, creatine synthesis, and heme synthesis. For collagen turnover, you need an additional 12 grams, and most people, in most cases, are not going to consume 12 grams of glycine from their diet. Collagen synthesis for your skin and your joints isn't a primary goal for your body, it's a secondary goal, that you can meet only if the first priorities are covered. That's why I take a larger amount of glycine 5-10g. Pairing up with glycine, I take NAC, not every day, but routinely. There have been several clinical trials showing that the combination of these supplements improves body composition, metabolic health, strength, inflammation, and mitochondrial function in elderly people. Glynec, as it's called, has been also seen to extend lifespan in mice by up to 24%. So NAC deserves to be on the list because it's very cheap and it's effective with a lot of clinical evidence. NAC and glycine both increase glutathione synthesis, which is a powerful antioxidant that protects the brain, the heart, the liver, and the skin. Glutathione levels decline with age, and NAC is one of those supplements that will help to maintain antioxidant defense during aging. Additionally, taking NAC before workouts has been seen to increase time to exhaustion and power, so it can help with exercise if taken beforehand. Don't take NAC after workouts, since it reduces the muscle growth signal. The last supplement on the list is Naacinamide. The reason is a dirt cheap NAD booster, and I think every supplement stack should have some NAD element. Taking 200 mg of Naacinamide has been seen to increase NAD by about 10% within 12 hours. However, NAD levels decrease gradually to baseline over 48 hours. Keep in mind that Naacinamide increases NAD only about half as much as Nicotinamide Rhyvicide or NMN. But I think that's actually a good thing, because me as a healthy individual don't need to raise my NAD levels that much. In fact, too much NAD could actually be harmful. There's also research that Naacinamide protects the skin against UV radiation, and it has skin anti-aging effects. Part of the reason for that is the increase in NAD, since NAD is used to counteract DNA damage caused by sunlight. Taking Naacinamide has also been seen to reduce the risk of skin cancer, so even as a generally healthy person, you can benefit from Naacinamide, which is why I'll continue to take it on and off. So a moderate dose of Naacinamide like 200 mg can be a good and safe addition. Lastly, I want to bring some honorable mentions for this list. Vitamin D is an absolutely essential hormone, and it's better to supplement Vitamin D than be deficient. However, you're not getting all the benefits of sunlight from just the supplement. If your Vitamin D levels are normal from sunlight, then you don't need to supplement Vitamin D, but if it's low, then it might be worthwhile. Whenever you supplement Vitamin D, you should also take Vitamin K2 to reduce calcification risk. Magnesium is something that's also beneficial to take when supplementing Vitamin D, because magnesium balances calcium, and magnesium in of itself is a supplement that most people could benefit from. It's hard to get it from just food. The evidence for direct additional health benefits from Vitamin D and magnesium is a little bit limited. They're more beneficial in people who are deficient. So supplementing Vitamin D, Vitamin K2 and magnesium are a safe bet for most people, but they're not inherently necessary if you get them from food or sunlight. So there you have it. All of these supplements I mentioned are amazing. But if you want to know how I rank 100 other supplements from Worst the Best, then check out this video next.