 NIRsutrancruzutrancranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranranran us. And it is, but it's also resources. And if you know how those work, it's a lot harder to be overwhelmed or ashamed about what's going on. And it creates this urgency, this agency to take control. And that is fun. It is fun to train your brain or do some intervention and feel different in a way you wanted to. Dr. Andrew, welcome back to the show. Thanks, Sam. Nice to see you again. How are you doing today? I'm doing good. Yeah, you were on the show many years ago. I think it was even something like six, seven years ago. And yeah, now you've come out or you're coming out with a new book called the gifted and tortured. So yeah, my channel is a lot about longevity and healthspan. And the brain is obviously a huge component to that. And your book specifically talks about, you know, these, I guess you can call them different types of brains out there. And your background in neurofeedback also is just, you know, on a daily basis involved in looking at people's brains and, you know, helping people to optimize their brain function. So I'm happy to discuss with you. We'll first start with some of the research that you've been doing in the book. And then later, we'll also talk about my brain scans that I happen to do. I think I did the scan first time in 2018. And the second time in 2022 or 2023, something like that. So you have you have you're the person who knows the most about my brain, I guess, in the world. So yeah, I take that responsibility seriously. I'll your secret to say from me until today, when we might tell people a little bit about what makes you tick. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, let's start with the book. You can maybe give a brief introduction to it. And what's it about? Sure. So the book's titled Gifted and Tortured. And it's really about these patterns in our brains, these resource patterns that we all carry around. And I do this, this assessment technique called brain mapping or quantitative EEG, where you measure someone's attention performance, measure someone's brain at rest, and then look at how unusual they are against the average population. And out of that, you can see how we each have sort of resources that are tuned in certain ways. And I've been doing brain mapping for about 25 years. And sort of emerging out of that is this concept of phenotypes or patterns of resources tuned a certain way or set a certain way. It's almost like phenotypes of hair color or height or things like that, but they're not quite as stable. The brain's more changeable largely, especially things that are meant to change, like attention and anxiety and sleep. So in talking to people for 25 years or so about their brains, the same areas kept coming up whenever there was a performance difficulty or an unusually high performance, the same dozen or so areas kept emerging. And so I started to teach people really more about how brains in general work and their brains specifically might work using these metaphors, these phenotypes as little characters in our brain. So out of that, of course, I've been involved with that wellness and longevity and health optimization landscape for a long time. I taught gerontology for over a decade at UCLA. So my perspective on trajectories of change and long-term wellness and optimization sort of came up at the same time. And now what I really do with this data is I teach people to think about these resources more as something that they can manage and modify. So the book is sort of capturing those dozen phenotypes, those dozen resources in our brain that often get in the way. And then it talks about how they might produce both a giftedness when they're operating well and a tortured, you know, dysregulation when they're not. And sometimes at the same time. And then it gives you sort of that, you know, strategic modifiable behavior, biohacking sort of perspective on how you can go after making change depending on how these resources are operating for you. Gotcha. Yeah. So you're essentially looking at these, you mentioned phenotypes, but yeah, people, I guess, do, they do recognize different, yeah, phenotypes or archetypes as well of behavior or personality. And, you know, the brain is, I guess, the ultimate organ for behavior that, you know, directs your behavior or controls your behavior or influences your behavior. So yeah, you could, I guess you could see that as well in the brain mapping and these neural pathways. You can see traits more than states. And also it's important to underscore the idea that brain mapping or QEEG is not a diagnostically precise process. It's not looking for the DSM label or the set of particular criteria that fit a diagnostic label. Instead, it's finding resources that cross those diagnostic boundaries. So it does give somebody the ability to both understand themselves perhaps, but also not be too attached to the particular diagnosis of ADHD or anxiety or whatever it is. Instead, think about the resource level. And now it's about optimization. Now it's about, you know, iterating through change, remeasuring, taking control. And so understanding yourself, I think brings a lot of agency and digging into these individual patterns, I think, can give people some perspective. That was my hope anyways with this book, to give people a perspective on how to take specific control over flavors of anxiety or executive function or sensory or social things. So. Yeah, I guess then we can get into some of those phenotypes. You say there are 12 of them. Yeah, there's more, but the 12 core ones are a mix of very large hubs in the brain, in the cortex, that lots of resources run through. So if you think about, you know, high level human stuff like, I don't know, motivation and love and joy, those are really, really mixes of different resources in the brain. It's not a thermostat for mood. It's not a thermostat for motivation. But there are resources whose job it is to do more basic things. Of course, we have, you know, primary tissue for hearing or seeing or mapping those sensory things in. But we also have a lot of tissue whose job is to sort of act like regulatory systems. So if you drop below the level of those higher level behaviors, you end up in some basic resources around attention, stress, and sleep as foundational, kind of like three legs of the stool. And then you end up with resources involving how we interact with the world, sensory, language, social, things like that. So I often can see these same patterns across people jumping out again and again. If you imagine a plus sign on top of the head, the front and back axis of the plus sign that runs down the middle of the head covers the cingulate cortex, which is involved with stabilization of attention under need or demand. And then left to right on the plus sign is more about the executive function and sleep regulation features. So the left one particularly is a stabilizer of our executive and a stabilizer of our sleep. Its job is to kind of put us in gear, keep us in gear, help us decide that we are on task and therefore we don't want to wander off into, you know, doing something different. And it helps us lock in even if we don't necessarily find things super compelling. That's why we can do something when things aren't stressful. It also turns off executive function, turns off alertness and vigilance and focus that is sustained so we can stay asleep at night so that every little dog that barks from two houses away doesn't wake us up. The right-hand side, I call it the supervisor, kind of sits in the passenger seat and reads the map and says, hey, we're going to adjust. Let's adjust. Let's adjust behavior based on some new information, new goal. Hey, we're not on task. And so you have the stabilized and the supervisor sitting there initiating and then inhibiting a little bit. And those resources, we all have them, the pre-central and post-central gyrus. There's a division as you go through the brain. And just in front of it, you have the frontal lobe essentially. And the pre-central gyri are the most posterior part of the frontal lobe. And they receive and send all the information out to the true sort of thought areas in some way. They also receive and send with the pre- and post-central gyrius, receive and send all the information up and down into the body. So to a very large extent, the stabilizer and the supervisor on the left and right are the mind-body connection as well. So they really scaffold this mix of self-control, executive function, acting when you wish, staying asleep, falling asleep. So very core resources. And whether or not you have ADHD or a sleep issue or something else, you may have difficulty in these resources. So the act of, you know, I've done this before, but the act of going through someone's brain is not like, oh, here's the thing. Here's what's true for you. It's more like, oh, here's some beta waves that are different or alpha waves. You know, that phenotype, that pattern often is represented by this experience, often can mean this. And we don't know what's true for people because people are unusual, but we know it's plausible. And so we often tell people things about their data that they already know subjectively. That's really when we're doing our work well in brain mapping. So we have these left and right central, pre-central gyri. Front and back are the cingulates, the anterior cingulate and the posterior cingulate. And I call the one in the front, the anterior, the CEO or the project manager whose job it is to sort of stabilize the internal stream of thought and allow particular thoughts to assemble, let things through. So you have a stream that is stable. It also holds a moment of value. There's some evidence the anterior cingulate can be involved in the experience of love, but very much the stabilization of the executive. And then the one in the back, posterior, is more about the outside world. It's orienting you. I call it the lifeguard, orienting you to the outside world. You know, watch the road, heads up, heads up. And so when these areas cramp up, when they get stuck, the one in the front can produce incredible hyper-focus or obsessiveness. So that's the gift and the torture depending. And the one in the back can produce a very dramatic awareness of the environment, very checked in, very able to handle a crisis. But when your lifeguard learns the world isn't especially safe, it cramps up and starts looking for sharks in the indoor pool. We end up with this hyperactivation of that resource. So you can look at someone's brain and say, oh, your cingulates, your anterior cingulate, posterior cingulate, kind of in high gear. You know, that often means people are stuck in their head, in the front, stuck in their gut. Do you have a little bit of obsessiveness? Are you, are you a little threat sensitive? And people, you know, generally go, oh yeah, that's me. But you can also see other quirky phenomena like the anterior cingulate when it's running lots of beta waves is a sort of stressy, obsessive, kind of stuck mind for many people. If it's running lots of theta waves, which is a disinhibition like lifting your foot off the brakes, instead people have songs stuck in their head all day long or they bite their nails or have a little, if it's a kid, have a little tick or something, a little cough tick or blink tick. So the same tissue can have different sort of cramp modes or regulation modes. And you can see, you know, one of a handful of things and say, you know, unusual cingulate, here's a regulatory phenomena that can happen. Is that happening for you? Do you care? And then of course the fun part is if you, you know, if it's in the way, you can change it generally. The cortex, these, these resources are not, they're not like vision or hearing or language where they sink in and then crystallize. We have, um, things called, uh, critical periods for like visual fusion. You know, the ability to see one image out of two eyes, uh, merging the visual fields is a thing your brain learns to do in the first six months of life and then locks down the visual tissue. Um, auditory tissue, uh, for, for, for, uh, boys and men around age, uh, nine or 10, we lose the ability to hear new speech sounds for girls. It's about a year earlier. The basis of this is so we can understand the accent from the village next door. If they have a weird sound, it's probably some variant of what we've already heard. Therefore, you know, but of course this is why we sound a different one to the next, you know, after age 10, we have accents. Uh, so, um, the, the, that's a part of the brain as well that sort of will, you know, manage and monitor the incoming information. Uh, the, the behind the left ear, we have a circuit whose job it is to know what is being said to interpret the information, to extract the meaning from language. I call it the interpreter, not that creative. Um, and it's involved with all aspects of language. So if you don't have an intact interpreting circuit called, uh, it's also called the Wernicke's area, then you can't understand language as it comes at you, but you also can't understand your own language as you try to make it. And so we produce language with the front, but we receive, we understand language back here and they're connected by a, a, a bow shaped ribbon, the arcuate fasciculus and changes in that, that tissue will create changes in language that can involve things like aphasia or lack of production or fluent aphasia, you know, speaking sort of nonsense because you can't monitor that can be less aggressive difficulty with stuttering, a little bit dyslexia. Some, maybe if it's more, uh, in the way, some nonverbal learning issues. So you can see these areas of the brain cramped up and go, you know, is this area in the way? And then many of these areas become, uh, again, under our control if we understand them. So that's the big premise. Uh, those are about half to half a dozen or so of the, uh, the phenotypes. There's a few more, but those are the big ones. I want to take a quick break to tell you about the bond charge infrared sauna blankets, my go-to way of getting 20 minutes sauna sessions on the go without needing to spend an hour to warm up a regular sauna. Taking the sauna is, in my opinion, one of the best things for your overall health and heart function. Studies show that taking a sauna regularly is associated with 63% lower risk of sudden cardiac death, 63% reduced heart disease mortality, 46% lower risk of hypertension, and 40% reduced all-cause mortality. This is mediated by an increase in body temperature and increased heart rate that mimic a cardiovascular workout while at the same time improving arterial stiffness, endothelial function, blood flow, immune system function, blood pressure, and metabolic health. It doesn't matter if it's a traditional wooden sauna, an infrared sauna, an infrared sauna blanket, or anything else that elevates your body temperature above what's normal. Bond charge infrared sauna blankets have the advantage of shining far infrared light that can penetrate deeper into your tissues than regular saunas can. It warms up in two minutes to the optimal temperature of 70 degrees Celsius, and it's low in EMF. You can get a 15% discount by heading over to bondcharge.com forward slash seamlund and use the code seam for a 15% discount. You know, there's a spectrum of different types of behavior where I guess we all exhibit all different of these phenotypes in some degrees or another, and some people are just, you know, like a more ADHD or more hypervigilant, etc. Like we all exhibit all of these traits in different amounts and which trait you're, you know, mostly predominant in or more leading towards that is what determines your phenotype. Yeah, exactly. We all have these regulatory, you know, resources. Take something like heart rate variability that the show audience will understand pretty deeply. We, you know, we don't necessarily know yet, you know, from a science perspective what the absolute number means, but we know what changes in HRV mean within one person. And so looking at a brain, we don't necessarily know what it means, but we know, again, changes within one person are very meaningful. And you can come up with some, some ideas. Oh, your HRV dropped a little bit over the past two weeks. You might be experiencing increased stress or some oncoming illness or something. You're traveling a lot. Looking at our brain, you can see, oh, hey, you're the speed of the alpha waves, which synchronizes that speaker and that, and that interpreter is running slow. You know, that often produces word finding issues, tip of the tongue, hunting for names. People start laughing or their, or their spouse does in the background. Oh yeah, that's a thing. So, you know, that's about how fast your brain can synchronize. But knowing that it's there gives you that sort of perspective on, oh, okay, here's some ideas, like from a biohacking perspective and anti-aging perspective, there's a great, um, aging support compound that I love to recommend when it's appropriate called citicholine or CDP choline. And it has a couple of really interesting, interesting properties. One of them is it speeds up the alpha speed. The speed of processing synchronizes and speeds up a little bit. And this produces improvements in verbal fluency. It helps offset things like word finding issues and tip of the tongue and delayed recall. After a couple of days for most people, it also supports remyelination. In the case of oxidative damage and long-term stress, there's, there's myelin damage around neurons, we believe, and this may be one of the factors of aging, certainly in pathological aging, but maybe in normal aging too. And we believe that more myelin is generally better. So the idea that a choline source, a cholinergic will support faster, smoother brain and make it fatter and happier in a longer term is sort of a, a lovely thing, but you might not know or have a perspective on why you have a word finding issue or you can't remember your friend's name or what that, you know, thing your friend said after dinner was last night. People are very concerned typically, often secretly that their delayed recall or tip of the tongue is an aging phenomena. Oh, I'm having trouble remembering that my grocery list, I'm in the store. And they think it's aging. They think it's, you know, a true memory phenomena. And if you look at someone's brain, you can often see that there's something like an alpha speed dragging down, causing the speed of processing. And when you see a thing like that, you know, it's not aging. It's not an age related cognitive decline. It's a speed of processing. And therefore your perspective on it shifts. It's not about, oh, I'm 55. I'm getting old. I'm having senior moments. It's more like, hey, your quality of deep sleep might be a little dysregulated. You know, a few modifiable behaviors, maybe don't eat before bed, let that blood sugar drop, more growth hormone at night, get up early, a little bit of movement before coffee to burn off that cortisol without calling for more initially. These things might help your sleep quality. And then, you know, you can start digging into that. Maybe it's more significant. Maybe there's some apnea or there's something else you have to address. But that then becomes a strategy to go after and to iterate through instead of like, oh, I'm getting old. You know, it crystallizes the perspective for people sometimes. And it helps them also motivate for behavioral change. If I show people, you know, their brain, sometimes it's a little bit like looking at your lipid panel and going, ooh, I better back off on the ice cream. You know, you see those features and they make sense. And you go, oh yeah, okay, maybe I should stop eating before bed because my sleep is really crappy. And oh, that's causing my word fight. And that's my short term. Oh, and there's this little loop that gets created and people's behavior starts to change, experience changes. And then you can see those changes in the phenotype mapping, the quantitative EEG, meditation, sleep hacking, nootropics, medication, supplements, especially methylation style things will have a very strong impact almost immediately for some of the more acute interventions like meds and supplements. But pretty quickly over a few months for things like meditation, sleep hacking, and in a couple of months for things like neurofeedback or brain training. So the whole premise of this book, Gifted and Tortured is, you know, we're all a little bit gifted and tortured, especially if you've been told you're too much or you've been struggling with, you know, a mix of all the ideas and none of the motivation or, you know, mixes of anxiety and ADHD that seem to both be your awesome quirkiness, but often in the way, you know, if you're always paying the ADHD tax, that creativity is not that great necessarily. So the idea is these phenotypes give us a perspective on how we're built. And then knowing that gives us ideas, strategies, agency about how to move through and make change. Yeah, it's like not looking at it as that something's wrong with your brain. It's more so that understanding what type of a brain you have. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you've done, I guess, like thousands of scans, brain scans in your career. What's like the most common phenotype that you see? The most common phenotypes are probably on the left and right side. There's really two of them, I would say, the most common. The left mid-central gyrus and the front midline. And left pre-central, mid-central is the stabilizer of executive, keeps you awake when you're awake and asleep when you're asleep. And then the front midline into your cingulate is pretty strong for holding our focus, the CEO. These can be really dysregulated in a lot of different complaints, a lot of different, you know, problematic things, but also a little bit off in typical life. So that left side, you know, if you're not sleeping very well at night, it looks weaker. And if you have a lot of inattentive ADHD, it looks weaker. And you can't necessarily tell those things apart super clearly on a quantitative EEG. You can say, oh, your left side beta is a bit lower. You know, that often produces difficulty staying focused when things aren't intense and difficulty staying asleep. People go, yeah. And, you know, that's among the most common, but it doesn't sort of, it doesn't bring you to a place of diagnosis. The goal is sort of unpacking things. So you have that, that perspective. So that one tends to be very useful, you know, to know about, you can change it with neurofeedback. On a bell curve, we move the brain by about a standard deviation every couple of months, which is pretty quick for human experience and making change slower than meds, but faster than almost anything else. And the, uh, the phenomena can show up with a lot of sleep regulation issues, but they're very common. Some inattentiveness, very common. Chronic stress can throw off that left side and make you not sleep as well. And so once you know it's there, something like neurofeedback might work. You might decide to go after psychostimulants. You might try a more stimulating nootropic or supplement, um, meditation of a concentration practice, not a, not a, uh, an awareness practice, not present time awareness or meta or something watching stuff flow by and observing the tone, but concentration, anchoring your attention down narrowly to a point or a theme or an idea or a concept or a point, you know, in space that will bring the left side pre-central up very, very strongly. And for those of you who meditate, you know, this, but the active meditation is not being calm and peaceful on a cushion. It's deciding how to focus the noticing that you're not doing that and going back to it again and again and again. And that left side will really participate strongly in that activity. And if you practice bringing it up again and again, stabilizing that executive, you'll change it over time. It's a regulatory tissue. So if you see your brain like this, it may give you the sort of permission or encouragement to then start your 20 minute meditation practice or something. The other big one is the anterior cingulate and get a lot of obsessiveness, a lot of high performers, both, you know, good and bad. Uh, you know, the anterior cingulate can make you a CEO, but it can also give you some OCD and that can be the same person depending. So that one you might decide to go after with things like, um, the supplement NAC can work really well for some people or do a more comprehensive methylation analysis on your genes and see which, you know, MTHFR, COMT, et cetera, you might have and dial it in that way with different B vitamins. Um, sometimes traditional medications like SSRIs can be really effective for that anterior cingulate, uh, or just knowing how it exists can give you that control. So those are the, the executive and the, um, the anchoring on with a bit of a stress in the front is what I tend to see showing up the most often, I would say. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I would imagine most people either, you know, want to, um, you know, they're too, too, uh, I guess stressed out, too hypervigilant or they're kind of, uh, all over the place that not able to focus that they want to balance the spectrum of being able to concentrate on things, uh, or help to, uh, relax. That's at least, that's my impression that there's a kind of, uh, that's one of the major, I guess, axis where, um, people fall into in terms of either being very vigilant and focused too much oftentimes, uh, or, uh, too, too, all over the place and not enough focused. Yeah. And that would be the left and right probably. Yeah. Yeah. And is there something you mentioned a few of these things like supplements and the meditation and et cetera, um, people always ask, yeah, like, is there some supplement I can take to either focus or help with my stress? What do you think? Uh, do you have any answer to that? Yeah. I mean, supplements can, can be certainly impactful. Um, and there's some nootropics that have pretty amazing results on executive function. I think once you're dabbling out in things that are less well understood that you have to be careful, I'm, I'm of the opinion when doing any sort of biohacking that if you don't have deficits, you should be extremely cautious and sort of hue to the true definition of nootropics, which are things that are cognitively supportive without side effect. Um, and that isn't always, you know, easy to find out. I mean, there are some things we, we use as a brain performance thing, you know, caffeine, for instance, coffee, we know generally it's exceptionally healthy, healthy, but not everyone tolerates coffee or caffeine all that well. So any advice, any, any perspective I have here should be individualized and take it through a lens of this might not be right for you. Please ask your doctor or, you know, do your own research. But, um, there are lots of things you can, you can do to bring up that whole tissue, that left to right stabilizer and supervisor to stabilize your executive function, and then to get control over distraction inhibiting, pumping the brakes. You don't go squirrel and, you know, fidget or have a have your mind pulled off of task. Um, those are really those two pre and post central gyri left and right and stimulants, psychostimulants will bring them up pretty aggressively. And within, you know, one dose, one day, you can see the change, uh, often a couple of standard deviations instantly. Um, performance testing. This is interesting. Uh, we always combine, uh, brain mapping or EEG with performance testing, which is a really boring clicking on a mouse when the right stimulus pops up kind of go, no go thing. And you can tease apart different aspects. And sometimes you'll see that stimulant medications will support one aspect, like the speed of the attention without supporting things like the accuracy or people won't get any change over impulsivity. So for the most part, somebody who takes stimulants gets more focused and less impulsive as you bring up the resources there. But some people just get more awake and more impulsive or more awake and anxious. And so you can see these features jumping out in the brain maps. You can see their tendency, let's say for the cingulate to be hot would tell you, you might not want to take Adderall because it'll wake up this left side, but we'll also wake up that front middle and you'll start developing a tick or chewing on your nails or being a little bit, you know, anxious. So you can go after making these, uh, sort of medication changes. Um, but if the sing, if, if the left and right executive function areas are the goal, I would start with sleep hacking. I would follow up with meditation practice only then would I bring up other interventions or suggest other interventions. And, you know, you can do a lot with medications or supplements. I would rather suggest somebody just change their brain though, because you can take medication for a few months while you're not taking it. It's might, you know, it's not helping you. And when you are taking it, it's not helping you perfectly. You know, it's a mixed bag where you do get some side effects and some, you know, brittleness and some sleep disruption from stimulants sometimes. So I'd rather teach somebody to, you know, over a few months, make the changes. And sometimes that's things like meditation. Often it's just getting in there and measuring your brain and, uh, with, with neurofeedback with EEG and then applauding the brain when it shifts itself a little bit as an exercise, uh, doing this several times a week, you can change your brain over, uh, a couple of months. You can start feeling changes in a few days and have them build up very much like a personal training process for your EEG or your brain's blood flow. So, um, I prefer those techniques, you know, the more sort of personal training, physical fitness for the brain, because you create resource changes that then build on themselves. Um, I would say that, you know, our, I, I know you will have to guess that your perspective is similar. You'd rather teach somebody how to build a good foundation than find the absolute most mysterious nootropic that they could find out of a research lab to try just in case it works to give them, you know, 5% more myostatin or something, you know, like you'd want, you want to teach them how the systems work to make the foundational change. And that's how I think about this, this data perspective is, if you know how your phenotypes work, you can start digging down into, well, how do these resources manipulate and how do they, how do they modify themselves and each other? What do they respond to? And that can give you a much more nuanced sense of what to do than just like, oh, let me try a medication and let me try a nootropic. Even though, again, I'm, I'm not adverse to those techniques. Um, and those strategies, I helped found a nootropic company a few years ago, uh, called TrueBrain. Um, I do neurofeedback primarily with PeakBrain, but I'd still rather somebody start off with the perspective of here's how I'm built. Here's how I'm feeling. Here's how I want to feel. Here's how I want to perform. Um, and that can actually paint out a lot of perspective on, on, on, on interventions without having necessarily to find your next guru or the secret nootropic that the random, you know, website has in their corner, uh, shelf. So I, I, again, come back to the idea of know thyself and the things tend to fall from that. Yeah, absolutely. I agree. Um, but, um, how often is it that people, I guess, you know, everyone thinks they have either ADHD or they have some other condition. So, um, you know, how accurate is someone's self perceived opinion about their phenotype or, you know, some in which direction they are versus actually getting it measured? Most people are really good at knowing themselves and know themselves better than they believe. Um, when you're going through the phenotype mapping and saying, here's one, and it often means this most of the time, 90% or better people like, oh yeah, that's, that's, that's me. That sounds like me. That's the thing I know about, or my spouse is laughing because they know about it. Um, what I, what's, what's kind of funny is people often know themselves better than the doctors sending them in with diagnoses. Like very common to bring up an executive function issue on an attention test and a brain map and say, you know, a little bit of attention, executive function. Oh yeah. Never formally diagnosed, but I'm super ADHD and they know it. But on the same token, you have people coming in sent by their doctors. You do a brain map and you're like, well, you're not staying focused by all of the feet ways in which you're not staying focused are happening when the intensity comes off. And we're seeing that left-sided pre-central gyrus, not being that, that, that stabilized, not be stable. And you know, it usually comes along with a sleep maintenance issue. Oh, you have a big sleep maintenance issue. Oh, and your alpha is slowing down. Yeah. Your executive function, your inattentiveness is due to a lack of deep sleep at night. I'm guessing it's very, very common to have an, uh, especially an adult come in with an ADHD diagnosis. You look at their brain and there's no excess theta or alpha, which is what you tend to get in ADHD. About 90% of the time you can see these ADHD phenotypes, if you will. You don't see those. Instead, you see stress and fatigue fighting. You know, the, the CEO is driving around metaphorically with the handbrake firmly engaged foot on the floor. And from 20 feet away, that can look like impulsivity. Um, but it's really just this like stress and fatigue. They're brittle, you know, kind of keeping things grinding ahead. But then when the pressure comes off, things lull and the person kind of rounds out with performance that can look like inattentiveness, but it's also lack of stability of attention because of the lack of deep sleep at night. You know, if the bucket isn't being full at night, then there's a micro sleep phenomenon that starts to emerge during the day where you end up, um, having little micro lapses of attention as you go into something that's near sleep in the background of your brain. So yes, people know themselves, but the diagnostic landscape is often a near miss when it comes to them looking at their brain against, you know, the diagnoses they have. You see the things, but you often see that they're coming from a different direction than the doctor suggested, even though the person tends to know. I mean, this is true in all flavors in some ways of like, you know, brain assessment, even something as simple, simple as like a sleep tracker. Um, there's good research showing that in spite of all the billions we've spent on developing sleep trackers, we have our watches and our rings and our, you know, smart beds and things, a human making a note on a piece of paper about the quality and how they feel in the morning for two weeks approaches the accuracy of a sleep tracker. We know, we know how we're feeling. If we make a note of it and write it down and start measuring it, it starts getting managed, you know, a la Drucker. So we end up with this loop that's closed and, and, you know, in the neurofeedback practice, then landscape of making brain change, it's very much a personal training. You have goals, you have a brain and you iterate towards effects, noticing what you're feeling. And that act of writing down how you're feeling, making notes about your sleep, make notes about how crappy your day was or how awesome your day was. That reflection itself is part of this process. I think that is valuable of like, Hmm, here's how I'm built. Here's how I'm performing. Oh, okay. And it gives you some perspective on how to close the gaps. So, yeah, I would imagine, you know, peak performance, whatever it means, differs for different phenotypes. So do you think that there is some, I guess, universal brain state and state of being and performance that every phenotype can like aspire towards? Or is it that, you know, if you have a certain phenotype, then, yeah, I mean, you could maybe make yourself a little bit more, let's say, a bit more creative versus very more CEO type. Or you think that the, yeah, every, every phenotype has, I guess, like a peak performance for their own phenotype? It's a great question. Kind of both. What I would say is that a lot of what peak performance, a lot of how I think about peak performance is in terms of how things are in the way of it, you know, different things get in the way for different people differently. You know, so it's for somebody, the lack of ability to go into flow state is because they're too tired and they have to remain stressed to stay engaged. For somebody else, the stress is the trauma response and they can't drop their linear mind enough to go into that nonlinear receptive attention space to get into flow. For somebody else, you know, they've been dealing with stress and anxiety for years, so they're drinking too much. And the alcohol is preventing the flow from happening when it drops out of their system, you know, the sort of glutamatergic dominant state. So I think that we all have different bottlenecks, just the same we have different, different gifts. As we drop those away, though, as we get out of our own way with our anxiety, rumination, perseveration, inattentiveness, lack of sleep. I think what peak performance and flow states look like for individuals is actually relatively similar. Now, your experience of it won't be the same. You know, somebody who's making art and diving into their sculpture for seven hours straight in flow state is going to be probably feeling a little bit different than somebody who's sitting trading on the stock market, just crushing it on a beautifully green day and really making all the right choices and knowing why. That's a different experience intellectually, cognitively. One person's got a butt that's asleep on the chair, the other person's, you know, got a stiff neck. But the flow state, I would say, the control over their brain was similar. They could decide to put their brain in a certain mode and hold it there. And so that stability of resource management is a thing that we often don't talk about in peak performance or flow state or even aging is that there's the resources and then there's the stability of the management of the resources, the control, the choice. Like, it's great if you can hyper focus, but, you know, not if you can't turn it on when you want and not when you, if you can't turn it off when you want. I mean, if you can only hyper focus on video games, I mean, that could be cool if you're a video game tester, but not ideal perhaps in, you know, other aspects of life. And if you can't put down your hyper focus, you know, if you're always solving problems and you're always holding the problem in your mind because you're the world's best CEO or something, that's great. But, you know, your partner might not need that at home or your kids might not need that. It might need to be a good listener. You might not need to be in linear mode all the time. And I would argue that depending on the phenotype clusters you start off with, the ways in which you might need to sort of work out the system to get control over it might be different. If you're cramped up with anxiety versus executive function, then your core complaints, your goals will be different. But where we get to, again, while we're all individuals and have different experience, I would say that it's more about getting the bottlenecks out of the way. And I do think that most humans, maybe all humans, have the capacity for deep flow and extremely high performance. I don't really believe in the idea of an elite performer as a sort of, you know, something that is created genetically or created out of, you know, billions of years of human just, you know, iteration. And we happen to get a golden one. I think that we end up with infinite variability and infinite possibilities, infinite combinations. And then within one person, we get to sort of shape that into the best version of that. And so while your high performer flow state might look different than mine or someone else's, you and I might have dropped away similar bottlenecks to get there, depending on if we started off with, you know, phenotypes that overlapped. So, so both long-winded answer. Yeah. You know, I think many people know if they, if they first know what type of a phenotype they are, but then they're more, more likely to also recognize what do they need. So let's say people who are very eager to exercise, they're more likely to overtrain and get injured or get overstressed from too much exercise. And people who are, you know, let's say more likely to be lazy and skip workouts, then for them, it's probably more important to actually try to push themselves a bit more and not immediately give into whatever your body's telling. Let's say you feel a bit tired. It doesn't mean that you are overtrained if you're more likely to be the person who under trains. But if you are the person who is more likely to overtrain, then yeah, if you feel sore and kind of fatigue, then, you know, probably you are overreaching at least to a certain extent with your workout. Yeah. And having a self perspective will give you a sense of, is this too much or not? I mean, if you always sit on the couch and you know it and you know, you're kind of, you know, out of shape, that soreness you're experiencing and that tiredness, that, that lack of desire to jump up and go to the gym makes sense and you should push through it. But if you're somebody who's an elite athlete and you're sitting down noticing new pains and stuff, maybe it's, it's, it's time to rest. And so the same thing can be true of your brain. Once you know how it works, you end up having sort of, sort of accommodations, you can go, aha, let me, um, let me take care of some resources or, oh, let me push through that. You know, let me accommodate by changing the environment. Um, yeah. Because, you know, of course we're all about not just changing ourselves, but the environment to match. That's one of the things humans get to do. So. Yeah. I think maybe it would be nice. We put it into a little bit of visual practice so, uh, we can take a look at my brain scans that I did a few years ago and, uh, yeah, maybe you can share what do you see and what kind of phenotype maybe my brain is. There you go. So you can, yeah, it's more of a slices through the head. So you can see your, um, this is called the Loretta, a Loretta analysis. We did, we took your brain and we took a flat EEG off your scalp and we solved for where in the brain things were coming from. So this slide and the previous slide are both showing that you're making lots of beta in the frontal areas. We saw a couple of things in your flat maps and a couple of things in your three-dimensional maps here. And then three-dimensional ones, we saw a lot of, um, actually in both, we saw a lot of front midline, uh, activities. So you have one of those CEOs, one of the anterior cingulates. It's a little bit in higher gear. And yeah, you see the middle, the middle, uh, panel here of this three set is showing side and that little orange lit up areas where your, your beta waves are stronger than the average person. So the perspective on that phenotype would be your brain tends to hold things very, very strongly, tends to have this steel trap capacity where you can like latch on to information and grab it. But you might get stuck there at times as well. So you have that, you seem to have that CEO phenotype, uh, as one of the dominant phenotypes where you can, you know, sit in hyper-focus, but you also might get stuck in your head. Um, so here we're doing a source analysis. If you want to go back to the, um, we can do some amplitudes. Let's go back to, uh, go back up a level. Yeah, exactly. Let's go up one more level to get out of the Loretta. And why don't you open up your PDF from the most recent one, if you could? 831. This one. Yeah. And then, um, this is the first page. You can see we're looking at the amplitudes now, flat maps. And the second page is a higher level. Let's actually stay here for a second. So you see in the top row, we have in the left-hand side, some Delta waves that are orange there on the right-hand side of the head and also a little bit the left-hand side. And the second row, the beta waves are blue in the same place. Now, that's some tiredness for you. Um, that was getting in the way of attention a little bit. And we managed to capture this. Uh, now I don't, I think you may have been traveling a great deal at that point. And I think you might've been tired. I forget exactly. This was in London. I think we mentioned. Yeah, that's right. That's right. And usually we don't get a lot of change based on just like a little bit of sleepiness or travel, but sometimes it can do that. So I'm not sure to what extent this is you at rest or you with some acute tiredness, but the, the left and right areas are making lots of Delta and some theta. And they're also making low amounts of beta. So that can mean a little bit of inattentiveness on the left and trouble with the depth of sleep and some distractibility on the right. And we actually can see this in your attention test as well. If you want to look at your attention performance, yeah, all that, all that red cluster there is, uh, your Delta waves are hypercoherent. So your Delta had swelled up a little bit that day and we were catching a lot of fatigue in your brain. So yeah, from this map, uh, from these maps, we were seeing those cingulates, but basically the plus sign we started off today talking about coming for a circle, um, the anterior cingulate, posterior cingulate, left and right precentral gyrus. Um, those are the primary areas for you that are a little unusual and they are for many people, but these are the ones that I would, you know, if I was coaching you about how to regulate them or how to take control of them, uh, you know, stabilization of resource in the left would be about meditation, sleep hacking, depth of sleep, sustaining sleep, as well as bringing up the attention, uh, resource in the left through some sort of, you know, anchored attention. Here we have the speed. Why don't you zoom in here on the alpha speed in the top block? Why don't you scroll down there to the next page? Yeah. The Z score peak frequency. This is how fast your brain is, uh, compared to the average person. And the top block is, is your left hemisphere. The alpha column is showing that your alpha waves are running a little bit slower than average, um, in some places, but also, uh, not staying synchronous. This is another sign of tiredness. This is that alpha wave spreading out that I mentioned earlier, where you can see that within the hemisphere, the idling is not all staying tightly locked and that'll produce a little difficulty lifting the brain out of neutral into thinking. And so the common experience of that is a little bit of a tip of the tongue or word finding or stuff like that. So I forget what we talked about a few years ago when we first, um, went over this, but the big takeaway from this data set is you're running a little bit of fatigue, kind of chronically and it's sapping your, your, uh, sapping your, um, clarity and so much so that we actually blew up, um, probably a false brain fog marker. This is, it says TBI here, but it really means brain fog, not injury. We're picking up some Delta wave clusters. Uh, so it was acute enough to, I think, to throw the data off a little bit. And there's your cingulate. See that alpha blob right there, the orange blob in the front middle, that's your interior cingulate. That's your, your CEO. He's in my, he's micromanaging in high gear. Think of this, think of this, think of this, think of this. So you apparently have, uh, just on this one slide, we're seeing a little bit of difficulty focusing and the ability to hyper focus on the same person. So the blue blobs left and right is more executive function and the orange blob in the front middle is more your ability to lock in. Like it's your job. So, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a interesting. You see that alpha there that's striped left to right in the middle column on the right hand side. Yeah. So that actually that, that alpha on the left is that stabilizer and a little blob of orange there on the left hand side of the head. If you want to go to the attention test, you can see how this operates in your performance as well. That's the IVA test we have. If you go up a level or two, we have one of those. You can see that you're a, it's on a different document, different PDF. Um, IVA and then, yeah, there you go. So the middle bar on the left hand side is called focus. The red bar is speed. The purple bar is focused. The blue bar is called vigilance. Now your speed is just ridiculous. You're nearly off the chart, you know, nearly four standard deviations in your auditory speed. Uh, it's just a little bit nuts and your visual too. Your, your speeds are off the chart and your vigilance, your alertness for things, changing gear, the light blue bar. Very good. Um, above average, typical, but then you see how the purple bar is lower than the other two. And that's called focus. That's when things got boring, especially the auditory system. That was when the computer was going one, one, one, and you had to keep responding and keep bringing yourself online. This purple bar is showing us that when things get boring like that, you disengage a little bit. And that's what the alpha waves were. That's that stabilization of the executive, not being quite as crisp. And we see it here and on your brain. However, we can also tell, this is why you should never just do a brain map. You should always do performance testing alongside it. You can also tell that your speed and your vigilance are powerful. And that means you're sort of like being quick and alert to catch the stuff you're about to miss. And so your scores overall are above average. Oh, I skipped, uh, explaining this, but the average score on this sort of thing is a hundred on a bell curve, age match sample plus or minus 15 points is typical. So 85 to one 15 is sort of the normal range or typical range. And your global scores for attention are a couple of standard deviations above average. You're way more on, I mean, dramatically more on than the average person. And yet when the intensity comes off, there's this lulling, there's this drifting, there's this disengagement that was creeping in. You can also see a little bit of that on the right-hand side, your stamina, the dark blue bar is a little bit lower, especially in the auditory system than you might want it to be. So later in the test, you were starting to tighten up a little bit for the auditory trials and slow down or get a little bit less accurate. So we count for you and performance, a little bit of drifting focus that's stabilized from the left-hand side. Isn't quite as robust, but the alpha taking over and a little hint of distractibility in this test. And then those both show up in the brain maps or the, the phenotype mapping. We also seen the phenotype mapping and within it's not showing up here, which is the more hyper-focus and the tendency to get a little bit stuck in that at times. So that's for folks that didn't know the secrets of seam. Here we go. We're getting a peek into how you built. Yeah. So basically I'm like super fast and super vigilant, but I also get bored or distracted. Yeah. Right. Yeah. And I think there was some fatigue phenomena you've been managing for a while before this. This is not just this day. It's more a slight trait. So you probably are somebody with this brain who tends to push really hard and then, you know, when there's not as much structure, not as much thing to do, tend to not have as clear performance, I would guess. Yeah. Yeah. I do think that's pretty accurate or I guess I need to focus more on recovery or sleep and stuff like that. Yeah, exactly. So this is three, four years ago now, but if this was, this is still probably relatively stable. Brains don't change very quickly at all. You're of course welcome to get a fresh map. You can go see us in London or Sweden or the US of course. And we do have some other places where you can get maps done so we can talk after. But this little attention test is easy to do online. You can do this pretty quickly. I bet it's very similar, but I've been watching you, you know, work on yourself over the past few years, ever evolving. You've gotten, you know, more fit. You appear to be healthier. You appear to be getting younger, which is weird over the past five years. So my guess is we're actually, we'd see a little bit less fatigue now in your executive function testing. But the alpha waves showing up, the slight spaciness, the slight hyper-focus tendencies, those are probably just you. We'll have to ask Inka, you know, she might be a better, better perspective if you're a little obsessive or not. Yeah. But, but yeah, these are features that we would, you know, help people understand how they, how they run and then you can change them if you wish. Yeah. Yeah. I do think that it's probably accurate. At least that's why I feel myself that, you know, I, I do tend to like under sleep sometimes, but yeah, nowadays I sleep a bit longer than two years ago. So maybe the focus is better. Um, we can look. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, what about you? What do you know your own phenotype? If I mind us. Mines are not dissimilar. Mine are somewhat similar to yours. I have that same front midline fast alpha that tends to be a little bit obsessive, but also oddly enough with a lot of procrastination features. Um, procrastination for folks that don't, uh, understand it deeply is not really the avoidance phenomena. It's the, it's the lack of ability to reconcile the approach versus the avoid drive. Those are more phenotypes. We have the, on the left-hand side of the brain, there's a happy little kid who goes, hi world. Yay. And wants to get into things on the right front corner. There's more avoidance, right? Go away. This all sucks. And the bias, the laterality, uh, can be tuned. Um, so you have this, uh, um, uh, you have a fast alpha variant front midline as do I, and that tends to make it hard to reconcile the approach versus the avoid as it comes in. And I, I know you're successful, productive driven. So you must've found a way to work with that versus have it get in the way. Um, I also changed my brain a fair amount. So the phenotypes I had when I was in my twenties and thirties, you know, I did a bunch of neurofeedback and a bunch of meditation and I shifted fairly, uh, aggressively a few of the big phenotypes. I used to have, um, tons and tons of theta brainwaves on both sides, which is essentially classic, uh, ADHD. I was in my twenties. I was about the, the most, uh, textbook classical case of ADHD you could, you know, ever point at. And then I started working at a neurofeedback center, um, that did mostly autism and other, uh, neurodevelopmental work. And I'd had about a decade of, of, uh, experience working in, uh, that environment, working with, uh, uh, autism and ADHD and crisis psych and a bunch of stuff. So I got a job in this environment where we did neurofeedback or brain training. And I started to see people change and was like, wait, what people with anxiety and seizures and all kinds of things were shifting very quickly relatively. And so I started to hang out after hours and, you know, stick wires to my head and exercise my brain. And over a couple of months managed to change, uh, most of the executive function things, um, pretty thoroughly. And that same anterior cingulate, uh, I don't have it now, but I used to have a blob of theta brainwaves there. And this is, you know, more than 25 years ago. Now we're talking and I don't recommend doing this, but I would hang out and like, oh, here's a cool thing on my brain map. Let me train that and see how that feels. I don't recommend doing that. But, um, I trained down some theta on the front midline and the next day I was really tired for a day or two and didn't think anything of it. Thought, okay, maybe not a good protocol to do. That's, you know, often true. You don't want to get after effects and neurofeedback without adjusting. So I didn't repeat the protocol, but I felt really tired, especially my, my, my body, my legs for a day or two. And it was, um, a little odd and then it wore off. I didn't think anything of it. And about a month later I realized I had to go buy nail clippers cause I had stopped biting my nails a month earlier and had not even noticed. And like from, like from age, like two years old, you know, this area will create a lot of nail biting, a lot of songs in your head, a lot of like grabbing things with your mind as well as with your body. And I turned it off so thoroughly that the behavior was abolished to an extent that I didn't even know I wasn't doing it as opposed to like constantly trying not to do it for the previous 20 years, whatever. So, um, all this to say you can change the phenotypes. If you see something in your brain or even without doing brain mapping, if you know, you have these resources, uh, that are a little bit pinched up of obsessiveness or rumination or inattentiveness or sleep maintenance, sensory sensitivity, social sensitivity, delayed speed of processing. These are regulatory resources. We're meant to change these things. Unlike visual fusion or language, we're meant to keep tuning our sleep regulation or social regulation or executive regulation because the world is dynamic in those ways. And we might need to, you know, modify behavior. Humans can learn to, you know, work all night and sleep all day if they need. We have this, not necessarily ideally, but we have that flexibility of moving resources around to meet the environment. And these phenotypes, many of the ones we see, uh, respond really well to shaping over time. So I changed a bunch of mine. So I still have some of the same ones that you represent, but I have a few that I've gotten rid of. So, yeah. So is it possible for someone to, let's say they're suffering from a poor focus, et cetera, can they then, you know, retrain their brain to be more focused? So I guess like manually trying to force themselves back to the task at hand, uh, if they get distracted. So like just repeatedly, like the same way you build a muscle, you just, uh, repeatedly, you know, whenever you get distracted or unfocused, you just, you know, have to bring it back. And then over time you get, uh, better at maintaining the focus. It certainly does happen. If you can, if you can move through that behavioral practice, it will work. But the problem is, is that executive function tends to be at the moment of initiating or stabilizing, not the moment of follow through. So it's hard to, you know, it's hard to do that when you know you should and can't. Um, this is why I like meditation and concentration practices because they bring up that left side so thoroughly that you can end up finding a way to move through stable and sustained attention. Um, there's different techniques, you know, neurofeedback can make a rapid change medication, again, a rapid change, uh, uh, uh, meditation, a slow change. Um, there's also behavioral things you can do. I mean, I think if the left side is not as sustaining of your focus as you want, um, you know, you could do things like intense task blocking, you know, Pomodoro technique where you're on task specifically for 20 minutes sprinting through with intense focus and then requiring yourself to take a break. Or I often see, um, people with a little bit of inattentiveness that has fatigue phenomena. And I recommend that they grab, if they can, like a walking treadmill to do their work on. And suddenly the kid who didn't want to read because they were falling asleep when they were reading a book or it was too boring because they have a little bit of an auditory processing issue. They're playing loud music in the background and they're reading a book because the brain's woken up enough to drive the system up. So you can make changes both in the moment and over time. Um, it just depends on how these, these tissues are working for one individual. So I encourage everyone to learn about your brain. And then if you're really struggling, things like neurofeedback and change your brain in just a few months. And usually in a stable way, cause your brain sort of practicing all these things, uh, all the times, if you get far enough, it takes over. Um, but also learning how the brain works, your brain works will help with the smaller things, the modifiable behaviors. Oh, maybe I shouldn't eat right before bed. Oh, maybe I should, uh, think about not smoking cigarettes or whatever. Like, like the, the, the behavioral choices become a little more crystallized. So I would argue that the perspective is actually most useful in some ways in the smallest aspects, you know, why am I experiencing, how am I experiencing what's going on? How does that affect my choices? It's not all in my head. It's also, you know, in my head, it's, it's this real physiology where we have a perspective of, and you can also see when you find true, you know, difficulties and deficits, suffering people are experiencing, which you'll, you'll see often in people's brain maps and performance. It's not a experience of like, here's what's wrong with you. It's more like, oh, Hey, here's some things. The person always knows about it already. And it's usually like, oh, there's my tinnitus. Oh, there's my ADHD. There's my trauma response. Oh, okay. Or you can see someone has an auditory processing issue. You know, if the two auditory tissues aren't synchronizing, synchronizing well, that'll produce a lag in turning on the auditory, which you can measure behaviorally. It'll also produce a lag with attention. Someone starts talking and you say, oh, sorry, what? Because you weren't already listening. That's a auditory attention phenomena. You see that in someone's brain and you can have their spouse or their parent now just call their name, wait three seconds and keep talking. And suddenly the auditory problem has worked around. So it's not just about making change. It's about knowing how you're built. So you can sort of get what you need out of the environment, out of your relationships, out of your support from people around you. So, um, so yes, you can change it, but I would argue that just the knowledge can be, can be as useful sometimes, you know, it, it, it changes how we relate to each other. If you know, your kid has an auditory processing issue, you're not going to be quite as annoyed when they don't respond. When you call their name the third time, you know, you're going to find ways to wave at them, get their line of sight, that kind of thing. So. Yes. You understand what is the issue that it's not something deliberate. Right. Um, I guess we can start wrapping up. Um, what is like some major idea you want people to take away from the book or this conversation? What is like a big overarching idea? Yeah. Yeah. The overarching idea is that I think that we are comprised of, you know, many regulatory resources. And if you understand how they interact and how they work, then you can steer them. You can take control of your life, improve your sleep, improve your executive function, reduce your anxiety, improve your social function. And these are things that are hard to manage unless you understand them. You know, it's not as useful often. I believe if someone just hands you down a diagnosis, uh, sometimes it can feel like something's happening to us or anxiety or ADHD or sleep issue is happening to us. And it is, but it's also resources. And if you know how those work, it's a lot harder to be overwhelmed or ashamed about what's going on. And it creates this urgency, this agency to take control. And that is fun. It is fun to train your brain or do some intervention and feel different in a way you wanted to. It's very reinforcing, you know, no pun intended. Yeah, absolutely. Uh, well, uh, yeah, I think great before I ask the last question, what's this, uh, sorry, where can people learn more about you and your work on the book? Yeah. People can go to giftedandtortured.com to check out the book. And if they want to see me come to YouTube, um, just Dr. Hill, uh, youtube.com slash D-R-H-I-L-L. And I do a weekly live stream every Monday. Um, and then sort of roll out some more videos. I've got a couple of years worth of individual biohacking topics, doing deep dives. And if you want to come chat live, um, there Monday, uh, in, in, uh, Monday evening, U.S. time. All right. Sounds good. Put the links in the show notes. And, uh, my last question is what's this one piece of advice or a habit that you wish you had adopted sooner? Yeah. I wish someone had taught me, uh, how to meditate in the seventies, not in the nineties or the, or even later. Um, the ability to voluntarily stabilize your attention and learn how to do that. I mean, I developed pretty good regulation when I was in my twenties and thirties by, by being in crisis environments all the time. That was my sort of strategy as somebody with severe ADHD was just to be in the most intense crises. And then I was very calm all the time and I would always, you know, jump into action very smoothly. Um, but I didn't necessarily learn how to regulate my executive function. Neurofeedback helped, but meditation and other contemplative practices helped a great deal. And I would say both were what let me go back and get a, you know, PhD in neuroscience, studying this stuff would not have been possible, uh, without some of these tools. So I wish someone had given me that brain perspective. You know, we, we knew some of this stuff in the seventies and eighties. I wish someone had sat me down and said, okay, here's how your brain works because it would have created a lot less suffering of the, uh, the, the teenage me at least. So, yeah, that's a good, uh, information or I agree the meditation and I guess controlling your mind is one of the best skills to have. Yeah. Well, uh, thanks for coming to the show and, uh, it was a really interesting conversation. Thank you. Thanks Sim there. Thanks for having me and, uh, everyone. Thanks for listening and take care of those brains.