felt so good afterwards. I got like so addicted to this thought of what else do I not know that I don't know and I really want to feel this good all the time. I never want to go back to feel. I can't even It's like to explain how I felt was just like bone tired on a level that I've never experienced that kind of exhaustion before. Say I prioritize social connection over like a rigid schedule. Julie, welcome to the show. Thank you. Well, thanks for having me, Seamland. Yeah, I'm happy to have you on the show and uh you your video like I made a video about you last year which uh went actually quite popular and people were like really interested in um your results with the rejuvenation Olympics and just just your general health routines. So, I'm yeah happy to, you know, actually have you on the show and go into all the details of those routines and yeah, discuss other things like that. Yeah. Yeah. It's all I mean pretty basic simple stuff, you know, nothing nothing fancy going on here. So, yeah. Yeah. How did how did you like yourself react to like I guess all the publicity or all the media attention that you know you and Dave PCO were like one of the most like uh I guess cited competitors on on there and people were super excited about it. Right. And certainly there's been, you know, new people, but um yeah, it was a little bit surprising honestly cuz I' I've just been in my bubble kind of doing my thing for years and years. And um even when like the first few articles by Fortune that were done, I thought, okay, well, you know, that's that's my 15 minutes. I'm I'm good. But then it just kept sticking and kept going. And then I kind of realized um you know obviously I live in America and you know to to any extent that I can motivate people to be healthier and live healthier lives then I like that is like it's what I do all the time. I'm always that person with my friends kind of like hey you know did you know you could do this or oh there's this simple little thing you could switch and so I thought well gosh you know if I could do that. So, um, that was kind of my reaction is like, well, bring it on. Um, if I can help people, then I'm going to, you know, I'm going to help people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I've seen you started like more posting more frequently on Instagram as well and, uh, content about it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I hope to get people kind of back in their kitchens with my YouTube channel. I'm still that's very nent and I'm still really working out like you know what people want contentwise, what um you know what I'm capable of producing, you know, like all of that. It's very very very rough right now. So um but I'm just trying to like you know I watch it and I kind of go, "Oh god, this could be better. That could be better. I could do this better." But um I just thought, you know, just take that like learning mindset, you know, like, hey, every time you do something, you're going to get a little better and just let it be kind of public, like let people see that, you know, you don't just start a YouTube channel and you're good. You know, it takes a while to get it going. So yeah, if you ever want to if you like I think yours your quality and like the production is actually like very good for you know how long how short you've been doing it. If you ever want to feel good about it, then just check out my like first videos on the channel. Like eight years ago, I had like 480p camera and in a booming uh dorm room with like super echo noise and I was just not even paying attention to any of the production value and quality back then. And I just, you know, kept making YouTube videos and, you know, slowly building audience. Um, and of course nowadays if there's like night and day for my own production value. So like you're already like you know in a lot of uh you know high level compared to I started from 8 years ago. I don't know I'm a graphic designer by background. So um you know like I see this stuff and I just kind of cringe but you know like the information is still there and people can get that and that's what's matters you know. So um yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm you said you're like been doing your thing for many years. Like how did you I guess get in get started with this and what got you like interested in health and longevity? Yeah, it's a slow it's like a very slow evolution over decades. though. Um like you know I was kind of always um impressed with how um you say how food impacts us and makes a difference in how we perform. I mean that's just kind of started when I was very very young and I was a swimmer and you know I won't get into that but quickly back in my 30s I um was having some problems. The doctor wanted to prescribe a pill. I sort of my intuition just said, "This is acid reflux. Isn't it something I'm eating? I should kind of look at that a little bit more." So, I went to um a more natural doctor, a naturopath, and she put me on for the first time I had ever heard this term. Well, she asked me to get off all wheat and dairy and take some, you know, drink some teas. And that seemed to help. And then she asked me about my anti-depressant that I was on. And given that that 36 months was over, um, and she was asking me, "Well, how much do you drink, and I was drinking at the time like a bottle of wine a night to myself, you know, like and sometimes finishing with whiskey." So, you know, no wonder I was depressed. No wonder I was having problems. And she was the first person to kind of say, "Well, you know, maybe that's contributing to your problem." And um, and then so, you know, removing that. And then she said, "I'm going to put you on a neutrautical protocol." I'd never heard that term before, but it actually worked. And um I, you know, just went cold turkey off the anti-depressant, which I wouldn't recommend for the average person, but I just I'd only been on it for like a year. And um you know, again, that protocol really helped me, which was like elyroine and a few other things, but um that really worked for me. And um trying to think so that was like 30s and I went like from there forward kind of being mindful like oh okay too much drinking isn't good for you. She encouraged me to get exercise so I kind of started going back to the gym cuz I had always been kind of into the gym and things but I just you know so much stress kind of took me away from it. So anyway, so I kind of like just slowly um started getting myself healthy over the next decade and a half and um I mean I lost like 30 lbs but again over like a decade and um you know started building muscle. Then I had my son and when he was three I learned that I had heavy metal poisoning as it just you know like my hair was falling out. I was really tired and thank god I had a friend who just said, "Hey, you know, you should go get checked for that." And sure enough, it was like, you know, my insurance, like my medical insurance paid for the cleanup. It was very high levels in very multiple metals. I was a ceramics major and I eat fish from like all over the world. And you know, there's other other things I'm sure that contributed it too. So, um, at any rate, when she was doing like the keelation therapy and all the different things she was doing, again, it just sort of like, oh, you know, neutrauticals are are really powerful. Um, and she um said, you know, kind of did some uh what do you call it? Oh my gosh, why am I skipping the word? Your genet like genetic testing. And she noticed I had the snip for MTHFR. and she said, "You know, you're probably going to have trouble detoxifying." There were a few other things in there. There was something with like um uh not sodium, but sulfur was another thing that would could cause problems. So, she um said, "You know, you you're going to always be looking for ways to detoxify." So, at this point now, like the internet is a thing. So, I start researching, you know, different ways to kind of everyday detox. And I find like Dr. rigid clingert and you know cilantro and all these other ways that you could safely um detoxify the body on a daily basis and I just kind of like kept up that like that research was so interesting to me and I felt so good after the chation therapy I mean that what was interesting to me is like how I was walking around with this lowgrade depression that I didn't know I had until I didn't have it you know it was just like wow is this what the rest of the world feels like and I was able to think clearly. I was able to just be happy on a level that I'd never experienced for, you know, since I was a child. So, it was just really really um eyeopening to me and I wanted to continue down that vein. So, so now fast forward another 10 years and I learn about sinolytics and I was like, oh, like you know, detoxing zombie cells and I'm sure I've got a lot of that buildup given my background, you know, let me kind of research that. So then I find my way to like you know ficitin feistin whatever and I find novos pops up on my Google search. Um and so then I was looking at like oh they had lithium in there which my doctor was already saying you know you should probably be on low you know lowd dose lithium for your just your mental health and your brain health. And there were a few other things in there that I was already reading about um calcium alpha ketoglutarate glycine. So I was like oh yeah I'm going to try that. and and that's kind of how the whole thing started was um finding that that company. Yeah. And those products. Yeah. Yeah. It's like a different kind of rabbit hole with uh you start taking some supplement or you try to fix one thing and eventually Yeah. You're you're full on like uh into it with uh different kinds of biohacks and supplements and stuff like that. Yeah. Well, I think what happens is like people you feel like one of like again when I did occasion therapy, I just felt so good afterwards. I got like so addicted to this thought of like what else do I not know that I don't know and I really want to feel this good all the time. I never like I never want to go back to feel I can't even it's like to explain how I felt was just like it was like bone tired on a level that I've never experienced that kind of exhaustion before and I you know my regular doctor was just saying well cuz like my brother had died like a year before you know very tragically and my son was three so it was just kind of like well you know like that's why you're tired he's little and you're grieving and and I just I knew something in me just It's just more than that. It's way more than that. And um I'm so glad I kind of pushed it. But I think I think we all kind of start going down rabbit holes because we experience like either you have like some health problem and you're able to solve it and you feel better or you just feel better in general. And so then you kind of get like into these little rabbit holes because you know the regular doctor doesn't have time to study all those things or you know med school for whatever reason. The system isn't set up. I mean, thank God for functional medicine, but you know, I I think that's why I think we have to empower ourselves and use our intuition. And that's typically why I'm down those rabbit holes, you know. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, you know, getting a good sleep, you uh might think you're feeling normal, but after you get Yeah. like a perfect sleep, then uh you feel like, wow, I'm not even tired after waking up. So yeah, it's kind of like one of those things that once you like experience it, then it Yeah. like opens your eyes to that this is actually what normal should should feel like. Yes. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. The like the resilience that you get from from that is amazing. Yeah. I want to take a quick break to let you know that you can now get my new book, The Longevity Leap, on Amazon. It contains 24 chapters ranging from the biology of aging to all the major chronic diseases such as heart disease, kidney disease, neurodeeneration and I also cover over 70 clinically relevant biomarkers for chronic diseases and their optimal ranges. You can get the book from the link in the description. Yeah, maybe let's can get to your like uh routines. I remember from um last year when I researched about your routines, they were like very simplistic and not like you know very uh time consuming or like uh very difficult. So um maybe yeah we can just go through one of the one of one by one through these different aspects like you know diet uh exercise some supplements. Yeah. Okay. Well, let's start with diet. So, I make um I mean I think if anything like this can be hard for people that like don't work out of the house or you know they have demanding jobs and demanding lives, but you know I eat a pound of vegetables a day. Um and half of that is greens. So that requires a bit of prep during the week, you know, on the weekends. Um I prioritize 100 g of protein a day. Um and I don't always get it, but I only count like my protein richch meals. So, I'm not counting protein that might be in the vegetables and coming along for the ride, you know. So, I'm only counting like protein powders, collagen, collagen, and like meat and eggs, you know? So, I try to get a hundred of that and I figure I'm probably getting another 10 to 30 along the way. I weigh 130 lbs, so I figure I'd need 100 to 130. My um what do you say? My lean Mhm. was like 98 pounds. So, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good point. Yeah. So, that's what that that's kind of the diet. I don't really say like no sugar. I mean, well, no alcohol. I just can't I cannot metabolize it at all anymore. So, I can't even just like every once in a while have something. It's just I just can't sleep. It's just an awful feeling. So, I just don't do it anymore. But, um um I don't really say like no sugar or no carbs or any of that. But I mean, after eating like a pound of vegetables a day and 100 grams of protein, there's just not a lot of room for much else, you know? It's just I'm so full from that. Um, so that's kind of how I've approached the diet more so in like what are the healthy things to add versus like what are the things not to do, you know? It's just it's easier to for my brain that way. Um, I don't feel like I'm, you know, try not to Yeah. And most of the like benefits come from just you know eliminating the the major problems with food like the processed food and uh hyper palatable foods and yeah like you know there's a lot of range for a healthy diet. It's not like a very narrow path. It's very kind of broad like anything that's pretty much whole foods uh tends to be um you know on the health direction. U but but you also have you know a lot of like these recipes that you share on Instagram and YouTube. So what what are some of like your let's say top favorite recipes that you know aren't just just like a vegetable and meat dish. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean every every day that beet kavass I drink that every day and I'm actually about to post another video on because I've kind of perfected a recipe that is like so good. I just I was drinking it yesterday going oh my god this is so good. So I'll post an update to that. I'm all about like these concoctions and drinks and uh I think cuz I maybe cuz I live in Arizona and it's really dry so I feel like there's just a lot of especially when it's really hot outside you just don't feel like eating anything. So like there's just a lot of cold stuff. So the you know recipes which I haven't posted yet are like you know like a lot of salads um like so I need to do some salad dressings for people but um and I do a lot of the fermented veggies. I really I've really come to enjoy those. And so, um, of the ones I've posted, it's the fermented stuff that I probably eat every single day. I do this like I posted a sardine recipe and I do that probably like I would say every 10 days I'm doing the sardines. I wish I did that a little more, but I I'll post another one with sardines and tuna. Um, and and that's something I eat a little more often. But it just it depends too like summer and winter. Like I'm in the winter I don't really like eating too many cold foods and so I'm eating more soups and you know that kind of stuff versus the summer I'm eating more salads and um old meats and that kind of stuff. Got uh the quas is like a fermented drink, right? Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. And I'm going to start experimenting with a lettuce kvass or Yeah. Yeah. You're saying it properly. I don't know. That's how we say it here. Uh yeah. I I don't know. I think it's I think it comes probably from Eastern Europe or something. But uh Yes. Yeah. Like so like how do you do it with like beetroot then? What's like the ingredients? Yeah. So it's just in I take a like a 64 ounce which is what like a is that like a liter? No. Or is that two liters? I think that's like two liters. Mhm. Uh 64 ouncez jar. I put in a pound of uh cut up beets and about 1 to 1 and 1/2 teaspoons of salt. And now I've been adding cinnamon and cloves to it. And then you cover it with water. And then you let it sit on your counter and ferment for um I do mine anywhere between two and 3 weeks now. Um and it makes this just like beautiful rich red um beet uh liquid. I don't know how to explain it. And then um you pour that liquid off. And then when I have it at night, I always mix it with like just like maybe one3 sparkling water um with it. So you could use a mineral water. I have my own bubbler down there. So I just use that. Um and that's kind of something I just drink like every night. Like instead of a glass of wine, I'm having that. Um and then the beets that instead of throwing them away, I usually take about half of them and I grind them up and then I'll put that on soups and salads. So again, it's just something else that's a little bit more fermented. Um there was in I had read a book called Younger You by Dr. Cara Fitzgerald and um she talks in there in her Younger You program about eating like a beat a day. So I've just tried to like slowly I'm trying to slowly move into like hitting that as a metric. So like I've got my half a pound of greens which comes from um I think that's just really healthy for women in menopause from Dr. Anna Kabeka. talks about that and it really helps keep your body um in this I maybe in an alkaline state but it it definitely helps me control my weight. Um so I just keep doing it and I don't know again if it's cuz I have that MTHFR and I really need those greens for that. I I really don't know but um it's just an easy metric and now I have my son on that too. He's he's slurping on the greens. So So yeah, every week I always prep um about about four pounds of greens. I cook them all down and like you know once you cook them down it's like you know three bites boom you've had you know 4 ounces of greens. So um so yeah it's yeah beetroo is yeah very good. It's got you know the helps with the blood flow nitric oxide I think like from the younger you so that it's based on like these studies that she did car Fitzgerald with uh yeah like lowering the DNA method age and yeah the diet was like you know some some eggs liver leafy greens curcumin green tea and beetroot and I think the beetroot has like the TMG so trimethoglycine that helps with the methylation and uh that might yeah like you know help with like some of the age clock results. So yeah I I also eat beetroot quite quite regularly almost every day like cooked steamed or uh as a vinegaret or I've been I've been experimenting with a beetroot juice as well which uh yeah there's some studies that it helps with V2 max thanks to the blood flow. So yeah. Yeah, my son's been experimenting with um he's really into bodybuilding now and he's got he's got the beetroot powder and so he's kind of doing some of that like right before he goes for his workout and he says it really helps. I mean I don't I haven't tried it yet but Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. Um yeah. So I'm trying to think is there anything else diet-wise? Like that's kind of it. I mean, I, you know, it's not too special, but and I also like enjoy, you know, stuff like we had, um, I found this great sourdough bakery this weekend, so you know, like I had some sourdough toast with avocado and, you know, that kind of stuff. And I do also um and we can maybe tack this later, but I just did like a um fasting mimicking diet and I'm trying to do those every 3 to four months um you know um just this year and kind of seeing if it makes any difference. I've done a lot of fasting in the past, but never as the fasting mimicking diet and it just makes it so easy. So how do how do you do it? Like do you use the prolon kit or do you do your own? Yeah, I'm using the prolong kit for now um while I kind because it just makes it so easy. But I thought once I kind of get a little bit more used to doing it. I know like I've put it into chat GPT like can you help me design a you know fasting mimicking diet and you know it came back with too much soy. I'm like can you take that out? It's like it's so fun what you can do with chat GPT and then you know I just of course I check it but I thought it's going to be too much for me to try to like cook all the foods. I just love that it's so easy, you know, just mentally it's just very very easy to do the prolong. So, um yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like there's some interesting research about the fasting way diet. Um but yeah, it's obviously going to be hard to know what are like if it if it has any longevity benefits or or not. you know, theoretically you could there's also the argument that you could do what's called like the protein um what's called protein sparing modified fast. Yeah. that uh where you're eating only protein, which is kind of the opposite of the fasting vegan diet where you're restricting the protein. But yeah, the idea that that's what bodybuilders use, the protein sparing modified fast, that they eat only like 1,000 calories of pure protein for a week and then they refeed and they lose a bunch of uh weight and theoretically maintain more muscle. Um interesting. But but that you know the reason why the fasting fasting mimicking diet is low in protein is because they want to like suppress the mtor and lower the IGF-1 levels which protein would raise. So like if you're doing the protein sparing modified fast are you like not really getting the health benefits of a fast from like the IGF-1 standpoint but you are maintaining more muscle probably because you're eating more protein. Uh so for a fat loss pure fat loss perspective the proteins be sparing modified fast is probably like superior but whether or not the fasting mimicking diet is better for the longevity and I of one etc that we don't know probably at the moment yet. Yeah. And do you know anything about like the um I know there's fat fasting which I've done in the past too. Um you know like using just kind of like avocados for the most part you know but I know you can do fat fasting and I just find it it just kind of makes me feel sick. So I can only do so much of it. I'd rather just do the water fast is really like I might do a fat like a fat day the first day and then the rest of it I would do like two or three days of water fast and yeah I've heard about it and yeah you could do like with MCT oil or bone broth or something like that. Um I I don't know like yeah depends which one you like. Theoretically yeah like you're not like raising insulin you're not raising one uh and you're you know getting some electrolytes or some nutrients to stay off the hunger. So yeah, I think it, you know, depends why the person is doing the fast and what are they hoping to gain from it. So, you know, there's not a lot of like actual studies comparing these things. So, uh, most of it is Yeah. Go ahead. Like theoretical. Yeah. Yeah. So, I'm trying to think if there's anything else with diet. I think that's it. You do you do the like daily fasting or anything like that? Yeah. And just because I just like I've never been a breakfast eater. like I just you know my whole life I just feel kind of sick in the morning or not sick but just not I'm just not hungry. So, um, I usually don't eat till around 10:00 in the morning. And I'm because of this whole like now that I'm tracking my sleep, I'm noticing like if I don't eat dinner, like if I can eat dinner at like 4:00, I can usually get a little better sleep. But, um, or even earlier, but um, it's just hard cuz sometimes I if my son is wants to eat dinner together, being that he's 18 now and he's never here, I'm always like, "Okay, great. I'll, you know, eat dinner if I go out." So, I mean, I I try to I say I prioritize um social connection over like a rigid schedule. So, um for the most part though, if I'm just kind of here doing my own thing, toodling, I'll have dinner around like 4:00 4:30 and then I'm done until basically 10:00 the next morning. But I do put that said in my coffee or my tea in the morning. I do green tea. Uh first thing in the morning before I go work out, I will put some collagen protein. And then I've been experimenting with this Symbiotica um creamer that's got like elyroine and some alpha GPC in it, which I'm really really enjoying. Um so I guess technically I'm breaking my fast then that would be about like 5 in the morning. Um but I you know I don't know. M yeah again that's another one of those things people you know they have different opinions about it but yeah I don't I think it's uh not significant thing and uh not that like important about the coffee or like the milk and the coffee or tea. Yeah. Yeah. That was just kind of like Stacy Sims was talking about this and I just noticed like oh I actually feel better when I'm working out when I do that so I thought well I'll just stick with it you know. Yeah. Yeah. What's your like exercise routine then? Yeah, so exercise is different. Um, it's kind of always evolving and changing because I just get, you know, bored, but it always includes um a V2 max, which I typically try to do on Mondays, uh, just to like get it over with and it's not bearing on my mental space. And then, um, and usually a sauna after that. And then, um, Tuesday and Wednesday. So Tuesday I'll do like lower body and then Wednesday I'll do upper body. And on Wednesday usually I'll add like another 20 minute hit sometimes or I'll just kind of you know maybe it's not a hit. It's just I just get on the step mill and go for 20 minutes and then Wednesday if I didn't do a hit that day I'll do it on Wednesday and there's no weights on Wednesday but I'm working usually my core. Um, and then, um, Thursday I will go back to doing, um, or excuse me, Thursday. Yeah, Friday I'll go back to doing my lower body. And then Saturday I'm doing my upper body again. And all all but the um, all but two of those are followed by a sauna. All but two days are followed by a sauna because I'm in my gym. Yeah. Um, so I I go do my lower body. So I and I try to so like there's two days lower body, two days upper body. And I try to divide it so that one of those days for the lower body and one of those days for the upper body is like with free weights. So I'm kind of you know I really have to work all the different balance things out and you know all those little small muscle muscle movements. And then the other day I'm on machines and I'm just trying to like kind of push it. I'm very like um hyper I can hyper extend. I'm very wi wiggly and um and bendy and so I I don't feel like I can lift as much as I probably can like when I'm on a machine I can really kind of push it cuz it's sort of holding my range of motion uh versus like the free weights. But um I think the free weights are important too. So that's kind of how I my mentally think of it. But I'm trying to do one VO meet, two max, one hit, you know, the four days of um weightlifting and then at least a minimum of four saunas a week. Wow. Yeah, that's that's very good. Yeah, like son is super beneficial and yeah, four times is kind of the optimal amount. Um yeah. Yeah, I love it. I love it. Like that's my even in the summer here, you know, it's like, oh, I'll just go in the sauna. It's like really great. Yeah. One thing I'm curious about is like uh so with with with age women's uh bone density declines quite rapidly. Have you ever like done a dexa scan or something to see if if uh what's the like your bone density? Yeah. Yeah. I did I started a DEXA scan um gosh few years ago. I did my first DEXA scan cuz I was worried about that. Uh but no issues with my bone density and I've actually gained just a tiny bit of bone density and gained some muscle mass too. So, um I'm very very pleased with that. I am on hormone replacement therapy which I do think, you know, helps with that. Um we had to reduce it this year because I did develop a fibroid which is I had estrogen dominance and so I had to like cut my estrogen way down. Um which kind of put me in a mini menopause which was horrible and I just like why why women don't just you know immediately go on hormone replacement therapy. I don't know. But um that was that was awful. But and I'm just I'll go to my my doctor here in a little bit after doing all my Dutch testing and I think they're going to add a little bit back, but we'll see. Was the was the DEXA scan before you started hormone replacement therapy or were you already taking it? Okay. Yeah, I've been on it for gosh almost a decade now. I mean, I was in um Dubai when I move when I was kind of getting pmenopausal and they the doctor that I saw there I mean thank god I wasn't I was thank god I wasn't seeing like traditional doctors in America cuz they would have never put me on hormone replacement therapy but he did and then once you're on it like they won't take you off of it in America. So when I came home like 3 years later, they're like, "Okay, you know, they continued my prescription." But um yeah, I was grateful that he did because it really helped even out the periopause. I didn't have to go through so much. And I you know I just kind of like in my head I'm thinking I I don't know you know from I'm not obviously I'm not a medical doctor so I don't know from a medical perspective like what's safest but it just to me if like this is you know half of our population or you know a significant portion of our population. I mean it's it's like it's um it's like it feels it's horrible. I mean you know you're not sleeping. It's like how to be productive. And I just think of like if this is our workforce, this is our like how what could we do, what good could we do for society if we could like really not eliminate permenopause but really help women get through that in a way that they can continue to feel resilient and healthy. That would be like that would be a gamecher, you know. Yeah. Yeah. It's like very um you know crazy to think about. Yeah. pretty much like you know for some people slightly longer than half of their life but for some people like at the middle of their life their you know hormones plummet close to zero and uh yeah like you know with that comes a huge risk of heart disease and osteoporosis because of the lack of estrogen. So yeah, like it's from a medical standpoint, it's like, you know, very unhealthy to be uh you know, after menopause with all these low estrogen hormones and stuff like that. And hormone replacement therapy, you know, as as far as I'm aware, it's you know, pretty safe uh as well. So it can be quite yeah life-changing for a lot of women. But uh yeah, it just means like on a daily basis like this person isn't sleeping, you know, they're up all night with hot flashes. like they're not sleeping, they're not their best self that then they don't feel like exercising because they haven't slept. They're just trying to like, you know, and usually what happens is you're tired like all day long. I remember like when it first came on, like I would have to pull over by the side of the road and take like a 10-minute nap like and you know, we're talking like on a half hour drive. Like, you know, just it was just too dangerous. Like that's how tired I was. is I just I just think like like that's huge like if like that's a a real problem for a lot of people that could be resolved but anyway that's not you know here to help people. Yeah, it would have been also interesting to see like if you had taken the dexa like before HRT then uh because I would imagine that you know after the menopause your bone density dropped significantly. Uh and then you know yeah it would be interesting to see how much it had increased after you started HRT. Uh but yeah like you said you you have seen some improvement already within the last two years when you taken it. So uh it's working. Yeah. So let's see. So that's really kind of exercise. I keep that pretty minimal. I'm in the gym. Well, because of the sauna and I shower, so I'm there. I think I I timed it before and it was like from the time I leave my house to the time I get back, it's like 2 and 1/2 to 2 and 3/4 hours, you know. So, it's not too bad, you know. Um, yeah. I mean, considering I don't have a commute to work, too. Again, I work from home, so I don't I don't think it's very bad. Um, and that's, you know, my morning shower is there, too. So, yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Um, what about the supplements? Yes. So, supplements? Yeah, I don't take too many. Um, I've, you know, for years I've been taking, um, a B complex, uh, like a methylated B complex and magnesium cuz I'm pretty deficient in magnesium. That again, that came out when I was doing my metals testing. And it just it's still it's like just constant. And I don't know, you know, if it's something maybe I'm just not breaking it down properly, but I mean, my current doctor wanted me on like 2,000 milligrams a day or something. I'm like, that's a lot. But, um, yeah. So, magnesium, um, B complex, um, fish oil or, you know, omega-3s. And I divide it between like I do the EPA in the morning and the DHA at night. I just like for I don't know if it's just mentally makes me feel better, but I feel like it just helps calm my brain down to have that DHA at night. So, um I separate those and I'm doing like um 1,000 milligrams and 1,000 milligs in an ideal world. Um that's what I'm doing. Um I have my hormone replacement therapy which includes DHEA only like 10 milligrams. um progesterone and then um bio estrogen and testosterone. Just a small amount of testosterone. Um I'm trying to think what else do I do? Um I'm take Oh, I know. I take D3 K2 first thing in the morning. Um which I love. I'm again I've just found Symbiotica recently and I just like I love the flavor of it. So, um I've been doing that and then um what else? I do um my nicotenomide ribocide. I'm kind of more I lean more towards that. I I kind of go back and forth between NMN and NR and I can't seem to tell which one is making more of a difference. So right now I'm doing um nicotinomide riocide like um 300 millig and then I'm doing another 250 is it 250 or 500 milligrams of NMN. I'm just doing them both. We'll see. That's kind of what I'm experimenting with this year. And then um let's see I Oh, and then my Novos. to do, you know, the Novos core, which is, you know, a whole conglomeration of of things, but, you know, fistin alpha ketoglutarate, glycine. Um, I know I'm missing a few things. Lithium, there's a magnesium malate is in there as well. Malic acid. I know I'm forgetting like one or two things. Vitamin C, I think. Glucosamine, theine. Oh, that's it. That's it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's really nice. It's very and I used to Oh, I know. And then there's rodeiola in there. And so when I first started taking it, it was like really it was a bit too energizing for me and I couldn't take it after 1:00 or it would kind of mess with my sleep. But now um I don't know if my body's sort of just gotten used to the rodeiola or something, but now I take it around 1 or 2:00 in the afternoon and it just kind of helps me calm down. Like it's like right after I meditate I take it and just feels like it just kind of keeps me calm into the evening. I really like that. Um, and then I experiment because you know we were on that podcast together and you recommended um an acetylcyine. So I've experimented with that a little bit um here and there. Um but right now I um I was introduced to uh a uh what do you call it? Liposal glutathione. So I'm taking liposomaal glutathione and liposal vitamin C first thing in the morning. Um because an acetylcysteine that's a sulfurbased Yeah. supplement. Yeah. So again it's like I kind of I just try to be careful with the sulfur stuff given what my doctor had told me. So like I'll do it I'll you know for like I'll do NAC for like a few months and then I'll stop and you know kind of pulse it I guess. And right now I'm experimenting with that glutathione. really I noticed I started taking it during a um a prolong fast and or the fasting mimicky diet and it just like really helped me like come to a place where I just felt so chill even though I was like eating almost no food like I felt like really the overall feeling was like content and I I attribute it to that and then I was taking oh I know I've also added magnesium 3 and8 at night so the magnesium that I take I take all different forms so I take a three and eight at night. I take magnesium toate and I take mag magnesium malate during the day. So those are the three that I take. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Uh and uh do you like divide them into different times of the day or when do you take them? Oh yeah. Yeah. So, I have like supplements set out for like four times a day and so I just, you know, even kind of evenly put them throughout there and um yeah, but that magnesium 38 at night has also been really nice like it's I can see it on my sleep scores, you know, like making that really go up. So from because my sleep scores because of like the estrogen that I had to drop was like my sleep scores are like 77 78 like I'm happy if I can even get an 80 you know and then I add magnesium 3 and8 and it's like 81 to 86 you know so it's really nice. I was like wow okay this makes a difference. Yeah, 30 38 is for the brain is is the most like bioavailable form of magnesium for the brain and uh yeah a lot of you know processes in with sleep are related to the brain and uh yeah magnesium is kind of a central mineral for there. Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. But that's that's about it. I try not I don't like taking a lot of pills and again like I think it's menopause but it kind of just dries you know different mucous areas around and so like taking a lot of sometimes I feel like they get stuck in my throat and I just like I just try to I try not to take a lot and I figure you know I hope that I'm getting a lot of them from the veggies. I try to get you know I source organic and all of that good stuff. So I'm hoping I'm actually getting the the nutrients from those veggies. So So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, but you know, a lot of things you can't even get from food like nicotine. There's no dietary resource for that. And uh glutath glutathione. Yeah. That's like that's not going to happen. Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. What what about like your you mentioned earlier that you had like some effect on your family members as well. Uh what would they think about all these like routines that you're doing and supplements? Well, like so first of all like like my My dad pretty much is just like yes, chip off the old block. Like my dad has like he's like I mean, you know, when you look at like Dave Pasco or like Brian Brian Johnson is like the like my dad's like that. Like my dad is like the original biohacker. Like he used to like have these charts on his like I mean we're talking like 1980, you know, like charts on the bathroom wall of like his blood pressure and his weight, you know, and he'd always be like experimenting with different supplements and you know, and he he did these things. We call them concoctions. So, it's kind of like, oh god, dad, what kind of concoction are you making up now? And now, like I do that, like that's kind of a lot of my meals are are liquid meals. So, you know, I'm definitely like my father's daughter for sure. So, he's like all over it. And my mom is kind of like not into pills. So, that that's what kind of drives me to always seek out nutrition, you know? There's just that other side of me that's like, shouldn't we get this all from the food we eat, you know? And so, I kind of go like it just keeps me balanced, I think. Um, but yeah, like my son, I mean, I think this is the greatest testament to when you're raising kids, like it's not what you tell them to do, it's they'll do what you do. And I've never told him to work out. I've never um, you know, in fact, like he was never really interested in sports. And I didn't really push it um somewhat regrettably, but I didn't really push him um in sports. He did a few, you know, he was in track and soccer and basketball and he did a few on his own, but it just nothing ever really stuck. And then um he this year decided to get into weight training and full bodybuilding or like last year and he's just like loving it and it's it's been really cool. Like he'll get up I mean now nowadays he's going to the gym after school but he used to be getting up at like 4 and going to the gym and I just thought wow this is so cool. They just do what you do. they don't, you know, I've never told him to do that. So, so that's been really cool. And he's again experimenting with supplements and, you know, he's tried to do everything he can to raise his testosterone. Now, mind you, he's 18 and we But anyway, yeah. So, um, and then of course, you know, I've met friends through this. I have a really good friend who heard me on a podcast and we end up, you know, we both live here so now we talk every day and um, it's been really, it's really, really nice. Yeah. A lot of great things have come from this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Bodybuilding is like a gateway to biohacking in some ways. Like uh original the first bodybuilders, you know, they're they're the original biohackers as well. And yeah, trying to like optimize their nutrition and track things and those things. Um yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My so my dad was um so he was like I'm not say little but he was in football when he was in college and things but so he was like you know and he was into kind of running a little bit but he um was an astronaut and he was hired at a time when all the astronauts before that like for the Apollo missions they were all like you know the pilots like they were these like super military stud kind of guys you know and then my dad was hired as a scientist with two other scientists to be on this miss these missions called Skyab. And I think, you know, he wanted to make sure like health-wise he could like measure up and get cuz they, you know, they selected 2,000 guys and then they went through the whole process and out of that, you know, three came out of it and my dad was one of them. And I just I think that's where kind of the biohacking stuck. like he kind of wanted to make his body as optimally healthy as possible, you know, and then you just I think like any of us when you start feeling good, you just get you get hooked on it, you know? Yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. Um what what are your thoughts on like are are you trying to like give your you know father who's you know older than you are you trying to give him some supplements or tweak his routine or something like that to improve his health? I I yeah I try I did give him a few like some novos and a few things like that but um my mom's not real into it and my dad you know he's 87 now he's a little little bit of dementia you know so I I just I kind of I'm very much of like let people like live the lives they want and if they come to me and they want help that I like in my immediate circle you know if they want help then I then I will help them but otherwise I kind of try to stay back especially with you know your closer relatives otherwise it can come off as I don't want to come off as dogmatic or interfering with people's you know own belief systems I think everyone has their own you know for like healing journey like you know people that in my family I know are suffering from certain things it's like I might like politely say hey you know you should check this out but if they don't like they just you know maybe they want to use that traditional path and that's what they feel called to do then then that's you know that's their life path path not it's not for me to to push my agenda on them you know so I try to I try to stay back a little and um but yeah my brother will call me like hey what do you you know what do you think about this or I want to do this what supplement should I take you know so I get I feel those kind of questions if I if I'm asked but yeah yeah yeah I think that that's the way to go that uh not trying to force things on people because yeah they're not going to you know accept that information if they are being like forced or uh somehow like judged about things. It's more yeah like if they're curious and asking asking themselves from you then uh they're more acceptable of uh the assistance. Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that's that's kind of it there. What else? Um you asked me about diet, exercise, supplements. Sleep. You mentioned your so yeah what's what's sleep? Yeah. It's an ultra human actually. But um I am I mean I don't you know I'm not I'm not in love with these rings. I just feel like it's like every day it's like you didn't sleep enough or you didn't move enough. It's like oh my god like I can never but then it'll say good job on this. I'm like now you're saying nice things anyway. I cuz it doesn't seem to have like um a menopause setting like cuz it'll say like you were up a lot last night. It's like, well, yeah, I have, you know, like I'm kind of going through menopause, so I like wake up in the middle of the night. Like, I wake up in the middle of every night. Like, I can't seem to, you know, like, and it was becoming two or three times a night. Now, it's kind of back down to just once a night. But, um, but I do I have prioritized sleep like kind of my whole life. Like, I'm I've always been somebody who if I didn't sleep, I would be excessively grumpy. So, I've always had to be like really careful about it. So, even in like And I was a swimmer, too. So, I had to be in the pool by like 5:30 uh before school every day. So, 9:00 like I was in bed, you know, nobody told me to go to sleep. Um and I would maybe go out on the weekends or you know, that kind of stuff. But, um and then so that's always been an easy priority for me. But, um and I do like to kind of get to bed earlier. Like nowadays my bedtime is anywhere between 8:30 and 9 and then I'm up between 4:30 and 5 depending, you know, I just kind of let my body do what it needs to do. Um, but like I said, it's, you know, because of the hormones right now. It used to be really, really restful when I was, you know, before that rejuvenation Olympic scores, I had like some of the most restful sleep I was having like forever. And then because they had to kind of lower my estrogen dose, you know, I was just waking up a lot. I was hot all night. It was so I've had some really like that's been since July pretty bad sleep, but it's it's kind of leveling out again now. And um and I prioritize it. You know, I do everything I can to like get a good night's sleep. Um, I've been trying like different products and you know the 3 and8 seems to be the best thing, but there's one other thing I'm trying but I don't want to talk about it just yet cuz I'm not sure. Okay. What about melatonin? Are you taking notes? Yeah. So, I do um I'll do the I used to try like you I used to do like a like a lot of melatonin like over two grams and then I was reading about it and um I was thinking maybe that was increasing my nightly wakefulness because I would like you know that melatonin would wear off and then I would be wide awake. So, I switched down to like a um what do you say a natural melatonin that's like.3 milligrams. is herbatonin and that seems to like I still might wake up but I'm able to go right back to sleep. So, um I think that's a little better than taking such a super physiological dose. At least for me, you know, it's like it was so high that when I would wake up, I just couldn't get back to sleep, you know? So, yeah, like I think melatonin is one of those things that everyone reacts differently. like uh if I you know I take 0.3 milligrams then yeah I sleep very good if I take three then I tend to get even a bit groggy in the morning um but uh if I take also like 10 milligrams then I definitely will feel a bit more groggy so yeah it's there's a lot of uh individual response to that uh but uh yeah like if you look at the like the clinical trials then I was actually quite surprised about the one recent And meta analysis found that 4 milligrams 3 or 4 hours before bed was like the best dose compared to 2 millig 30 minutes before bed. Um interesting. So I I've yeah like been experimenting with that and yeah like if I take this even like 3 milligs whatever 3 hours 4 hours before bed then uh you know by the time you go to bed you're already like super kind of tired and like I'm yawning 30 minutes before the bed and I can't wait to fall asleep. Whereas if I had taken it immediately before bed, then I'm not going to actually feel it, you know, you know, it's going to kick in when I'm already asleep. So there might be like something there with the timing that okay, actually a few hours before bed would makes make more sense because you know, it takes at least a few hours for your body to like you know, absorb it. Yeah. Do you think I mean my my feeling is like like I know Hooverman talked about like it's I mean it's a hormone so and I I have this whole thing of like you know hormones are kind of this big symphony working all together in your body right so if you're throwing one of them off you know is that is that causing harm to the whole system and I don't you know like I don't know obviously I'm not a doctor and I'm not a researcher but that's just kind of the the thought I've taken is like you know same thing like you know insulin if you're always spiking that insulin Like that's just like if you you know if you think of this all working together and like one of them is like playing too loudly. I don't you know I don't know. I mean yeah like there's no actual shown like harm to that and it doesn't appear to like suppress natural melatonin either. So because it's not like an actual hormone that you have like as a as a dial rhythm like testosterone and estrogen and cortisol they all like fluctuate depending on the time of the day. But but melatonin it it's regulated mostly by the light. U you know if you're if it's like 10 p.m. but you're under this bright light then you're not really producing any melatonin regardless that it's nighttime. and uh vice versa. If you're in a cave during daytime, your body will slowly start to produce melatonin as well. So, it's more about like the environment uh and it's not like that set in stone as like uh testosterone that like fluctuates throughout the day, you know, regardless of of the light cues. Um but yeah I mean for yeah like optimal circadian balance and all these hormones like they work in harmony with each other and the overarching controller of that is the circadian rhythms. So the light cues the movement the food the the magnetic fields of the earth they all like affect that and yeah like naturally you want to you know produce more melatonin in the evening which you know in the modern world is more difficult because of the artificial lights and other things. So, you just have to like, you know, control it yourself with either supplemental melatonin or dimming down the lights and using blue blocking glasses or using some filters on the screens and those kind of things. Mhm. Yeah. I've noticed that if I go camping or somewhere, it's like it's so easy to sleep, you know? I think it's that lack of light. But, um, yeah, I have blue blocking glasses, but they're only like reading glasses. So, it's only like if I'm looking at my phone, but if I'm like looking anywhere else in the room, you know, I don't And I've heard like it doesn't even take very much light for, you know, you to still think it's you're awake. So, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What What do you like pay attention to like blood work as well? Do you track certain markers? Yeah. Um, I mean, I'm tracking like my APOB, I track that because we have, um, in my family like, um, strokes and heart attacks are kind of like on my dad's side of the family are a big deal. And then on my mom's side of the family, it's um, autoimmune issues. So, um, I always am testing my ANA, you know, and then, um, and I'm looking at all the kind of cardiovascular markers. And the only thing that's um sort of a little bit not so great is the LP little A. And I don't remember what the value was, but I just remember like it was like it's it's not an optimal range, you know. Like my APOB was at like 61, I think. So, um I think that's pretty, you know, decent. Um I I would like it under 60, you know, but um yeah, I'm trying to think. Everything else has been like really optimal. Um, and I do a um like a micronutrient panel as well. And again, the only thing off there was um magnesium and and given how much I take in a day, it's just like how, you know, how can I not I don't know. I've got to figure out how to optimize that. Yeah. I mean, the LPLA is very genetic, so it's uh everyone has like different results and a lot of it is genetically determined. So yeah, it's hard to like move it with diet and exercise. Although like a few things can reduce it like there seems to be like CRP so inflammation correlates with LP little and uh yeah there's not a huge huge other things that you can do to unfortunately but there are like some you know pharmaceuticals that might help with that like PCSK inhibitors but they're quite quite expensive. Um, so and I just I'm not sure they're warranted just yet, you know, like I kind of am like well like my, you know, my the everything else is in like not just optimal western medicine, but like optimal from a functional medicine perspective. Everything is is pretty optimal things. Uh, my glucose was a little bit high like my fasting glucose. It used to be always like really good until they lowered my estrogen. So I'm attributing that to, you know, not having as much estrogen. So, it's kind of changing the cellular makeup, you know, and how much I'm burning in a day and all of that. So, I know that that'll work itself out. Um, in the meantime, I'm just taking some bourberine, you know? So, like I take like different more supplements than maybe what is listed on my site, but it's like I'm only taking it because there's an issue that I'm only going to take it for a little while and then I'm going to not take it anymore. Like I don't necessarily want to take burine like all the time, but I I would I am right now until we work out what's going on with my estrogen. M yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like the estrogen is quite central actually to a lot of things apparently with uh you know glucose regulation and bone density and sleep and things that. So I guess hormones are like yeah very underrated in in how you feel and uh how healthy you are. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Definitely. And I think it it would make a difference in the pace of aging and you know all of those things cuz that pace of aging test is taking into account all those different things. So Mhm. Yeah. Um all right. I think we can start wrapping up u before I ask my last question. Where can people learn more about you and your work? Yeah. So um Instagram is probably the best place. Um, but Julie Gibsonclark.com is my website and JulieGibsonclark on Instagram and YouTube. Um, I'm trying to post weekly on YouTube. So, um, right now they're, you know, and I'm open to, you know, constructive criticism and content people want to see on there, you know, by all means like message me. Best to message me through Instagram. I'm on there every day, but um, but you can message me through my site as well. All right, we'll put the links in the show notes. And my last question is, what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you'd updated sooner? Oo, I think prioritizing exercise every day. Actually, no. Well, it's kind of related. So, I used to go on these like, oh my gosh, I want to lose like 10 lbs in 8 weeks kind of thing. And once I adopted the longevity mindset of like, oh, I'm just going to do this the rest of my life like that just it was such a gamecher in my whole like my health, my well-being, how I um created habits that these habits have stuck. Um, so I think I wish I would adopted that mindset, but that's, you know, because what happened in the past is I would start an exercise program and then I would stop, you know, so I would do it for 8 weeks and then I'd stop for 8 weeks and then I'd start up again. And same thing with like my eating. So it was always like very disordered. And once I had this longevity mindset, it was like was just, you know, stacking small habits on top of another for the rest of my life. And that's it's just been so so calming and um it's just been a better way to live. Yeah, that's a good advice. Um well, thanks for coming to the show and uh yeah, good luck with your growth on Instagram and YouTube. Like I said, you're already uh much more uh high quality than I was eight years ago. So, you'll grow. Now, I'm going to go back and watch. Yeah, I had to delete I had to delete one of the first ones, but but there are a few ones from 2018. I think that you'll see. Yeah. Okay. Well, thank you for having me and thanks for everybody for listening. Yeah, please reach out with questions. I'm happy to answer. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. And I'll see you around. Okay. Thank you. All right. That's it for this episode. Make sure you check out my new book, The Longevity Leap, on Amazon. I'd also appreciate if you share this episode with a friend or family member. Other than that, my name is Seam. Stay tuned for the next episode.