A lot of people suffer from excess visceral fat because it accumulates around the organs and you can't see it with your bare eyes. I've managed to reduce my visceral fat from 359 g, which is already below average, to below 100 g, which is extremely low and optimal. One of the small tweaks I made to help me achieve such low viseral fat was adding green tea to my diet. Green tea, in my opinion, is one of the healthiest beverages in the world if you consume it in the right amounts and at the right time. So, in this video, I'm going to share how adding one to two cups of green tea per day can eviscerate visceral fat. The reason I started drinking green tea was because there's plenty of research suggesting that it helps to target specifically visceral fat. There's a 2012 randomiz control trial showing that kathagen enriched green tea for 12 weeks resulted in greater visceral fat loss than in the placebo group. The kathagen group lost 9.5 square cm of visceral fat on average compared to the 0.6 six square cm of the control group, which wasn't significant. The participants who drank kaggen enriched green tea lost 6.23% of their visceral fat compared to only 0.38% in the control group. That's 5.85% greater reduction in visceral fat for the green tea group. The kagen group consumed 350 ml of green tea with 609.3 mg of kagens and 68.6 mg of caffeine. Whereas the control group consumed only 86.2 mg of kagens and 40.4 millig of caffeine. So green tea high in kagens is more effective than green tea low in calagins. Another 2009 study found that green tea collagens enhanced the loss of abdominal fat from exercise. The green tea group lost 6.2% of abdominal subcutaneous fat whereas the control group gained 0.8%. Total abdominal area decreased 7.7% compared to 0.3% and intraabdominal fat reduced 8.7% compared to 1.4%. They consumed 500 ml of green tea with 625 mg of kadagens compared to zero in the control group and both groups consumed 39 mg of caffeine. A 2024 meta analysis of 24 studies saw that exercise plus green tea results in a small but statistically significant bonus reduction in fat mass of about 1 to 1.5 kg compared to exercise alone. So whenever you are exercising and trying to lose fat then drinking green tea on top of that makes you lose a little bit more extra fat especially visceral fat and intraabdominal fat. The reason green tea helps with visceral fat loss is because of its kagen content. In green tea, the specific is EGCG. Kagens are polyphenolic compounds that activate pathways related to fat metabolism such as EMPK that helps with visceral fat loss and fat oxidation. This is not exclusive to green tea. It's seen that in mice, black tea and olong tea also reduce visceral fat thanks to their polyphenols. However, green tea has the strongest effect because it's the highest in polyphenolic compounds. So, how many cups of green tea are we talking about? In the randomiz control trials, a dose of around 600 milligrams of kagens yielded the best results. That's the equivalent of about three cups of green tea per day. However, you could also have higher amounts of kadagens in your brew and ultimately consume only one to two cups. Here's a list of the highest kagin content in different types of green tea. Matcha has around 100 to 150 mg of EGCG per 100 milll. Sencha green tea has 60 to 80 mg. Guoro 40 to 60. Bancha 20 to 30 and ho chia less than 10 milligrams. Matcha can contain up to three times more kadagens than regular brewed green tea. The more leaves you have per cup, the higher the kadagen and caffeine content. That's why matcha wins because you consume the whole leaf, not just an infusion. The way you brew your green tea also affects its kadagen content. 60 to 70° C or 140 to 58 Fahrenheit preserves delicate compounds like theanine, but it's also lower in kagens. 80 to 85° C or 176 to 85 Fahrenheit is optimal for high kagen release without destroying them. Over 90° C or 194 plus Fahrenheit equals more kagens, but EGCG can get degraded. It also makes the brew a lot more bitter. How long you seep the brew will also determine its kagen content. Less than 1 minute results in lower kagen release. 2 to 3 minutes is a good balance of kagens, flavor, and theanine. Over 5 minutes results in the most kagens, but is also very bitter and has more caffeine. If you repeat the brewing, then a first brew contains the most kagens. Second brew about 30 to 50% of the original kagen content. And a third brew has minimal remaining kagens. So you should stick to one to two brews at most. Here's a quick summary of getting the most out of your green tea collagens. Keep the water temperature high but below 90° C. So, optimally between 80 to 90. Steep a little bit longer, about 3 to 5 minutes, to get more kadagens from the brew. Use more tea leaves per cup. The more leaves, the stronger the bitterness and the more kagens it contains. That's why whole leaf consumption such as matcha contains the most kagens. Surprisingly enough, the time of day when you consume green tea can also affect its effectiveness. Here's the best time to drink green tea. In the morning after breakfast. Why? Because it increases your metal rate and supports fat oxidation. You should avoid drinking green tea or matcha on an empty stomach. Green tea can be acidic and can cause nausea or stomach discomfort. That's why you might get dizzy or nauseous if you drink it on an empty stomach. And the morning is also the best time for getting some of that small amount of caffeine. Green tea is a good alternative to coffee because it's lower in caffeine. The second best time is before exercise. Why? Because kadagens, especially EGCG, plus the caffeine can enhance fat burning during exercise. The best time to do so is 30 to 60 minutes before the workout. Some studies show that green tea increases energy expenditure by about 4%. As well as fat oxidation, especially when combined with physical activity. After meals is also a good time to consume green tea because it can lower the blood sugar rise after eating and improve insulin sensitivity. It also lowers the rise in triglycerides and lipids after eating. In the evening, it's not ideal to consume green tea unless it's decaffeinated because the caffeine could disrupt your sleep, especially if you're a slow metabizer of caffeine. In the evening, you can opt for lower caffeine green teas like hoista. As I said, I've managed to decrease my visceral fat to extremely good levels down to 54 grams. And one of the things I did to achieve this was adding around 2 to three cups of green tea to my diet. Of course, I did a lot of other things that also contributed to my results. Check out my video where I share with you everything I changed about my diet and exercise and supplements to achieve it. Next.