 They riskiere,ПрПрПрПрПрПр the modern world can be incredibly stressful. And most people are experiencing some form of stress almost every day. That affects your mood, your focus, your sleep, and eventually long-term health. You don't want to be at a disadvantage in the modern world. So what if you could take only 200 milligrams of a single compound that could lower your cortisol and stress instantly? I'm talking about L-theanine, an amino acid that's very popular for relaxation, stress, and sleep. But the interesting part isn't that people just say that it makes them more relaxed. In some situations, it's even seen to blunt the cortisol and stress response. So in this video, I'm going to break down the human research about L-theanine and talk about what's true. L-theanine is a naturally occurring amino acid found primarily in tea leaves and certain fungi. It was discovered in 1949 from green tea and it makes up 1-2% of the dry weight of green tea leaves. One of the most known effects of L-theanine are its anxiolytic and anti-stress effects. T and its bioactive compounds, including theanine, haven't seemed to have positive effects on stress, sleep disorders, and depression in animal studies, clinical studies, as well as epidemiological studies. It does so through the modulation of neurotransmitters, reducing inflammation and modulating the gut microbiome, and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis that controls the stress response. Theanine specifically increases relaxation through GABA and possible region-specific effects on serotonin and dopamine. Theamine reduces glutamine's entry into the presynaptic neuron, which results in less glutamine entering the neuron, where it would be converted into glutamate. Glutamate is the excitatory neurotransmitter that promotes vigilance, but in high amounts, it causes excitotoxicity, this kind of wired stress-loude state. At the postsynaptic site, L-theanine binds near AMPA and NMDA receptors and competes with glutamate there. This means glutamate has less chance to trigger excitatory signaling. What it means overall is that theanine prevents your body from getting overstimulated and overexcited due to stress. This sounds all good, but is there actual human evidence suggesting that it helps with stress? The 2019 Randomist Control Trial gave 30 healthy adults 200 mg a day of theanine for 4 weeks and let them go through a washout period in a crossover design. The participants saw reduced stress-related symptoms, less self-related depression, and anxiety. This is not the only study. A 2020 review of 9 studies found that theanine supplementation at 200-400 mg a day could reduce stress and anxiety, but it wasn't effective for chronic stress disorders. So yes, there is evidence that theanine can help to lower general stress, but there is also evidence that it might lower cortisol within an hour. In a 2021 randomized, triple-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial, 16 moderately stressed but otherwise healthy adults received a single 200 mg dose of L-theanine, or placebo, before an acute mental arithmetic stress task. The study found that salivary cortisol decreased more after L-theanine compared to placebo one hour after the dose. Cortisol decreased by 42.4% with theanine versus 32.6% with placebo, a difference of 9.8 percentage points. Cortisol fell in both groups, so it's best to interpret this as a greater reduction relative to placebo. An earlier 2007 study on 12 undergraduate students saw that 200 mg of theanine before a mental arithmetic task resulted in lower self-perceived stress compared to placebo. Taking theanine at the start of the task and midway both resulted in lower stress. It is a small study, but it supports the other trials on the topic. So it looks like theanine is better as a short-term cortisol blocker, for lack of a better word. It's going to lower the perception of stress and anxiety. It doesn't appear to be that effective for chronic stress disorders that are characterized by much bigger concerns, such as mental health or physical conditions, instead of the short-term stressors that are characterized by different states of your nervous system. I personally have used it as a nootropic for improved mental performance and cognition. The caffeine L-theanine stack is one of the most rudimentary nootropic stacks out there, and there are studies on this. The combination of theanine at a dose of 97 mg and caffeine 40 mg has been seen to improve cognitive performance and subjective alertness. They tested this on 44 young adults and saw better accuracy on a task-switching test, self-reported alertness, and reduced self-reported tiredness. Now, this could be just caffeine, right? Because caffeine in itself is a very powerful nootropic. And this study didn't control for just caffeine alone, so we don't know the answer to this. However, it seems that caffeine is better at some things and theanine is better at other things. A 2021 systematic review did look at this and found that theanine alone has mild cognitive benefits and potentially worsens inhibitory control, whereas caffeine has a strong effect on attention and processing speed, but it increases mental fatigue and worsens impulsivity. The combination of the two enhances attention, cognitive control, and reaction time, while reducing mind-wandering. Caffeine plus L-theanine is better than one or the other alone, because theanine kind of smooths out the benefits of caffeine. Theanine also makes up for some of the negative side effects of caffeine on sleep. A 2023 randomized controlled trial gave participants 50 mg of theanine with 30 mg of caffeine and found that they woke up as frequently as if they hadn't gotten caffeine. They also slept longer when receiving theanine compared to just caffeine alone. So, if you are the kind of person who gets anxious or you get sleeping problems from caffeine, you can mitigate that by taking theanine with your caffeine. It's also going to improve cognitive effects of caffeine and reducing the stress and anxiety effects of caffeine. Theanine alone might also have benefits on sleep, which can be a cause of stress. In a 2025 meta-analysis of 18 studies, L-theanine showed moderate promise for subjective sleep quality, especially sleep latency and daytime function, but it failed to consistently improve objective sleep measures. Doses below 200 mg a day had the best results on sleep latency and subjective quality, whereas doses 200-400 mg a day improved daytime dysfunction and sleep quality. Higher than 400 mg a day showed no additional benefits. Overall, L-theanine is a small but very effective amino acid that can help to lower stress and anxiety. It makes you feel kind of smooth and relaxed, less hypervigilant. That can be a good thing for some individuals. If you are the person who is more anxious and more stressed out, more hypervigilant, then theanine can be a perfect supplement for you. But theanine might not be necessary and actually counterproductive for people who are already more relaxed and not so stressed out. That's why I personally don't use L-theanine often myself because I don't need to get these angiolitic or anti-stress effects. I actually benefit more from this stimulating effect of caffeine rather than L-theanine that would already keep me at this low state. But regardless, theanine is great and it works fast for lowering cortisol. Check out my other video where I rank 100 supplements from Worst the Best Next.