I think we're going to come up with different drugs and different cocktails of drugs that will show signs of not reducing scinessence but actually using transcriptto the lipidome the metabolome all the different omics make a cell look younger. So could you engineer our genome to carry varants that have been shown to lead to extend the lifespan in humans? >> Dr. Robins, welcome to the show. >> Great. Pleased to be here. See? Yeah, I'm happy to have you on the podcast. Now, many people might not be aware of you, but uh you're pretty known in the longevity field. So, maybe you can give a short and brief introduction about your background and um what is your main area of research? >> Yeah, great. Yes. So, I actually started in the gene therapy field. So, my first job as assistant professor was University of Pittsburgh focused on gene therapy for a variety of diseases. I ran a vector core facility in addition to running a molecular medicine institute. Uh but as we were developing therapies for a number of different diseases, I started to realize that the root cause of many of these diseases were similar and they seem to be things that change with aging. So I very quickly bought into this geroscience concept that the greatest risk factor for most diseases is the aging process. So uh when I moved to the scripts research institute in Jupiter Florida we started to focus on ways to target aging therapeutically uh choosing cellular scinessence as the hallmark of aging which we thought was the most druggable at the time and this was more than a decade ago. uh six and a half years ago I moved to University of Minnesota where I'm the co-director of the Masonic Institute on the biology of aging metabolism and we're very focused on cellular scinessence but a few other hallmarks of aging as targets to try to extend health span not lifespan. >> Gotcha. Yeah. You know scinessence is a synonymous to aging and you mentioned one of the hallmarks of aging is cell scinessence. So um what is cells in essence uh in the human body and and other organisms like what kind of a phenomenon is it and how does it relate to aging right question so cellular scinessence or it's scesscent cells it's a s fate so this what happens to almost any cell in your body if it acquires too much damage so this could be genotoxic stress it could be oxidated damage it could be mechanical stress um And if these cells then are stimulated in the way that they don't like, what they do is they exit the cell cycle and they undergo what's known as cellular scinessence. And what your body wants to do is get rid of these cells. So these scinsesscent cells in many cases, not all, start to release an inflammatory factors. And this stimulates your immune system to come clear them. So see somebody of your young age your immune system is probably clearing thousands or tens of thousands of scinesscent cells a day >> does it very effectively. Uh but as we age and our immune system starts to fail and you accumulate more cells there tips of balance where immune system doesn't clear them and this leads to an increase in inflammation but other adverse effects that are caused by this chronic accumulation of scinesscent cells. But cytoinesessence is thought to be an anti-tumor mechanism. So one of the ways that the cells are induced to enter a scinesscent cell state is by activation of an anka gene the mutation in in the gene or protein that drives cells to replicate. So when cells start to replicate when they're not supposed to. This scinsesscent sulfate kicks on cells enter this exit the cell cycle enter a state of cellular scinessence secrete these inflammatory cytoines in the immune system clears them and that reduce our risk of cancer. Um so scinessence is is a positive thing but as we age and these cells accumulate it can drive adverse pathologies and and diseases related to aging. M so there is a every cell has its I guess expiration date or lifespan and one of the outcomes of that journey is a sales scinessence that >> I don't know if they all have necessarily a lifespan if just if a cell and this can be a fully differentiated non-ividing cell such as a liver cell or a kidney cell or a brain cell um if they acquire so much damage >> that this fate sulfate then is stimulated and takes over. So some cells never sess, other cells if they have damage will sess. The other thing is that a scinesscent cell can drive neighboring cells or cells at a distance to enter a similar state because of these inflammatory factors that they >> so one scesscent cell can drive additional cells enter the scinsesscent sulfate which then amplifies the adverse effects. >> Should also mention that scinessence can play a positive role. There are examples where scinesscent cells come up or arise chronic sorry acutely in cases of wounding uh during embryogenesis. Um and so it's thought that some of these kind of transients scesscent cells actually release good factors that can stimulate wound healing or facilitate embryogenesis or some other positive effects when we're young and healthy. >> Yeah. So it's like the aging process you know aging is characterized by many things one of them being inflammation and uh mitochondrial dysfunction like there's other hallmarks of aging and immune cell immune dysfunction as well as you get older. So your cells become more vulnerable to this let's say you know damage like colloial derma damage and then the uh damage the cell can decide okay we can either turn cancerous or we can turn this cell scinesscent and the you know anti-cancer mech anti-cancer more rational approach would be to turn it scinesscent um so it's a better outcome than turning it cancerous but both of them still lead the to a decline in health over time because as the cells in a essence accumulates then uh you're experiencing I guess faster aging as I understand it correctly >> right and and so as you probably heard from others you know these hallmarks of aging which have been identified are all linked so scesscent cells have dysfunctional mitochondria there's a lot of evidence that that dysfunction in the mitochondria plays a role in driving cellular scinessence >> another example is that stem cells in your body as they age and acquire their damage may become scesscent. So you lose stem cell function and obviously scinsesscent cells release inflammatory factors. So they contribute to what extent we're not quite clear but they contribute to inflammation. >> So synet cells have many of the hallmarks of aging in them. They have altered proteostasis, altered autophagy, different changes in epigenetic marks. So a scesscent cell has many of the same features that affect the whole body. in in our other hallmarks of aging because they're all linked. >> Gotcha. So it's not like some chicken or egg >> right >> problem. It's or it is a chicken and egg problem. >> Yeah. >> And if you know so incesscent cells have dysfunctional mitochondria that leads to increases in reactive oxygen species which causes more DNA damage. This causes oxidative DNA damage and then that leads to uh the stimulation of more of a scessence state. So there's this aocrine effect. There's also a paragrin effect like I said affects neighboring cells and drives them into a state of cellular scinessence. >> You mentioned that that in early life these scinesscent cells can be beneficial for wound healing. Um would the I guess the question is like in older people if they have good wound healing would it be somehow pathological or would it somehow be detrimental because it would be like a sign of higher amount of sin cells or >> right it's it's a great question I think the field's still trying to determine what a good scinesscent cell looks like how to characterize it versus a a bad scinesscent cell But I think the data is suggesting that in older people that clearing scinesscent cells and and that may be predominantly the chronic ones actually improves wound healing. When you're young and you get rid of these scinesscent cells, it seems to inhibit wound healing. But when you're older, getting rid of the bad cells seems to be beneficial. >> Gotcha. >> And and clinical trials will be determining that. I think trials are currently ongoing. So we will see if wound healing whether it's diabetic ulcers or if it's recovery from surgery the wounding from surgery or other types of events if clearing cells in older people improves those processes. My my guess is the answer is going to be yes. >> Gotcha. What about lifespan in animals? Does clearing them out uh improve lifespan? >> Yeah, a great question. So um there's I won't say conflicting data but there's some experiments and this has mostly been done in transgenic mice where they've been modified so that you can clear with treatment with a drug certain types of scinesscent cells and in certain cases clearing those cells using these genetic models does not lead to a dramatic extension of lifespan. There was a recent paper that said that clearing a subtype of these scesscent cells, these are ones that have a marker called P21, extend the lifespan by about 10%. And there's a little bit of evidence with with drugs which we term senolytics that will preferentially kill scinsesscent cells that there may be a slight increase in longevity. But what we're looking for, I'm not a big believer that we're going to extend lifespan by 50 years over the next uh generation. uh the goal is to try to keep people healthier for longer. So we really focus on health span and I think one of the side effects of extending health span is that there is an increased lifespan. >> Gotcha. Yeah. What >> you don't want to do is increase lifespan so that the same decrease in vitality you know accumulation of frailty still happens at the same rate when you're just a little bit older. What we want to do is compress the curve so this period of coorbidity is very short as we age. So we're healthier for longer and then fall apart quickly, >> right? >> Not even have that slow decline that we're seeing that leads to time in nursing homes. >> Yeah. You know, people are living longer on average today than in the past. And uh that can be a negative thing because if you have a lot of old people who require a lot of help and u medical expenses etc. then that can overwhelm the system. Um yeah, the goal is yeah to have uh people who do live slightly longer but more importantly they stay healthier for longer and they have this longer hill span that they don't uh accumulate a lot of these co-orbidities late in life. >> Yes. And you know, there's a lot of discussion and you may have had guests on your program that may argue that, you know, we're going to see this huge extension of of lifespan. And >> I'm not necessarily disagreeing with that, but I think we're a long way off to start seeing those effects, >> Um, again, I see what we what we're seeing in in model systems, mice, rats, maybe non-human primates, is we can kind of >> extend this period of healthy aging, whether it's going to be a few years or longer. you know that's that I think is the is the initial goal and we'll talk about longevity in the future. >> Yeah. Yeah. And u scesscent cells can obviously have a important role in that. Do does AI would imagine then a higher amount of these scinesscent cells correlates to more these coorbidities like heart disease, cancer, Alzheimer's and uh other health ailments. >> Yes. So you know the question is whether all ailments are going to be driven by or at least have a contribution of scinesscent cells. I think in many cases it appears that in with human disease whether it's osteoarthritis or if it's Alzheimer's or uh liver diseases that there seems to be an increase in cellular scinessence and always the question is that the consequence of the disease or the cause of the disease and I think scinesscent cells contribute but it's not the only cause and not the only target so you know I think we will see benefits in numerous human diseases if we can reduces the scinesscent cell burden. Um, but it's not going to be the cure for everything. Uh, there's going to have to be other hallmarks of aging targeted, other modifications made to treatment protocols, but clearly reducing scinessence in older people that have an increase in scinessence. And that's the other issue was that we're not a a a mouse model that shares identical genomes. Everybody's different. And I think that if you took a a room of 65 year olds, there would be a third of those that would have high scinesscent cell burden and may not be aging as well. And then you're going to have a third that really have not not much scinessence. So we really have to identify ways of monitoring your scinesscent cell burden to determine if you're really one where senolytic will work, >> right? And so I think you know biomarker development so we can identify markers of bad scinessence or you know maybe there's a certain type of scinesscent cell that drives heart disease versus liver disease versus uh neuro degeneration. So I think trying to identify the the scinsesscent cells we need to target for different diseases is also going to be important. >> I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices which are the bond charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longevity influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bone Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most therapy devices don't have the right wavelengths of light which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Boncharge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to bunchcharge.com and use the code seam sim for a 15% discount. Are there any ways to eliminate these sitin cells or is it actually something that you want to do to remove them? >> Yeah, it's it's a great question. I think the data in model system says clearing scinesscent cells kind of across the board is beneficial at least in older mice younger mice that's a different question because they're like I said these cells may be beneficial >> um so it appears that if you take older mice and you treat them with drugs and I'll talk about these drugs in a second and these are drugs that are termed senolytics that will kill at least a subset of scinesscent cells that they're benefits across the board. Um, and this seems improve immune function, seems to improve cognitive function, seems to improve liver function, seems to reduce inflammation, improve mitochondrial function, improve stem cell function. Um, and and so so the drugs, the class of drugs we're working on are termed senolytics. Um, and we were involved in the defecation of the first senolytics with Jim Kirkland and Tamar Jacone at the Mayo Clinic. Um and so we identified the first generation of drugs which in most cases turn out to be anti-cancer drugs and it makes sense because as I alluded to scesscent sulfate can be driven by ocoagene activation. So you have cells that are starting to become cancerous scesscent sulfates turned on and what appears that there actually are these networks or pathways that block apoptosis or cell death. The tumor cells turn on. That's one of the ways they become uh kind of immortal and able to proliferate in your body. And so drugs that target these pathways that keep the cells from dying, tumor cells, also appear to kill many types of scinsesscent cells. So many of the drugs which have been approved for cancer seem to have effects at least on certain classes or types of scinesscent cells. Um, we've also identified natural products that have this ability to kill scesscent cells, but many of these also have had the ability to kill tumor cells. So, in some ways, we're kind of killing that early stage precancerous uh cell that may lead to a tumor cell uh using drugs which have this cenolytic activity. So in theory if we use our cenolytics it's going to clear these scinsesscent cells that have anka gene activation that if they break through the scinsesscent sulfate they eventually lead to cancer. So very analytics will reduce your risk of most types of cancers as a way of extending health span and potentially lifespan. >> Gotcha. >> Yeah that's a that's would be like the best case scenario that you'll eliminate both the scenic cell and the cancerous cell. >> Yeah. um which of these analytics are the best researched >> right so the first generation and this was the paper we published with Jim Kirkland in 2016 was showing that an anti-cancer drug that targets what are known as uh tyrrosen kinase receptors a whole family of them that this drug the satinib in combination with a flavonoid that's present in many fruits and vegetables called corsettin that that combin ation was able to induce what we call senolyis or death of scinesscent cells in culture and there probably have been two dozen or more clinical trials either started or completed at this point with D plus Q u as we call it the satnip plus core satettin um there's evidence I mean it's not overwhelming evidence but in some of the clinical trials have been finished there's evidence that in the top 35% that have the scinesscent cell burden that they're responding or showing benefits of D plus Q. >> Uh I don't think the satnib and corsettin is really that uh much of an optimal cenolytic combination. It was just the first one identified. Um the satin nib is an FDA approved anti-cancer drug. Corsettin you can buy from Amazon and as a supplement. So it was easy to move into the clinic but there now what we call second generation senolytics coming multiple targets identified in different types of scinesscent cells. Um so I think there's going to be much better and much safer uh senolytics uh that are at least in pre-clinical models and we'll have to see how they function in in the clinic. Um I should point I keep talking about different types of scinesscent cells but it's really becoming clear that if you take a tissue such as the brain or the liver so for example the liver you can see scinsesscent apatocytes scesscent kofer cells um scesscent infiltrating immune cells and each one of these scinsesscent cells seems to have a different inflammatory profile. So the thought is and we haven't proven it that they may be having different types of adverse effects and so it may be for uh certain types of liver diseases you want to clear scesscent for another type of disease you may want to clear the infiltrating scinesscent immune cells. Um so you know so we're still trying to sort out what are the different types of scinesscent cells that we need to target and then what's the best drug or drug combination to do that. And I guess I guess is the other question you asked, you know, is it is it beneficial to clear scesscent cells, you know, because you're you're in theory making a hole in a tissue where these scinesscent cells are. Um, and I think the best example is, you know, if there scinsesscent neurons that accumulate with Alzheimer's or Parkinson's and these cells don't replenish because they're fully differentiated. So killing off a scinesscent neuron may not be a good thing. >> Um but at least in animal models clearing scinesscent cells from aged mice or mice with neurenerative diseases like Alzheimer's it's been beneficial. There's better cognition uh better behavior better motor skills. So we've not seen any adverse effects for eliminating a few scinsesscent cells in the brain or in other tissues at least at this point. you know, we'll have to see if we continue in the clinic with these clinical studies. >> Yeah, I guess you know, the most important thing is what's the final outcome. You know, there might be some side effects with clearing out zinesscent cells, but if you live longer and you're healthier, then uh it's apparently not that bad or you know, there's uh the end end outcomes are something that I think matter sometimes more, >> right? And you know it may be that um as we'll find out that there really are not that many scinsesscent neurons. So it's only a few that are being cleared. It appears that it's the micro ga which are immune cell type in the brain. They're they're similar to macrofasages that they develop a scinesscent like phenotype. So clearing those appears to have a benefit. Maybe aststerytes maybe liodendraites. So we're still identifying the right scesscent cells that are arising you know. uh what they are, where where we see them in the brain and then and then what drugs are the most effective at killing them. But again, as I said, animal models, we've seen no adverse effects of clearing scinesscent cells. >> Gotcha. In at least in older animals. >> Yeah. Would it be possible to somehow reverse the scinesscent cell to back to a normal cell or more youthful cell? kind of some uh gene editing with yammonica factors or something to make it more youthful again. >> Yeah, that's a great question. So, you know, there's you could discuss whether taking a cell that's been damaged that may have acquired uh mutations or other changes that might make it detrimental if it started to proliferate again. Uh there's been discussions that, you know, that's the last thing we want to do is rejuvenate a precancerous cell. Um, but it does appear that with OSKM, which are the amanaka factors, that you can take at least certain types of scinesscent cells and make them look younger. Um, and I think it's going to be something we're going to have to determine clinically is if these more youthful cells um are, you know, if you have ones which are maybe damaged and have mutations that make them more youthful, if that's going to be a bad thing. um you know maybe as we rejuvenate cells in the body it's going to improve your immune function and so your immune function might still be able to recognize these precancerous cells and clear them. Mhm. >> So that's the other the other uh kind of unknown is when we treat mice with drugs like senolytics or other targeted hallmarks of aging. If you improve immune function, you're going to reduce your scinesscent cell burden. So many of therapies out there might have indirect effects on scinessence by improving immune function which then leads to better clearance of your scinesscent cell burden. So there's maybe multiple ways that a drug could function to extend health span and reduce your scinesscent cell burden. >> Mhm. Yeah. You mentioned the immune system that it's uh central to clearing out the sin cells during youth and with age you see a decline in immune system function which is one of the reasons there's a higher burden of sin cells. Um are there any I guess therapeutic options uh here to uh support immunity in elderly people? >> Right. So there obviously a lot of supplements they're being sold because they improve immune function I think with very little evidence that suggests that's the case. Um I I I I think there are and and so we have a large grant from uh the NIH to look at ways of reducing immune scinessence because we do know that T-C cells, B cells, macrofasages, NK cells show profiles that make them appear scesscent. Are they truly scesscent or they're scinsesscentlike? But they're clearly dysfunctional. So if you get rid of these dysfunctional immune cells, will that improve the function of the remaining cells? And so we are doing experiments to look at that phenomenon and see if we can identify compounds which may not have to be senolytics but other classes. Can we improve immune responses to pathogen exposure and to cancer? And so uh we and others are are are working on that. And I think that at least the animal data looks very promising. Mhm. >> Um and and there's you know there probably trials in humans too. I think the question always comes is you know as I'm alluding to if you have scinsesscent cells that are releasing inflammatory factors those inflammatory factors alter immune function because it changes their ability to react to a pathogen or to a tumor. Um so clearing scinesscent cells from the liver might improve immune function. Alternatively, if you can target the dysfunctional potentially scinesscent immune cells, it will then clear the scinesscent cells in the liver and make the liver better. So, we're still trying to sort out, you know, do we need to target immune cells or non-immune cells that are scesscent? Um, and I think the answer is going to be both. I think as always, it's going to be a contribution of both. Just the overall scinesscent cell burden you want to reduce and you want to try to reduce scinessence in different classes of immune cells. H what about rapamyin? That's uh one of those u pharmaceuticals that has been seen to improve immune immunity in elderly people right so it gets back to you know what's what cells are being targeted by rapamy but clearly you know that was the first drug really demonstrated to extend lifespan in mice it's in a number of clinical trials in humans um I think dosing and when do you start treatment is still a question um but yes rapamy has been shown by a variety of groups and ourselves to actually reduce scinessence. It doesn't kill scesscent cells, but it suppresses the inflam inflammatory factors that scesscent cells release. So drugs like rapamy that suppress this inflammatory component we call cenomorphics. So it doesn't kill the scinesscent cell, it suppresses that. Um what we don't know is what the key target is. Well, not target, but which hallmark of aging is is the target for rapid mice and clearly the targets mTor that that regulates nutrient signaling, regulates gene expression, regulates this inflammatory component in scinesscent cells. But is that how rapamy is working is by reducing the inflammatory component of scinsesscent cells? Is it u improving responses to nutrients? Is it affecting metabolism? Is it affecting stem cell function? I think we're still sorting out as in many cases with drugs what's the key pathway u but it does reduce scinessence and I think that contributes and and through that reduction in scinessence we think improves immune function also um and that was shown by Joan Manic where she uh treated a number of the older patients and showed that they responded to either um a tetanus vaccine or the flu vaccine uh much more efficiently >> if got intermittent rapamy treatment. >> Yeah. Yeah. The uh previous belief was that rapamy is a well it is a imunosuppressent drug that is used for u organ transplant patients but that turns out yeah if you dose it intermittently then it actually increases the immune system function. >> Yeah. Yeah. Intermittent treatment is in a lower doses. So the dosing is also important. You know rapamy has some side effects at high doses uh or continued treatment. There are a number of what are called rapaloges being developed which may target more the right mtor complex and not other mTor complexes that might be beneficial. Um so we'll have to see I I think uh you know number of these trials have started for different age related diseases and we'll see if the rapogs are are as or more effective than rapamy but you know clearly rapamy has a beneficial effect if dosed correctly uh in mice and appears in people with certain conditions. >> Mhm. What would be then more let's say practical uh things people can do to reduce their sale in essence cell burden and obviously it's going to be different between younger individuals and older so maybe we can do you know let's say older than uh 50 and younger than 50 >> right so you know unfortunately uh the answer is the same answer you would get when you ask what can you do to live longer and healthier and that's diet and exercise >> um it's been shown that uh exercise in mice and I think in humans uh can reduce scinesscent cell burden at least with the markers we have that measure scinessence in humans. Um so exercise has you know whether it's through stimulating your immune function to clear the scinesscent cells or if it's through a different mechanism still not quite clear. Uh your diet can affect scinessence. We had a review article in cell metabolism recently with Dudley Laming talking about all the ways you can reduce scinessence and a variety of dietary interventions which will do that. I I think caloric restriction has a benefit there too. Um but not everybody as we know at least in the US exercises or eats well. So we still think there's a a role for developing uh pharmaceuticals that can target scinesscent cells that can be taken intermittently and safely to reduce the burden. Um and and in mouse studies, scinessence, diet or a senolytic seem to give similar results with many cases though the senolytic working slightly better. >> So diet, exercise and hopefully eventually we'll have u have compounds that you can take safely and and I think the reason why they'll be safe is because you take them intermittently. >> You don't have to take them daily to eliminate your scinesscent cells. >> Yeah. What kind of dietary components did you uh find were beneficial? >> Uh well, there's numerous studies. It depends on the model system, but uh you know, it's been it's clear they're reducing your chloric intake. Uh compressed eating u has a benefit. And then there you know amino acid uh or diets are reduced in certain amino acids that have altered effects on scinessence. But it's still not clear what your right mixture of carbohydrates and proteins and then amino acid composition uh in humans is going to have the biggest benefit because we see differences between mouse strains. So even within mice >> different strains respond differently. >> Gotcha. I think what we're going to need is uh a way of like I said really determining your scinesscent cell burden and determining if you need a certain type of diet or treatment as compared to somebody else. And so eventually this will become a personalized treatment regimen. You can either, you know, send your blood in and get your epigenetic clock or they can measure five uh scinsesscent or proteins that scesscent cells secrete, determine your scinesscent cell burden and then make suggestions on either diet, exercise, andor drugs you could take that target your scesscent cells. >> Mhm. You mentioned the amino acids. Is it that certain amino acids increase cells in a sense or uh or protein restriction or amino acid restriction reduces them or which way is it? >> I think it it depends on the strain probably depends on the cell type and the tissue. Um >> but but clearly you know I think if you look at mice drugs that have the biggest effect on lifespan there's rapamy but then there's there are uh metformin sgt2 inhibitors and these are ones that seem to be used or are used to treat diabetes because they normalize metabolism. So at least in mice normalizing your metabolism is beneficial and if you normalize your metabolism we know metformin treatment SGLT2 treatment or inhibitor of SGLT2 that they reduce your scinesscent cell burden. So improving metabolism reduces scinessence or maybe these drugs reduce scinessence which affects metabolism. But clearly drugs that humans are taking for type 2 diabetes. Metform and SGLT2 inhibitors are having a a benefit on health span across the board as well as able to reduce markers of scinessence. >> Interesting. Yeah. And I guess the other drug I should toss in there um and maybe we can discuss this later on is uh is GLP-1 >> or GLP-1 receptor agonist that there was a long discussion at the recent uh meeting on aging research and drug development in Copenhagen. you know, is GLP-1 or are GLP-1 like drugs our first anti-aging drugs because there's data coming out that GLP-1, you know, and related drugs can have effects on Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, heart disease, osteoarthritis, liver disease. Um, and it's still not clear the mechanism. I'm I'm still surprises me but yeah every time I pick up a journal there's an article about a zmp or related uh compound having a positive effect on an age- related disease. Mhm. >> So they're saying will GLP-1 agon GLP-1 receptor agonist be the first true anti-aging drug and and the panel of people from pharma they all said yes >> right >> surprising so um you know GLP-1 also normalize your metabolism again we don't understand all the mechanisms um there may be adverse effects on muscle function which they're trying to develop combinations of drugs that that don't reduce muscle mass in function when you take GLP-1 agonist but I think they're going to eventually overcome that side effect and these will be drugs that people will take after a certain age to extend their health span. >> How big of a that effect comes from just a calorie restriction or eating less? >> It's it's a question I always ask and uh I think the answer is not quite clear. They think they're actually some disease modification that you know the best example would be osteoarthritis is a simply losing weight allows your knee joints to feel better. But they say there's actually changes in the joint architecture. Uh it almost looks like a disease modifying drug that can that can improve the joint structure. So um and that's thought not to be just through weight loss but is the chloric restriction u mimicking you know chloric restriction medics >> uh yes that probably is part of it but they think there's more and u and what's interesting is that many cells in the brain chondrices in the joint actually express the receptor for GLP-1. >> Yeah. >> Which again I'm very surprised at why these cells would express a receptor for something that regulates appetite. M >> still a lot to learn about GLP-1. >> Yeah, you know, people have the impression that it just makes you eat less, but uh yeah, there's a lot of other systemic effects because uh because of the hormonal effects you get from that uh increase in GLB1. So yeah, it's um you know, pro probably a lot of the effects come from eating less, but uh there's additional benefits as well probably. Yes, I think that's definitely the case. >> Yeah. What about the um you know these overcounter supplements you mentioned fiscetin, queretin, epigenine etc. Is it something that people should consider already or like what what do you think is the evidence uh right now? >> Right. It's a it's a great question. I'm asked this one a lot because uh again in collaboration with Jim Kirkland we were the first group to publish that ficetin had cenic activity and this has led to multiple clinical trials with ficettin. Uh ficettin is not the best senolytic um and it takes high doses to see a benefit in mice. Um we have made analoges of ficettin which we think are much more effective that we hope to be taken to the clinic soon. We've identified some of the targets of this class of flavonoids that probably bind or interact with 50 hundred you know hundreds of of proteins. So we don't really know what the key target is of ficetin. Um I think the problem with taking fetin and and I I don't think there's a downside. In fact many people in the aging field are taking fetin. I I take it intermittently myself. Um but we really don't know the dose. So some people take a certain dose daily, some people take a higher dose once a week. Uh during co when we showed that ficein actually protects old mice from a virus similar to cars SARS cove 2, we started to take fetin to protect ourselves from covid if you were so infected. Um but again we we don't know what the right dose is. So we were taking two high uh you know for two days we took high doses went 14 days and another two days with a high dose no evidence that that's the right dosing regimen. >> Mhm. >> Um so I don't think there's a an adverse effect of at least we've not seen that but I don't necessarily recommend people taking these huge doses every week or two. Uh people that take it once a day I've seen say they feel better. You know quettins probably like ficetin maybe not quite as effective. Uh but there are a number of flavonoids. And another one that we're working on it's not a flavonoid is a drug called fuccoidin >> which is a complex liosaccharide that comes from brown seaweed that's taken as a health supplement in Asia. And there are dozens of different uh types of brown seaweed that you can isolate fuccoidin from. But we showed fcoidin actually functions as we call a cenomorphic. It suppresses the inflammatory components of scinesscent cells. And we think it does this because it stimulates an enzyme called cert 6 uh which is evolved in DNA repair. And we have evidence in mice at least not in humans yet but in mice that fuccoidin can improve DNA repair which if you reduce genotoxic stress there's less scinessence less inflammation um and so they're now starting clinical trials with pucoidon to see if there's benefits in humans again people take this but there's been really no controlled studies to look at markers of aging epigenetic clock mitochondrial function etc and scinessence M yeah six is I think the only certain that's been seen to extend lifespan in in in animal models. The other ones not so much but search six. Yes. >> Yes. So there are multiple companies now selling fuccoidin as a c six agonist and uh you know and I'm hopeful that the clinical trials that are being set up um that hopefully are going to be set up in a blinded manner quality control that uh will determine if certain sources indeed has a health benefit. Um but people take fcoidin they take corsetin they take fisticatin uh you know we could talk about NAD precursors that people take you know I think the data is still limited in humans about the benefit um because we don't know the right dosing regiment >> or the subset of people they're going to respond best to these drugs. Not everybody's going to respond the same way across the board. >> Gotcha. What about like gene therapies? um there's they become I guess more known uh in the longevity space and um is there any even like a possibility to do some gene therapies to help with scinesscent cells or I mean I guess you can make gene therapies for immune system function but what about scinesscent cells >> right so when you talk about gene the aging there's there are different types of gene therapies you could imagine so you know one of them um being del developed by Scott Low and Krina Moore um at Closing Harbor. Uh they're making CARTT cells. So we can engineer TE-C cells that will target a tumor cell. They're trying to engineer TE-C cells that target a scinesscent cell and they have shown if you clear scesscent cells expressing a protein on their surface using these modified TE-C cells that the mice are healthier for longer. I think the issue was going to be is what is the right protein to target on a scesscent cell. Is there really something specific for a scesscent cell that's not expressed on normal cells? And so their question is going to be about safety moving forward. But I think there will be clinical trials using CARTT cells that target scinsesscent cells in the future. Um other people are trying to deliver growth factors um using viral vectors um that you deliver to different tissues. uh for example you could deliver cloth which has been shown that if you mice without cloth live a very short lifespan if you deliver it back with a gene therapy you can you can extend lifespan of those mice um so that's another approach I think the question there is is if the protein you're expressing can have adverse effects if you make too much of it there's going to be a safety consideration so it may be certain gene products are going to be safe if you deliver and overexpress them in the body other ones may not be you know if you make GLP-1 at an elevated level constitively is there going to be a downside in 5 years so I think there's some safety considerations um the other approach which has been discussed um and George Church I think has been a big proponent of this and has talked about it uh is using crisper cast or other mod other forms of gene editing to deliver varants that are found in satinarians into people that are not centinarians. And so I am part of a large effort with Albert Einstein and Columbia University to do sequencing of centinarian genomes to identify what we call not mutations but their variants. For example, we identified a variant in search six that make it more active which led to us to do the fcoid studies. So the thought might be that you could actually deliver or or engineer certain cells and certain tissues to have this rare variant in cert 6 or IGF-1 receptor or in other um there's some in genes regulating cholesterol synthesis that may have effects on health span. So you know so could you engineer our genome to carry variants that have been shown to lead to extend the lifespan in humans? I think we're a long way off from that but you know it's it is feasible in theory. uh so we can deliver genes. Um another example of a gene uh you know keep talking about search 6 but it's kind of been uh something that my lab in collaboration with Ver Gorbanova and others uh that we've been focusing on but we found variance in search six and centinarians companies have taken that centinarian in search 6 and delivered it to liver with an AAV ano associated viral vector and the mice are healthier if you overexpress this this variant of 6 or you could engineer using crisper cast the gene edit in the liver to introduce this variant into the search 6 gene. So you could think about ways going forward and I think we're a long way off because I think there safety considerations um but it's something we could consider in the future that will allow those of us who are not going to be centinarians um to live healthier for longer. M >> the qu how many of these rare variants do you need that takes somebody who's not a centinarian and I have no centinarians in my family so I'm not expecting to live to 100 but can I engineer five genes 10 genes 50 genes what you know how many do you have to engineer for me now to be a satinarian >> you know what tissues and how what percent of the cells in that tissue lots of questions uh >> it is something that companies are working on and and you know I think eventually will be there whether it's 10 years or 50 years, I think eventually these approaches will be applied to to the human condition. >> Yeah. You know, some some of the ones we are aware of things like APOE4 and maybe IG IGF-1 pathways maybe uh and I would imagine there's something uh related to scinesscent cells as well. Some genes that help them to clear them out more easily or something like that. you know there's immune system related genes that are associated with longevity. So there's a handful of them that we're aware of. I guess there's no one who has you know done all of them to actually see what's the effect. >> Yeah. I you know so that's it's always the question when you look at rare variants you talked about you know IGF-1 pathway you know search 6 um you know the and then you talk about bad genes like APOE4 you know the the beauty of the centinarian studies is there have been there have been centinarians identified that have high-risisk variances in APOE uh even people with broco one mutations that something about these rare variants that they carry that are beneficial can can block the adverse effects of a bad APOE >> or broa one or broa 2. So you know I think there's going to be a lot to learn from centinarians and then and then obviously modulating IGF signaling which is one of the first variants identified in centinarians. Uh there's a transcription factor fox3 that's been shown to be uh expressed differently in centinarians. Um, so I think if we can identify the beneficial variants, they can actually suppress these bad variants. So you may not have to actually gene edit that AP4. You may have to edit in a C sex variant or an IGF-1 variant or >> uh we some variants that affect the level of a transcription factor NFCappa B maybe downregulate NFCappa B so it's not as inflammatory late in life. So, but these are things that will be coming as we sequence more centinarian genomes, we validate them in mice, we validate them in cell culture models >> and then you know eventually as the gene editing technology gets better and safer I think these will be applied to trying to make us more of us centinarians. >> Yeah. And then you know I think this is going to be you know one of the big leaps that will you know lead to some more breakthroughs in uh longevity and uh life expecties because uh genetics is very powerful. I think a lot of people underestimate the power of genetics when it comes to how long you live. Even just by the fact that if you have long parents or grandparents then your likelihood of reaching that also like 100 or 110 or something like that is uh you know huge compared to the average person who doesn't have long parents. So yeah, longevity runs in families a lot that it's very genetic and if you understand those genes then yeah maybe we can use these gene editing to actually apply to uh more people. Yeah, I think it's just going to be, you know, the safety issue. Uh, you know, treating a rare disease that has a very poor prognosis with these new methods. I mean, that you can justify, but taking millions of people, you know, across the country and starting to edit their genomes, you know, wait 10 years and see what adverse effects there could be if it turns out there's offtarget effects. uh you know so there's going to have to be a lot of studies done treating more severe diseases with these approaches to really support moving us into treating the masses and there's also a cost factor too I mean the goal for all of us is to develop safe effective and affordable ways of extending health span so again we're not trying to do this for just people in Silicon Valley and Wall Street we're trying to do this for you know the average American and the average person around around the globe. Um and so we have to do this we have to do studies and characterize people with different ethnic background uh which there you know genetics may be a little bit different. There may be different rare variants and some may have a different ethic background than another. But we have to come out of a way to make this kind of safe effective affordable for everyone. >> And that's the reason why something like a facet if we can make a better facet or make you know a natural compound or come up with a cocktail um that's cheap and affordable. I mean metformin is about the cheapest drug you can get and if you know if it really shows in the tame trial to extend health span uh you know that's a drug that many people could get access to. >> What are you what are you um what is your like next biggest projects you're focusing on like what obviously we talked about uh the 10year goal with uh a lot of these uh therapeutics. what is the your biggest focus right now for you? >> Yeah, it's hard to always pick one but um I guess I guess I I'll I'll name three. We'll start with there. But uh so so the first one is that um within our institute we've generated mouse models where we can induce scinessence in the cell type or tissue specific way. So we're making a whole panel of mouse models where you can induce DNA damage and scinessence in cells in the liver, the brain and muscle and the heart and pancreas uh the intestine and then trying to look at what pathologies those subsets of scinesscent cells cause. Again trying to identify what are the key scinesscent cell types we should be targeting. We're then trying to optimize our analytics. We've developed in vitro cell culture screens. We have been mouse models that can validate the drugs that score positive as senolytics on certain types of scinesscent cells and we're trying to optimize them with doing medicinal chemistry. So we really have a portfolio of new senolytics that we're trying to take forward as well as identify what the right lead compound is. I mean that's the problem is we have too many senalytics that look promising. We have to identify the one or two we want to take forward. Um and then we've gotten into trying to understand partial rejuvenation. Um you know again you asked about uh partial rejuvenation with the amanaka factors which companies like Altos and others are really focused on um and whether you know these OSCM factors can rejuvenate scinesscent cells and appears in mouse models that they can. Um so so we've been screening for cenolytics that can take a scinesscent cell and not kill it but make it not showing all these markers of scinessence and some of them actually make the cells look younger healthier at the transcriptional level and the epigenetic level. So we're starting to think that that some of the drugs we're identifying may have partial rejuvenation effects not only you know and and that's how they're affecting scinessence is through partial rejuvenation and not by directly targeting scinessence. So so we are now trying to do more assays and more characterization both in cell culture and in mice about some of the drugs that we've identified uh that may have partial rejuvenation effects. uh you know I do think that what Altos and others are doing is is very exciting. The question is always going to be safety uh of expressing almanaka factors the drive cells into a state of uh embryionic uh stem cellness um is not what we want to be doing. So and some of the genes could be causing cancer if overexpressed or not turned off. So how do you regulate their levels and control them? So we're trying to look at other approaches including small molecule approaches that may have the ability to partially rejuvenate cells. And I think that really is the holy grail. I think in some ways when we're focused on these different hallmarks, many of the the approaches are actually partially rejuvenating an age cell. Uh we just never really look at partial rejuvenation. So I think we're going to come up with different drugs and different cocktails of drugs that will um show signs of not reducing scinessence targeting other hallmarks of aging but actually using the transcriptto the lipidome the metabolome all the different omics make a cell look younger >> and then the question will be is what's you know are there safety risk doing that. >> Gotcha. Yeah, it's uh unfortunately it takes a long time to uh do these studies. And >> I mean that's the problem with aging is that um you know animal models if you don't work on worms and flies take a long time. Um so how I got into the aging space was started to collaborate with somebody that has mouse models of accelerated aging that that mimic human progeras. Um and so these mice age six to seven times faster. So we're able to do drug treatment studies faster or assess a genetic change in these mouse models, what effect it has on aging. Um and then take those what looks positive we can take into natural aging and then hopefully eventually in people um and it may be that picking individuals that have you know proggeras whether it's Hutcherson Guilford or Zerod pigmentotosum or cocaine syndrome that they might be actually an orphan disease that could be these drugs these I can't say anti-aging but drugs that extend healthband might be beneficial in these individuals that are aging faster. >> Gotcha. So that would accelerate some of these studies. So we're trying to find ways that we can identify therapeutics faster and then identify the right patient population for for testing them. >> Yeah. Well, I'm definitely going to keep an eye out on uh your future studies and uh work before I ask my last question. Where can people learn more about you and your work? >> Yes. So if you look for uh the Masonic Institute in the Biology of Aging and Metabolism, it's called Maybam. If you search for my band at University of Minnesota um our institute's website, there's a lot of information um about what's going on. Uh we are starting um hopefully a quarterly newsletter that uh you'll be able to download from our website. Uh we've only talked about it for six years. We're finally launching that uh this fall. So we will have a newsletter that highlights accomplishments uh both pre-clinical and clinical, highlights papers, highlights awards, etc. for new grants. Um, so I think between the newsletter and the website, I also have my own website at robins.n.edu, uh, where again we have updates on papers and projects. Um, I I think it's a goal for everybody in aging research to make the public aware of what's happening uh, both the positive and the negative uh, based on highquality science. Um, I think science, we won't talk politics, is under attack in the US at this point. So, uh, it's up for us doing aging research to get the message out about where the field is and what we've shown and what we haven't shown. >> Uh, you know, we're not out hawking supplements uh, just for the sake of supplements, but uh, trying to do well controlled clinical studies to evaluate whether supplements work either alone or in combination. So, so it's something we're all trying to do is how to determine how to get the word out about you know high level science in the aging space >> but from my lab our institute but also around the world how do we get this message out >> so we're working on new ways to convey it whether it's podcast newsletters websites etc. Hm. Yeah. Well, I'm happy to help with that. And um my last question is, uh what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? >> Oh, it's a great question. Um you know, again, getting back to nutrition and exercise, uh it it took me turning 50 before I started to think about this more. Uh, I always exercised and played sports, but then as your body gets older and your knee starts to hurt a little bit, you're not as active on the squash court. Uh, so I think I finally learned to find exercise routines um in diets that I actually can follow, not just imagine, but actually follow um that are, you know, appropriate for older people. Uh, and you know, I I'm not a big pill taker, but I do take Facetin. Um I have taken metformin in the past but uh for whatever reason didn't continue it. Um but I think I'll probably be taking a few more supplements as we identify in well control blinded clinical studies that they show a benefit. >> But I think coming up with a a diet that is manageable uh and an exercise routine that's appropriate uh that you can actually follow u is a big step forward. You don't have to go out and run marathons or bike 100 miles, but there are things you can do um that that can keep you fitter for longer. And I think that all has benefits as we're developing hopefully the first generation of I don't I hate the word anti-aging, but compounds that will extend health span, >> slow aging. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, looking forward to it, too. And you we have to do what uh is possible in that time and moment. So uh right now this is the most effective way to slow it down on aging. >> Well, you're such a young guy, you have time before you have to start worrying about this. So I think by the time you get older and have to worry about the aging process, there's going to be a number of uh pharmaceuticals and biologics that have >> shown efficacy in well-controlled clinical studies. So I think you there's going to be a lot of hope >> for those of us who are older. Uh we keep talking about how we're running out of time. We have to do this quickly. But uh the field is definitely moving forward because the quality of the science has uh gotten better and there are true scientific studies being done and not just snake oil being sold. So the field is really moving forward in a very exciting time to be in aging research. >> Yeah, absolutely. Uh well, thanks for coming to the podcast and uh it was very valuable and informative. >> Well, thank you for having me. I enjoyed it. Thank you. >> I'll see you around. >> All right. Take care.