 If your genetic potential is, let's say 80 years, if your genetic potential is, let's say 80 years, and you optimally combine, let's say the top 7 lifestyle factors that we have, including not drinking, not smoking, not smoking, exercising, not being metabolically unhealthy, sleep, 7-9 hours, self-reported good social connections, at 40, you get an extra 5 years, but at 90, it goes down to an extra year. From 80, you live to 85, but if you have none of those factors, you lose something like 15 years. You need those lifestyle factors in order to get a chance, chance to reach your genetic potential. And if you're really good at optimizing, you can get a little bit on your average lifespan, but very little on your maximal lifespan. It doesn't push 120. But it looks to us that right now, a good number, heritability is above 50%. Now our full genetic potential can shine out. And now we can discuss what's the remaining 50%. Dr. Uri, welcome to the show. Nice to be here. Thank you for inviting me. Excited to have you. And the reason I wanted to talk with you is because you and your colleagues recently published a paper that over, I guess, challenged some of the previous assumptions about the role of genetics and lifestyle in human longevity. So yeah, maybe we can start with that paper. And what did you find? Now, so when you look at textbooks and books on aging, you find a number that comes from Danish twin studies. And it says that lifespan or life expectancy, average lifespan is about 25, 20, 25% heritable. And there's recent more like 2018 papers looking at millions of family trees, and they claim a number less, even 10% or 7% heritable. And that has huge implications because that means that if it's not heritable, what is it, right? Is it in our hands, lifestyle, maybe something else? And on the other hand, it's kind of weird because we know that there are families that are long lived. And then animals, it's very heritable. And most other human traits are 50% heritable or more and more. So what's going on? And we discovered in our paper that both in modern, basically, the way we started was we looked at more modern, new data that hasn't been analyzed on Swedish twins born 1920 to 1935. So their, their life is more very similar to ours, including all the cardiovascular, et cetera. And we found a heritability of 44%. Just raw heritability. You know, you look at monozygotic twins, dizygotic twins, and you do the regular calculation and say, what's going on? And twins born a little bit earlier had lower heritability. And twins born a little bit earlier at lower heritability. And then we looked at the original Danish studies, twins born 1870 to 1900. And then we said, oh my gosh, at that time, there were a lot of deaths from pneumonia, tuberculosis, 1% died before age 30 like that. That's so different from today. Yeah. So if you have a situation like that, it doesn't, who cares how long your parents lived, right? It's like your genes have very little effect. If you have a lot of this, what's called extrinsic mortality, even though, of course there is some genetics on who dies from pneumonia and who not, but this is very minor compared to this huge effect of having early deaths on this trait you're trying to measure. Now I want to say about heritability, it's tricky. Heritability is not a gravitational constant, but it depends on the population and the time period you're in. So it's correct that in 1870, the heritability was 20%. Right. Because of this extrinsic mortality, genes didn't matter that much. Yeah. But if we want to look today, we want to account for extrinsic deaths. So both the new data on twins born in 1922 to 1935 where extrinsic mortality was much lower than 1870 to 1900, points us in the way. But then we can also mathematically correct for extrinsic deaths. And we did that in many, many different ways. And what we found was that when you correct for extrinsic deaths, as you say, you do kind of a counterfactual, if 1870 to 1900 had no extrinsic deaths, or if 1920 to 1935 had no extrinsic deaths, how much would heritability be? And for all of them, we get the same number, about 50%, a little bit higher. So we say that we don't know what the heritability is today because we have to wait for the twins to die, you know, et cetera. But our good estimate is that it should be a little bit above 50%. Now, I also want to say another thing. Medicine can correct for bad genes. So things like stents. And so in the future, we can have even lower heritability again, if we can correct for all the bad genes, right? So genes wouldn't matter anymore if you can deal with all the diseases, et cetera. But it looks to us that right now, a good number, heritability is about above 50%. And we also looked at US siblings of centenarians and many other datasets, and it all fits. Did I explain it myself? Yeah. So like in the past, there's initial studies that estimated that the lifespan is about 80% lifestyle and 20% genetic. They were kind of confounded by the fact that people had higher mortality from just poor living conditions and outside factors. Like you mentioned that these respiratory infections, diseases, possibly war, and just, you know, we didn't even have antibiotics back then. So a lot of those things contributed. Yeah. Yeah. Poor nutrition, poor hygiene. Yeah. And, and by the way, it's not, so there, the result is correct for 1870, but it can't be interpolated to today. Yeah. Yeah. Today we have fixed a lot of those issues. So people can, I guess you could say that people have now the possibility to reach their maximum lifespan. Whereas back in the day, even a hundred years ago, you know, if you could, if you got some infectious disease in your teens, then your likelihood of reaching the age of 60 or 70 was much lower. Exactly. Now our full genetic potential can shine out. Yeah. And now we can discuss what's the remaining 50%. Right. Yeah. So you mentioned that there's a lot of, I guess, you know, you people can frame it in a sense that genetic is a lot more powerful than I previously thought. So what do you think then? Yeah. You mentioned it's kind of 50, 50 with lifestyle and 50% genetics. So how will I didn't say that? Okay. It's 50% heritable. Right. Inside the rest, there is at least two very strong components that we need to discuss. One is environment, which includes lifestyle, social economic status, education, all those things. And then there's another part, which is noise, stochastic biological noise. So you can tell in a lot of human traits that environment doesn't explain all of the missing non-genetic irritability. And you know that we also know that there's just pure noise because when we look at mice raised in the same cage with the same genes, they die different times and worms in every animal. So there's also a noise or a luck or chance component. Yeah. And with our mathematical models, if you want, we can elaborate on those later. We can also estimate the fraction or the portion that's noise, irreducible, biological noise that comes from, I'll tell you where it comes from, and things that are under our control. So if we're lucky and we're educated in a reasonable social economic status, what about sleep, nutrition, exercise, social connection, all these things, how much they can contribute? So we know numbers about that too. Right. From our data and from other people's data. So we can discuss that. Yeah. I was actually going to lead into that. So you can't control your genes. You can influence them to a certain extent. You can, like you said, with medicine, you can make up for some bad genes and with their environment as well and socioeconomic status. So I guess, yeah, we could start with the lifestyle. So what is your conclusion then? How big of a role does the sleep, exercise, diet matter? Yeah. So when you look at studies, studies we analyzed, a lifestyle from several large databases, and also you look at other people's studies, they paint the following picture. I'm going to say it kind of as a slogan, but it's more or less quantitatively correct. If your genetic potential is, let's say, 80 years, and you optimally combine the top seven lifestyle factors that we have, including not drinking, not smoking, exercising, eating, not being metabolically unhealthy, sleep seven to nine hours, self-reported good social connections. So you have the optimal. You get at 40, you get an extra five years, but at 90, it goes down to an extra year. So it's like, okay, so that's, from 80, you'll live to 85. But if you have none of those factors, you're drinking, smoking, not moving, metabolically unhealthy, socially isolated, you lose something like 15 years. It's asymmetric. So I would put it like this. You need those lifestyle factors in order to get a chance to reach your genetic potential. And if you're really good at optimizing, you can get a little bit on your average lifespan, but very little on your maximal lifespan. It doesn't push 120. Yeah. That's the way I look at all lifestyle that we know of. And if you think about it, it makes a lot of sense. Because otherwise, sometime in history, somebody like a monk or something would have lived to 140, but that never happened. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. You have people. Yeah. It's very clear. Yeah. That people with perfect lifestyle, they might not live extremely long. So it's not like a linear relationship that the better your lifestyle, the longer you live, because the genetics has a really underlying impact on the maximal lifespan. Yeah. You might live longer than the average person, but if your maximal lifespan genes are kind of limited, then, yeah. I mean, it's not the maximal lifespan. I think it's a little bit more subtle than that. It's exactly what lever does lifestyle move. Okay. So there's fundamental processes of damage production and removal that modulate aging. But what does lifestyle move is something different. It's your robustness threshold. It's the amount of damage you can stand. So that is very good for preventing young deaths. But all deaths, damage is accelerating so much, it doesn't matter where your threshold is almost. So that lever, I call it a small lever, affects average lifespan, but not maximal lifespan. If we want to extend maximal lifespan, we have to pull the big lever, reducing damage production or enhancing damage removal of the damage that's driving aging in the body. I think we can talk about that later, but that'll take biological measures that are still beyond us. But the things we know how to do, including stents, including, they don't affect the basic drive of aging, they increase our robustness. So that's why in the last 200 years, lifespan has been rising six hours a day. But that's because until 1950, preventing early deaths by sanitation vaccines. Since 1950, medicine preventing all deaths by stents, bypass surgery, statins, heart medication. But that rise can't go on forever because of the wall of 120. It doesn't move the wall 100. So it's going to saturate soon. And in order to make a big leap, we have to get into our fundamental biology of damage production and removal that's driving aging under the hood. Yeah. So that's the reason why lifestyle changes the average lifespan, but not the maximal lifespan, and why it's limited. So if your genetic potential is 80 and you optimize your lifespan, you're not going to make it to 100. It's very unlikely. Do you explain myself? Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I think that's very understandable. But why is it so? Why, if you have a very good lifestyle, I guess the genes are then so powerful that they control the underlying speed of your biological aging and the risk of certain diseases? Yes. That's right. The range of production removal damage is something hardwired. And when you look at biological functions, like kidney filtration rate, nerve conduction velocity, maximal heart rate, they decline from age 30 kind of linearly about 1% per year of maximum capacity. And you extrapolate down to minimum possible function compatible with life. They all hit about age 110. That slow describes the, even without diseases, right? It describes the population, human average load of this inflammatory damage that's driving aging on all organ systems. And that number 110 is set by the balance of production and removal of the driving force. And x-rays doesn't touch that. I mean, it can give you more VO2 max, but it still extrapolates to 110. And x-rays doesn't give you more maximal heart rate or kidney filtration capacity. All that stuff is more fundamental. Yeah. Yeah. And that comes with, on birth from your... Yeah. It comes, it comes, even in birth, that number 110 is, doesn't, it's like most of the, of the differences in humans is also the robustness threshold. For instance, if you're born with a congenital heart defect, you can stand less before you die. And those people die, let's say earlier. Or if you're born with, so also that robustness threshold that I talked about is also, we think, the thing most affected by genetic differences between people. And also if you look at centenarian genes, the common ones, there are things like APOE2, things that protect you from neurodegeneration, they protect you from cardiovascular damage, but they don't change the basic drive of aging. Which genes do change it? We don't know which improve it, but we know which screw it up. Things like progeroid diseases, like Werner syndrome and Hutchinson-Guilford syndrome, where you die at, like Hutchinson-Guilford, you age seven times faster, die at a teenage. Those hurt genes that have to do with chromatin and DNA repair. Those are the genes that are driving aging. That's how you accelerate aging. We don't know how, we don't know yet how to affect them. Those are the new technologies that we need. If we really want to move the needle on maximum lifespan and functional decline. I want to take a quick break to tell you about the Bond Charge infrared sauna blankets, my go-to way of getting 20-minute sauna sessions on the go without needing to spend an hour to warm up a regular sauna. Taking the sauna is, in my opinion, one of the best things for your overall health and heart function. Studies show that taking a sauna regularly is associated with 63% lower risk of sudden cardiac death, 63% reduced heart disease mortality, 46% lower risk of hypertension, and 40% reduced all-cause mortality. This is mediated by an increase in body temperature and increased heart rate that mimic a cardiovascular workout while at the same time improving arterial stiffness, endothelial function, blood flow, immune system function, blood pressure, and metabolic health. It doesn't matter if it's a traditional wooden sauna, an infrared sauna, an infrared sauna blanket, or anything else that elevates your body temperature above what's normal. Bond Charge infrared sauna blankets have the advantage of shining far infrared light that can penetrate deeper into your tissues than regular saunas can. It warms up in two minutes to the optimal temperature of 70 degrees Celsius, and it's low in EMF. You can get a 15% discount by heading over to bondcharge.com forward slash seamlund and use the code seam for 15% discount. You know, I would imagine that anyone who lives to the age of 100 or over even especially 110, they definitely have very good genes, at least some of them. So have you discovered any like secrets or some insight about how to do this work? So the problem is there's so few people that live to the past 100, and past 110 is, you know, if you make it to 100, you still have one in a thousand chance to make it to 110. It's like incredible. Actually, the survival goes down not exponentially, but E to the minus H squared. It's like a huge decline there in very old ages. Really, really. So we just don't have the numbers. But in my opinion, the favorite place that I saw to get genetics is from a different age-related phenotype that happens in half of the population, menopause. So when you look at GWAS, what affects early and late menopause, this work by Anna Murray in England, you find that those genes are the same class as the genes that give you accelerated aging. They're DNA repair. Recue, helicases, franconia, anemia, all DNA repair. So that for me is a real aging phenotype that you can measure deep, deep inside. Of course, mild genes. So we don't know the people who live to 110 because there's so few. Maybe they do have genes in DNA repair that's better. It's just hard to know. There's so many genes, so few people. The ones you find in centenarians are things that are common variants and they're disease common variants. They protect you from heart disease, protect you from Alzheimer's. There's a little fox. There's some transcription factors that have to do with repair. But it's the genes that I would say our work suggests the genes are much more important than we thought. And it also opens up, I think, the potential for scientists to look more seriously at genes that affect aging. Because before that, if it's only 20%, who cares? But now we know that it's more. And then if we find those genes, of course, we can translate them into pills eventually. And I think that, of course, the scientists are working for decades on that question. But I think this actually will help them make the case why we need to study genes for aging. Yeah. Yeah. For me, at least, the idea that only 25% of lifespan is genetic, that didn't really make sense. Because anecdotally, we all know people with longer living parents, they tend to live longer. People who smoke, some of them can live to the age of 100 if they have longer living parents. So there is a huge genetic component to everything, like athleticism, appearance. You know, a lot of things have a huge genetic component. So I guess lifespan wouldn't be an exception. I mean, it was, it's 20% is the lowest. If you look at the other traits, it's around 50%. So why lifespan? And also, I want to say something very important about, about lifestyle per second. If you have bad genes, then lifestyle is very, very important. Yeah. Yeah. For example, diet for preventing diabetes and obesity, if you have that tendency. Or cardiovascular fitness, if you have a tendency to cardiovascular circulatory diseases. So lifestyle is very important if your genes are not good, because you can compensate for some of that. So I'm not saying lifestyle is not important. I'm saying it's actually more important, because genes are so dominant that you want to compensate if you have bad genes. But if you have really good genes, I also want to say, it's not magic. Lifestyle won't make you live to 100 if your potential is 80. But if you don't do it, you don't get to even get to 80, or whatever your genetic potential is. So it's nuanced. I think our paper, a lot of people project their fears and desires on our paper. Right. And also there's binary thinking. Oh, it's all genetic. Oh, it's nothing. And in fact, it's very nuanced. Yeah. And I still swim and eat salad for lunch after doing this paper. I think that lifestyle is very important for the way I feel right now, and my health right now. And I also think, I have like a bad gene. I have LP little a, which increases your cardiovascular risk. So my swimming is now really important. I don't want to get a heart attack at 855 like my grandfather. I want to save my kids from that experience. So I take my statin and I swim and everything. Because I have this bad gene, I want to give myself every chance not to get a heart attack or a stroke. So it's very important to know. Yeah. You know, yeah. The worse your genes are, the more important lifestyle and environment is. And, you know, the better your genes, the less important it is. But, you know, it doesn't mean that if you have good genes that you wouldn't get heart disease or cancer or something like that if your lifestyle is super poor. It's just, like you said, you might have this bigger resilience against certain of those diseases. Yeah. And is it then just the idea of resilient or being resilient against the biological aging or slowing it down? Or is it just that certain genes also, you know, you mentioned you have the LP-LG gene. So it relates to lipid metabolism and that also can affect Alzheimer's risk. So, you know, there's, I guess, like metabolic effects or just certain direct effects on certain biomarkers that increase the risk of these major chronic diseases. Yeah. But, you know, disease doesn't equal death and doesn't equal decline. When we think of aging, we should think of the three Ds. Death, you can die without any disease. Disease and decline. Decline is an ongoing continuous drop in function. And we need to think of all three. Right. And so, um, the, the, okay, that's the clear. Yeah. Yeah. Gotcha. How, how long, or what's the maximum lifespan? Why do you think you mentioned 120, the older thing person, it was 122 allegedly. So what do you think is the actual maximum limit? I don't think there's a maximum limit. When we analyze that using our model, we see that we can talk about, um, remaining lifespan at each age and ask, does that, does that reach a limit or not? So, um, it, so let's say if it's age a hundred, it's about two and a half years. It has 110, it goes down to a one and a half years. And according to our models, it just keeps going down. There's no maximum lifespan. It just said it's harder and harder to make, or the hazard is keeping to increase. So it's harder and harder to make it from age a hundred to 101. It's harder to get to 102. It's even harder to get to 103. It's not a constant hardness now. It's not a, so there's no maximum. You can think about population size. The maximum lifespan goes as like log of log of population size. It's very weakly dependent. So adding another doubling the earth population will maybe add another year or something to the maximum living human. And we can get all the statistics of the top 10, all mostly Japanese females, you know, up to 119 in each year. It's like right now it's 119, 119, 118, 117, 117, 117. And then there's a man somewhere down there at 115, a male. And then, so it's like all the statistics we can get from our models of damage production removal that we calibrated for humans and other animals. And there's no maximum lifespan. It just gets harder and harder to make it every year. Yeah. So every year that goes by, your risk of dying increases to anything. It's increasing. Yeah. And, um, I mean, just by the way, it's controversial. Some people think it plateaus the risk. We think it rises and we even know how it rises. Like quadratically with time, not exponentially, quadratically at very old ages because of, uh, of the way the damage production, uh, and removal work in the body. I think in 10 years, there'll be so many people, 110, that's one of the fastest growing populations on earth. We'll be able to finally statistically understand. Yeah. As I understand, then the amount of centenarians and super centenarians is increasing thanks to, I guess, better living conditions and medical care. But, uh, you know, no one has broken the 122 ceiling yet. So that, that John comment, she died, I think in the nineties, in 19 seven or something, um, at 122 and, you know, it's been almost 30 years and no one has exceeded that. So why do you think that is, despite the fact that living conditions have improved? When you talk about a single person, it's very, it's both small numbers statistics. And also, there's a question of birth records, et cetera. Very easy to get very high debt. I mean, even at one in a thousand person error in birth records biases, the statistics, 110. That's why you need to be very, very careful. But right now, let's say if you look at the top 10 living people, 119, 119, 119, 117, there's a certain distribution. And it makes sense to us, given what I just told you, the way the hazard rises and, uh, and it's, it's really very unlikely to, to cost 120 given our biology. By the way, that also shows you that there can't be people with much, much better genes on the fundamental damage production removal. Cause if they were much better, they'd leave to 140 and we'll see that already. So for some reason, the best, um, removal of damage and production of damage in humans is limited. That's some, that's an interesting question why that is. I can, um, and, um, and we don't have really a subpopulation with that genetics that's detectable. So we will need to get into under the hood and affect our biology somehow. I can tell how I think, but, um, in order to change those particular. Yeah. Gotcha. So what do you think then is the key? You mentioned some gene, I guess gene editing is one of the potential pathways. What do you think? Yeah. I mean, we, so I said there's damage production and removal, right? So maybe I'll talk about the damages. So one of our favorite candidates is senescent cells, cells that are, um, damaged, stop dividing and make a lot of problems to all the body, inflammation and reduction in stem cell behavior. Why do we love them? Because there's lots of hallmarks of it. They stand in the mesoscale in the middle between the micro and the macro. There's lots of hallmarks of aging of damage inside the cell, DNA damage, protein damage, mitochondrial. All of that gives rise to senescent cell and they affect all the macro level, inflammation, stem cell exhaustion, blah, blah, blah. So they're at a really nice point of simplicity because all the molecular damage needs to transfer through them to get to the, to the damage that causes aging decline. And now we can control that mountain pass using mathematics by the rate of production removal of senescent cells. And we have an angle of simplicity. Right. So in order to play with the 120, we need to slow down production and increase removal. Okay. We also have the robustness threshold, how much you can survive. We already talked, we know how to do that to a certain extent by exercising treatment or by giving us an exoskeleton or something like that, or stance that'll increase the robustness threshold. But if we want to get inside. Okay. So how do you do that? So one way to remove senescent cells, of course, is senolytic strategies, which means target the Achilles heel of these cells, either by their anti-suicide, the BCL2, or enhance the trucks, the immune cells that remove them, which are macrophages and NK cells and some T cells by checkpoint inhibitors, or use CAR T cells to take out some immune cells, give them a nose that can smell senescent cells and putting better. And I say this is the lowest hanging fruit because senescent cells, unlike cancer cells, just sit there. They don't mutate. They don't move. Cancer cells are much harder target. If we spend 1% of what we spend on killing cancer cells on senescent cells, we'll have many drugs because they're sitting ducks and biology has evolved to remove them. Senescent cells have a purpose. When we're injured, damaged cells, instead of committing suicide, which will make a hole in the tissue, they turn senescent to keep the tissue intact. And then they make inflammation to call the immune system to come and remove them in an orderly fashion. And they stop cell proliferation so that only after they're removed, the tissue can regenerate. That's why we have senescent cells. But when we're old, we have so much senescent cells factories, which we think are stem cells with altered epigenetics. Their stem cells are fine, but they transmit that to their progeny. They try to divide, have collisions, double-stranded breaks, they become senescent cells. So there are so many of these factories rising every year that it's like houses making more garbage, more houses, more. Now you have a big city, but the number of trucks you have is constant. That's the number of macrophages and NK cells. They're constant. You were not designed to be old. So you have the overloaded trucks. And that's why the garbage, the senescent cells goes through the roof. So senolytic strategies, I think, are the low-hanging fruit to remove. But still, the production is going up, up, up. At some point, that's also going to stop. So if we really want to extend lifespan, we got to get into production. How do we do that? We need to correct the epigenetic errors in the stem cells. Those epigenetic errors are specific. They're histone modifications, this cross-opening of DNA where it shouldn't be open, especially repetitive DNA. And that causes, that's okay for the stem cell, but when it tries to make a progeny cell that divides a lot, you have telomere problems, you have jumping viruses, jumping line elements, you have repetitive DNA opening. So you have these transcription events called R-loops. And then when the DNA tries to replicate, you get double-stranded breaks, DNA snaps in two, all these problems. We have to work on that. One approach, of course, is genetic reprogramming, where you try to erase histone marks, just like in the fertilized egg. That's very hard to do in adults, but that's what companies are trying to do now. I think the low-hanging fruit there is actually going to be targeted. So once we understand which histone modifications, and we have an idea based on yeast studies, which histone modifications, you can make targeted, like CRISPR-like molecules that bind, specific sequences, and bring along a histone deacetylation protein, or things like that, to target the specific parts of the DNA you want to keep closed. That'll be much less off-target than genetic reprogramming. And I would guess that something like that, but that will be a way to reduce the rate of, I call them, houses or factories that produce the senescent cells. Mm-hmm. So, but that's a little longer future. I think some analytics are more close. And of course, always with technology, you can never predict there'll be smarter ways to do that. But I think if people think about damage production and removal as a portion of threshold, that concept is very clarifying. Yeah. Yeah. So the senescent cells, they're considered one of the hallmarks of aging and, you know, senescent cells are also, I guess, very phenotypical to aging that they are both the driver and the result of aging. So the older you get, the more senescent cells there is. And at the same time, they also promote the aging of, of the entire body. And, um, yeah, you propose just eliminating them and, uh, helping with their clearance or reducing their production. Reducing production. This is by the way, this is a book here, the road systems medicine has three chapters on this mathematical theory that it talked about, about production removal and senescent cells and all that stuff. And, and, and it's, this explains a huge amount of data on this mathematical picture, the budget of production removal and threshold. It explains the, the exponential rise and slowdown of death. So it explains the exponential rise of diseases and it's, and, uh, also explains the linear decline of function and this age 110 and paribiosis and aging across animals. And so, so it's like a unifying idea that, uh, because I come from physics, I love when a simple, it's not naive, but a simple kind of mechanistically based mechanism explains a huge number of quantitative patterns we have of aging. And that's for me, it keeps on making me amazed. And yeah. What made you, uh, you know, get interested in lifespan and longevity with a physics background. So, I mean, I switched from physics to biology 20 or maybe 30 years ago and I was studying, um, bacterial gene expression and gene regulation. I was always looking for simplicity. So there I discovered that at that time there were huge, um, protein, protein interaction networks. They were called fuzz balls. People couldn't understand. And we looked to them as a graph and we found that they're made of these small number of recurring circuit elements. We called network motifs. Each one has a biological function. So it's like a, it becomes simplifying the language of the way gene regulation networks work. But, uh, around, 2014, I, after I thought I was really a good scientist and I know how to write grants and write papers, I had this year of 14 rejections where I got nothing, no grants because I was spread out too thin. And then I had to really shrink the lab and add time to kind of think and stuff. And then I saw a poster about, um, insulin, beta cells, and some circuit there. I said, Oh, I know about circuits, but let's work on human physiology. And then I fell in love with that. And then when I saw a true strip paper from 2016, showing that different survival curves in worms collapse onto the same curve, when you try to extend lifespan in different ways, there's a data collapse that gets physicists very excited, excited because it says maybe there's simplicity inside of the complexity of aging. Maybe there's one timescale. And then I started to work on that with a student called Omer Karin, who's now a professor in England and discovered this production removal, robustness threshold picture, mathematical model. And since then my whole group working on aging, we look, we use large scale databases and like all of Israel's medical records to test the ideas. We do collaboration with experimentalists and different model organisms. We look at across the tree of life and we just keep discovering more and more, um, depth to questions on aging, just like this question of what, what noises, what makes genetically identical animals die at different times or the question of lifestyle versus noise versus genetics. And it's like a playground for physicists, but all based on very concrete biological mechanisms. Yeah. You mentioned these network motifs, um, in, in human, I guess, biology itself and aging. Uh, what are some of those recurring patterns that, uh, you've seen, maybe you've mentioned them, uh, a few of them already? No, I actually, I was just talking about my past. That's looking at the way cells think here. We're looking at the, the collaboration between different levels of organization, molecular damage, the cellular damage and the organ damage. And so it's, I would say it's the same physics way of thinking because physicists have this obsession, believing that there's some angle of simplicity inside complex phenomenon. Sometimes you're right. Sometimes you're wrong. But once you see some patterns, you can start focusing in and try to find the simplest model that captures them without being too simple. And I think in this case, it's another case. There's like, like, like network motifs can find an angle where those huge networks of gene regulation look suddenly look simple. Here we can also find an angle where aging has an angle of simplicity, which is the hallmark in the middle between molecular and macro. And because it's in the middle, we can, it's a choke point. We can kind of understand. It doesn't mean that aging is all the hallmarks are important. It doesn't mean aging is simple. It just means this direction where you can, um, you can, you can harness in order to understand things. Yeah. Yeah. That's the way of looking. That's what keeps me in my career, always looking for that angle. That's what turns me on. Yeah. Recently, I really became a biologist because now I not only care. I used to be care. Don't worry if I don't care if I work on E. coli or a grasshopper or whatever. Now I care because I'm also aging. You know, I have three teenage. Yeah. My hair is now receding. I have the LP little age gene. Right. I'm aging. So it's also very personal and it's all around us. And yeah. Yeah. Well, uh, every one of us is aging every day and we're all at least right now with, uh, with, uh, like a lifespan date, unless we figure something out in the next, uh, decades or something like that. Um, but, uh, yeah, what would be maybe you could just, you know, speculate or share your opinions. What would be like the simplest explanation to aging based on your, like this pattern that you've seen? What's your question again? What's like the simplest, most simple explanation to, um, aging or like the cause of it? The cause of aging. Yeah. Um, so let me give a metaphor and then give the biological. So the metaphor is a village that has houses, they produce garbage, and there's some trucks that clear it. Everything's fine. But every year, more houses are built, making more and more garbage, but it's a weird country. You don't get more trucks. And now it's a big city and trucks are overloaded and garbage piles up industry. And once in a while, the trucks go on strike and garbage even goes them higher until it reaches a threshold that's incompatible with life. Right? Now the biology of it, the garbage is damaged cells like senescent cells that produce toxic stuff, inflammation, and that affects the whole body. The trucks are the immune system trying to, that's trained to remove senescent cells, macrophages and NK cells, and maybe some T cells. And the houses are something that accumulates with time, just like, but slowly, just like houses are built. What are they? They have to be cells in our body. Not like a skin cell, of course, but not like a skin cell that's gone in 30 days or an intestine cell that's gone in seven days. If it gets a problem, it's going to be gone. It can't accumulate for decades. It has to be something that stays in our body for decades, a permanent cell. In fact, there's two kinds of houses, neurons in the brain, I'll talk about later, and stem cells, stem cells that rejuvenate all our organs. They stay forever in our body, just renew. Okay. But what's these houses? So once in a while, because of molecular noise and DNA damage and stuff like that, those stem cells accumulate errors. Those errors, what we know from yeast studies, are chromatin marks that make parts of the DNA that are supposed to be closed, open. Now that doesn't bother the stem cell, because it's dividing so slowly once a month. It's fine. But it makes progeny cells. Like a blood cell makes, stem cell makes blood cells that divide. They have to divide 30 times to make all the blood cells. Or skin stem cells make a skin cell that divides them. Now those cells inherit the chromatin, because stem cells inherit all the chromatin states. That's the definition of the cells. But now the DNA is open. They try to replicate. They get double-stranded breaks. They become senescent. So over time, you have stem cells in your body that accumulate more and more. And they're garbage producing units. They make pretty columns of senescent cells. And now when you have one in a thousand like that in your body, they make so much inflammatory juice that your whole body is full of inflammation. stuff that makes stem cells divide slower. Stuff that ruins your extracellular matrix. All the things that senescent cells are designed to do when you're young, because they're designed to be, like I said, when you have an injury. And that's the reason for aging. We're not designed to be old. Because of time passing, we have more and more error-altered stem cells. And they produce the garbage, the senescent cells, which overwhelm the trucks, the macrophages and NK cells, which, by the way, we don't have enough more when we're old in order to compensate, because they kind of max out. And that's the process that drives aging. At some point, that inflammation extremes our robustness threshold and we die. And it gradually weakens all organs. So we have this linear gradual decline. And diseases are like tripwires. When inflammation and all that stuff crosses, our weak point, which is individual, a system undergoes bifurcation. For example, we have tons of cancer cells in our body that never become cancer because the same trucks, macrophages and NK cells kill the cancer cells. Like we have millions of cancer cells right now in our body. With all age, trucks, like I said, become overloaded. So they can't remove cancer as much. And there's more inflammation, which helps cancer. So slowly, slowly, removal rate of the cancer goes down and proliferation rate of the cancer goes up, up, up, up, until a tipping point. That tipping point is tripwire. That's why cancer rises exponentially with age, just like risk of death. Also, all diseases like that are tripwires. And so you can understand death, disease and decline based on this simple picture of houses, garbage and trucks. In other organisms, like in yeast, there's no immune system, but still it also has garbage houses and trucks. It's just different. They have an accumulating factor. So this theory kind of is my explanation for aging. Did it make sense? Yeah. Yeah. It makes sense that the accumulation of junk material and not being able to clear it out. And with the age, the amount of trucks also declines that you have less trucks to take out the garbage. So, yeah. But what about, so individuals with better genes, they have better trucks or more trucks? So, no. Individuals with better genes, almost all the better genes are in the threshold. Mm. Mm. Can stand more damage. Gotcha. Gotcha. How do I know that? Because if there were individuals with much better trucks, they would live to 140. Mm. So the maximum lifespan is in the trucks and the houses. The houses, I mean, the factories that produce. Gotcha. Yeah. So the simplest explanation for aging, you have more and more garbage factories in your body every year, but you have constant amount of trucks. And at some point, you have more production than removal and you hit your threshold. Most of the genetic differences and the lifestyle differences affect the robustness threshold. Yeah. Yeah. Very rarely do we have mutations that affect the houses and the trucks. And usually they're in the bad direction, like progeria. More errors. Houses are built seven times faster. Yeah. All of aging proceeds as if time is flowing seven times faster. Also, by the way, I mentioned there's two clocks. There's a set of houses which are neurons. They have a different kind of garbage, damage. That's lysosome and mitochondria. It's different because they're non-dividing cells. It's not DNA. Right. And that's why neurodegeneration happens later than all the other body diseases. That's why you can have a healthy body and a sick mind and vice versa. And that's why progeria spares the brain. You get cancer, you get diabetes, you get a heart disease, but the brain is fine. In both progeria and Werner disease. I mean, there are some progeria diseases like mitochondrial and liceosome dysfunction that's ruined the brain. But the main ones spare the brain. So we know there's two clocks at least. Two clocks. One runs slower. The brain one runs slower. And then once you get rid... Once, suppose we have a cure for the body clock, the stem cells in the house and the brain clock, the neurons, we'll find the next one because there'll be other ones like DNA mutations. We know they don't cause aging, but maybe at 150, they'll be the limiting factor. Maybe ECM, extracellular matrix, maybe they'll limit us at age 200. We'll have this onion. It's like an onion. More and more houses we need to dismantle. But that's the technological challenge for the 21st century, I think. Yeah. Yeah. So people who live longer, thanks to genes, they just get diseases later because they have more resilience against the diseases, a higher threshold. They can tolerate more garbage. Or they don't have that tripwire. The tripwire is very genetic. Some people will never get heart disease. They have creatine. No, no, no. Smoke, drink, they won't get it. That's a tripwire gene. Tripwire is a special for the... So the people who are at 100 and a lot of times don't have the tripwires. Yeah. And they have a high capacity for inflammation, stuff like that. That's why a lot of centenarians can drink, smoke, and still be centenarians because they don't have the genes to give them risk factors for diseases. Those are very individual. I mean, what you die of is very individual. Yeah. But everybody's going to die before 810, roughly speaking. Yeah. I mean, some of them might live to 110 or like 105, for example, while smoking and drinking. But, you know, they will still probably... They're going to have a pretty rapid decline, I guess. Yeah, that's very rapid. If they hit the tripwire, then because they're higher biological age, then they're going to, when they hit the tripwire, they're going to pretty much die very fast because of the... You don't always die from diseases. You can die without diseases. It's basically the decline includes breathing. VO2 max, declines, declines, declines, declines. So you don't... At the end, a night of sleep, you can't even do, or a simple infection. So it's not only the chronic diseases. Yeah. I mean, people can die without diseases. That's very... It's very confusing for people. There's three days of aging and disease and decline are not the same. And in the end, a decline, everybody... Maximum heart rate drops, as everybody who does sports knows, 220 minus your age. So your maximum heartbeat, which is so important when you're in stress, is declining. That's part of your capacity or your breathing ability or your muscle ability. So even without diseases, your steady decline, and that's something, even if you prevent all diseases and you take that decline, in order to touch that decline for things like glomerular frustration rate, you... We have to take the balance between houses and trucks, not the threshold. Yeah. Gotcha. And that's just to decompose aging into its component parts. Yeah. Because as you mentioned earlier as well, that if we don't get, or if we fix, let's say, heart disease, we only add like five years max to someone's lifespan. Yeah. But what about luck? So this is also one thing you mentioned. Yeah. So we said 50% genetic or heritable. And then the remaining 50%, roughly, we estimate that of that half, 25% or half of the half is lifestyle environment, and half of the half is stochastic noise. Sorry to say. So that... So what is the stochastic noise? I mentioned the trucks going on strike. Mm-hmm. What that is biologically, we're not sure, but we have our best guess is that you have systemic fluctuations in that immune system clearance of senescent cells. And that's because of circadian rhythm. So you have at night, basically, you have more maintenance than during the day, as you know. But every, not every night is the same. There is about 30 to 50% peak to peak variation in immune system function in any measure you want. So the trucks sometimes go on strike, sometimes don't. And also, we know that in sleep, more than getting enough sleep, seven to nine hours, that's important for longevity. But much more important is the sleep regularity. So we think that if you have, in general, regular behavior, you can affect that noise a little bit. And we can see that in survival curves of monks and nuns, which are very regular behavior. It's not that they live more, but it's more rectangular. They die more at the same time. Mm-hmm. So they, we think, based on our mathematical models, that regularity of behavior is the one way we can somehow touch the stochastic and noise part. But there will always be noise. Just because living organisms are not made of silicon and copper, we're made of flesh and blood. And that inherently has variation, data variation. Also, stress and infections. So stress, as you know, affects the immune system. And stress is very variable day to day. And it's, it has to do with what we think, and also what we believe, and the friends we talk to. And that's fluctuates day to day. So being in chronic stress, like low socioeconomic status, to caring for sick parents without enough money to get help, and you're stuck in that situation, or for sick children, that wears you down. It both wears down your, because the body's in emergency mode, it wears down your capacity, your threshold, so you die younger. But also, day-to-day stresses are part of the noise because they affect the immune system, your priorities. And infections. So if you have a bad infection, your immune system mobilized to that infection, and maintenance is less important. So try to understand what governs that noise. And there'll be an irreverable, oh, and there's another kind of noise. And that's what you were born with. So if, as I mentioned, the heart defects, if you have a tiny heart defect, you're born with it. It's not in the genes, by the way. It's in the way the genes turn into an embryo. It's a stochastic process. How do we know it's stochastic? If you look at your wrists, right and left wrists, look at the blue blood vessels, veins, you'll see that they're different. Yeah. Yeah. It's the same body, the same genes. But the way the genes get turned into a body is a random walk where the blood vessels are looking for places that don't have oxygen. And that's different. Yeah. So each one of us, even identical twins, has a different anatomy. Yeah. And that affects also your robustness threshold. So if you have a small heart defect, a small brain defect, a small chromosomal defect, you might not even know it, but now you have a lower threshold. So you can less resist damage and boom, now you're dying 50. So there's two kinds of noise, what you're born with and lasts a whole lifetime. And it's stochastic accumulating along your lifestyle. We're really trying to understand that right now. But we think that has 25% of the variants. Wow. It's like, you can say, and half the variants inherited, half the variants, a quarter of the variants under our control. It still could be five years. Or if you're really bad at lifestyle, you can lose 15 years. Yeah. But if you're good at lifestyle, you can add, and then there's the noise. Yeah. So all those components are at play here. Wow. Yeah. The luck that you explained it, that is really profound that it's, it goes a lot deeper than people would, you know, presume initially, you know, luck where you're born. If you're born in, I guess, countries like Bangladesh or India, then yeah, you have a much harder time to maximize your genetic potential. That's lifestyle. That's lifestyle. I call that lifestyle. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. That's environment. Yeah. So, I mean, that's what people would usually categorize as luck. But yeah, you mentioned that it goes a lot deeper than that, that literally the way your blood vessels were formed randomly during birth, you know, that that's, yeah, really, you could just say, see the complete randomness in that. And if you have, you have some small defect in the way those blood vessels are structured, or like that, like your heart is, uh, functions, then, uh, yeah, it, uh, can definitely pause a pretty, I guess, unexpected, uh, event. Yeah. That's not genetic, not heritable. That's not genetic, not heritable. And then the twins differ in that. Mm-hmm . The twins differ in that. And, uh, it's, uh, yeah, exactly. Right. So pretty deep stuff, right? Yeah, yeah, absolutely. It's a super interesting as well, at least for me, to see how all these things, uh, that affect someone's, uh, lifespan. For me, at least the idea that, uh, genetics is 50, the heritability is 50%, it still is quite inspiring, or it does give me at least a lot of, uh, agency, you know, 80% lifestyle. It, I didn't really believe that much, but, uh, you know, you would presume that 80% sounds more, um, optimistic for someone, but for me, the 50% is already still quite gives me quite a lot of agency. So what can people do, um, if they want to kind of live, uh, healthier and longer? I think we all, people who listen to this podcast know the answer. I want to add to the thing, maybe that's newer. Yeah. Okay. So of course, you know, we all know 150 minutes of moving, uh, we know, we all know nourishment, which means don't overeat and eat all the components. And it's also important who you eat with when, because at night, it's not so good to eat because of your circadian rhythm. So that's called nourishment. Then I, of course, connection, your two, three friends that you can basically be vulnerable with and the weak ties, which are the barista you say hi to the person you buy apples from. All these are also having a purpose in life. Very important. We know. So those are the three factors and sleep getting enough sleep, but what I want, what's more, even more fresh is this regularity of behavior. So go to sleep at the same time, wake up at the same time, look at your sleep regularity, and also maybe think about the regularity of light of your other activities. Because you know, all your body has these ultradian, like these, let's say cortisol spikes every 10 times a day. But if you, there's a reason why you teach for 90 minutes and then go on break, you can synchronize your physiology to, to be very regular. And I think that that's a chance to reduce the noise part. Mm-hmm. So that's, I think, fresh. And also, um, supplements, there's a big revolution in supplements. Finally, clinical trials, you know about that? Randomized clinical trials showing that omega-3 and vitamin D and multivitamins actually have an impact on cancer and autoimmune disease, etc. That's also really nice news. And I would say also, get a good checkup on your genes, LP, L, L, L, N, and because if you have a vulnerability in your genes, then lifestyle really matters and pills really matter. Try to think about that, your genetic potential, especially on the low side. And also, I would say that the lifestyle factors, nourishment, movement, rest, and connection, they are somehow the default for human beings, I think, in our ancestral, uh, what we evolved for. So if you want to reach your genetic potential, it's like, we need to give those. If you don't give those, we don't get a chance to reach our genetic potential. And if we have those, we can probably, you know, extend it a little bit. So it's also to be realistic, yeah. But the main benefit is for today, feeling good, feeling capable, being able to do things because you increase your declining abilities, but you're on the high curve, not the low curve, they're still declining. And so the, that's the way to frame it. Like, um, I have a big pill box now. I'm 57. I discovered I have LP little a and high blood pressure this year. I look at this pill box and I say, oh my gosh, am I like my dad? He's 82 and he has this big pill box. Am I old? And I say, no, I'm doing this to avoid the heart attack. He added 59 and the heart attack is dead at 55 and the stroke. The other, I, it's a reframe. I want my kids, uh, not to go through hospitalizing me and, uh, and, uh, that reframe is also very important, right? Why, why do these, uh, things? So I guess that was kind of a long answer. Yeah. That's a very good answer. And you, yeah, if you have family history of certain diseases, as you said that you have a heart disease in your family, even in the fifties. So that's a very big signal or a sign that, you know, there is actual genetic element here and you need to pay attention to that because that's kind of the bottleneck for your longevity. Maybe you have maximal lifespan genes that are quite good, but you also have these bad genes that have a bottleneck in your 50s. They give you a trip wire, right? Yeah. I don't want that trip wire. By the way, four of my five siblings have it too. Wow. So yeah, so that's pretty, it's pretty incredible. So once you discover it, also tell your family to, to look for it, right? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. But, but what's in the future, um, with your obviously continuing to do research, what are some of the like next big things you need to, uh, uh, identify and solve? All right. So we have, uh, like I said, with our way of looking at aging, we have several fascinating questions. One of them is to forecast the average and maximum lifespan, giving the trends and in the past and understand, uh, why maximum, why average lifespan has been expanding six hours a day for less 200 years, but maximum lifespan hasn't. We're looking across the tree of life. So which levers does natural selection, quote unquote, pull in order to affect lifespan? And we find, uh, that mainly one big lever, which is slowing the rate of errors, that is to say the building rate of houses. But also it affects the small levers. And that's how we know that trucks and noise are correlated. That's why we know trucks want strike. So we learn a lot from animals. Then we're looking for what is specific, um, molecular errors drive the houses, drive senescent cells. And to do that, we look at a yeast deletion library and we can look, uh, with our model, really understand, uh, a molecular story, which has some modifications, etc. And we also look at female health. So we have this very large study on menopause using 300 million lab tests. And we solve the problem of not knowing when the final menstrual period is by using a technique from astronomy, where you can de-blur the data, just like you de-blur the image of a star. And we find this physiological cliff at final menstrual period that hormone replacement therapy kind of diminishes. And that gives you a large opportunity for prevention for female health. And we look at, basically, the difference between why females live longer, but why females have more diseases, etc. So we want to look at the dimorphism between males and females of aging. We want to look at the very important question. How are we going to map from model organisms to humans? If you give rapamycin to a mouse, what will it do in humans? So for that, we have this tree of life, uh, our model can help us extrapolate from yeast, flies, worms to humans, and guide clinical trials, too. And we were looking at the question of clocks, uh, aging clocks. So right now, aging clocks are essential, because you can't wait 50 years to tell if a drug extends lifespan. But the existing, uh, aging clocks, methylation and serum, etc., have a big problem. They don't only measure aging, they also measure stress. So if you have pregnancy, if you have the surgery, etc., they also look, it makes you look older. So using our model, we want to find the core drivers of aging. So we can have an aging clock that's more proximal to the drivers of aging. And that can give us a way to design clinical trials that are less fooled by other things. And that's another big interest that we have. That's just the tip of the iceberg. We have a lot of interesting projects that combine mathematical analysis, large data experiments on questions of human aging. Yeah, that's super interesting. Yeah, I'm definitely looking forward to those studies. Um, but, uh, yeah, we can start wrapping up, um, before I ask my last question, where can people learn more about you and your work? Yeah. So, um, on my website, you can find a link to my, to my, to, uh, you, free YouTube videos on a whole course I call it taught called systems aging, including songs with the guitar, where I teach step by step everything I talked about today and more. And it's meant to be quite widely accessible. So if you look at my website, look for the course systems, uh, aging and longevity, you can find it. And I'm also writing a trade book now for everyone on the concepts that I discussed in the same level that we talked to here. And you can find a Ted talk by me about the cloud of research, which is the, how scientists work and get stuck and find a new answer. Something that's also about the, my philosophy of how to do science. And so those are places to look. Yeah. We'll put the links in the show notes. And my last question is what's this one piece of advice or a habit that you wish you adopted sooner? I wish I had adopted sooner. The understanding that my social connections are my health capital. Including with my wife, including my kids, including my friends, including my neighbors, with my colleagues, with everyone on the street. That's my health capital. Yeah. That's a very, uh, often underrated and overlooked aspect of health and longevity, these social relationships and social health. Yeah, that's a good, uh, good advice. Uh, well, yeah, thank you so much for, uh, coming to the broadcast and, uh, I found it very interesting and insightful and I think people will also, uh, learn a lot about their health. I enjoyed it. I enjoyed your questions and the way you asked them and your curiosity. So thank you very much. Thank you. If you want to learn more about how to improve your biological age and overall health span without spending hours at the gym, without spending thousands on supplements, and get yourself to top 1% of health without obsessing about it, then check out my online community, youth, and society. It's where you can learn more detailed programs and protocols from me. Link in the description.