This is my first round table. So I'm honored to share it with you two fellow knights of the round table. And the theme of today's discussion is dietary supplements for longevity. If you were to imagine a situation in which resources are no issue. So you have all the time, all the money, and you get to give a body weight adjusted dose of up to two neutrauticals and or drugs to every adult aged 30 or older. And you could choose the dose and the frequency. If you want people to live longer and have as long a health span as possible, which would you pick? And I'm going to start with you, Nick, because alphabetically you come first. Thanks. Two molecules that I can I can give people. It's not going to help necessarily with a lifespan, but it is going to help with health span. And I would argue creatine. I guess it doesn't really necessarily have to be uh weight adjusted, but that would be one of them. The other one again off the top of my head would be let's say something a little more potent like rapamy which probably at least based off of what I've seen seems to have some pretty promising results in terms of longevity and uh and health span. So those are my those are my two choices. What are you going for scene? That's given you some time to think about it. There's obviously a difference between like health span and lifespan. I think creatine is yeah for sure like one of the best health span supplements for uh brain performance and uh physical performance. Arguably if you extend health span you probably extend lifespan as well a little bit. Creatine is yeah like a kind of safe bet that especially like older people would benefit a lot from. Number two I would say probably is like let's say like a high quality omega-3 supplement mostly for like cardiovascular benefits, brain benefits, helps with inflammation and immunity and all those other related metabolic benefits and you know higher blood omega-3 levels are associated with uh longevity. So there might be something there. If I were to add like an actual let's say lifespan pharmaceutical then grapomy is quite interesting and it's I would think that it has potential you know maybe in the future we'll see in a next next few years maybe there are some clinical trials on that but you know I would for the general population I would think that actually something like a carbos or metformin would be also relatively safe bet because um it's pretty safe and you know most people just have slightly higher blood sugar and a slightly worse blood markers than uh it should be for optimal longevity. The lifespan data about metformin isn't that convincing. A carbos might be more convincing than metformin but uh for just the idea of postponing metabolic disease and reducing the risk of diabetes uh that would probably be one of the like actual pharmaceuticals that could also have some effects. I too would pick creatine monohydrate and then my second choice would probably be a GLP-1 receptor agonist. If we're speaking about the general population, which I would choose, I'm not sure. It probably wouldn't be tiseptide. It would probably be simagotype because we know quite a lot about it at this point. It would be a relatively low dose. And I'm not saying that it's something that would benefit everyone. It probably wouldn't benefit any of the three of us, for instance. But if we're speaking about the demop then I think it's a really strong choice particularly when cut with creatine. And interestingly, if you do consider the cost of distributing that to everyone and you look at that relative to their potential health care savings, then right now it wouldn't make financial sense because sagnetide is really expensive. And there was recently an economic analysis looking at that and Tiseptide and a couple of other obesity medications. But cost isn't a factor in this hypothetical scenario. If cost were a factor, then would you modify your responses? For creatine, I don't think you would. So, we can disregard that and instead focus on the other choices. Rapomin is definitely coming down in cost. There's a few companies that sell it now that have it not super super expensive, but it's definitely pricier. Metformin is much much cheaper. So, I might be convinced to go that route because I really like Seam's uh thought process on it, especially if you're talking about the general population, you know, especially as you get older, you might be getting into that pre-diabetic uh level. So, potentially metformin would be a great benefit in that regard. So, yeah, I could be swayed on that because GP1s have like a double whammy effect that they also help with weight loss in addition to blood sugar. So, in that sense, they're more potent than metformin. I I wouldn't know which one to choose depend yeah on the if there's no cost then perhaps some future generation GLP ones that are safer maybe not as potent as the one that is used for obesity maybe there's like something that's 50% as effective as the ompic or something that maybe that would be more suitable for the general population and just to be clear metformin is a cheap drug so yeah your lowcost option can remain metformin which might be my choice I'm not sure it's a good candidate Another one that I think might prove to be very interesting is Torine and we'll come back to that later. And on that subject, we might come back to it now. I don't know. What are a couple of most underappreciated