It's a fact that some people don't like that resveratrol is the most debunked longevity molecule ever. Resveratrol does not increase lifespan in laboratory animals on average. So right now my confidence is 100% that you can improve your health span and likely your lifespan through lifestyle modifications. I traveled to Seattle to talk with Dr. Matt Cberlain who's one of the world's leading biogentologists and longevity researchers. He's been researching aging and lifespan for over 20 years. I asked Matt questions from my audience about different longevity protocols, supplements, and lifestyle. The first question is, so recently Brian Johnson stopped taking a rapamy. Yeah. Uh what are your thoughts about that? Yeah. Well, specifically with respect to rapamy. I mean, I think first of all, the honest answer is nobody knows whether rapamy slows aging in humans or whether or not there are going to be significant benefits from rapamy. I don't know. Brian Johnson doesn't know. Nobody knows because we don't have randomized clinical trials yet. Um, at least for uh disease present prevention, health promotion, right? They're all limited to organ transplant patients or cancer patients, things like that. So nobody knows um Brian Johnson's specific reasons as I understand them for stopping taking rapamy. So it's his personal decision, he has every right to do whatever he wants with respect to his own health. Um but his rationale as I understand it from what I've seen in the public domain is nonsense. Right? So he's basing it on one study that used biological age assessments that don't work. And in that same study, they found that exercise and quality diet doesn't have a positive impact on biological age. So using that as a reason to stop taking rapamy because rapamy also did not have a positive impact on biological age is just dumb in my view. Like it's nonsensical. Um uh now you know he's also said that some of his biomarkers may have been perturbed around lipids and glucose. That's possible. Those are side effects that are associated with rapamy at high doses in organ transplant patients. They have not come out as significantly associated with rapamy in people using the doses that he's reported to use or that have been used off label. So I find it unlikely cuz we've looked and other people have looked. I find it unlikely that rapamy had that effect on his biomarkers, but it's possible. It's also there's no way to know for sure because he's doing like a hundred other things. So again, the idea that you can attribute that to rapamy is is not rigorous and not scientific, which is one of the many reasons I say that he does not take a scientific approach to to those kinds of things. So again, I'm not suggesting anybody take Rapamy, but I also if you are taking Rapamy and you feel like it's benefiting you, I would not pay any attention to Brian Johnson would be my opinion. Yeah. I guess it's like you know experimental uh therapy for life extension. Like we don't know if it's going to work in humans. Obviously, it has been has been shown to work in animals. Absolutely. Which would be in my opinion like a greater degree of certainty that it would have effects in humans than the biological age clock in that which which especially when the things we know work in humans didn't come out with a positive effect in that same study. Right? So again, um you know, it it's obviously I'm a little bit frustrated with the fact that this gets headlines and it's just not helpful for anyone in my view. But um having said that, you're right. We have no idea whether rapamy increases lifespan in people. It does in laboratory animals um and quite robustly. I think what we have learned is that it's at least some people see a reduction in chronic inflammation and you know at least anecdotally report benefits like reversal of hypertrophic cardiammyopathy, reversal of autoimmune disease in my own case um reversal of uh uh inflammation of the shoulder capsule commonly known as frozen shoulder. So it hasn't risen to the level of randomized double blind placebo control clinical trials. It's more like a series of case reports. I do believe some people get benefits. I do believe some people experience side effects. The only side effect that seems again statistically significant is canker sores. About 15% of people using rapamy off label get canker sores. There may be a slight increase in risk of bacterial infection although that hasn't risen to the level of statistical significance at this point. Yeah. Like what I've one of the fears I've had in the past about raomy is that it suppresses your immune system and makes you lose muscle. But over the last few years that has been not turned out not to be the case. Actually certainly in laboratory animals it's the opposite right you can actually boost age related immune function and maintain muscle mass and prevent sarcopenia in rodents in the laboratory and in people. Again it's anecdotal it we don't have the solid uh data yet. I should say there were two fairly large clinical trials that Joan Manic did with Everlyamimus which is a a derivative of rapamy. It works exactly the same way and in both of those they did see an improvement in vaccine response in older people. So probably rapamy improves immune function at least as measured by vaccine response in older people. We actually found in our study of 333 people using rapamy off label uh lower incidence of severe or moderate outcomes from COVID 19 and a lower risk of symptoms associated with long COVID. No difference in risk of getting infected by COVID but better outcomes in people using rapomy. I think that boost in at least antiviral immune effects is probably real. And there's a clinical trial um that I believe the data has been collected. I haven't seen it yet for uh muscle function in elderly people that Brad Stanfield has gotten funded and has been running out of New Zealand. So, you know, we'll see. The the Pearl trial from Ageless RX showed a hint of improved body composition in women at very very low doses. So, I would say if anything, the needle right now is leaning towards better outcomes in terms of of body composition and and um lean mass in people and certainly that's what's seen in the rodents. Yeah. Well, that's super interesting. Um, next question. Are more antioxidants always better? Like there's research that u antioxidant supplements can actually be harmful. Yeah. So, I mean the answer is obviously no, right? uh nothing is always in in biology or very little. Um it's useful to appreciate the term antioxidant is is uh sort of misused, right? So it's all relative to other molecules, right? One molecule can oxidize or reduce another molecule depending on their relative oxidation status. But most of the time when people are thinking of antioxidants, they're thinking about, you know, supplements that you can take that are generally going to reduce or remove oxidation from other biological molecules. And the idea is and it that um as part of a byproduct of metabolism, we produce things like reactive oxygen species which we know can cause damage. In fact, one of the early theories of aging was the oxidative theory of aging that that aging was really driven by oxidative damage and and then that was modified to the idea that the oxidative damage primarily comes from mitochondria right from metabolism. So based on that it is certainly plausible that if you could prevent that oxidative damage that would be beneficial and there's evidence to support that in in experimental studies. The challenge is um that oxidative uh signaling is also important for health, right? So we know that um uh oxidation status can be used as a way to signal throughout the body and within the cells important functions. And so if you block that, that's actually detrimental. I think the challenge with antioxidant supplements, aside from the fact that that, you know, we don't know exactly where the antioxidants are going to go and how effective they're going to be, is how to target the bad reactive oxygen species and not target the good reactive oxygen species. And we just don't understand that biology enough. So, so the answer is, you know, too much antioxidants is going to be bad. And I don't personally and I don't think anybody really has a good feel for at the population or individual level what is the optimal amount right now. I guess like mega doses is probably not I wouldn't do it. Yeah. And timing probably matters as well like and particularly where you target like there's some interesting data around um what people would call mitochondrial targeted antioxidants or mitochondrially targeted peptides that reduce oxidative stress. It's intriguing. It is not yet to the level where I would suggest people should go out and start taking these things necessarily, but the idea that you could specifically target the antioxidants to the cellular compartment that is most problematic makes a lot of sense. And so I think there are opportunities there. We just don't have those tools yet. Yeah. All right. Next question. Um, what percentage do supplements versus lifestyle play a role in longevity? So, how much percentage? Um, well, I mean it I I would definitely say that lifestyle is far more important than supplements, at least in terms of what we know is going to work. I think the challenge with supplements is we don't know what the right supplements are or how effective they could be. So, right now, my confidence is 100% that you can improve your health span and likely your lifespan through lifestyle modifications. And my confidence is less than 10% that you can do that through supplements. And even if you could, I think it would be incremental compared to lifestyle. So lifestyle is by far the best opportunity to improve health span and probably lifespan for the vast majority of of people. Um, what would be like the ratios? Like do supplements give you 5% of I mean again I I don't know is the answer. I'm I'm a scientist so I have to say I don't know. My guess is, you know, it depends on the person. So I and I would put supplements in a couple of categories. I think there are supplements where we can measure deficiencies or where we know most people are deficient. And if you're deficient, supplements can have a a relatively large impact on at least mortality risk and risk of certain diseases, right? So, you know, think things like vitamin D or omega-3s where there's pretty good evidence that if you're deficient, there's a a a higher risk of a variety of different health negative health outcomes, right? Um, but then there and so there I would say if for people who are deficient, supplements could have a, you know, maybe it's 80% lifestyle, 20% supplements or something like that. Um, but when we start getting into the more, you know, questionable stuff, NAD precursors, spermadine, uroly, alpha ketoglutarate, right? I'm just picking those out of air and I'm not I'm not saying there's no value to those. They're speculative. Um, and the nature of speculation is I have to guess what the likelihood is that they're going to work. I would say it's like 95% lifestyle, 5% supplements, maybe even more towards lifestyle. But that more comes from confidence that lifestyle is going to have a big effect. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. like even if there are like some supplements that uh have some effects, you know, they're not going to replace exercise and good sleep and uh diet, they may supplement those things, right? Like creatine is a good example, right? I mean, I think for for a lot of people, creatine can have some benefits. I don't know if it's a big benefit or a small benefit. My guess is it's still relatively small compared to lifestyle. But I think especially if you're practicing a healthy lifestyle, having a supplement like that can give you added value uh in the context of practicing a healthy lifestyle. Yeah. Okay. Next question. Um other than rapamy, which compound is most likely to extend lifespan? That's a good question. So um I I'm pretty bullish on SGLT2 inhibitors. So these are things like canagloin and pegloin. They have come out of the mouse intervention testing program as increasing lifespan in mice. There's um human correlative data from UK bioank that people taking these drugs have a lower uh risk of all-c cause mortality compared to health matched people who are not taking those drugs. They're anti-diabetes drugs. basically they my understanding is they work by causing you to pee out more glucose from from from your your circulatory system. So they seem pretty promising. Um I think uh estrogens and estradiols are really interesting. They also fit coming out of the interventions testing program in mice as increasing lifespan in males. Um and again UK bioank data seem to be associated with lower all-c cause mortality in females. that would probably mostly be in the context of um hormone replacement therapy in women uh because not a lot of men have been put on estrogens or estradiles um but also maybe birth control. So I'm not suggesting that women you know who who who are not permenopausal or menopausal go out and start taking hormone replacement therapy. I don't think we're there yet. But it's the biology is intriguing. The thing is with the the estrogens and estradiols, we don't understand the mechanism yet. So, it's hard to know. I'm certainly not suggesting men run out and start taking these things, but I'm I'm interested to see. So, those are two classes that I would I would say have um both preclinical and human data suggestive of of lower all-c cause uh mortality and and and certainly I would put again I don't know about lifespan but I would put hormone therapy particularly in women although I also think in many men as a major health span booster. So um we don't have longevity data yet but but in terms of impact on health span outside of lifestyle I would probably say hormone therapy is the maybe the next biggest thing that a lot of people can benefit from. What about some of the a carbos? Yeah, a carbos is interesting that also comes out of the um the interventions testing program as one of the first things after rapamy to show a robust effect also only in males or mostly in males and we don't really understand the the sex differences there. um the human data on a carbos we don't have like it it it we don't have the sort of UK bioank level and um at least this is my understanding in the context of a western diet a carbos is not really well tolerated because of gastrointestinal upset flatulence things things like that so um so I don't I don't I'm I'm a little bit I mean it's interesting I'm a little bit less bullish on the translational application of a carbos than SGLT2 inhibitors probably working through a similar mechanism. A carbos. So again, a carbos is also an anti-diabetes drug. Um I mentioned the SGLT2 inhibitors cause you to to to basically pee out more glucose. A carbos probably works by causing you to take up less glucose or other sugars that get converted into glucose because it um it's an inhibitor of an intestinal enzyme involved in breaking down complex carbohydrates. So as a class, I think anti-diabetes drugs tend to promote longevity in laboratory animals and certainly in um western populations. Metabolic dysfunction is a hallmark of aging that probably drives a lot of age related processes. So anti-diabetes drugs, you know, metformin being the classic example are often thought about in the case of of longevity. Maybe it's worth talking about metformin as well in this context. I'm not particularly bullish on metformin in metabolically healthy people. I think again in people who are who are diabetic or pre-diabetic, metformin is a really good diabetes drug. Um unlike a carbos and SGLT2 inhibitors, metformin does not appear to increase lifespan or at least if it does in mice, it's a very small effect. It did not come out as positive in their intervention testing program. And the early data that that um people taking metformin were at lower risk of dying has not um not been replicable. So so if you're diabetic and you're taking metformin, you're at lower risk of dying than if you're diabetic and you don't take anything. But but in people who are not diabetic, it doesn't seem to have replicated that there's any real benefit in terms of mortality. And we're learning that metformin may blunt some of the positive benefits of exercise. So, if you're not diabetic and you have a healthy lifestyle, I think metform is probably a net negative there. Yeah. Next question. What's your most unpopular opinions on lifestyle and supplements like controversial takes? Oh, um I don't know if it's un unpopular. Uh so around lifestyle, I don't know that I have any unpopular opinions. I mean, I sort of align with what I think is the consensus view around, you know, eating a a generally whole foods diet. Plant-based, I think, is is a good idea. I I like meat. I eat meat, but I think largely plant-based. I tend to align towards moderate to higher protein consumption. Uh, limit alcohol, avoid added sugars, right? That I think most people who are informed are going to land there. um uh exercise, mix of cardio and resistance training, you know, sleep quality relationships, the the the pillars of health. So, I don't think I there's anything I don't think there's anything controversial there in supplement world. Again, I tend to be pretty skeptical. I I don't again I don't think it's controversial. It's it's a fact that some people don't like that resveratrol is the most debunked longevity molecule ever. Resveratrol does not increase lifespan in laboratory animals on average. Right? there's been a meta analysis and not even my data of like 50 or 60 studies then the average effect is zero. I'm sorry that's a fact. If people don't like it, too bad. So, you know, it's just reality. Um, and yet you still hear, you know, certain influencers out there pedal the nonsense that resveratrol isn't is a longevity drug or an anti-aging drug. Other than that, I don't have super strong opinions on most supplements other than I tend to be maybe more skeptical or less enthusiastic than than other people out there. Yeah. Just more waiting for more data. Yeah. And I tend to also, you know, my view is that um I tend to maybe be a little bit more conservative when it comes to adding a supplement to my personal uh protocol because I I take the view that the human body is a really really complicated piece of machinery or at least that's a good anecdotal way to think about it. And if you consider any complicated piece of machinery and you go in there and you start taking screws out or pulling wires out at random, the chances you're going to make it work better are less than the chances you're going to break it. And I kind of think that's what a lot of people are doing when they start stacking 10, 20, 30 supplements, right? They're just throwing a lot of stuff at it and they assume that there's no risk. But the reality is there is a risk. It's probably small in individual supplements, but when you start to stack a lot of stuff, again, my view is unless you have a very very good rationale and hopefully a good understanding of the the biology that you're perturbing, um, the likelihood you're going to get a better outcome is less than the likelihood you're going to get a worse outcome. Yeah. I guess you need to know if it's working or not either. Well, and that's what that's where I think having good biomarkers is really important. I think we've got reasonable biomarkers for general health, right? What we don't have are good biomarkers of aging longevity right yet. And we can talk about biological age clocks, but at least the ones that are available to consumers now um in my view are not suffic of sufficient quality that we can use them to guide interventions. You got very conflicting results from Yeah. So I did my own maybe that I mean this isn't a supplement related but that is maybe a controversial opinion. Again I I sort of I get that it's controversial. I don't see the controversy cuz I'm just I'm just pointing out data like you know you can choose to be data driven or not. I choose to be data driven. And so I did an experiment where I tested um four different biological age tests from four different companies. These are all consumerf facing. Anybody can go on the internet and buy these things, right? And I did them in duplicate. I wish I'd done I wish I'd done triplicate or or four of each ones, but you know, as you know, these tests are anywhere from $300 to $600 a pop, right? So even doing eight is fairly expensive. So uh so I did four tests from four different companies in duplicate, same biological samples taken on the same day. I was 53 and 3/4 years old at the day that I did this. The results I got back ranged from low 40s to mid60s. Right. Right. Now, if I took the average of all eight, it was almost spot on my chronological age, but the variance was huge. And so, you know, and and and to be fair, again, I only had duplicates. Most of the companies, the two duplicates for the same test were within 3 to 5 years. That's still a pretty big range, but, you know, relatively close. One of the companies was 20 years apart. But I think the bigger point is that we have no idea first of all what my true biological age is. So we can't know what the accuracy of these tests is. But we can know the precision is [\h__\h] right? The that the the noise is bigger than the signal. And I think that's the problem is none of these tests have been, you know, validated by any regulatory body, any independent, you know, consumer watchdog organization. It's just these companies saying our tests measure biological age. I don't know why people would trust them, but um they don't or if they do, we don't know which ones do. And so I don't think we can use these consumerf facing biological age tests for anything right now other than enriching the people who are at these companies. Um they're really useful as research tools. And so I don't want to blast the idea that we can measure bi some aspect of biological age. Again, I've even been I try not to, but I've even been using that term sloppily, you know, just just in the last few minutes. We can measure aspects of biological age in the laboratory setting. My concern is the rush to market and selling these to people when they aren't ready for prime time. Do they use like then different clocks in the laboratories or That's right. Yeah. And so maybe it's worth just briefly talking about what what's actually being measured in most of these. So first of all, people should appreciate um you can you can measure biological age a bunch of different ways and and everybody will call it biological age, but none of them are measuring biological age as a true thing. What they're measuring is usually a correlation to mortality risk, right? And so we can do that with things like LDL, HDL, insulin, glucose, right? We can come up with a set of those markers that everybody gets on their blood test and predict your risk of dying in the next 10 years. Now, it may or may not be a good prediction, but we can predict it. That's what people are calling biological age clocks. It's a correlation to mortality risk. So in most of the consumerf facing biological age clocks they're not using those bloodbased those those bloodbased biomarkers they're using something called DNA methylation. So these are chemical modifications on our DNA and there are hundreds of thousands of them in our genome and they change over time and importantly they determine which genes in our genome get turned up or turned down in terms of expression. So it's a connection to biology that's really important to aging. People have found that the patterns of these methylation marks change with age. And you can look at, you know, depending on the clock, anywhere between a few dozen to 150ish of these specific methylation marks at specific locations in the genome and you can identify a correlation with chronological age within a year or two in the laboratory. In principle, these companies can do exactly that same test and get a correlation to chronological age if you send them your blood. But we don't know if they're doing exactly the same or whether it's done well. Um and then that those are the first generation clocks. The second generation clocks which people may have heard of are instead of being based on um chronological age trained on chronological age it's a different set of marks that are correlated with 3year 5 year 10 year mortality your risk of dying or your risk of developing specific age related diseases. Um same principle though it's a correlation to those things and those things mortality risk is correlated to biological age right it's not a perfect correlation though it's not the same as biological age so really what these tests are measuring is a correlation to a correlation but they're calling it biological that's that's part of I think the the the lack of clarity about what we actually mean um so again I think the take-home message though is these can be very powerful in the research world and I think we'll get to a point where they can be useful say in clinical trials in predicting whether or not a new drug a new intervention is going to lower risk of mortality and when used responsibly if we can convince regulators that this is actually a really good prediction of your risk of dying you could do a clinical trial and get a drug approved it would be what's called a conditional approval potentially uh based only on the test, but we have to convince the regulators these things actually work. And this is another potential problem to the companies rushing these things to market. It when the regulators realize they don't work because the ones that are being rushed to market don't work, it's going to be harder for responsible people to convince them, oh yeah, they actually do work because we're doing it right, you know. Yeah. Uh maybe the last thing that's worth commenting on cuz I I know you've talked about this as well. You can also use a different set of methylation marks that are correlated with the change in health over time. This is the pace of aging, the Denedian pace of aging or rate of aging. So there's a different set of methylation marks across a population level study that have been shown to correlate with whether people stay healthy over time or have a decline in health over time or maybe even their health gets better. And so based on those marks, people developed a different clock that is supposed to measure your rate of aging, your pace of aging. Again, it's a correlation to health outcomes. And a change in your health is correlated to a change in your biological age. So still a correlation to a correlation, but that's really valuable if it works because then you can do experiments and say, you know, what happens if I stop drinking alcohol? Does my rate of aging go up or go down? And be informed by that. So again that's really really exciting and it seems to work in the laboratory in a research setting or maybe not I shouldn't say laboratory in a academic controlled study could be of people but we have no idea whether these companies that are telling you your pace of aging whether that is meaningful or not because again it's it's not there's no quality control or external validation. Yeah, I tend to agree like there's a lot of uh noise with those tests. I want to take a quick break to let you know that you can now get my new book, The Longevity Leap, on Amazon. It contains 24 chapters ranging from the biology of aging to all the major chronic diseases such as heart disease, kidney disease, neurodeeneration, and I also cover over 70 clinically relevant biomarkers for chronic diseases and their optimal ranges. You can get the book from the link in the description. Uh, next question. Peptides for longevity. Do you have any opinion about that? So like BBC, GFBs or so? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I first thing to say is I think people lump peptides together, but but that's kind of like lumping drugs together, right? Peptides are just bioactive molecules that have a certain type of chemical structure based on the fact that they're a combination of amino acids. That's all peptides means. So um, they can have all sorts of different effects and and and so it's important for people to appreciate. You know, you wouldn't necessarily put rapamy with aspirin with, you know, a PD5 and with Viagra, right? They all can do different things. Peptides can also do lots of different things. They are biologically active. Our bodies produce many peptides. So, so you can categorize peptides based on whether they're naturally occurring or new drugs that people have synthesized, right? And I think it's plausible that naturally occurring peptides are going to be like BPC-157 are going to be less likely within a physiological range to have really negative outcomes. Whereas if you're taking a new peptide that our bodies have never seen, they're they could be much more likely to have be much more potent and have have negative outcomes. Of course, there's going to be exceptions to that. Okay, so all of that is groundwork. Um, I'm not aware of any peptides yet that have been shown to slow aging or increase lifespan in laboratory hands. Do I believe they could? Absolutely. Do I believe peptides exist that will slow aging? Absolutely. I have just haven't seen data on any of the popular ones. Um, I think GLP-1 agonists are super interesting. So, WGOI, Munjaro, things like that that that people have heard of for anti-obesity. I think they have a really good chance of increasing lifespan in laboratory animals. Um the thing I'm really interested with about there is is it through if it does increase lifespan is it through a caloric restriction mechanism or is it through a mechanism independent of caloric intake? You know when people first started talking about this I was of the opinion that sure they'll increase lifespan but it's just going to be caloric restriction. As I've seen more and more data on uh targets of GLP-1 agonists outside of limiting appetite or food intake, I'm becoming more intrigued by the possibility that they could actually have positive health benefits through other mechanisms. Um I would love to see that experiment done. I have not seen anybody I've not heard of anybody doing that experiment yet in laboratory animals, but I'd love to see it done. And in people, I think again there's clear evidence that GLP-1 agonists can have impacts on a variety of age- related diseases. That could all be because you're you're reducing obesity or taking people from, you know, the the obese range down to the overweight range or overweight to normal health range. Um, but it's also possible that there are other other impacts. Um, again speaking about GLP-1 agonist, it's worth I think emphasizing that unfortunately the way those things were rolled out to people, a lot of people um were not given sufficient education around the importance of eating a quality diet when you're taking these drugs and doing some sort of resistance training. A lot of people lost a lot of lean mass in addition to fat mass. And I think what we've learned is when that happens and people come off these drugs, they tend to gain much of the weight back, but they don't get the lean mass back. So what we may be doing with I if people are not eating a healthy diet and practicing resistance training is increasing frailty um and uh uh osteoporosis um in the elderly population. So just important for people to really understand. great drugs, very powerful, they work, and you need to take steps to ensure that you maintain or actually improve your body composition when you're taking um I think that's gotten better. The other last thing I'll say about that is also pay attention to hormones when you're on these things because anytime you're in a calorically restricted state, your hormones can become perturbed. Okay, that's GLP-1 agonist. The other ones I I you know this is an area where I I need to do a deep dive and I've been meaning to for a while to really take a close look at the common uh peptides that are out there. I think uh BPC is super interesting. The papers I've read in rodents really interesting effects lots of anecdotal stories. Um you know it will it generally work for people as a regenerative peptide or a healing peptide I don't know it would be great to have clinical trials. uh the growth uh growth hormone secrets again really interesting you know there I I I wonder you know is that any better than just taking growth hormone I get you can do handwavy sort of uh uh you know explanations for why it might be I haven't really seen anything that makes me believe that I also haven't seen a lot of data on how effective these things are at increasing growth hormone and honestly the data on growth hormone as a longevity drug is pretty weak um you This is getting a little bit in the weeds, so we don't need to go there. I will say Greg Fehee and his Trim protocol, which includes growth hormone, is intriguing. Uh, this is a thymus regeneration protocol, but outside of that, I haven't seen a lot of evidence that that the growth hormone per se is good for longevity. And then there's a variety of other peptides that potentially target mitochondria and other things very early, very experimental. Um it is interesting how many doctors in this space are comfortable prescribing these things with very very little data. Yeah. One of the questions is actually about the trim protocol. Yeah. So you can explain what it is. Yeah. So so I actually have an episode on the Optispan podcast for people who want to want to get a deep dive into this. I I sat down with Greg uh about a month ago down in LA. So the trim protocol is based around the idea that um relatively early in life so adolescence or post-puberty early 20s there's a pretty dramatic decrease in thymic function and our thymus is important for among other things producing tea cells which are really important for the function of our immune system. So the idea is that because the thymus declines pretty dramatically and then there's this slow but steady decline as we get older, this is contributing to immune disregulation, both a decline in immune function and an increase in what's called sterile inflammation or something like autoimmunity. So Greg um came up with an idea for how to restore thyic function in people who are 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s. It's called trim. Um uh and the protocol is basically uh growth hormone uh DHEA which is a a precursor for testosterone um uh and other hormones um also declines with age and metformin. And the rationale as I understand it is the growth hormone is really doing the action here. So the growth hormone does a couple of things to the thymus. it. Um, so one of the things that happens during what's called thyic involution, this dramatic loss in function is there's an infiltration of fat into the thymus. We see this in other tissues as well, but it happens early in the thymus. So growth hormone reverses that and at least causes the volume of the thymus to to grow right now. Is it actually new cells, new stem cells? I don't know that we know that, but you can see it by MRI. You can see an increase in volume of the thymus. Um, the DHEA is sort of in there, not a hu not a great scientific rationale, but but in part because DHEA goes down with age and and it and it may have some benefit for thyic function and maintaining hormonal balance. And again, we talk about this a little bit in the episode for people who are interested. The metformin is in there because growth hormone can have a negative impact on insulin sensitivity and uh glucose uh homeostasis. So metformin again anti-diabetes drug. This is to sort of offset that. I asked Greg about this. There's no data. I am intrigued by the idea that maybe SGLT2 inhibitors could substitute for metformin counteract maybe some of the bad stuff about metformin. Get may if SGLT2 inhibitors have a longevity effect on their own also give you that. But there's no data on that. So what Greg has shown is in a in a number of small but intriguing human studies evidence that the trim protocol over several months can um improve thyic volume uh reduce the fat infiltration and and probably improve te- cell function and immune function although that hasn't been measured in as much um depth as at least I would like to see. They also have some evidence that the epigenetic clocks that we were talking about earlier uh show what would be perceived as uh improvements in biological age or reduced risk of mortality. So I would say pretty intriguing data and it certainly makes sense that improving thyic function in older people is going to be generally beneficial. So I personally am at some point going to give trim a try. I I just need to figure out the logistics of the MRI. I want to make sure I measure it, right? I want to know like what actually happened. So, the logistics of the MRI analysis, make sure I get that done before, get, you know, at least some biomarker panel that's going to tell me about inflammation and immune function before and then and then do the same thing afterwards. Right. Would repamy have any effect on the thymus? Yeah, I asked Greg that. He doesn't have any data. Um, it's I don't know the answer. I I I I if I don't know. I mean I think it's possible that you would also see a restoration at least of thyic volume and and a reduction in fat infiltration from rapamy. Um and that but that it's really speculative. That's just based on some of the data on rapamy effects on fat metabolism from laboratory animals. And then there's some intriguing um data both in rodents and in humans on uh rapamy treatment increasing um volume of the hippocampus and the codate nucleus. So it's in the brain very different right but by MRI at least in people who are um APOE34 carriers. So APOE4 is the one of the biggest genetic risk factors for dementia and heart disease. So they tend to have an accelerated decline in brain volume in those regions and and there's two studies now that have that have shown or at least strongly suggested uh reversal of the that reduction in brain volume as well as improved cerebral blood flow. So I'm intrigued by the possibility yes that rapamy could have an impact on thy function but but no data that I know of. Yeah. But does it like slow down immunosinence? So the decline I mean so what we know from laboratory studies and then the human studies I alluded to earlier from from from Joan Manic is that functionally you see an improvement in vaccine response. So there's definitely a change in age related immune function decline. Um and you see very potent reductions in chronic inflammations in mice across many different tissues and organs. And again anecdotal data in people with you know autoimmune or chronic inflammation that they have an alleviation of symptoms of inflammation with off label use of rapamy. So I think it's reasonable to it's a reasonable hypothesis that rapamy would would have a positive impact on im imunosinessence in people. I don't think we have any data directly addressing that at this point. Gotcha. Uh, next question. Is IV NAD pure hype? Um, in intervenous I mean I would say it's a it's a little bit better than cure hype. Again, you know, I've talked to I've talked to docs who do it regularly. Um, you know, they say some of their patients, you know, have some pretty significant improvements in in how they feel. So, I I wouldn't want to say there's nothing there. Again, I'm not aware of any data, you know, from rigorous studies showing benefits in a population of people or or across a population of people from IV NAD. Again, this the the the the hypothesis behind this is that NAD levels decline with age and that by restoring NAD that's going to be beneficial. that hypothesis or that idea that NAD levels generally decline with age is also not strongly supported by the literature. Again, there's evidence there, but but that has been sort of overstated by people who have a vested interest in promoting that model. Often they're selling NAD precursor supplements. So I think some my my my gut feeling is some people uh particularly those who have significant mitochondrial dysfunction or metabolic dysfunction do indeed have perturbed NAD homeostasis and that can be reflected as either a decrease in NAD itself or a shift in the redux state of NAD towards NADH. those people may benefit and feel better from NAD drips or from NAD precursors. Um I think maybe the last thing to say on this is there's a variety of ways that people are trying to boost NAD. So the NAD drips is one. Uh NAD precursors that are taken orally, NMN, NR are the two expensive ones. Nicotenomide nasin are the two cheap ones. All of them in theory if you take enough can boost your NAD levels. Um and then there's a sort of a new sort of uh uh movement towards sublingual NAD or sublingual NMN. All of those in theory should increase circulating NAD levels. And so I don't know of any reason to believe that one is necessarily better than the other from that perspective. Yeah. I've never done NAD drifts, by the way. I'm sort of intrigued. I'm kind of like you where I kind I like to try stuff and see, you know, do I feel anything? But I haven't tried it yet. I haven't tried it either. I've heard it's like can be uncomfortable because it's like several hours long and you can do it fast. More Yeah. And I mean this I don't know if this is on your list or not. Uh sort of related just because it's it's IV related and takes a few hours that one thing I am becoming more intrigued by is therapeutic plasma exchange. Right. the idea, and this is based on the parabiosis experiments in mice, that there's bad stuff that accumulates with age in our circulatory system and and good stuff in young animals. And if you connect the circulatory system of a young mouse and an old mouse, the I mean, this is this is an oversimplification, but I'm going to say it anyways because it it sounds good and it more or less fits the biology. The old mouse becomes younger, the young mouse becomes older, right? Um, so therapeutic plasma exchange is kind of doing half of that equation, right? It's it's taking some of the bad stuff out of circulation. I'm becoming more convinced there's there's real potential benefit there both in the context of aging, but also maybe in the context of things like, you know, microplastic exposure or heavy metal exposure, right? So, so I think that's interesting. I also haven't tried that yet, but that's definitely on the short list of stuff I want to I want to try. Yeah, me too. like um there's even like this ebo which is like you uh do yeah like a diialysis and filter the blood and then you like shoot ozone and UV light into it as well to Yeah, that sounds a little more sketchy to me but u but I mean again maybe principle is it also comes from a little bit of lack of of of knowledge of what the research actually shows. Yeah. Yeah. Well, the Ebo is usually used for like autoimmune conditions and uh those kind of things. Yeah. Next question. Does low IGF-1 increase longevity and is low IGF-1 bad for the brain? Yeah. Uh so low IGF-1 during development and let's just start with non-human animals first, right? So mice, rats, and dogs. I think it's it's pretty clear that low IGF-1 during development leads to smaller body size and increased lifespan on average. every individual is different but on average in a population yes it slows aging seems to slow aging um in people it's a little bit less clear but but there is data from from studies of people who have mutations in uh I think it was a growth hormone receptor but that leads to lower IGF-1 that they are at lower risk for cancer heart disease metabolic disease uh despite even having more atyposity right so they're they're but they're smaller of stature they they don't live longer. But it's interesting because the the increases in cause of death come from alcoholism and accidents. So lifespan doesn't change, but risk of at least some age- related diseases does change. So I think it's plausible in people that biological aging is slowed when you have lower IGF-1 levels through development as well. um how low like uh because what you see from some of these observational studies is that if it's like too low or like below 100 well then it can increase risk. So again I think you have to be you have to be clear I'm talking about people who are naturally low in IGF-1 got from gestation through development their whole life. So they probably have genetic varants that make them low in IGF-1. When you look at cross-sectional or even longitudinal population data in adults, that's a very different situation because those people presumably or may have gone through development with much higher levels. So, they could still be high large in stature or small in stature but have an IGF-1 level that doesn't match their stature which is determined by IGF-1 level development. So um and I think that's important because you know there are people who are thinking about therapeutic strategies to lower IGF-1 in adulthood with the idea that it will slow aging. As far as I know there's only one study in mice that looked at this. It was a study that Derek Hoffman um at Einstein did several years ago now and they had a modest but statistically significant increase in lifespan. I want to say in males but not female mice. I I might be backwards on that, but nowhere near the magnitude of effect that you get from having low IGF-1 during development. Um, and that probably was primarily an anti-cancer mechanism. And this is a place where I mean, in general, I think studying aging in mice and then extrapolating to humans is reasonable. It's certainly much more reasonable than what what people have done in mice with cancer or heart disease and artificially causing the disease. Mice age very much like people do. But mice in the laboratory don't tend to die from frailty, sarcopenia, fractures. They do get some of that, but it doesn't kill them. They tend to die well they tend to die from euthanasia, but but usually the euthanasia is is downstream of cancer. And certainly all mice will die with cancer. So it's a little bit different than people. I think the IGF-1 benefits, the lower IGF-1 benefits in adult mice primarily come from anti-cancer, right? So then the question is, will that extrapolate to people or dogs? And there's a company called Loyal that is moving forward with a a a drug that will reduce IGF-1 in adult dog. We just don't know. Um, one of the arguments you'll hear for a low protein diet in people is that it will lower IGF-1 and thereby lower cancer risk. the data on that is not particularly compelling and and again there's you know there's a little bit of of disagreement about what the on whole what the epidemiological data actually shows. My take is that um low protein and that causes low IGF-1 but but is the IGF-1 causing the downstream effects on mortality is is not known. low protein above about age 55 is generally a bad idea. You're you're at higher risk of frailty, sarcopenia, fractures, and death than eating a high protein diet. Obviously, that's a correlation and it could be due to all sorts of other factors. Um, high protein is also not great if you're eating an unhealthy diet. So, if you're overfed and eating a lot of crap and eating high protein, that does increase your risk of cancer. So my view is the best bet is to eat relatively high protein, high quality diet that's independent of IGF-1 but worth saying. So um so does IGF-1 work differently in the brain? This is really interesting. Again, yeah, it does. Um I don't know about I don't want to make a blanket statement about aging, but data from the dog aging project is really intriguing here. So in almost every age related disease that you can think of and also for lifespan, small dogs age slower than big dogs do. Small dogs have lower IGF-1 through development. That's why they're small and they live longer and seem to age slower than big dogs do. You can look at a bunch of different age- related diseases and functional declines except for dementia. Dementia is the only one I'm aware of and there might be others. It's the only one I'm aware of that has come out of our data set so far where there doesn't seem to be any difference in dementia risk between small dogs and big dogs. So, and it's not and it doesn't scale with biological age. In other words, a 12-year-old German Shepherd has roughly the same dementia risk as a 12-year-old, you know, I don't know, uh, Chihuahua, right? Small dog. So that suggests that if IGF-1 is really driving the difference in aging rate in the rest of the body, the same relationship isn't there in the brain and it's it's not as strong, but there might even be a hint of protection in the big dogs and there's a hint of that in people as well. So yeah, it might be the case that having higher IGF-1 is better for brain aging. I think an interesting question is is that effect due to higher IGF-1 during development or is it due to higher IGF-1 during adulthood? We really don't know the answer to that. So does the IGF-1 like help with neuron growth or what does it do? I don't think we know. Yeah, I don't think we know. Um or at least I don't know. Maybe maybe people who are experts in in uh in the brain or in dementia would have a better feel for that. Uh it is interesting to me that one of the therapies you know that has gotten some traction uh for for dementia is intraasal insulin and the insulin and IGF-1 signaling pathways overlap. So again that may have nothing to do with this relationship but it is sort of intriguing there may be a connection there. Yeah I think it's with mTor as well like mtor is needed for neuroplasticity. It is. Yeah. I mean, again, the the the You're right. The challenge with um the challenge with interpreting that as as causal for anything to do with dementia is, you know, it's really all about the levels of signaling through IGF-1 or or mTor. So and and where that comes from is if you completely inhibit mTor you you take a very high dose of rapamy yeah you'll block neuroplasticity you'll block you know new memory formation but that's because mtor is required for all protein synthesis and cell division right so the question and this gets back to like muscle function which we talked about before or or lean mass uh muscle formation if you turn down mtor too much you won't build new muscle but is it possible that turning it down a little bit from where it's at, especially in the context of aging, is actually going to be net beneficial for muscle or for cognitive function, for memory formation. I think that's why we see these benefits from rapamy because we're only turning it down a little bit and maybe transiently turning it down as opposed to just, you know, dropping it down to the floor. Yeah. Uh, next question. Do you use AI and uh, language models in your work? I do. I use it a lot. Yeah. I mean, um, and it's and it's growing, right? I mean, I think I think I'm certainly not one of these people who subscribes to the idea that AI is going to solve all of our problems, but um I use it uh we use it at Optispan and we're thinking a lot about so again optispan is really about creating tools technologies for to enable people to get on a better health trajectory right at large. So we have clinical programs but we are absolutely trying to think about how do we use these AI tools to integrate lots of different data types to get that back to people to create interactive ways for doctors and patients to interact with their data. Lots of other people are thinking about this as well. I see really really powerful use cases in the clinical application uh and what I would call health span medicine or what Peter Aia would call medicine 3.0 although I actually think that's medicine 4.0 when we add AI and geroscience on top of medicine 3.0. So yes, there there are tons of really obvious use cases that are going to happen. You and I within the next few years will have a Healthspan agent on our devices that we can interact with if we want to and it will function as well as most doctors. I'm very confident that can happen. Yeah, we're not that far away. Um so that's a really obvious use case for for AI. I think in the broader you know longevity geroscience space AI is going to going to accelerate the pace of research everywhere including geroscience and longevity. Um but I think we need much better data sets than we currently have in order for AI to really be a gamecher when it comes to understanding the biology of aging and being able to use that to impact lifespan and health span. I think our data sets right now are pretty bad. Certainly in the intervention space, our data set is wo woefully under represented for all of the different genetic or environmental and I put small molecules under environmental things that we could test to see what impacts longevity. Tiny tiny fraction. Um and I sort of you know use the analogy that you know garbage in garbage out. Everybody gets that right? You put garbage into the best AI tool, you're going to get garbage out. You put rapamy and metformin and a carbos in, guess what you're going to get out, right? We need a better data set to know what are the most effective ways to impact longevity than what we've got right now. And then I would also add to that we need larger human what you you know sort of crudely describe as multiomic longitudinal data sets and basically over time in lots of people measure everything you could think to measure. Yeah, those are observational in nature, but and they're very very complex data sets, but that's the kind of thing that the new AI tools are going to be very capable of of sort of teasing out what's important. So that's what I would like to see. The AI tools are going to keep developing. I'd like to see smart people in the longevity community actually put some thought into figuring out as these things keep developing, how do we use them most effectively to really move the needle? M yeah. Do you think like the AI will figure itself out things that isn't in the data or like because I don't know. I'm less optimistic about that. Um I kind of feel like the the the sort of foundational information needs maybe I'm wrong. I hope I'm wrong, but I sort of feel like the foundational information needs to be there. And again, you know, I I sort of use this this graphic sometimes in my talks where, you know, I compare the hallmarks of aging, which are just a representation of our how much we understand aging today, the biology of aging today, and I compare it to a map of the surface of the earth, you know, in 500 BC, right? which I don't if you've ever seen this map's map, but you know, it's got like a a a sort of, you know, vaguely Europe-shaped thing in Asia that looks nothing like Asia and Libya's fat 10 times as as Yeah. And then and then you sail too far and you fall off the edge. So, if you think about it that way, you could have the best AI tool in the world and you give it that map and say, "Show me the surface of the earth." It's not going to show you the surface of any earth that looks anything like what we know it looks like today. I sort of feel that is is is the same idea if we give it how we understand aging to do. Yeah. I'd love to be wrong but but that's the way I the way I would guess it's going to go. Yeah. Next question. Um how much protein for longevity? How much is it? I mean again I don't we honestly we don't know the answer and it's going to be individual right. So there's two things I would say. I I would say for most people the important thing and it's going to depend on the quality of the diet definitely that you're eating. So, I would say the best strategy for most people to adopt is what I would consider moderate to high protein. So, anywhere from, and again, I'm just throwing numbers out, but anywhere from 6 to 1 gram per pound of body weight per day, but you got to be eating a high quality diet. If you're eating a crappy diet and you eat a lot of protein, you're going to increase your risk for cancer, period. So, like sugar and cut out simple sugars. Again, highly processed foods in general, cut out highly processed foods. We could have a debate. I mean, I had this conversation with with Peter uh Peter Aia recently, you know, about protein bars, right? And his view is if you have really good ingredients and you can maximize sort of like the protein ratio per calorie, that that's that's a good thing, right? Um so, and I think there's that's a reasonable that that's a reasonable thing. I still wouldn't say eat 10 protein bars a day, even if they're the best protein bars in the world, but I don't want to say never eat highly processed foods, but most highly processed foods have a lot of added sugars. Read the frigin labels. I can't believe still today a lot of people don't look at labels. Like, cut out the simple sugars, right? Cut down the alcohol. Don't waste your calories on nonsense. So, eat a high quality diet. Then, I think high protein relatively, and definitely resistance training should be part of your exercise routine. that to me those three are really the strategy and you can't really talk about protein in the absence of that. Might there be a slight increased risk of cancer from doing that compared to not compared to eating a low protein diet? Yeah, there might be. But I think by eating a high quality diet and exercising regularly, you probably dramatically reduce that increased risk, right? And you're going to get lots of benefits in terms of muscle mass for metabolic health, bone density for frailty, hormonal health. Like you're going to get all these other benefits that more than offset the if there is a tiny increased risk of cancer, the increased risk of cancer. Again, I don't really like I mean, you hear people do this all the time and it's like, you know, oh, I look at that guy and he looks 65, so his longevity protocol must not be working. I'm like, yeah, he's actually 75. It's working great. I don't like I don't like that sort of mindset. But the the honest answer is I know people who have dabbled with and still practice a very low protein diet. In general, they don't look very good and they don't seem very happy. So that's a generalization, but I do think that, you know, if you look around in your own life and and you see the same thing, that may be telling you something. So no protein margaritas. Yeah. I'd never had a protein margarita, that's for sure. I'm sure they're out there somewhere. Um, and uh, next question. What makes grip strength linked to Hellspand? Oh, good question. Yeah, I mean, I I I tend to think it's it's mostly just a reflection of overall muscle function and muscle quality, right? I don't think there's anything special about grip strength, per se. Um, I do think, you know, having a having a a a good grip strength functionally for being able to do the stuff you want to do in your daily life is a good idea, but I wouldn't necessarily I definitely don't train for grip strength itself. It's a byproduct. Yeah, it's a byproduct of of of being strong, being able to lift weight. Um, but like I said, if your grip strength is low, that will make it harder for you to to do the stuff that you want to be able to do when you're 60, 70, 80 years old. So, be strong, I think, is the real answer there. Yeah. Like, they find that even 20, 30 years in advance, if you have low grip strength, then you're going to have hard time putting on clothes, getting off the toilet. But that usually reflects a sedentary lifestyle and and and not being not having sufficient muscle mass throughout your entire body. Like I think there are probably very few people who have sufficient muscle mass everywhere else and their grip strength is low. Yeah. I guess it's like Yeah. Like if you're otherwise with decent muscle and strength and in good health, you should have like at least like above normal grip strength. You don't have to train specifically for the grip strength. Yeah. I've never been one of those guys that, you know, has that gripper thing and and does that. Right. Right. Although, I mean, I've used it. It's it's a very good exercise for the grip. Like Yeah. Yeah. You will increase your good for pull-ups. Good for pull-ups. Good for former carries. And yeah. Yeah. Good for arm wrestling if someone is interested. Next question. Preserving women's fertility and AMH with h. I guess that's like a marker of fertility or air quality. Yeah. So, I'm definitely not an expert in female reproductive health. There are really really smart people out there who who are looking into this. I'll just preface it by that. Um so again I would I would immed my immediate you know answer to that is that like almost any other again it's going to be dependent on your genetics and and and whether you're at um high risk for you know uh premature infertility or or menopause or or other ovarian syndromes. But in general, the same lifestyle factors that are going to have a positive impact on other aspects of age related functional decline in other tissues and organs are also going to have a positive impact on reproductive health. So I know that's not a that's not a profound answer, but I think it's important to appreciate that's almost always going to be the place to start if you are concerned about a particular age related functional decline or disease. And then you have to get into the the more you know either genetic risk factors or specific lifestyle risk factors that could have an impact. So I'm going to leave it there because again that's outside my area of expertise. It is intreat it is it is interesting to me and um I view it as a positive development that the field as a whole is starting to pay much more attention to ovarian aging and female reproductive aging as both an early indicator of age related um processes and potentially a causal factor in differences in risk for specific age related diseases in women. So I think there's a lot that's being done and a lot of work to be done there. Yeah. Kind of followup question like what do you think of the children having children? Like there's like data that having children later in life is like associated with greater longevity in women. Oh okay. Yes. So there's two things to say there. So so I thought you were going to ask about whether that has any negative consequences on the on the children, right? Um so yeah I think my guess is the the the correlation between fertility between childirth later in life and um longevity in women is mostly because women who are able to have children later in life have a later sessation of reproduction. In other words, their ovarian aging is delayed for some reason. And so aging in the rest of the body is also probably proportionally delayed. That's the most likely explanation. Although you know pregnancy itself does have an impact on a whole bunch of physiological functions and using these DNA methylation clocks that we talked about before. You can see changes in the DNA methylation clocks during pregnancy and after pregnancy that look like an increase in epigenetic age followed by in most women a decrease in epigenetic age. So is it possible that the hormonal and other changes that happen during pregnancy are impacting biological aging itself? Yeah, I think that's pretty plausible. And in some women, it may actually reset some aspects of biological aging to a lower baseline value than before pregnancy. So it's total speculation, but that could also be a real thing. Yeah. So there's like it increases during pregnancy the the biological age, the DNA methylation Yeah. patterns associated with biological age. Yep. But then then would you predict that the more children you have the faster you would age, right? Well, again, the the data that I've seen in most women it goes up, but then after pregnancy it comes back down and in some women it actually goes down down below the baseline where they started. So yeah, if it only went up or if it only went up and partially came back down, you would expect an acceleration of aging, right? Gotcha. But I mean, obviously having kids can have all sorts of other impacts on your uh your stress levels and aging and and so it's complicated. Yeah, I think that is, you know, having generally more children is associated with slightly longer longevity to a certain point. Sure. And I mean, again, that could be for all sorts of reasons. It could be biological effects of pregnancy. It could be later, you know, the fact that when these women can just have children later in life, their ovarian aging is delayed. Their aging is delayed in their whole body. Could also be due to the social component, right? And you know, having children who hopefully are going to be around when you're an adult and maybe even care for you, right? There's all sorts of factors that could weigh into that. Yeah. Last question is um when should we start giving rapomycin to our dog? So that's for my wife. We have a puppy who is I'm not a veterinarian. I do not make veterinary recommendations. But hypothetically speaking, if you were going to give rapomy to your dog, um the the idea would be you're doing that because you believe that it might increase lifespan and improve health span in dogs. Um, so I mean again, no way to know. Uh, so what I can say is from our studies in the dog aging project, they have all been in dogs that are over 7 years old and at least 40 lbs. So that's you know what about 18 kg, right? Um, and that's because big dogs age faster than small dogs. So it has nothing to do with the idea that rapamy is going to work better in a in a big dog than in a smaller dog. It's just because for clinical trial purposes, you need a rapidly aging population. So that's a reasonable thing to think about, right? That roughly biological age. So if you're a 40 lb dog, seven or greater, if you're a smaller dog, might be a year or two later. But that's just a guess. What we can say for mice is that, you know, rapamy treatment starting around that same biological age. So a 60 to 65 year old person, maybe 55year-old person to a 7 8-year-old dog um increases lifespan pretty robustly and improves a whole bunch of health span metrics. So that would be my sort of gut reaction for this is all really based on I think I think maybe it's worth saying explicitly what's the underlying sort of calculation here, right? It's always a riskreward. So, what's the reward from starting when the dog's a puppy or the kid's a teenager versus the reward of starting when the dog's older or you're 50, 60, right? The difference in reward, the way we understand it now from mice is pretty small. You get pretty much the same benefit starting later in life that you do if you start the mice very young. So then what's the difference in risk? Well, certainly if if this is before puberty, obviously there's lots of risks that would go along with that. And I think the idea is the longer you're taking any intervention, any drug, the more likelihood that side effects could happen and compound. So again, with rapamy, given that we don't completely understand the risk profile, I think we've learned a lot more, but we still don't completely understand it. The risk is lower if you start later. So that's kind of where I land both for off label use in people and if you're going to do it in dogs. Yeah. Yeah. Our dog is 1.5 years old and he's like 10 lbs or something like 4 kilos. Yeah. So pretty young. He has a long time to go. Yeah. Which you know that you're going to you're going to most likely have that dog for 15 16 17 years. Right. So yeah, we one interesting thing like uh so he got car sickness. Um, so we were giving him some of this nausea medication which is like some antihistamine and the ingredient was melazine. Actually I found that it was a one of the ITP ingredients that that's interesting. Yeah, I I actually I mean I knew I knew from about it from the ITP study. Um, but yeah, it's a common anti-nausea medication as well that maybe zero protective effects and so he's already on the protocol. Yeah. Yeah. Uh I I assume the mechazine was only for a short period of time. Yeah, it's a small dose. It's a very small but I mean that's another intriguing one where from the ITP you know the the the the mechanism that was at least how that was proposed and selected uh was was based on the potential that it also is an mTor inhibitor. So same idea as rapamy but could be lots of other mechanisms by which meloine is working to have an impact on longevity in in mice and intriguing to think about the possibility it could have similar effects in people and dogs. Yeah. Well, it was a great conversation and where can people learn more about you? Where can they find your channel? Yeah. So, uh, Mkerberline on LinkedIn X, Instagram, uh, and then the Optispan podcast is you can find all sorts of content. Um, so if you enjoyed this and maybe got a little bit more edgy, you can check out the Optispan podcast. Yeah, we'll put the link in the show notes and yeah, thanks for coming. Thank you. All right, that's it for this episode. Make sure you check out my new book, The Longevity Leap, on Amazon. I'd also appreciate if you share this episode with a friend or family member. Other than that, my name is Seam. Stay tuned for the next episode.