

=== FILE: 5 Changes Most People Miss for Peak Health [pgBRHcmAwsg].txt ===

 following the basics can and will take you to top 1% of health if you have an optimized plan and you're consistent. However, there are a few key factors that can unlock your progress and get you results a lot faster. So in this video, I'm going to give you five things you might not be doing but should be doing. I'm not going to talk about eating a healthy diet, exercising or sleeping more. Those are the basics. I'll cover the specifics that are rarely discussed. Number one, natural vitamin D levels. We all know that vitamin D is an absolutely essential hormone that the body can't make itself. We need to get exposed to sunlight to synthesize vitamin D. Ideally, we want to reach optimal vitamin D status without supplementation. The reason for this is because yes, you can have optimal blood vitamin D levels with supplementation, but you might not be getting the other benefits from the sun. If you have optimal blood vitamin D levels without supplementation, it means that you're spending adequate time outside in the sun. The sun provides us with so many other health benefits that can't be replicated with a supplement. Yes, taking a supplement is better than being vitamin D deficient, but even if your vitamin D levels are normal with supplementation, you might be deficient in infrared light and UV light that have unique benefits on your mitochondria, your sleep, circadian rhythm and overall well-being. You don't even need to sunbathe to get the benefits and reach optimal blood vitamin D levels. A study done in Valencia, Spain, under 39th latitude, found that during the summer and autumn, it takes 7 to 31 minutes of spending time outdoors to reach a dose of 1000 IUs for vitamin D, which is the daily requirement. In January, it took more than two hours to reach that amount. In northern countries, you probably need 1.5 to 2x the amount of time. How much sun you need is determined by your blood work. If your vitamin D levels are low or below average, then you need more sun. Vitamin D levels below 20 nanograms per milliliter or below 50 nanomoles per liter are considered insufficient and they're associated with an increased rate of bone loss. Vitamin D levels over 20 nanograms per milliliter are considered sufficient. However, it's been suggested that the insufficiency line should be at 30 nanograms per milliliter or 75 nanomoles per liter. When it comes to the range for lowest mortality risk, then this 2017 meta-analysis saw that compared to vitamin D levels of 30 to 40 nanograms per milliliter, which is 75 to 99 nanomoles per liter, those with vitamin D levels of 16 to 20 nanograms per milliliter, 40 to 49 nanomoles per liter, had a 15% higher risk of all cause and thalate and those below 12 nanograms per milliliter, below 30 nanomoles per liter, had a 67% higher risk. That's what you want to aim for without supplements. 30 to 40 nanograms per milliliter or 75 to 99 nanomoles per liter at least. What about countries where there's no sunlight, especially during the winter? If you're living in Canada, Scandinavia, Iceland or the UK, then chances are you will need vitamin D during the winter to keep your vitamin D levels optimal. However, there's recent research suggesting that you can also maintain better vitamin D with exercise. In this 2025 randomized control trial, obese participants who exercised maintain their vitamin D levels during the winter, whereas the control group saw a 15% decrease over time. Being overweight tends to result in lower vitamin D levels because it's being stored in the body fat and thus weight loss would improve vitamin D status. But exercise even without weight loss appears to improve vitamin D by mobilizing vitamin D from fat stores. Losing weight and having less body fat also means your vitamin D is less likely to be locked up in body fat. Eating vitamin D rich foods can also help to get the minimum RDA. You can eat things like fatty fish, such as salmon, as well as other seafood, dairy, eggs and fish roe. If none of this works, you should take a vitamin D supplement during the winter months, but during the summer you should try to spend more time outside. Number two, stop eating four plus hours before bed. There are legitimate benefits to time-reshifted eating and intermittent fasting. They can help with weight loss, blood sugar, blood pressure, lipids and sleep. One of the ways it does so is by regulating your circadian rhythm and controlling your energy intake. However, the biggest pitfall of intermittent fasting is eating too late or eating too close to bedtime, which can worsen your metabolic health and sleep quality. The truth is that for optimal human biology we want to be eating slightly earlier rather than later. Now you don't need to have an early breakfast, but you should at least have an earlier dinner. I've tested pretty much all the intermittent fasting types out there. I've eaten one hour before bed, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight hours before bed. What I've found is that the sweet spot for me is around four hours up to five hours before bed. Whatever window you choose, you have to make it consistent, because your meal timing also regulates your circadian rhythms. Sleeping seven to eight hours is the foundation of healthy sleep, but it looks like the consistency of when you sleep is equally as important. Irregular sleeping patterns will mess up your body's circadian clocks, and this is associated with worse health outcomes and increased risk of mortality. Having irregular meal times can also mess up your sleep patterns if you stay up too late. I want to take a quick break to tell you about the Bonchard's infrared sauna blankets. My go-to way of getting 20-minute sauna sessions on the go without needing to spend an hour to warm up a regular sauna. Taking the sauna is in my opinion one of the best things for your overall health and heart function. Studies show that taking the sauna regularly is associated with 63% lower risk of sudden cardiac death, 63% reduced heart disease mortality, 46% lower risk of hypertension, and 40% reduced oral cause mortality. This is mediated by an increase in body temperature and increased heart rate that mimic a cardiovascular workout while at the same time improving arterial stiffness in the theory of function, blood flow, immune system function, blood pressure, and metabolic health. It doesn't matter if it's a traditional wooden sauna, an infrared sauna, an infrared sauna blanket, or anything else that elevates your body temperature above what's normal. It warms up in two minutes to the optimal temperature of 70 degrees Celsius and it's low in emf. You can get a 15% discount by heading over to bonchard.com for slash seamlund and use the code SEAM for 15% discount. Alright, back to the video. Number three, reach low visceral fat. Getting into good body composition and becoming lean is the foundation to health. You can't be healthy if you're overweight or obese. However, there's a specific type of fat that's more harmful than regular body fat and it's called visceral fat because it's stored around the organs. There's a wide range of visceral fat in the general population, but the general trend is that it increases with age. You can measure a visceral fat with a dexa scan. This graph is from a study that looked at over 10,000 people between ages 18 and 81. It's a bit hard to understand the exact values, but you generally want to get lower visceral fat to be below the 50th percentile and closer to the bottom 10th percentile in terms of your age and sex. Here's the same graph when made into an easier to understand table. Basically, you want to aim for the 10th percentile of your age group. Being above 50th percentile means you have some work to do and you're above normal levels of visceral fat, which is bad. How do you lose visceral fat? Well, first and foremost, you just need to lose weight overall. If you're over 15% body fat as a male and over 25% body fat as a female, getting below that threshold will help you to lose a visceral fat. By just losing weight, you can realistically get into the 20th percentile of visceral fat for your age. To get to the 10th percentile and lower, you can consider things like higher polyphenolic intake from things like green tea, olive oil and vegetables, higher omega-3 fat intake from seafood, doing aerobic exercise and high intensity interval training, increasing your glycine intake and reducing methionine intake. Number four, the combo of resistance training and aerobic exercise. If you're still doing only resistance training or only aerobic training in 2026, you're doing it wrong. You need to be doing both for optimal benefits. It's found that while resistance training alone is linked to a 21% lower mortality risk, combined with aerobic exercise, it's a 40% lower risk. So it's better to do both rather than one or the other alone. Exercise for longevity isn't about specialization, but more about generalization. Based on the evidence, resistance training is better for insulin sensitivity and muscle growth, as well as bone density. Aerobic exercise, however, is better for visceral fat loss via TMAX and increasing heart rate variability or HRV. I would say that aim for at least three sessions of resistance training per week and at least two cardio sessions, maybe a third one per week. Lastly, it's important to also unlock your mental health and social health. Mental health and happiness are incredibly underrated when it comes to health and longevity. The truth is that if you have poor mental health, you'll never reach optimal physical health because the way your mind affects your body is also a lot easier to stay physically healthy if you enjoy what you're doing and you're happy. Based on research, the biggest determinant of your life satisfaction and happiness is the quality of your relationships with friends and family. So what should you do? The key here is realizing that connection with your friends and family are what will matter the most for you at the end of your life. You might not care about them right now, but you will care about them at your death bed. As I said in the beginning, you need to check the fundamentals of a healthy lifestyle before treating the small things, but the small things still matter and they can unlock your progress. If you want to know how I went from around top 20% to top 1% of health by optimizing my routines, then check out this video next.

=== FILE: Fix This Mistake to Double Your Testosterone [UlNA4bipZSQ].txt ===

 in a 1977 study, a group of infertile men did something so simple, and their testosterone almost doubled. I'm talking about going from 450 to over 850 nagrams per deciliter with their testosterone, without injections, without steroids, without optimizing anything else. The only thing that changed was one mineral that most people overlook. When I first saw these results, I couldn't believe it. The mineral I'm talking about is zinc. In the study, 10 infertile men were given 220 mg of zinc 3 times a day for 4-8 weeks. Their testosterone increased from an average 493 nagrams per deciliter to 852. Their sperm count went from 14.6 to 24.8. That's an insane increase, nearly 100% increase in testosterone. To be fair, this was just 10 men, they were infertile, and they had lower levels of testosterone to begin with. So, if you already have high testosterone, you probably won't see a doubling of your testosterone from just zinc. However, when I saw these results, I wanted to dig deeper into the effects of zinc on testosterone. Zinc is an essential mineral, and it's critical for lytic cells, which produce testosterone in the testes. You need adequate zinc for the normal function of lytic cells, and activity of steroid hormones such as testosterone. Zinc is also a cofactor for 5-alpha reductase, which is an enzyme that converts testosterone into dehydrotestosterone, or DHT, which is the more biologically active androgen. With low zinc status, conversion of testosterone into DHT is impaired. Low zinc status also increases aromatization, the conversion of testosterone into estrogen. This same process happens when you have excess body fat, or your testosterone is too high during puberty, or when you're taking testosterone. Lastly, zinc is an antioxidant as part of the copper-zinc superoxide dismutase, and it protects lytic cells against reactive oxygen species that cause oxidative stress. This consistent research showing that low zinc levels are associated with lower testosterone. Supplementing zinc in those individuals increases their testosterone, which suggests that how high your testosterone is is limited by your zinc status. In a 2023 Japanese study, testosterone levels plateaued at 90 micrograms per deciliter of serum zinc, but below 90, the testosterone levels were linearly lower. The same study found that the low serum zinc had no effect on erectile function. So there is a clear relationship between zinc levels and testosterone. What if you're an otherwise healthy person, and you restrict your zinc intake? In a 1996 study on 40 healthy men between ages 20 and 80, restricting zinc from diet for 20 weeks resulted in testosterone dropping from 39.9 nanomoles per liter to 10.6 nanomoles per liter in young men. That's a 73% decrease. In the elderly zinc deficient men taking zinc, the testosterone increased from 8.3 nanomoles per liter to 16. That's about a 93% increase. They supplemented 459 micromoles per day of zinc, which is the equivalent of around 30 milligrams of elemental zinc per day. They took zinc gluconate for 3 to 6 months. Another 2010 clinical trial on hematialysis patients saw that supplementing 250 milligrams a day of zinc sulfate for 6 weeks increased testosterone by 90%. And tripled luteinizing hormone from 4.85 to 15.77 international units per liter. Now, there is zinc status was low, around 55 micrograms per deciliter, whereas normal is 70 to 120. While taking the zinc, there is zinc status increased by 43%, going to 79.4 micrograms per deciliter, so it normalized. Based on this research, the most consistent way to see an increase in testosterone from zinc is one, if your zinc status is low, and two, maybe if your testosterone is also low. There are no high quality human clinical trials showing meaningful effects on testosterone in people who already have high levels of zinc or they have moderate to high levels of testosterone. However, there are some situations where even healthy individuals with normal testosterone appear to benefit from zinc for helping with their testosterone levels. There is a study where 10 young elite wrestlers were told to exercise to exhaustion, which typically lowers testosterone as well as thyroid hormones due to increased stress. However, supplementing 3 milligrams per kilogram per day of zinc sulfate for 4 weeks prevented this effect. Another study on cyclists exercising to exhaustion found the same results. Athletes may lose more zinc through sweat, which is why their zinc demand is higher. But if you take the sauna frequently or you just exercise regularly, you're also likely to lose more zinc through sweat, and the zinc can also counteract some of the stress. So, the clear message is, number one, don't be deficient in zinc. And number two, if you are deficient in zinc, you can expect to see an increase in testosterone by fixing your zinc status. As I shared earlier, zinc's testosterone boosting effects plateau around 90 micrograms per deciliter for serum zinc level. If you're below that, you could be boosting your testosterone slightly. The lower your zinc, the higher you can get your testosterone by increasing zinc status. So how much zinc do you need? The recommended daily allowance for zinc is 11 milligrams per day for men and 8 to 9 milligrams per day for women. Severe zinc deficiency isn't very common, but many are subclinically zinc deficient. In most countries, people are eating enough zinc from foods. It's not hard to reach the RDA for zinc from regular foods. Meat, seafood, oysters, dairy, eggs, nuts, seeds are all high in zinc. Even only 100 grams of red meat gives you 5 to 9 milligrams of zinc, and pumpkin seeds give 7 to 8 milligrams. A single oyster also gives you up to 8 to 10 milligrams of zinc. So it's virtually impossible for someone to be zinc deficient unless they're eating a very low-coloured diet. The bigger problem, and one of the reasons why people might be zinc deficient, is that there are certain factors that reduce zinc absorption. Gut problems and intestinal malabsorption conditions like sickle cell anemia, inflammatory bowel disease and crone disease. Infections like hookworm, kidney disease and liver disease, heavy metal toxicity, obesity and diabetes, they all reduce zinc absorption. In the studies that I mentioned, supplementing 250 milligrams of zinc is quite a lot. I know a lot of people watching this are eager to try it out. They're gonna just try taking 250 or 600 milligrams of zinc like in the study in the beginning. But you need to be aware of some of the side effects of supplementing high amounts of zinc. 250 milligrams of zinc sulfate gives you around 55 to 60 milligrams of elemental zinc. That's slightly above the tolerable upper limit of 40 milligrams per day. Exes zinc can reduce copper absorption, which can lead to anemia as well as immune dysfunction. High amounts of zinc can also cause GI stress, abdominal pain and diarrhea. You'll probably also have a metallic taste in your mouth if you take too much zinc. For general health and supporting some hormones, an intake of around 10 to 25 milligrams of zinc is gonna be enough. These mega doses are gonna be suitable for specific conditions of severe zinc deficiency. Overall, zinc is a very important mineral not only for hormones. And if you're a zinc deficient, your testosterone will clearly suffer. I don't think everyone needs to take a zinc supplement. Most people probably don't because they can get the zinc from their diet. But zinc is a pretty research supplement because it's so common. If you want to know how I rank a hundred other supplements from Worst the Best, then check out this video next.

=== FILE: Glycine and Cancer Risk, The Health Priorities That Actually Matter, and More - Q&A [ufoMYIo5nX0].txt ===

 changinghthththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththththt there are obviously millions of things in the world that could harm our health, but there's also the effect of how big of an effect does it have on our health. So let's say, compared to diabetes, drinking from a plastic bottle is not that big of a concern on your health in the grand scheme of things. Yes, you shouldn't want to drink plastic bottle water all the time, but having diabetes is immensely more harmful to your health. And if you were to look at the association with future mortality, then diabetes would have insanely higher amounts of increased risk of mortality and increased risk of heart disease compared to drinking from a plastic bottle, especially infrequently. So there's no specific study looking at the plastic bottle and mortality risk, but you get the point that if you were to actually look at scientifically how much of an effect something would have on your long-term health risks than things like diabetes, smoking, obesity, having kidney disease, those excess alcohol consumption, those things are significantly worse for their health than eating ramen noodles or eating ginger noodles or something like that. So I should probably make a longer form video and actually look at more studies, specific studies on this and try to grade different factors and different things that could harm your health and see, okay, what is actually harmful for you, what is significantly harmful for you and what is kind of just, you know, like a wellness trend in terms of improving your health and how much does it actually harm your health. But I can off the top of my head say that, you know, smoking is associated with up to 13,000% increased risk of lung cancer. So if you smoke, then that's an insanely higher risk of lung cancer compared to, you know, let's say breathing polluted air. So if you live in a city, the air is slightly more polluted. Yes, it's not the most optimal for your health, but compared to smoking, you know, it's still very small increased risk of lung cancer or just other kind of health problems. Smoking is insanely more harmful for your health. Yes, you should try to breathe as clean air as possible. You know, it's obviously not always likely that you'll be able to do that, but we need to be realistic and we also need to be aware of how big of an effect something really is on your health. But I can give you a list of some of the top factors that I think can move the needle the most for your health and what should be like a priority that you focus on. So number one, I think, you know, yeah, obviously don't smoke, don't drink insane amounts of alcohol, don't sleep your private self, don't experience these circadian mismatches frequently, don't be overweight, don't be obese. Those everyone knows already, but like more detailed, more nuanced factors, I would say having a high VO2 max is based on the studies, one of the biggest predictors of survival, especially later in life, people with a higher VO2 max have significantly lower risk of mortality and low risk of heart disease, low risk of other diseases as well, compared to people with a low VO2 max. And of course, you can get caught up in the minutia of, okay, is it actually training the VO2 max that's good for you, or is it associated with just overall healthy lifestyle? Or, you know, you can get caught up in that kind of discussion, but based on the data, just having a high VO2 max, you know, regardless of how you achieve it, will, will it is associated with a lower mortality and the differences are quite large. For example, people with a low VO2 max, somewhere around 20 milliliters per kilogram per minute, which is quite bad. And if you compare to people with A-50 milliliters per kilogram per minute VO2 max, that's up to a fourfold difference in mortality risk, which is a huge amount. It's much bigger than anything related to diet and it rivals smoking. It's not as bad as smoking, but it's pretty, pretty high up there if you look at it that way. So I would say everyone should have the goal of trying to keep their VO2 max over 50 milliliters per kilogram per minute. Maybe if it's slightly higher than that, could be better, but 50 should be kind of the benchmark or the minimal threshold you want to aim for. Second, I would say visceral fat. So yes, obesity, excess body fat in general is harmful, is more harmful for men than it is for women. But for both men and women, visceral fat is harmful. So it doesn't matter if your visceral fat is excessively high. It doesn't matter if you're following a healthy diet or you're just healthy overall. If you have excessive amounts of visceral fat, then it is still on the subterranean level harming your health. So the fat around the organs, it's what damages the organ functions the most. It's what spreads the most inflammation compared to other types of fat. So you do want to keep our visceral fat also quite low. And having a low visceral fat is characteristic of good health. People with healthier lifestyles tend to have lower visceral fat. And what is a good amount? So in a general population, middle-aged people, younger people, the normal visceral fat tends to be somewhere in the range of 400 to 500, 600 grams. So 400 to 600 range is the general population. And it increases with age. So it's expected to increase the older you get. And I think as a general health goal, you want to keep your visceral fat at least below 300 grams and more optimally below 250 grams. So I don't think you need to go as little as 50 grams. Like I had a year ago right now, it's like 100 grams. So it's probably like a still a healthy sweet spot, somewhere between 50 to 150 grams maybe. So I don't think you need to deliberately get to, you know, 150 grams of visceral fat, but you should at least get it to below 300 and more optimally below 250 grams. How can you measure the visceral fat? Well, an easy way to do it is with a DEXA scan, but MRI is slightly more accurate, but the DEXA scan is good enough. Next up, I would say having a higher omega-3 index because there's a lot of evidence from several studies showing that high omega-3 index is associated with lower dementia, lower heart disease, lower mortality, lower Alzheimer's, and it's very consistent phenomenon. Now, yes, you can have a high omega-3 index, not only because of taking an omega-3 supplement, can also be some other healthy lifestyle factors. But if you look at regions with the highest omega-3 index, then these regions just consume a lot of seafood and fish, for example, Japan, they have one of the highest omega-3 index in the world. They have it 8 to 12% and only 10% of the Japanese population is eating less than the recommended daily allowance for omega-3s. So only 10% of Japanese people consume less than 500 milligrams of omega-3s per day, whereas in America and most of Europe, it's 90% of people aren't consuming enough omega-3s. So you can see a clear reason why Americans have an omega-3 index of 4% and Japanese have an omega-3 index of 8 to 12%. The Japanese just eat insanely more. The Japanese people just eat a lot more omega-3s and seafood, which is why their omega-3 index is also higher. And based on the evidence out there, I think it's a very impactful effect on your risk of future heart disease and Alzheimer's and dementia because the evidence is very consistent that a high omega-3 index is associated with a lower risk of these future diseases. And how do you increase your omega-3 index? First of all, you can take a blood test to measure it, but how do you increase it? Just eating more seafood and omega-3s can be also algae, can be some plant foods like walnuts, chia seeds, they can contain omega-3s, although some individuals genetically aren't able to convert it into the DHA. So therefore, you need to be aware of your best thing to do to measure and see whether or not chia seeds or walnuts can increase your omega-3 index. But for most people, it's going to be easiest to consume just seafood, sea vegetables plus fish, and possibly supplement like omega-3 supplement. The next thing is low inflammation. So having low CRP levels is also associated with reduced mortality, reduced Alzheimer's, reduced diabetes, reduced kidney disease, reduced heart disease. So inflammation is at the crux of pretty much all chronic diseases and low CRP levels typically reflect lower inflammation stats. Now, CRP isn't the only inflammatory marker. You've got a lot of other inflammatory markers as well, but CRP is the most common one. It's the cheapest one to test and it can have the best systematic overview of your inflammation status. It can be the most universal. Because if you have slightly more visceral fat, you have a slightly worse diet, you sleep worse, or you have just an overall unhealthier lifestyle, then your CRP levels typically tend to be above, even not like above the normal range, but higher than what would be optimal. Because CRP, even within the normal reference range, lower is better. So the normal reference range actually doesn't provide you with the lowest mortality risk and the lowest risk of these chronic diseases. With CRP, as low as possible is the most optimal reference range. So CRP less than 0.2 milligrams per liter is the sweet spot for the best health outcomes and as close to zero as possible. The thing with CRP is that if you go to the labs, then the laboratory has different cutoff points for CRP. Some labs just measure only to 0.5. Some do it to only one. Others do 0.2 or 0.1. So they can go more granular or more specific with the measurement. So yeah, if the lab just cuts off at 0.5, it doesn't mean that you have higher than optimal CRP. It just means that the lab might be cutting it short before going into the more specifics. But yeah, if you can get a very specific result, so 0.2 below that would be the sweet spot and 0.1 would be the best. Once I measured a very specific result, it was 0.01. So I think you can't even get closer than that. Another thing is muscle strength. So people know that muscle strength is associated with longevity. People who are healthier tend to have slightly more muscle and better muscle strength compared to the general population. Of course, you can take it too far. If you're a powerlifter or bodybuilder taking steroids, you're insanely strong, but you're generally going to shorten your life as well because of the anabolic steroids. So within the normal, I guess, possibility of human physiology without using any anabolic steroids, the higher muscle strength tends to be better for overall health. Now, the reason why the strength matters is because first of all, if you have muscle strength, then you're exercising regularly. And if you exercise regularly, you're getting the benefits from exercise. If you exercise regularly, you're activating these different pathways that lower inflammation, improve your metabolic health, lower visceral fat, they lower your blood pressure, they activate these anti-aging pathways in the body that are linked to lifespan extension in animals, et cetera, like AMPK, autophagy, serotin, et cetera. So, you know, there's a wide reason why exercise and resistance training is good for you. And you exercise regularly, you're activating these pathways, which is why it's going to be good for you. And second of all, the muscle strength is going to be protective against falls in the future. If you're an elderly person, you're more likely to fall because your balance worsens with age, your stability worsens with age, your mobility worsens with age. So you're more likely to fall off the stairs. You're more likely to trip on something. You're more likely to trip on the ice. And with my higher muscle strength, you're less likely to fall, first of all. And if you are likely to fall, you're less likely to get a hip fracture because of increased muscle density and increased bone density. So yeah, just having more muscle and more strength is good for you. Now, how much is too much? You know, it's hard to say. There's no specific study actually looking at that. I would say, you know, I like to base it on like how much muscle and strength is good. I like to base it on BMI. So BMI is not a very good estimation of your body fat percentage. You can be very lean and be overweight with a BMI because you have more muscle, but a BMI can, on the extremes, be still accurate. So if you have a BMI of 30, then, and you have muscle as well, but in this situation with a BMI of 30, you probably have too much fat as well. If you have a BMI of, let's say, 26, 27, you're lean with muscle, then, you know, that's reasonable. You're not carrying extra body fat. You just have a little bit more muscle. But to reach a BMI of 30, then first of all, you would need to be taking anabolic steroids to have such insane amounts of muscle to have a BMI of 30 with low body fat. Or the second scenario is that, okay, yes, you have some muscle tissue, but you're also carrying a little bit too much body fat. So being this kind of a chunky strong man or a chunky powerlifter, if that makes sense. So, you know, you wouldn't want to have very high BMI, even if it's muscle because excess weight overall. I like to say that bodybuilders are like obese people with cardiomegaly. So they have enlarged heart because of the muscle tissue and increased muscle mass, but they're also just obese in terms of their BMI. Yes, they are lower body weight or lower body fat, but their body weight is disproportionately higher. And the increased weight, the increased muscle tissue is wearing down their organs over the course of decades. So even if you're sub 10% body fat, having too much muscle tissue that will put your BMI at like 30, I think it's harmful. So if you have muscle tissue, then try to keep your BMI still like 27 with low body fat. That will be like the kind of the higher limit, in my opinion, to assess whether or not you're having too much muscle mass for your height and your BMI, if that makes sense. So my BMI right now is 25.5. I'm pretty lean. I'm maybe around 10% body fat usually. So my BMI 25.5, I have a decent amount of muscle, but I'm not trying to pack on more. I'm trying to keep it around this. So yeah, that's what I'm focusing on. And the last important factor is probably having good mental health. I think it's very underrated. So it's debatable whether or not having good mental health has a causal role in making you live longer on and having longevity benefits and improving your health. Partly it probably has because you'll have lower stress hormones, you'll have higher happiness hormones. So these neurochemicals do have like a direct impact on your physiology. But I think it's also just that if you are healthier and happier, then you will make healthier decisions. You're more motivated to do the healthy things and you'll just enjoy it as well. So if you hate being healthy or you have just bad mental health for whatever reason, then you're just less likely to actually do the things that keep you healthy, if that makes sense. So yeah, having good mental health is important. And what is one of the biggest source of mental health is usually relationships for most people, social isolation, loneliness. Those things are associated with depression, anxiety, and poor mental health. Just having a good social relationships, quality relationships, it doesn't have to be like a large amount of relationship. You don't need to have hundreds of friends. But feeling isolated and feeling that your social needs aren't being met, that's the core of loneliness and social isolation. So it's more about whether or not you feel you have access to support, social support, if you want to. So you don't need to get it. But if you feel that you can't have any support from anyone, then that's in research. That is what's characterized as being socially isolated and feeling more lonely. It's not about how much you socialize or how much you interact with people. It's more about how much support you feel you have. And this is very subjective, this how much you feel the support. I want to take a quick break to let you know about the Red Light Hat by Boncharge, which a lot of people have been waiting for a long time. Basically, you're getting some red light therapy on your scalp. It's a regular cap and it just gives you the specific wavelengths of red light that will help with the hair growth and the collagen synthesis in the scalp. Boncharge also has a lot of different types of red light therapy devices like the face mask, which actually has specific studies on where they use split face experiments and they show that the LED red light face masks do improve skin wrinkles and collagen synthesis in the skin. But yeah, Boncharge has a ton of different red light therapy devices as well that they've come out with over the course of years. So this Red Light Hat is the newest one. It's pretty good. I kind of wear it in the mornings just to help with hair growth a little bit. And they obviously also have regular red light panels, the big ones that you're going to sit in front of and also get benefits on your skin, as well as overall energy. Check out the Boncharge red light therapy devices and their new red light hat at boncharge.com forward slash seamland for 15% discount. Next question, what is your take on glycine? I saw that Physionic made a few videos showing that it can increase cancer. I did check out the Physionic video and the video didn't say that glycine increases cancer and the study he referenced also didn't claim that it showed that glycine and serine restriction was helpful for colon cancer patients. So the interesting thing about glycine is that cancers can use it for their own survival. It's not that glycine is promoting cancer, it's that the cancer is utilizing glycine for its own growth. And the same was a few months ago or last year was with taurine as well. They saw that taurine increased cancer. Well, that wasn't the case. It was more so that the cancer used taurine to survive. So the issue with these kind of studies is that people get caught up with the association with the glycine and the cancer, but they fail to realize that the relationship between them isn't that the glycine was increasing or causing the cancer. It was more so that cancer was just stealing resources from the body and using glycine as one of them to survive. And cancers are just so, you know, incredibly clever and they're very tricky. They can use almost any nutrient in the body for their own survival. They can use protein, they can use glucose, they can use ketones, they can use the process of autophagy, which is the cellular clearance protein, clearance process to also scavenge the material for their own survival. They can use the process of angiogenesis, which is the growth of blood vessels for survival. So, you know, growing blood vessels, I think it's an important thing for survival for your own body. You need angiogenesis to a certain extent, but the cancers can use the angiogenesis process for their own survival. They can use autophagy, which is seen to extend lifespan in animals and it's important to, you know, clear out cellular debris. It can use autophagy for its own survival. Glycine is, you know, generally beneficial for your body in terms of helping with glycine synthesis, collagen synthesis, creatine synthesis, etc. But in certain situations, it can be harmful. The same with taurine. Taurine has been seen to have benefits in humans for lipids, blood pressure, exercise performance, etc. But in certain situations, the cancer can use it. So, no, it doesn't mean that glycine is causing cancer. It's more so that the cancer is just so tricky and it adapts always. It's always adapting to the environment, which is your body, and it tries to survive. So, the lesson here is that, okay, maybe if you have cancer or you're at an increased risk of cancer, don't take glycine. But it doesn't mean that you should stop taking glycine if you don't have cancer. So, yeah. It's more a lesson in the adaptability of cancers in and of itself. The cancers are just very clever and tricky and it's hard to overcome them, obviously. So, you know, you can find dozens of different healthy nutrients out there that in some way can promote cancer growth, but they're not necessarily implicated in causing cancer. Next question. Is there any evidence that supplements can affect brain health like creatine omega-3s impact cognitive functions such as IQ scores? There is a big difference between just short-term cognitive function like attention, short-term memory, and focus, and those things versus IQ. IQ is more like a standardized test and it's not, it's more resistant to short-term changes. So, if you, you know, let's say, take a supplement that increases your short-term cognition. You know, there's all, there are some supplements out there that do that. You know, let's say creatine can short-term, especially after sleep deprivation and after a stress to improve your cognition, it's not going to actually increase your IQ in the short-term. So, the long-term increase in IQ is more a matter of, you know, education. You can, yes, in small amounts move the IQ. There is some, you know, evidence that longer education, just learning new things increases IQ slightly. There is some effect on your nutrition as well. If you are severely deficient in certain nutrients, let's say, especially during developmental years, it's more important in the early period of life. Like, iodine deficiency can cause mental developmental issues as well as cognitive issues. So, especially during pregnancy and early in life, making sure that the child gets enough iodine. Omega-3s also have that role iron, you know, creatine probably as well to a certain extent, but creatine, yeah, is a more like acute short-term cognitive enhancer. And it mostly applies if you're in deficient deficiency of, if you've been under some sleep stress or just sleep deprivation. B vitamins are important in the developmental years. And if you are deficient in certain micronutrients, then that can, it just hinders your IQ, hinders your cognitive function. If you start supplementing B vitamins and, let's say, omega-3s, or you just eat more of these foods that contain iron and et cetera, you're not going to essentially increase your IQ. You can only bring back to your normal baseline, if that makes sense. So, if as an adult, you're deficient in creatine or B vitamins or iron or some iodine or omega-3s, et cetera, you can experience some aspects of mental health issues or there's some evidence that depression, like if you have low B vitamins that can give symptoms of depression and, you know, it can give symptoms of cognitive deficits, but it's not really going to enhance your IQ above what's your baseline, if that makes sense, these supplements. For actually increasing IQ, then the most impactful thing is education and the evidence for something like brain games and problem solving, these kind of mental games, it's much weaker. So, the biggest thing is education and, you know, actually learning new skills and learning new things. Can you update us about your current thinking on how the best to exploit autophagy for healthspan? What are the best routines to incorporate throughout the years to optimize autophagy? Yes. So, I was one of the OGs of autophagy YouTubing back in the day, like 2018, 2019. I established myself quite well with creating content on autophagy. I wrote a book on it, Metabolic Autophagy. Obviously, I'm not like some PhD in autophagy, but, you know, I was thinking about it a lot. I was researching a lot. To this day, it's a very important thing. And in 2021, one dysfunctional autophagy was categorized as a new hallmark of aging. So, you could say I was ahead of the curve in that sense. But what I think about autophagy right now, what are the things to optimize it for overall health? I think it's still an incredibly vital process to health and agility. The most important thing is to just, I think the most impactful period of autophagy optimization is in your deep sleep in conjunction with melatonin. So, what you want to do is pretty much have the sleeping hours be optimized for recovery and cellular clearance, cellular cleaning. So, melatonin, it's a powerful antioxidant. It conducts bone growth, but conducts physical repair, memory retention, brain detoxification from various compounds via the lymphatic system, helps to squeeze out even microplastics from the brain via the lymphatic system. So, melatonin is absolute king of physical repair and mental repair in your sleep. And autophagy is also one of those processes that gets coordinated with melatonin in your sleep. So, sleeping in pitch black darkness, having absolutely zero artificial lights in your bedroom that would reach your eyes or reach your brain in some other ways. So, the best way to use like a sleep mask, you know, if you have some blinking smoking detector or something, then yes, you could put like a duct tape over it, but you could also wear a sleep mask. I think it's safer to just still eliminate all possible light sources like on like the power cord, like some sort of a smartphone light, TV light, you know, there's red dots on the TV. If your laptop is charging and the other side of the room, there's the lighting, the charging light is on, you know, those small things, you might think that they don't matter, but they matter quite a lot. So, exposure to artificial light in your sleep is associated with a whole host of health problems. So, you should sleep in as dark room as possible. And, you know, on top of that, wear a sleep mask as well to be absolutely sure. So, that's the most important thing, I think, for autophagy clearance. Maybe that has changed over the last, you know, when I was researching autophagy before. I think that, I think I've prioritized a lot more the deep sleep recovery with melatonin. And I think that's a lot more important because your body, yes, you know, it conducts a lot of different repair processes during the daytime as well that, you know, it has like anti-inflammatory processes during the daytime if you consume certain foods, et cetera. But, you know, the peak of repair, peak of anti-aging occurs in your sleep, in your deep sleep with melatonin. Exercise is important still and cardiovascular exercise, I think, is more potent for autophagy regulation than resistance training, although both exercises will do that. So, doing some form of low-intensity aerobic exercise as well as some high-intensity interval training. High-intensity interval training will increase autophagy faster than low-intensity exercise. So, if you do some sprints, you're expected to get autophagy much faster than you're walking or cycling at low-intensity for that matter. Other things like eating and fasting is obviously very important. Calorie restriction is important. You know, I still confine my eating window in certain time frame. Nowadays, I have probably like a six-hour eating window. So, from the first meal that I have to the last meal. So, that's pretty similar that was in the past. I don't think you need to squeeze all your food into one hour or one meal a day. There's no evidence that it's better. And with extended fasting as well, you know, it arguably will upregulate autophagy, but you will also do that with things like exercise, things like having very deep sleep, supplementing melatonin potentially, just being in a calorie deficit, doing the sauna, all these things increase autophagy. So, there's, you know, no evidence that you need to do some extended fasting to gain benefits of autophagy. And extended fasting might have some negative side effects as well in your health. You might lose muscle. You might have some lower thyroid, etc. So, it's not always better, if that makes sense. And, yeah, I think my, you know, daily autophagy routine just involves some time after eating. I make sure that I stop eating earlier so I could have more melatonin produced by the gut before bed. So, the gut produces a lot of melatonin. And for that, it's better to be fasted. I just have like an emptier stomach rather than a full stomach. And I get very good deep sleep. I exercise during the daytime. I get some sunlight that regulates melatonin production as well as autophagy. And do the sauna quite regularly as well. Yet, there's certain nutrients or certain compounds like green tea increases autophagy. Coffee polyphenols increase autophagy. Various polyphenols in fruits, vegetables, and olive oil increase autophagy. So, yeah, I eat those foods regularly. Next question, what's your thought about total plasma exchange, young plasma exchange? Yeah, so this is the new anti-aging treatment that's becoming popular right now. It's also very expensive. I think it's up to $10,000 in the US. And there was a recent study that showed the biological age score decreased after doing the total plasma exchange. But, you know, this doesn't mean almost anything because you can see those same effects probably if you were to do some calorie restriction for a few days or a few weeks and, you know, following a healthy lifestyle as well. So, just, you know, exchanging the plasma, yes, you're just taking out the, I guess, like junk material in the plasma. So, yes, the plasma looks younger, but it doesn't really translate over to overall lower biological age. At least there's no evidence that it does so right now. So, yeah, it's hard to say if this short-term changes in clearing the plasma or exchanging it, whether or not it actually translates into long-term health improvements. Now, the plasma exchange and certain of these apheresis procedures that filter the blood or filter the plasma, they are being used for certain medical conditions. So, they're used for certain autoimmune conditions. And they clearly work in some aspects of, like, lowering certain antibodies or lowering inflammation. So, maybe it will have long-term effects as well. But then the question is how frequently would you need to do it? Right now, these, I guess, health enthusiasts and influencers or biohackers, they're doing it maybe once a year, twice a year or something like that. But is it enough? Because, yeah, you might do the total plasma exchange. You might do some other apheresis types and procedures. But how long will it last? Is it going to last only one, two days? Or is it going to last few weeks, few months? I don't necessarily have the answer to that. So, the question is, yeah, how frequently should you do it? Or what is the optimal frequency to do it? Is it something that you would need to do, like, every few months? You know, then the problem is that it's super expensive. So, yeah, those are my thoughts. I think it's very interesting that it probably has some biological effect. But, you know, it doesn't replace the other health fundamentals. I think it's more relevant in people with certain medical conditions, certain ultimate conditions, certain inflammatory conditions as a short-term therapeutic to improve their condition. But an otherwise healthy person might need less of that. Yeah, some people use it just to, you know, filter out microplastics or that's their goal. But you can also filter out microplastics with cheaper aphoresis methods, just the regular aphoresis, EBO, extracorporeal blood, osegyination and oxygenation. That's one form of this. It's not the same as the total plasma exchange. But that one also theoretically helps with microplastics and it's a lot cheaper. So, yes, you know, I wouldn't say that most people probably need to do it. But it's kind of a luxury therapy in that sense that it might make people feel good about it, that they feel that they're cleaning their blood and cleaning their plasma. But the actual value for that is maybe a bit more limited or it's significantly lower than the value of, you know, maybe even doing like a fasting mimicking diet or something else like that. That is a lot cheaper and provides similar, not similar, but, you know, provides different types of health benefits in the short term, if that makes sense. Next question. Do you use injectable NAD or gluathane? No, I definitely don't use injectable NAD or gluathane. I haven't used it myself. And to be honest, I'm not really interested in using injectable NAD. First of all, I'm young. I don't have NAD problems. I have high energy on a daily basis. And if I wanted to increase my NAD levels, I would use some cheaper NAD supplements like niacinamide, even NMN or NR, but niacinamide already does the trick. And, you know, earlier I said that things can oftentimes promote survival of cancer. The same applies to NAD. The cancer can, there is evidence that cancers can use NAD as well for their own survival. So, I'm not saying that injectable NAD or NAD supplements would increase the risk of cancer, but it's just something that, you know, the risk-reward ratio is not there for me. So, I'm not interested in NAD IV or NAD injections because I don't need it. And there's no potential benefit to it either. And I think it's important to realize that NAD isn't a molecule that the more, the better that you need to increase your NAD the same way you want to increase your VO2max or muscle strength or something like that. Yes, you know, VO2max also probably has a point of diminishing returns because you, to have a super high VO2max, you need to be training a lot. But with NAD, you can bypass the effort. Most people will not have a very high VO2max because it takes a lot of effort. But NAD injections or just a lot of supplements that you can gain, get intravenously in large quantities like glutathione, larger muscle vitamin C or NAD, they can have oftentimes more harmful effects if taken in large doses and there's no like necessity for it. I'm not saying that this is the case with NAD, but I'm just saying that the idea that you need to have more NAD is not true oftentimes, you know, whether or not you need actually NAD depends if you have low NAD or if you're under some sort of fatigue or under some sort of physiological stress like jet lag or sleep deprivation or just chronic stress. So in those situations, yes, you might benefit from short term boost for lack of a better words from NAD, but it's not a linear relationship that the higher the NAD, the better and the more NAD you take, the better it is. Next question, what can we do if time restricted eating and calorie restriction increases cortisol too much? I was already lean and for a year it was great, but now my morning cortisol is always high and I wake up a lot during sleep. Anything that you can do in excess can be harmful. So too much exercise can raise cortisol too much. Or, you know, I think it's important that one of the benefits of exercise come from the increased cortisol, at least in the short term. So the cortisol is often depicted as a bad guy, but cortisol has essential roles in the body. You need cortisol. In the morning, cortisol helps to kickstart your circadian rhythm and gives you energy and alertness. If you feel tired in the morning, then that can often be that your body isn't producing enough cortisol. Cortisol helps with fat oxidation and the cortisol mediates some of the benefits you get from exercise as well. People who produce more cortisol, if the exercise yields a higher cortisol response, then you might, at least in some studies, you get more benefits. But yeah, the problem is that if the cortisol is chronically elevated or it's elevated at the wrong time. So if the cortisol is elevated before bed, then you'll have a harder time falling asleep. You'll wake up more often, et cetera. If cortisol is elevated throughout the day, you'll just be chronically stressed out, anxious and worn out. So the issue is how much cortisol. Now, for you, you've identified that time-restricted eating and calorie restriction is keeping your body in a heightened state of stress and higher cortisol levels, then maybe take a break, right? So if you said you're already lean, then maybe you're getting too lean. So then just eat more food. If that doesn't fix it, then change the eating window. So the first important thing is the food intake. That can move the needle the most. If you're lean, then stop doing calorie restriction, eat a little bit more food, and see if that fix it. Then you move on with the timing of when you eat. If the food quantity didn't fix it, then maybe you're fasting too long. Your body is currently in a spot where it can't handle going for longer periods of time without eating. So then just introduce a snack, extend your eating window, have breakfast on some days of the week, et cetera. Then you can tinker with the macros. So usually carbohydrates are more anti-cortisol, carbohydrates lower cortisol, and simple sugars tend to do that quite easily because carbohydrates, they raise insulin, they signal your body that there's food abundance. So calorie restriction is harmful for your body because it detects, so excess calorie restriction leads to starvation, and that the signal there is low insulin, low IGF-1, low protein synthesis, so your body thinks that it's starving if you're in chronic calorie restriction. So the cortisol comes from the low insulin and low IGF-1 signaling. In this scenario, if your body hasn't switched into ketosis, but introducing the carbohydrates can raise insulin and it can tell your body that it's not experiencing famine and it's not experiencing starvation. So just increasing the carbohydrate intake can help with that. Carbohydrates for dinner can oftentimes improve your sleep, so they raise a serotonin. Which then gets converted to melatonin. And they also allow tryptophan to get into the brain. So if there's a lot of amino acids in your bloodstream, then the tryptophan can't enter the brain. So with elevation in insulin, like a small insulin elevation, the carbohydrates or the insulin helps to clear the bloodstream from the other amino acids and tryptophan gets to the brain, which then gets converted to serotonin and then melatonin. And carbohydrates can also make you more sleepy and drowsy, so you'll sleep better. So having just a high carb meal for dinner can oftentimes just make you very relaxed and docile in a good way. It lowers your cortisol, makes you fall asleep more. But then, you know, there's other things as well in your life that can increase the cortisol. Things like just work stress, too much exercise, too much sauna or too much cold, whatever the case is. So there's obviously a lot of things that can raise your cortisol, not just time-treated eating or calorie restriction. But I think the order of things, how would I approach it, you can try to replicate. So the first, increase your calories. If that doesn't work, change your eating window, introduce carbohydrates, etc. And the final question of the podcast is, what's your opinion on mini trampolines? Seems like exercising on them come with a lot of benefits, but not a lot of people talk about them. What are your thoughts? Yes, there is evidence that mini trampolines can improve bone density. They can also improve VO2 max. Now, I would expect that the benefits on bone density and VO2 max are more significant in people with low baseline VO2 max and low bone density. So if you're already, you know, in top 5% of VO2 max and bone density for your age, then you're probably going to get less benefits from the mini trampolines. But if your, you know, your bone density is below the standard deviation, below the norm, then you probably will see some benefits on bone density, for example. And if you have low VO2 max, just the small aerobic exercise can also increase your VO2 max. I like to do the mini trampoline because of the lymphatic drainage. So if you're jumping, you're stimulating the lymph flow, you're helping with, you know, the soleus pushup as well, pumping the blood up. So I think everyone should do some form of rebounding on a daily basis. Now, it doesn't have to be a trampoline. You can also just, you know, you can bounce up and down in your room as well or outside, but to get, you know, the lymph flow going. So yes, regular walking can support lymph flow, but it is probably less effective than actually rebounding or just slightly jumping up and down. So yeah, I think some small mini trampoline in the backyard can be quite a good idea. I think that would, at least I would have it in like a, in a perfect home. All right, thanks for watching this video. If you want to know how I rank 100 hill habits from where's the best, then check out this video next.

=== FILE: I Read All the Human Studies on the Most Popular Peptides - Here's What the Data Shows [SrzxAE9cU2s].txt ===

 spondrondondrofondro, ericoondrodea, explodeda, explodeda, It seems that everyone online is taking something, BPC-157, MOTC, Thymocin-Alpha-1, Epitelan, etc., claiming they help with recovery, longevity, fat loss, even brain repair. But here's the problem. Most of these peptides have little to no human evidence. Some of them do, some of them don't. And that's exactly what I wanted to find out. So I went through every human clinical trial I could find on the most popular peptides. And the truth is surprising. In this video, I'm going to go through the human evidence peptide by peptide. As a disclaimer, I'm in no way promoting these peptides. I just want to know what's the research behind them. I've divided the video into segments. Joint and regenerative peptides like BPC-157, TB4, Thymocin-Alpha-1. Brain or neurological peptides or mitochondrial peptides such as Epitelan, MOTC, Humanin, Cerebrolycin, and CMAX. Growth Hormone Secretagogues, CJC-1295, MK-677, Tesamorelin, and IGF-1-LR3. Lastly, aesthetics and lux peptides. Copper GHK, Melanotan, and Redatrutide. Timestamps are below if you want to jump into specific compounds. Let's get on to it. Let's start with one of the most known peptides used for joint healing. Thymocin-beta-4 or TB4 is a 43-aminoacid peptide. Your body produces TB4 naturally and is concentrated in platelets, the thymus, immune cells, endothelium, and injured tissues. Its main job is to repair, help with cell migration, regeneration, stem cell function, and controlling inflammation. TB4 was originally identified in thymic extracts and shown to influence lymphoid stem cell maturation. The thymus gland is what regulates your immune cells. High levels of TB4 in serum or fluid correlate with better health outcomes in liver failure, coronary artery disease, and scleroderma lung disease, which means that people who have higher TB4, whether because they're slightly healthier or their body produces more of it for some reason, have better outcomes in certain chronic diseases. Now, people online are taking TB4 or TB-500 for the sake of joint healing and sometimes wound healing. In a 1999 study on rats, TB4 both topically and injected accelerated wound healing. TB4-treated wounds closed up 61-62% faster than saline-treated controls by day 7. That's a highly significant improvement in healing speed. There is some preclinical and early clinical data suggesting that TB4 accelerates wound healing and treatment of ulcers. In mice, TB4 enhances fracture healing. They also see greater bone mineralization and increase in bone stiffness. Unfortunately, there are no human clinical trials on TB4 or TB-500 at the moment, at least in the context of joint healing and wound healing. However, there are clinical trials on TB4 for the use of eye health. In 2006, topical TB4 eyedrops were first used to treat persistent corneal wound due to diabetes. By day 11 of taking TB4 four times a day, the patient had significant reduction in ocular inflammation and the cornea had re-epithelialized. A 2010 study took nine patients with chronic non-healing neurotrophic corneal defects and gave them TB4 eyedrops for 28 or 49 days. Six patients saw dramatic healing, whereas three had no clear improvement. To be fair, the sample size of this study was quite small and 30% of the patients saw no improvement. So it's not possible to say if TB4 conclusively improves corneal inflammation. A 2015 Phase 2 clinical trial saw that TB4 eyedrops in 72 patients with dry eye syndrome had no significant effect on corneal discomfort or staining, but they did show measurable protection against worsening symptoms and corneal damage. Another 2015 Phase 2 trial saw the same. TB4 improved signs and symptoms of severe dry eye. Now, there are quite a lot of human clinical trials on TB4 and its safety. A 2010 Phase 1 randomized controlled trial gave intravenous TB4 to 80 healthy adults aged 18 to 79. The procedure was seen to be safe and without toxicity. Another 2010 randomized controlled trial on 10 healthy volunteers saw also good safety data from IV TB4. In a 2021 Phase 1 clinical trial on 84 healthy volunteers, TB4 was well tolerated at 25 micrograms per kilogram as a single dose and 5 micrograms per kilogram in multiple doses for 10 days. TB4 was shown to have very low immunogenicity, which means that it evoked no significant immune response. So TB4 seems to be at least safe. It's been tested in humans several times, even in large doses, and doesn't seem to cause any negative side effects. In animals, it also appears to help with wound healing and inflammation. But there's no data in humans. The human data we do have suggests that it protects the cornea of the eyes. Overall, my rating for TB4 based on the studies that I read is 3.5 out of 5. It's only limited by the lack of human evidence for joint healing. Next up, we have thymocin alpha-1. Thymocin alpha-1 is a 28 amino acid peptide naturally found in the thymus. It's known for its immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory, antiviral, and anti-tumor activities. Thymocin alpha-1 acts by stimulating the innate and adaptive immune system, primarily through toll-like receptor activation, T-cell maturation and restoration, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, and anti-tumor effects. The synthetic version of thymocin alpha-1, thymalfazine, also called zadaxine, is clinically approved in over 35 countries for diseases such as chronic hepatitis blast and cruise, sepsis, HIV, certain cancers, and as a vaccine adjuvant. As I said earlier, the thymus is an organ that regulates the immune system, but unfortunately, it loses its function during aging. Pre-clinical and clinical studies show that thymocin alpha-1 can improve vaccine response in the elderly and mitigate immunosenescence via the thymus. This is especially relevant since 70-year-olds have less than 10% of the thymic size since they were born, and that thymic tissue is being replaced with fat tissue and perivascular space. If something like thymocin alpha-1 could counteract that degradation or make up for the loss of immune system function, it would extend the healthspan of elderly people who have a weaker immune system. Usually, biohackers and health enthusiasts take thymocin alpha-1 to support their immune system, especially in regards to the thymic volume and as a general anti-aging peptide. Here's what the clinical evidence in humans supports. It enhances thymic T-cell output, restores immune function in aged and immunosuppressed individuals, and reverses functional size of immunosenescence. There's no evidence that it increases thymic mass or thymic volume, or that it would reverse thymic involution structurally. Overall, my rating for thymocin alpha-1 based on the studies is 4.5 out of 5. There is plenty of human clinical trials, and it's already approved in 35 countries. Moving on with the most popular and known peptide for joint healing, BPC-157. BPC-157 is a 15-aminoacid fragment. It's not found in nature, and it's derived from another protein called body protection compound, or BPC, in the stomach. Studies have shown that BPC-157 has promising effects on healing various tissues, such as the tendons, ligaments, muscles, and even bones. When it comes to the mechanisms of effect, then BPC-157 supports nitric oxide and blood flow. It also uproglates growth hormone and increases collagen synthesis. As a disclaimer, all the studies on BPC-157 are done in rodents or other animals. There's no human clinical trials right now. Research on rodents has shown that BPC-157 improves recovery and healing after tendon injuries. What's more, the recovered tendons appear to have higher functionality and are able to tolerate greater load until tendon failure. A 2006 study also found that BPC-157 is able to promote tendon-to-bone healing after the Achilles tendon was detached from the bone, whereas control animals don't close the gap. BPC-157 had those effects despite the presence of corticosteroids. BPC-157 can also promote skeletal muscle healing. In a 2006 study on rats, BPC-157 was able to restore the functionality of a transected quadricep muscle. Natural healing processes were unable to compensate for the injury, whereas BPC-157 for up to 72 days was. The BPC-157-treated muscles also had higher failure load compared to control animals, which means they were stronger and more resistant to heavy loads than before. Besides injuries, BPC-157 has been found to promote skin wound healing in rats. It also counteracts bleeding, platelet stabilization, and resolves clots. BPC-157 appears to have anti-inflammatory effects that improves liver lesions, brain lesions, gut-brain function, and central nervous system disorders. In a 2019 study, scientists caused spinal cord injury to rats and gave some of them BPC-157 at a dose of 200 or 2 micrograms per kilogram, and the others got saline water. As you can see from the graph, the control animals who got saline water, as shown by the white rhombus, didn't recover, and they had spinal cord injury. Both BPC groups, as shown by the black square and triangle, recovered. BPC-157 also promotes gastrointestinal healing, and this may recover gut-brain axis and gut-brain axis function. There are two human clinical trials from 2002 and 2003 on ulcerative colitis patients cited in the BPC-157 literature, but I'm not sure if those trials were ever finished because I haven't found any further details about these studies online. Overall, my rating for BPC-157 is 3 out of 5. It's definitely the most popular peptide, and it has the most anecdotal evidence. It's usually the first peptide that people use, but it unfortunately doesn't have any human clinical evidence. Personally, I've also seen that BPC helped with my elbow. I want to take a break to invite you to our online community called Youth Span Society. Youth Span Society is an evidence-based online community on school, where we have a ton of different online courses and mini-courses on health optimization, longevity, and anti-aging, starting with things like exercise, fitness, body composition, and ending with things like skincare, sleep, and nutrition. Youth Span Society just launched three of the introductionary courses, a seven-day free longevity Kickstarter challenge, a 14-day body composition challenge, and a 30-day longevity consistency challenge. You can join the community for free for seven days and cancel any time. In addition to the courses, you'll get access to the online discussion board, where you can ask questions from me and other members of the community. We have live weekly calls, where we discuss new research, talk about our most cutting-edge protocols for anti-aging and longevity, and just answer questions. So if you like my videos and you want to learn more, then our online community, Youth Span Society, is the best place to do so. Check out the link in the description and start the challenge. Moving on with the peptides that target the brain. Epitalin is a synthetic tetrapeptide. It's considered a bioregulator, a molecule that mimics the body's own short peptides to regulate gene expression, tissue repair, and regeneration. Epitalin was discovered by a Russian researcher, Dr. Vladimir Havinson. He's also the person leading the most research on epitalin. In 2002, a clinical trial in Russia on 162 patients with retinitis pigmentosa, a genetic condition of progressive retinal degeneration and vision loss, saw that epitalin could improve visual acuity, and 64.8% of them broadened the total visual field by 90 to 120 degrees. They injected 5 micrograms per eye, parabulberly, for 10 consecutive days. None of the epitalin-treated patients experienced side effects. A 2020 study saw that sublingual epitalin at a dose of 0.5 mg a day for 20 days, in 75 women, improved melatonin production, through modulation of the circadian clock system. It's been also shown to do that in elderly people and old monkeys. Epitalin activates chromatin, which is a mass of DNA in your brain that regulates the circadian rhythm. To be honest, this is the most exciting and interesting thing about epitalin. If epitalin is able to counteract the circadian clock dysfunction that happens with aging, it could potentially also help with a lot of neurodegenerative conditions. I've shared on the channel before that the circadian clock dysfunction will eventually be considered a new hallmark of aging, but epitalin does a lot more than that. In human cells, epitalin extends telomere length. However, it can do so in both cancer cells and normal cells. In this study, epitalin at a dose of 0.1 to 1 microgram per milliliter extended cancer telomeres by 4 to 8 kilobases within 4 days. Normal cell telomeres extended by about 1.45 fold after 3 weeks. In tuberculosis patients, epitalin has been seen to reduce chromosomal aberrations and stabilize the genome, but not fully reverse genome fragility. Epitalin basically didn't correct the structural aberrations associated with telomere shortening from tuberculosis, but it had some protective effects against future damage. Epitalin increases neurogenesis the growth of brain cells in human gingival mesenchymal stem cells. This explains the reason why epitalin affects things like telomere length and melatonin synthesis, as well as circadian rhythm regulation. Even getting epitalin intranasally increases neuronal activity in rats by up to 2 to 2.5 times, as epitalin easily crosses the blood-brain barrier. These sound all very interesting and speculative, but would epitalin make you live longer? In mice, epitalin treatment does extend maximum lifespan by 12.3%, but not the mean lifespan. The last 10% of the survivors live 13.3% longer. There's also no difference in overall cancer rate, although leukemia was six-fold lower compared to the control mice in this study. There is a prospective study on elderly Russian and Ukrainian adults over the age of 60. They were given epitalin and thymoline for 2 to 3 years, and they were followed up for 6 to 8 years. Those who received these peptides saw improved physiological function and experienced a 2 to 2.4x lower incidence of heart disease, hypertension, osteoporosis, and osteoarthritis. Their mortality was also lower. The group who got thymoline alone had about 2 times lower mortality compared to controls. Epithelamine alone had 1.6 to 1.8 times lower risk. The combination of thymoline and epithelamine, 2.5x lower, and annual treatment for 6 years, 4.1x lower. Another prospective study with a 15-year follow-up on 39 coronary heart disease patients who received epitalin saw that they had 50% lower rate of heart disease mortality, 50% lower cardiovascular failure, and 28% lower rate of overall mortality. They did have better circadian rhythm regulation, lower cholesterol, and better physical function than people not receiving the treatment. Now, these results sound quite astonishing, and they are astonishing if they were to be true. We don't know necessarily how true these results are, because these studies have several limitations. Number one, they're not randomized controlled trials, so they're mostly observational, and we don't know the full methodology or the data set. We don't know how these individuals were randomized or if randomized at all, and how were they treated. Second of all, the research is done in Russia, led by Dr. Havinson. He's also the one who owns patents to the epitalin, so there is conflict of interest here. The guy who discovered this peptide also owns the patents to this peptide, and his studies get these amazing results. It just means that we would need to reproduce these studies in other populations, in other countries, by other researchers, to see if those effects are actually true. Overall, my rating for epitalin is 4 out of 5. I think it has a lot of promise if you look at the mechanistic evidence and the preclinical evidence. And you can't deny that at least it has quite a lot of human studies, even though those studies can be somewhat limited. Next, we have a mitochondrial peptide called MOTS-C. MOTS-C, or mitochondrial ORF, of the 12-S RNA type C, is a mitochondrial-derived peptide composed of 16 amino acids encoded by the 12-S RNA region of the mitochondrial genome. It gets activated during metabolic stress in the nucleus, and it activates AMPK, which is an energy sensor that's been seen to be good for longevity. Because of its role in the mitochondria, it balances inflammation, improves glucose metabolism, muscle function, and overall redox balance. As a result, it might improve insulin resistance, heart disease, and overall aging. Obese mice fed a high-fat diet, see reduced insulin resistance when given MOTS-C. In type 2 diabetic mice, MOTS-C restores mitochondrial function in the heart and improves glucose levels. In obese humans, circulating MOTS-C levels are decreased, and low MOTS-C levels are associated with insulin resistance in humans. MOTS-C levels are also lower in kidney disease patients and people with liver disease. Interestingly, MOTS-C levels are similar between obese and normal weight individuals. So it seems that only age and insulin resistance lowers MOTS-C levels, but obesity doesn't do that. This study showed that MOTS-C levels decline with age in mice, and they're lower in humans with diabetes. In aged and diabetic mouse models, systemic treatment with MOTS-C reduced beta-cell senescence markers in pancreatic islets and improved glucose control. The authors propose that MOTS-C acts by suppressing mTORC1 signaling, which is the body's growth switch, and by doing that, it preserves mitochondrial function and beta-cell health. This doesn't necessarily mean that MOTS-C would fix diabetes, but it might mean that people with diabetes or they're obese probably aren't exercising enough, so which is the reason why they have lower MOTS-C levels. People who are exercising and they're otherwise lean have higher MOTS-C because they're engaged in physical activity. In fact, there is human evidence that serum MOTS-C positively correlates with lower body strength, lower body power, and muscle mass, although not aerobic capacity. In mice and humans, exercise increases MOTS-C levels. In this study, 10 healthy young men did high-intensity interval cycling, 10 rounds of 60 seconds at peak power, and their MOTS-C levels in their skeletal muscle increased 11.9-fold immediately after the exercise and it remained elevated for 4 hours afterwards. Circulating plasma MOTS-C increased 1.6-fold during exercise and 1.5-fold immediately after exercise. So the argument for using MOTS-C as a peptide is that it's like an exercise in a bottle. You increase MOTS-C levels as if you were exercising, and then MOTS-C has benefits on your metabolism and overall health. My first reaction to this is that why wouldn't you just exercise then, because it's a lot cheaper and safer. Now, of course, it would be cool to have a literal exercise in a bottle. Maybe you can exercise a bit less, you can cut your exercise in half and get the same benefits. Maybe MOTS-C has these kinds of effects. But of course, it could also apply to certain situations where you can't exercise, such as the elderly population or if you're hospitalized. And lastly, injecting MOTS-C as a peptide probably raises MOTS-C levels a lot more than exercise does, at least in the short term. Exercise will still raise MOTS-C levels more in the skeletal muscle, but in the plasma, injecting MOTS-C would probably result in higher MOTS-C levels. Interestingly, MOTS-C is a myostatin inhibitor. Myostatin is a protein that stops your body from building muscle. Exercise inhibits myostatin, and part of that might be because of increased MOTS-C levels. So MOTS-C could help to prevent muscle loss during aging. There's also mechanistic evidence that MOTS-C can help with bone growth and osteoporosis. Exercise does so as well, obviously, and MOTS-C might mediate some of those effects. MOTS-C doesn't have any human clinical trials. Here's what we do know. MOTS-C levels are decreased in people with diabetes and other metabolic diseases. MOTS-C in mice improves insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance. MOTS-C levels increase during exercise. People who exercise have higher MOTS-C. MOTS-C might mediate some of the benefits of exercise on muscle growth, insulin sensitivity, and bone growth. My overall rating for MOTS-C based on animal research is 4 out of 5, but because there are no human studies, I'll have to give you the 3 out of 5. Humanin is a 24-aminoacid mitochondrial-derived peptide that improves mitochondrial function, inflammation, and metabolism. The most common effect of humanin is that it protects the brain against inflammation and oxidative stress. That's because the brain has a lot of mitochondria. In mice, humanin prevents age-related cognitive decline, and in humans, humanin levels are associated with better cognitive function. In humans, humanin levels are lower in Alzheimer's patients than in healthy controls, and low mitochondrial DNA copy number is also associated with lower humanin levels. It means that people who are unhealthier have lower humanin. There are no human studies looking at the effects of humanin for Alzheimer's or dementia. But in rats, humanin does attenuate cognitive deficits and pathological brain changes caused by amyloid beta in the brain. So there is some preclinical data showing that humanin might help with neurodegeneration, but there's no human studies yet. Humanin is one of the few peptides that has life extension data that I've seen. Humanin overexpression is seen to increase lifespan in roundworms by about 7.3%. The mechanism why humanin might extend lifespan has to do with multiple pathways. It increases autobagy, which is the process of cell clearance. And humanin treatment in mice is seen to be associated with lower IGF-1 levels. Lower IGF-1 levels are associated with greater longevity in humans, as well as animals. IGF-1 lowers humanin, and lower IGF-1 increases humanin. There's no effect on humanin from growth hormone. It's interesting to see that despite humanin lowering IGF-1 levels, it still improves cognition, in mice at least, because you do need IGF-1 for growing brain cells. And in humans, low IGF-1 levels are associated with increased risk of dementia. Humanin levels are also lowering people with diabetes and prediabetes. Humanin levels decrease with age. Younger than 66 years of age have higher humanin than older individuals. Overall, my rating for humanin is 3 out of 5. It's a similar situation as with MOTC. Unfortunately, it doesn't have any human clinical trials. One of the most promising and interesting brain peptides is cerebrolysine. It's a mix of different peptides and brain growth factors that could help with neurodegenerative conditions. In fact, cerebrolysine has been in clinical use for 30 years. It's used in some countries, but is not necessarily government-approved. Cerebrolysine has neuroprotective effects by improving inflammation, blood flow to the brain, and thrombolytic effects that reduces blood-brain barrier permeability. A 2019 Cochrane review of six studies saw that cerebrolysine treatment had beneficial effects on memory and thinking and daily functioning. There was no reported risk of side effects with the treatment. There's no evidence that cerebrolysine would prevent Alzheimer's, treat it, or improve cognition in otherwise healthy individuals. It's more likely that cerebrolysine supports brain health and brain integrity under some physical stress or some neurological stress, things like traumatic brain injury, stroke, Alzheimer's, or other forms of brain trauma. A 2017 Randomness Control Trial saw that giving cerebrolysine 18 hours after a stroke for 30 days improved certain markers of neurological recovery by day 30. Cerebrolysine combined with speech therapy in stroke patients has been seen to support greater language recovery than speech therapy alone in a 2025 Randomness Control Trial. However, a 2020 Randomness Control Trial saw that at the six-month mark, there was no difference in cognition between cerebrolysine and the placebo group in patients with aneurysm. So there is quite a lot of human research showing that cerebrolysine speeds up recovery from certain traumatic brain damage, such as stroke, traumatic brain injury, possibly neurodegeneration. But it seems to work in the short term. Up to six months, it becomes less effective. But in the short term, it makes up for the gap. A 2023 Cochrane review of seven Randomness Control Trial found that cerebrolysine after a stroke doesn't reduce mortality rates either. So cerebrolysine seems to improve cognition recovery in the short term, but its effects over the long term are limited. A 2023 systematic review of 10 studies on cerebrolysine for traumatic brain injury showed short-term neurological improvements, but no benefit on mortality or hospitalization either. Overall, my rating for cerebrolysine is 4.5 out of 5. It's got quite a lot of human studies and it's actively used in some countries for things like stroke recovery, traumatic brain injury, and neurodegeneration. CMAX is another Russian brain peptide and is actually in the Russian list of vital and essential drugs. In Russia, CMAX is used to treat patients with neuropathy, stroke, nerve disease, or cognitive disorders. However, CMAX is not approved for use in other countries. All of the human trials are done in Russia, so they haven't been reproduced by other countries. The mechanisms of CMAX aren't fully clear either. It does seem to upregulate brain growth factors like BDNF and others. But it also increases dopamine and serotonin, which is why CMAX is often used as an atropic or a smart peptide. In mice, CMAX has been seen to reduce beta-amyloid by about 50% and improve cognition modestly. This doesn't mean that it will work in humans, but it's something. The difference between CMAX and other peptides is that you can also do it intranasally. Overall, my rating for CMAX is 3.5 out of 5. Yes, it's being used in Russia, it has clinical trials in Russia, but that's about it. Moving on with some compounds that are called growth hormone secretagogues. They basically make the body produce more growth hormone. CJC-1295 is a synthetic, long-acting, growth hormone-releasing hormone analog that stimulates the pituitary gland to increase growth hormone and IgH1 production. It's often used to improve body composition, recovery, and enhance sleep. In a 2006 randomized controlled trial, healthy adults aged 21 to 61 were given CJC in single doses as well as multiple weekly or bi-weekly doses. Their growth hormone increased 2 to 10-fold above baseline, and it sustained for over 6 days in a dose-dependent manner. Their IgH1 levels increased 1.5 to 3-fold above baseline, sustained for 9 to 10 days. After multiple doses, the IgH1 remained elevated up to 28 days. Another 2010 randomized controlled trial saw a 2 to 10x increase in growth hormone and up to 3-fold increase in IgH1 as well. Growth hormone and IgH1 have effects on bone growth, muscle growth, and body composition, which is why a lot of biohikers and bodybuilders are taking it. In mice who are genetically growth hormone deficient, once-a-day CJC treatment normalizes their growth and development, which means that it might help with people who are growth hormone deficient. CJC was being investigated as a treatment for lipodystrophy and growth hormone deficiency in humans. However, it was discontinued in a phase 2 clinical trial when one of the subjects suddenly died. It was thought that the patient had asymptomatic heart disease and they experienced a plaque rupture, so it was unrelated to the CJC treatment, but the research was still terminated. And ironically, CJC still has quite a lot of human clinical evidence, at least in the realm of increasing growth hormone in IgH1. Now, keep in mind, ipomorelin or CJC is water prohibited, so if you are competing in sports, you would get disqualified for it. Overall, my rating for CJC-1295 is 4 out of 5. MK-677, also called ibutamorin, is another growth hormone secretagogue that makes the pituitary gland increase growth hormone. It is often used by bodybuilders to improve body composition, but it was also researched in clinical studies for counteracting age-related muscle loss in older people. A 2008 randomized controlled trial on healthy adults aged 60 to 81 saw that 12 months of 25 mg of MK-677 per day increased growth hormone by 1.8 fold and IgH1 by 1.5 fold. Their muscle mass also increased by 1.1 kg compared to the loss of 0.5 kg in the placebo group. About half the muscle gain was in the arms and legs. There was no significant effects in visceral fat or subcutaneous fat mass. They also saw no improvement in muscle strength, walking speed, stair climbing, or quality of life. They just had more muscle. A 1998 study saw that 25 mg of MK-677 during calorie restriction helped to preserve muscle tissue and reverse nitrogen loss and protein wasting. The MK-677 group even achieved a positive nitrogen balance compared to the placebo group. The MK-677 group had higher growth hormone and IgH1, which explains the anticalabolic effects. MK-677 has been seen to improve sleep in young and older adults. In young subjects, high-dose MK-677 resulted in an approximately 50% increase in the duration of deep sleep and in more than 20% increase in REM sleep. In older adults, the treatment with MK-677 was associated with a nearly 50% increase in REM sleep. One of the side effects of MK-677 is that it causes water retention or edema, and it makes you hungrier. That's because MK-677 is a ghrelin mimetic. It increases ghrelin production. Ghrelin being the hunger hormone. And the hunger hormone is what increases your growth hormone production. MK-677 is also water prohibited, so you get disqualified in sports. My overall rating for MK-677 is 4 out of 5 because there are some human clinical studies, but we don't necessarily know what the long-term effects are. Tesamoralin is another growth hormone secretagogue. It's actually FDA approved for reducing visceral fat in HIV-infected adults with lipodystrophy. I'm not going to spend much time talking about this compound because it's already FDA approved. To keep it short, tesamoralin reduces fat mass and maintains muscle in HIV patients. In a 2010 randomized controlled trial, tesamoralin for 52 weeks resulted in a significant reduction in visceral fat mass. The tesamoralin group saw about 17.5% reduction in visceral fat. By 26 weeks, they had lost already 15.4% of visceral fat. People who were initially placebo but then switched to tesamoralin, P2T, saw about 15% reduction in visceral fat. Overall, tesamoralin is 4.5 out of 5. While we're on the topic of growth hormone secretogues, IGF-1-LR3 is a synthetic peptide of the natural hormone IGF-1. It has a total of 83 amino acids compared to the 70 of natural IGF-1. There are studies in animals showing that IGF-1-LR3 increases growth, but there are no human clinical trials. However, there are plenty of human trials with the regular IGF-1 hormone. IGF-1 as a hormone is actually FDA approved for treating certain growth disorders, but it's not approved for general anti-aging or bodybuilding purposes. Now, I'll move on with peptides that are often used for aesthetic reasons, either to improve skin health, skin anti-aging, or skin pigmentation. Copper peptide GHK is a small naturally occurring tripeptide that's released from tissues after an injury. Copper is needed for the cross-linking of collagen that makes collagen very strong. A copper-dependent enzyme called lysyl oxidase makes collagen fibrils wound together extremely tightly, making it stronger than steel. That's why you need copper in addition to vitamin C for collagen synthesis. The biggest application of copper peptide GHK is skin regeneration and anti-aging. The GHK peptide content in human skin is the highest at age 20, around 200 nanograms per milliliter, and by the age of 60, it declines to 80 nanograms per milliliter. That's almost a threefold decrease, which explains partly why you see an increase in wrinkles and sagging skin with age. Can GHK reverse that or slow it down? GHK stimulates the synthesis of collagen, glycosaminoglycans, and small proteoglycan decarine, which supports skin repair and wound healing. In a 2007 study, skin cells exposed to GHK saw a 230% increase in fibroblast growth factor and 70% higher collagen synthesis compared to baseline. Cell viability also increased by 12.5-fold, which refers to the amount of healthy cells in a given cell population. But are there any human clinical trials demonstrating that GHK reverses skin aging? There are several clinical trials showing that topical copper GHK serums or creams improve skin density and thickness, while reducing wrinkles and fine lines around the eyes. In a 1998 study, copper peptide GHK improved collagen synthesis in the most amount of women compared to vitamin C and retinoic acid. 70% of women using GHK versus 50% for vitamin C and 40% for retinoic acid. In a 2016 study, copper peptide GHK serum reduced wrinkle volume by 55.8% and wrinkle depth by 32.8%, more than the placebo control serum. That's quite an impressive result. In addition to skin anti-aging, GHK also supports wound healing. In rats, treatment with collagen dressing, with incorporated GHK has been seen to accelerate wound healing in diabetic as well as healthy rats. In healthy rats, wounds treated with the copper formula increased copper concentration at the wound by nine-fold, which indicates higher wound healing. Also hair growth. In cell studies, copper peptide stimulates the growth of human hair follicles by stimulating the proliferation and preventing the death of dermal papilla cells, which are fibroblasts specialized for human hair follicle growth. Unfortunately, there are no human clinical trials on oral copper peptide or injectable copper peptide for skin anti-aging. So the current evidence only suggests that topical copper peptide might have some skin anti-aging effects. So overall, my rating for copper peptide GHK is 4 out of 5. Lastly, I'm going to talk about redotrutide. Redotrutide is a triple GLP-1 agonist that's taking the weight loss world by storm. It's supposedly significantly more effective in weight loss than the previous GLP-1 agonists like ozempic. A 2023 Phase 2 clinical trial on redotrutide saw that it resulted in 24% mean weight loss at 48 weeks compared to semaglutide's 15% weight loss at 68 weeks and therizepatide's 21% weight loss. Some people even lost over 30% of weight on redotrutide. A 2025 meta-analysis of three clinical trials on redotrutide saw that it resulted on average 14.3% weight loss in a dose-dependent manner while also improving things like blood pressure, fasting glucose, and hemoglobin A1c. Overall, my rating for redotrutide is 4.5 out of 5. It doesn't have the most evidence, although the evidence we do have is high quality, but it's probably the most powerful peptide in this list. It has the highest likelihood of increasing someone's longevity and overall healthspan because by losing weight, you would see pretty much all of your healthy biomarkers move in the right direction. Of course, you could lose muscle with it, but that is easily counteracted with things like diet and exercise. Or you could use some other peptides that help with the muscle preservation. But in terms of the magnitude of effect for your overall health, redotrutide is the most powerful in this list. Maybe not for otherwise healthy people. There's no evidence that otherwise healthy people, non-obese people, would see some longevity benefits from these GLP-1 agonists. Theoretically, they could, but there's no evidence for that. For the otherwise healthy individual, they would get benefit from some other peptides. For the otherwise healthy, non-obese individual, they're better off doing something else. Melanotin-2 or MT-2 is the so-called tanning peptide. It's supposed to make your skin more tan without sunlight. Basically, melanotin upregulates the production of melanin in your skin. Melanotin also has effects on erectile function and is used to help with erectile dysfunction. A 2014 review of melanotin based on 18 clinical trials found that melanotin-2 does increase skin pigmentation and tanning. In fair-skinned individuals, it appears to also reduce UV-induced skin damage, since melanin is what protects the skin against UV damage. The review also found that MT-2 increases sexual arousal. Now, it also has some side effects. There are a few case reports of melanomas after melanotin use, or darkening of pre-existing moles. While there is no clinically established causal link, melanotin might upregulate melanin production too much, so people who are darker skin have to be more careful. An additional effect of melanotin-2 is weight loss. Melanotin-2 has been seen to reduce appetite and reduce body fat without calorie restriction in rats. The intra-abdominal fat in those rats decreased by 35-55% after 40 days. The mechanism for that is the melanocortin receptors suppress appetite. Maybe that's the reason why you feel less hungry if you're more in the sun, so melanotin has synergistic effects on the different brain chemistry, similar to sunlight. Because of that, melanotin-2 has also some preclinical evidence for brain and cognitive function. In fish, it's been seen to reverse short-term memory impairment caused by a high-fat diet. That's why my overall rating for melanotin is 3.5 out of 5. Alright, I think that's an insane amount of information. Definitely bookmark this video for future use and research. Here's a final tally of human trials on these peptides. PPC-137, zero human studies, but two ulcerative colitis trials with no accessible data. Thymacin-beta-4, about 6 human trials. Thymacin-alpha-1, dozens of human trials, approved in over 35 countries. Copper-GHK, around 3-4 human cosmetic trials. Epitalin, around 4 human clinical trials. Most of them are prospective data, not randomized controlled trials. MOTC, no human clinical trials. Humanin, no human clinical trials. Cerebrolysin, around 6-7 randomized controlled trials, in this video, but in reality, a lot more. CMAX, around 3-5 small human trials. CJC-1295, around 4 human trials. MK-677, around 3 human trials. Tessamoralin, 1-2 human trials in this video, but realistically more. FDA approved. IGF-1-LR3, no human clinical trials, but the regular IGF-1 is FDA approved. Melanotin, around 18 human trials, but likely more. Redatrutide, around 3-4 human randomized controlled trials. Here's what we can say based on these studies and the preclinical data. BPC-157, suggested for tendon repair, ligament healing, muscle regeneration, bone healing, gut repair, and neuroprotection. Nothing is proven in humans, because there are no completed clinical trials. Thymocin-beta-4, suggested for wound healing, joint repair, fracture healing, and tissue regeneration. Proven to be safe in humans, with modest benefits for corneal healing and dry eye. Not proven for joint or tendon repair. Thymocin-alpha-1, suggested for anti-aging, immune rejuvenation, and thymus regrowth. Proven for improving immune function, and used clinically for hepatitis B, C, sepsis, HIV, certain cancers, and enhancing vaccine efficacy. No evidence that it regrows thymus structurally. Copper GHK, suggested for skin anti-aging, collagen boost, hair growth, and wound healing. Proven to improve skin thickness, elasticity, and wrinkle reduction topically. Epitalin, suggested for telomere lengthening, circadian repair, circadian clock function, and anti-aging. Proven to improve melatonin production and circadian markers. Small human studies, suggested improves health markers, but there are no large Western clinical trials confirming the longevity effects. MOTC, suggested as an exercise medic, improves insidensitivity, muscle growth, and anti-aging. There are no human trials, only biomarker and exercise correlation studies. Humanin, suggested for neuroprotection, brain health, and metabolic health. No human trials, only association data linking lower levels to aging and disease. Cerebrolysin, suggested for brain repair, stroke recovery, dementia treatment, and neuroprotection. Proven in multiple clinical trials to show modest short-term improvements in stroke recovery and some dementia outcomes, but doesn't reduce mortality. CMAX, suggested for cognitive enhancement, stroke recovery, and neuroprotection. Small Russian trials, show benefit in stroke and neuropathy, but there are no high-quality Western clinical trials. CJC-1295, suggested for muscle growth, fat loss, and anti-aging via growth hormone. Proven to reliably increase growth hormone and IGF-1, body composition effects are not well established. MK-677, suggested for muscle growth, fat loss, better sleep. Proven to increase growth hormone and IGF-1, and increases lean mass in older adults. Might also improve sleep, but doesn't improve strength or reduce fat. Tessa Morelin, suggested for fat loss and metabolic health. Proven to significantly reduce visceral fat in HIV-associated lipodystrophy, which is why it's FDA approved. Also preserves muscle mass. IGF-1-LR3, suggested for muscle growth and fat loss. No human clinical trials prove this, only animal data. Melanotan-2, suggested for tanning without sun, as well as fat loss and libido enhancement. Proven to increase skin pigmentation and sexual arousal. Apathase suppression is observed, but there are no clinical trials on cognition. Red-at-truth diet, suggested for extreme weight loss, metabolic improvement, possibly some health benefits. Proven in clinical trials to show major weight loss. Improved blood pressure, hemoglobin A1c, blood sugar, and other health markers. But it's not yet approved, and there's no longevity data in healthy individuals. Overall, the world of peptides is most certainly a gray area. But I was surprised to see that some of these peptides have a significant amount of human studies. However, some peptides have zero human data, so you don't even know if they are safe for humans. As I said, I'm not advocating for these peptides. I just did this video for my own sake to know what does the research say about these peptides. So I just wanted to share it with you. The biggest problem with peptides is the sourcing. If you're buying some random Chinese peptides, first of all, you don't even know the thing that you're getting actually has the thing that you want. And second of all, it might be contaminated with other contaminants, some heavy metals or some other industrial residue. So it's very risky for your health to buy random peptides online. I would only use peptides from compounding pharmacies and work with a doctor. If you want to know how I rank 100 over-the-counter supplements that have evidence for various effects in humans, then check out this video next.

=== FILE: I Tested the $5 NAD+ Alternative - Here's What Happened [uU-KFEJ89Jg].txt ===

 most people think you need expensive supplements like NMN or NR to increase NAD levels and slow down aging. We're talking 80 or even 100 dollars per month. But when I dug into the research, I kept seeing the same thing pop up. A cheap, boring, generic supplement that most people aren't aware of. Nasinomide, also called nicotinamide. It's been around forever, it costs almost nothing, and on paper it does the same fundamental job as NMN or NR. It raises NAD levels. NAD being a major coenzyme that regulates energy production, metabolism, and DNA repair. I've taken all of these supplements, NMN, NR, and nicinamide. But in this video, I want to share and compare nicinamide to NMN and NR. Let's answer the most important question. Does nicinamide raise NAD levels in the first place? Taking 200 milligrams of nicinamide has been seen to increase NAD by about 10% in 12 hours. Blood and acinamide levels increased by up to 30 fold within 30 minutes in this study, gradually decreasing until 6 hours. However, NAD levels peaked after 12 hours and gradually decreased to baseline over 48 hours. A dose of 100 milligrams of nicotinamide doesn't appear to raise NAD levels in a significant manner, whereas a dose of 500 milligrams continues to do so beyond 48 hours. So, at least 200 milligrams of nicotinamide is necessary to raise NAD levels and up to 500 milligrams, does so as well. So yes, there is evidence that nicinamide raises NAD levels. The effect isn't that massive, it's around 10% increase, but it's still significant. The limitation of these studies is that it's done on a small amount of people. That's why I wanted to also try it out on myself to see how my body responds. Now, first of all, I'm quite young, I have high levels of NAD to begin with, and I'm not going to expect to notice a major difference in terms of my energy levels, my sleep, or just how I function. But in the past, when I've taken NMN or NNR, I noticed that my body needs a little bit less sleep, and I'm also able to recover faster from things like jet lag or circadian rhythm mismatch, or even sleep deprivation. So what was my protocol with nicinamide? I took 200 milligrams of nicinamide every morning for two weeks. The reason you want to take any NAD booster like B vitamins, NMN, NNR, or nicinamide in the morning is because of the way they raise NAD. If you take them in the evening or before bed, you might have troubles falling asleep because of the increased NAD that gives you energy. What I noticed was that taking nicinamide did provide me with the similar effects as NMN or NNR. I was able to sleep a bit shorter, and I was recovering faster from short to sleep. You might also wonder if there are any direct comparisons between these three NAD boosters. Yes, there is actually a recent 2026 study published in January that compared NMN, NNR, and nicinamide in terms of raising NAD. From the clinical data, the biggest increase in NAD was seen from NNR or nicatinamide rubber site with a 2-3x increase in NAD from baseline. NMN or nicatinamide mononucleotide was second with a 1.5-2.5x, and nicinamide was the third at 1.2-1.5x increase. NNR has the most studies, and it has the highest bioavailability out of these three. However, it doesn't mean that nicinamide is inherently worse of an NAD booster. I would argue that nicinamide is even better of an NAD booster for the general population who doesn't have any health conditions. They don't have low NAD levels because of some comorbidity. Because NAD isn't a molecule that you just want to keep increasing as high as possible. It has a point of diminishing returns, and high NAD levels can also be harmful. More isn't always better, and some cancers can actually utilize NAD for their own survival. This doesn't mean that high NAD levels would inherit a cause cancer. It's just that cancers are just very tricky, and they can hijack NAD for their own survival. It's just better to not have super high levels of NAD for no reason. I'm mostly talking about supplementing high amounts of NNR or NMN, or getting IV NAD or NAD injections. Especially if you don't have problems with NAD, if your baseline NAD is already normal. Plus, nicinamide is about 20 times cheaper than NNR. One bottle of nicinamide will cost you around 5-10 dollars, whereas it's going to be up to 80 dollars for NNR. Don't get me wrong, NNR is a good supplement, it has clinical evidence, but the benefits you get from NNR aren't that significantly higher than nicinamide. NNR definitely isn't 20 times better than NNR. It might be 2-3 times better. What I'm going to be doing is using nicinamide a few times a week, just to support baseline NAD levels, and maybe catch up on some lost sleep. There's also research that nicinamide protects the skin against UV radiation, and it has skin anti-aging effects. Part of the reasoning is that it increases NAD, since NAD is used to counteract DNA damage caused by sunlight. Taking nicinamide has also been seen to reduce the risk of skin cancer, so even as a generally healthy person, you can benefit from nicinamide, which is why I'll continue to take it on and off. I want to take a break to invite you to our online community called Uspan Society. Uspan Society is an evidence-based online community on school, where we have a ton of different online courses and mini-courses on health optimization, longevity and anti-aging, starting with things like exercise, fitness, body composition, and ending with things like skincare, sleep and nutrition. Uspan Society just launched three of the introductionary courses, a 7-day free longevity kickstarter challenge, a 14-day body composition challenge, and a 30-day longevity consistency challenge. You can join the community for free for 7 days and cancel anytime. In addition to the courses, you'll get access to the online discussion board, where you can ask questions from me and other members of the community. We have live weekly calls where we discuss new research, talk about our most cutting-edge protocols for anti-aging and longevity, and just answer questions. So if you like my videos and you want to learn more, then our online community Uspan Society is the best place to do so. Check out the link in the description and start the challenge. Another big reason why I am a fan of nicinamide over NMN and NNR is the way NAD is being produced. Nacinamide increases NAD through the salvage pathway, which recycles NAD. You see, the body produces NAD in different pathways. You have the pricelander pathway that makes NAD through nicin, you have the denomobiosynthesis pathway that makes NAD from tritophan, but then you have the recycling pathway that recycles all of the NAD you make. So it makes up the most of your NAD. Even taking NMN or NR results in your NAD being recycled in the NAD salvage pathway. NAMPT is the rate-limiting step in the salvage pathway, which determines how much NAD gets recycled. Nacinamide supports the salvage pathway and it helps with NAD recycling. So Nacinamide feeds into the NAD salvage pathway, which is arguably the most important pathway for increasing NAD, at least in terms of sustainability. It doesn't matter how much NAD boosters you take, if your salvage pathway isn't working properly, then you're just dependent on the supplement. But a healthy person, a healthy body, should be able to recycle the NAD continuously. That's why things like exercise or cadence rhythm alignment, having good body composition and good health is important to keep the salvage pathway working actively. But Nacinamide supports that pathway at a fraction of the cost as NR or NMN does. Overall, I'm a big fan of Nacinamide because of these reasons. And I'll be taking 200mg of Nacinamide every few days or a few times a week. Especially if I've changed time zones, if I'm having some sleep deprivation, or I'll be exposing more sunlight to protect my skin against UV damage. A final word of caution, taking over 3000mg of Nacinamide has been seen to cause liver damage. Supplementing 500-1500mg of Nacinamide today for several months may cause diarrhea or low platelet count. But a dose of 200-500mg is the most optimal for increasing NAD and supporting skin health. So Nacinamide is a very cheap and effective alternative to NMN and NR. It helps with NAD's recycling and it has some skin-antaging benefits. If you want to know how I rank a hundred other supplements from Worst the Best, then check out this video next.

=== FILE: If I Had to Take Only 5 Supplements, These Would Be It [WCAmfcyyYLo].txt ===

 amnoninterested in taking 50 or 100 supplements a day. It's expensive, it's unnecessary, and most of it doesn't move the needle. But if I had to narrow it down to just 5 supplements from the hundreds on the market, these would be the ones. In fact, these are part of my core stack, the supplements I take consistently, and the ones I believe have the highest return on investment. In this video, I'm gonna break down exactly what they are, and why they made a cut. Number 1 is Aztexanthin. Aztexanthin has become one of my favorite supplements, because number 1 it has a lot of human clinical evidence, number 2 it's not only good for metabolic health, but also has skin and aging effects, and 3 it's got a good safety profile. I've been taking Aztexanthin for almost 2 years now, and here are the reasons. To be honest, the main reason I'm taking Aztexanthin is to protect my skin against UV radiation. Aztexanthin is a powerful carotenoid that mitigates the oxidative stress in the skin caused by UV radiation. A 2021 systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials found that oral Aztexanthin, at a dose of 2-12mg a day, was able to improve skin moisture reduction by about 10-15% and elasticity by 3-10%. Secondly, Aztexanthin protects the eyes, which is another reason I take it, because I work a lot of hours in front of the computer. A 2025 randomized controlled trial on children aged 10-14 saw that 4mg a day of Aztexanthin reduced digital eye strain and improved visual fatigue. Aztexanthin also improves health biomarkers like inflammation and cholesterol. Although these effects aren't very significant, they're a nice bonus. In this 2020 meta-analysis of clinical trials, Aztexanthin at a dose of over 12mg was seen to reduce CRP levels by 19-26%, which is quite significant. Doses below 12mg and shorter than 12 weeks didn't have an effect. In the same study they also found that Aztexanthin at 12mg had the most consistent effect in raising HDL cholesterol by about 3%, which isn't a massive amount but still statistically significant. Another 2022 meta-analysis of clinical trials saw about a 3.5% decrease in LDL cholesterol from doses of 4-20mg a day. Overall, Aztexanthin is amazing and I have no intentions to stop taking it. 2. Omega-3s Over the last few years I've become more and more convinced that having a high Omega-3 index and high amounts of Omega-3 fats in your bloodstream is one of the easiest wins for your metabolic health, cardiovascular health and brain health. The amount of Omega-3s in your blood is termed the Omega-3 index. It's a long-term marker of your intake of Omega-3 fats, whether from food or supplements. There's consistent research linking a higher Omega-3 index to lower rates of heart disease, Alzheimer's and mortality. A 2021 meta-analysis of 17 studies saw that people with the highest Omega-3 index, over 7.55%, had a 15-18% lower risk of total mortality. A 2022 study also found that the risk of Alzheimer's disease, among the highest red blood cell DHA quintile, over 6.1%, was 49% lower compared to the lowest quintile, below 3.8%. The Omega-3 index associated with the lowest heart disease mortality is over 8%, whereas an index of 4% or below is linked to the highest risk. So I'm aiming to keep my Omega-3 index above 8%. I do consume seafood, fish and different ice of sea vegetables, but I don't do it every day, which is why I take an Omega-3 supplement on a daily basis, just cover my daily Omega-3 intake. Moving on with glycine, which is my favorite supplement. In the Interventions Testing Program, glycine has been seen to extend lifespan of mice by 4-6%, which doesn't sound like a lot, but it's still significant. In terms of the hallmarks of aging, glycine induces autophagy, glycine lowers inflammation, it mimics methionine restriction, and has other systemic health benefits. In the human studies, glycine helps with sleep, lowers blood sugar, protects the skin against advanced allocation in products that cause skin aging, and it protects the liver against oxidative stress and visceral fat. I'm one of the few people who has been megalosing glycine, and the reason for that is your body produces only 3 grams of glycine a day. Those 3 grams will be used for essential functions, such as glutathione synthesis, creatine synthesis, and heme synthesis. For collagen turnover, you need an additional 12 grams, and most people, in most cases, are not going to consume 12 grams of glycine from their diet. Collagen synthesis for your skin and your joints isn't a primary goal for your body, it's a secondary goal, that you can meet only if the first priorities are covered. That's why I take a larger amount of glycine 5-10g. Pairing up with glycine, I take NAC, not every day, but routinely. There have been several clinical trials showing that the combination of these supplements improves body composition, metabolic health, strength, inflammation, and mitochondrial function in elderly people. Glynec, as it's called, has been also seen to extend lifespan in mice by up to 24%. So NAC deserves to be on the list because it's very cheap and it's effective with a lot of clinical evidence. NAC and glycine both increase glutathione synthesis, which is a powerful antioxidant that protects the brain, the heart, the liver, and the skin. Glutathione levels decline with age, and NAC is one of those supplements that will help to maintain antioxidant defense during aging. Additionally, taking NAC before workouts has been seen to increase time to exhaustion and power, so it can help with exercise if taken beforehand. Don't take NAC after workouts, since it reduces the muscle growth signal. The last supplement on the list is Naacinamide. The reason is a dirt cheap NAD booster, and I think every supplement stack should have some NAD element. Taking 200 mg of Naacinamide has been seen to increase NAD by about 10% within 12 hours. However, NAD levels decrease gradually to baseline over 48 hours. Keep in mind that Naacinamide increases NAD only about half as much as Nicotinamide Rhyvicide or NMN. But I think that's actually a good thing, because me as a healthy individual don't need to raise my NAD levels that much. In fact, too much NAD could actually be harmful. There's also research that Naacinamide protects the skin against UV radiation, and it has skin anti-aging effects. Part of the reason for that is the increase in NAD, since NAD is used to counteract DNA damage caused by sunlight. Taking Naacinamide has also been seen to reduce the risk of skin cancer, so even as a generally healthy person, you can benefit from Naacinamide, which is why I'll continue to take it on and off. So a moderate dose of Naacinamide like 200 mg can be a good and safe addition. Lastly, I want to bring some honorable mentions for this list. Vitamin D is an absolutely essential hormone, and it's better to supplement Vitamin D than be deficient. However, you're not getting all the benefits of sunlight from just the supplement. If your Vitamin D levels are normal from sunlight, then you don't need to supplement Vitamin D, but if it's low, then it might be worthwhile. Whenever you supplement Vitamin D, you should also take Vitamin K2 to reduce calcification risk. Magnesium is something that's also beneficial to take when supplementing Vitamin D, because magnesium balances calcium, and magnesium in of itself is a supplement that most people could benefit from. It's hard to get it from just food. The evidence for direct additional health benefits from Vitamin D and magnesium is a little bit limited. They're more beneficial in people who are deficient. So supplementing Vitamin D, Vitamin K2 and magnesium are a safe bet for most people, but they're not inherently necessary if you get them from food or sunlight. So there you have it. All of these supplements I mentioned are amazing. But if you want to know how I rank 100 other supplements from Worst the Best, then check out this video next.

=== FILE: Ranking the Best Exercises for Maximum Healthspan from Worst to Best [hy6ynfjYsIs].txt ===

 c splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend cycling, swimming, whatever, you know, whatever you want to do it with, but essentially 60 to 70% of your maximum heart rate or below the lactate threshold. And I'm going to put it in a good tier. I think that it is a very underrated form of exercise, still this low form of exercise. And yes, for maximal like fitness benefits, it's not the best form of exercise, but it still has a place. And when we're talking about general health and longevity, then you want to do a lot more of this low intensity exercise, rack that up and sprinkle in some high intensity exercise. You don't want to be doing as much of a high intensity exercise as possible. You want to kind of rack up the hours of low intensity physical activity and then intersperse it with this high intensity exercise. Barbell squats, I think are absolute gut tier, one of the best exercise or the best exercise for building lower body strength, including hip bone density and spinal bone density. One of the reasons I think I have very high spinal bone density is because of doing a ton of heavy barbell back squats. Pistol squats. So these ones are just one leg squats. You go up and down with one leg and it looks like a pistol. So I think pistol squats aren't the most absolutely essential. If I never had to do pistol squats, then that would be fine. I think they are, you know, a good example of if you're able to do pistol squats, they're a great example of good leg strength, good leg mobility, knee mobility, good knee strength, ankle mobility, all those things. So they are a prestigious exercise. If someone is able to do pistol squats, then, you know, they're fit and functional with their lower body. So I will put it in the gut tier. Split squats. So Bulgarian split squats, other types of split squats. So I would consider them also to be, you know, they are a unilateral exercise. So they are a lot more functional than a standard barbell squat in that perspective. So you're, you're doing it one leg at a time. It reduces the likelihood of muscle imbalances, et cetera, and incorporate some balance. So, you know, I'll put a into the gut tier. If you do some split squats, then that's going to be very good for not only leg strength, leg muscles, but also balance. Deadlift. Now, I think deadlifts are the most effective exercise for lower back and even your lats and grip strength and hamstrings and, you know, a lot of different muscle groups. But I don't think that it's the most essential for just general health and agility. If you do deadlifts, then that's going to be fine. They're not going to be the absolute gut tier in my, in my opinion. I'm going to put it in the gut tier. Pull-ups are gut tier. So pull-ups are one of the best upper body exercises, in my opinion, because, you know, you're not only using one of the largest upper body muscles in your body, which are the lats and the other muscles in the back, but it's also an exercise that is relative to your body weight. So it's a kind of litmus test that if you're over it or not, or if you have just too much mass. So if you're able to do 10, 15, 20 pull-ups, then it means you not only have good muscle strength, but you're also either lean or just normal body weight. Whereas if you're, you know, let's say, super strong with a deadlift, but you're not able to do more than five pull-ups, then it can mean that you just have too much mass. Now, maybe if you're a strong man, that's fine. But in the context of this health and longevity tier, I would still categorize pull-ups in the gut tier, probably one of the best exercises overall from this list currently, because you need to be slightly lower body fat and have a kind of decent muscle mass. So it's a balance between these two. That's why it's the absolute best in my opinion. Push-ups. Now, push-ups are, you know, similar category as pull-ups. You need to be semi-lower body fat, et cetera. You need to have decent muscle strength to do a bunch of push-ups, but the push-ups, the limitation of push-ups is that you'll end up doing tens, even over a hundred push-ups if you're super advanced. So in one set, so it becomes a lot less, you know, effective in terms of overall muscle strength. It's going to train a lot more muscle endurance. Now, if you added a weighted waist or something like that, then yes, you can make the push-ups a lot harder, but push-ups have a kind of ceiling. If you're able to do over 50, 60 push-ups, then you're already maximizing a lot of the benefits of push-ups unless you're going to train for muscle endurance, et cetera. So I'll put it in the gut tier. It's a very good exercise. I think everyone should do some push-ups, but it's going to be a lot less effective than pull-ups, in my opinion. Barbell row. So using the barbell to do rowing, you lean over, lean forward, and you're doing the rowing motion. Now, there's a different types of rowing. You can drop the bar in between reps. You can keep it off the ground throughout the set. Different versions of it, I'll put it into okay. So, you know, first of all, if you're doing the barbell row, then yes, you're using your back muscles, but a lot of the effort also goes into your hamstrings. So you're not really isolating the back muscles that much. So that's why you're kind of limiting your own growth in terms of back development. If you're doing the barbell row, it's otherwise a great exercise. I like it. It's one of my favorite, like, horizontal pulling exercise. So a pull-up is vertical pulling exercise. You're doing up and down. horizontal pull is the row when you're leaning forward. So I think it's, you know, great. I like it, but it's just not going to be that effective. And by the way, I'm not incorporating these different machine exercises that much, maybe a few of them. And the reason is because, you know, you can do hundreds of different versions of machine exercises. You can do the barbell row on a machine with a rowing. So arguably the machine row can be a little bit more isolating towards the back. So, but I'm not going to cover all of these machine exercises because we'll be staying here for hours. You know, I put the barbell row, it's not even that functional, right? So in the everyday world, you're not going to be doing this kind of rowing motion where you're just leaning forward and pulling something towards you. A deadlift is a lot more functional in the real world as well. A barbell row, not that much compared to a pull-up or even like a barbell squat, for example. Dumbbell, one arm row, basically the same exercise, but you're doing with a dumbbell and a unilateral. So I'll put it also in the OK tier for that reason. Overhead press. Overhead pressing is, obviously, can be quite functional. If you lift something over your head, that's going to be super functional, but it's very unlikely that you'll be, you know, overhead pushing something over your head in an everyday setting that something that weighs more than like 50 kilos. It's going to be very unlikely that you'll do that. Of course, in a few scenarios, it might happen, but, you know, there's again like a limitation of how functional it is, but it's certainly one of the best exercise for, you know, overall strength for the upper body. So I'm not going to put it in the gut tier. I'll put it in the gut tier. Dumbbell shoulder press. So for hypertrophy purposes, dumbbell shoulder press is better because you're taking out some of the emphasis on the back. With the overhead press, you're really using your upper back a lot and embracing your core, etc. It's a lot more functional, but it is less effective for muscle growth for the shoulders, whereas the dumbbell shoulder press is more functional for shoulder muscle development. So I'll put it in the OK tier. I don't think it's the, it's a safer exercise and the overhead press less likely to get injured. So actually, I'll put it in the gut tier because of that reason. It's a lot safer than the overhead press. Hit high intensity interval training is gut tier. So to really reap the benefits of cardiovascular fitness and, you know, things that help to increase your VF to max and even having shown to reverse cardiac structural changes that happen with your heart doing aging, then hit is the way to go. So I'll put hit high intensity interval training, whether that be the 4x4 Norwegian method or Tabata intervals, whatever the case is, I'll just put it in the gut tier. Rear delth flies. So these are more hypertrophy style exercises. So you're essentially leaning a little bit forward and doing like a delth flight, trying to target the rear deltoid. Now, it doesn't really have that much, you know, longevity benefits aside from hypertrophy. So I'll put it in maybe some shoulder stabilization, et cetera, for overhead pressing or cleaning jerks, et cetera. But I'll put it in an OK tier in terms of longevity perspective. It's not harming your health unless you're really doing super heavy rear delth flies, but I'll put it in the OK tier. Front delth flies, the same story. The issue with front delth flies, you know, you're raising a dumbbell usually in front of you trying to target the front delts. The issue is that pretty much every pushing exercise has already targets the front delts. A bench press targets your front delts. Push-ups target your front delts. Overhead press targets your front delts. So you're really getting all the stimulus you need for front delt growth. And most people don't really lack the front delt hypertrophy. They're actually slightly overhypertrophized with their front delts that it might actually make them lean a bit forward. And it's a lot more important to do the rear delth flies to balance out all the front delt work that you're doing with the compound lifts. But I think it's, you know, OK. It's not really harming your health. It might lead to some injuries or overtraining in the front delts, which is not the highest likelihood, but it's still possible. I'll just put it in an OK tier because it's not like the most important thing to do. Lateral raises. So these are, you're basically doing the sideways with the dumbbells. These are also OK, I think, in terms of ranking the delt exercises. Rear delts are the most important and most beneficial. Then comes lateral delts and then front delts. Incline bench. So a bench press with an incline. So you're targeting a little bit of the upper chest. Now, from an everyday functional perspective, it's not really functional. Very rarely you will, you know, be in this position where you're pushing something off your chest at an incline position. Now, the incline bench can help to increase your overhead press. It can increase some of the muscle strength in your upper chest. So it's a good exercise in that sense. But I'll put it in the OK tier. Now, for muscle hypertrophy, the incline bench is very good because it makes the upper chest fuller and makes the muscle more, have more hypertrophy. From a longevity perspective, it's not, you know, that functional compared to push-ups or some other overhead press, for example. Decline bench. So it's the opposite. Your actually head is downward towards the ground and targets the lower chest muscles. I don't think it's bad. Again, you know, any hypertrophy for your main muscle groups is going to be net positive, even if it just improves your glucose tolerance, even if you're not going to use them in the real world. It's still improving your metabolic health and increases your bone density, etc. So I'll put it in the OK tier. Dips. I personally think dips are gut tier because they're a lot more realistic in terms of using in an everyday setting. And it's also another example of the body weight to strength ratio. If you can do a lot of dips, you can have lower or it means you have slightly lower body fat as well. And you can scale it up. You can do weighted dips, etc. Handstand push-ups. Now, they are gut tier in terms of functionality, slightly more so than the overhead press because a handstand push-up is still very hard. Most people aren't going to be able to do more than five handstand push-ups against the wall. If you're able to do 25 handstand push-ups, then it means you're super strong with the shoulders and you're semi-lean, at least semi-lean and lower body fat. And it's also like a balance exercise. Now, of course, if you're doing it against the wall, it doesn't require that much balance. If you can do free hands, freestanding handstand push-ups, then that's, you know, absolutely gut tier. But even against the wall, you're required to have very good wrist mobility. You need to, you're doing this inversion. You're upside down. So it's, you know, an unorthodox plane of motion or unorthodox situation, which translates over to just better. It just means if you can do hands and push-ups, then you're also good in balance and you have at least an overall good proprioception. I want to take a quick break to let you know about the Red Light Hat by Bonn Charge, which a lot of people have been waiting for a long time. Basically, you're getting some red light therapy on your scalp. It's a regular cap and it just gives you the specific wavelengths of red light that will help with the hair growth and the collagen synthesis in the scalp. Bonn Charge also has a lot of different types of red light therapy devices, like the face mask, which actually has specific studies on where they use split face experiments and they show that the LED red light face masks do improve skin wrinkles and collagen synthesis in skin. But yeah, Bonn Charge has a ton of different red light therapy devices as well that they've come out with over the course of years. So this Red Light Hat is the newest one. It's pretty good. I kind of wear it in the mornings just to help with hair growth a little bit. And they obviously also have regular red light panels, the big ones that you're going to sit in front of and also get benefits on your skin as well as overall energy. Check out the Bonn Charge red light therapy devices and their new red light hat at Bonn Charge.com for 15% discount. Leg press. Now, leg press isn't bad. You're still, again, improving your glucose metabolism, your bone density, etc. You're losing out on some of the functionality in terms of balance and embracing multiple muscle groups for the exercise you're training mostly your legs. But if you can press a lot of weight with the leg press, then obviously you have decent muscles in the legs and strength. So I'll put it, you know, I personally think, you know, you should try to do the barbell squats or the split squats over a leg press, but leg press isn't harmful for your health. Maybe the risk of injury is lower with a barbell squat or the leg press has a lower risk of injury than the barbell squat, but you should try to do the barbell squat as much as possible because, you know, you shouldn't get injured. If you do the barbell squat correctly, then you're not going to get injured. I've trained barbell squats for 12 years. I've never gotten injured because I have good form or at least I don't take risks with bad form. Biceps curls. So, you know, none of these exercises really can be bad. Any exercise is good. But if you're talking about, you know, there's no real functionality for biceps curls. You're rarely really lifting something in the same form as the biceps curls. You're going to be lifting it more like the forearm type of exercise with the other side of the grip. So I'll put it in the OK tier again because of improving overall glucose metabolism. Trisox extensions, yeah, you know, the same doesn't really have that much functionality compared to some of these freestanding exercises or compound lifts. So I'll put it OK. Yoga. So yoga, this will be mostly like mobility type of yoga, some stretching type of yoga. So I think yoga, having some yoga elements in your workouts is going to be good because it balances out some of the heavy lifting and cardiovascular exercise. So you want to also do some form of exercise that is more parasympathetic and more calming and less intense. Hamstring curl laying on. This is like a machine exercise. You're laying on your stomach and doing like a biceps curl, but with your hamstrings. And this can be a great way to improve your squat or at least the limiting, overcoming some of the limitations in your squat. But it's not that much functional. So yes, if you're a sprinter, you're probably going to train some hamstring curls in your workout plan. You'll be doing them in some shape or form the same way hockey players or something would also do some squats, just improve their leg explosiveness, etc. But a hamstring curl is not going to be like a super high priority. If you do the barbell squat, then you don't really need to do the hamstring curl. The barbell squat covers 90% of all the leg exercises you really need to do. Now, of course, you can add some calf raises because you're not really doing calf exercises with the barbell squat, but you absolutely are training your hamstrings, your quads with the barbell squat. So knee extension is essentially the opposite of the hamstring curl. You're sitting on the machine and you're kicking pretty much your knees forward. So I'll put it also in the OK tier. Moving on with calf raises, the only exercise that you're not really training with the barbell squat that much and calf raises, the calf muscles are hard to grow. Other people struggle with that. It seems to be some genetic component there. You know, from a longevity health perspective, they're not really that beneficial. Low intensity calf muscle activation is good. So if you do the soleus pushup, you're doing walking, those kind of things, they are very important. So it helps to pump the blood back up to the heart. But calf raises, heavy calf raises, so you're doing 20 reps, 30 reps, 15 reps, whatever the number is, they don't have really that much role in overall health and longevity. Now, the funny thing is that calf circumference, he's associated with longevity. So people with bigger calves have greater survival and lower mortality. But, you know, the reason is because they're probably just healthier. They exercise and they might be eating a higher quality diet, which helps them to build calf muscles. So there's no direct effect of having bigger calves and living longer. But, you know, it does have some functional element or at least hypertrophy element. Hammer curls, you're lifting a dumbbell this way. So this kind of grip. And I think they're obviously better than biceps curls. They probably have a little bit of a better functional element as well in an everyday world scenario compared to biceps curls. But I would argue that pull-ups are better exercise than hammer curls. So they're not going to be gut-tier. I would put it in the gut-tier. It's a little bit more on the grip side. And it's a bit more functional. So I'll put it here for that reason. Wrist curls. So you're just essentially like with a barbell or a dumbbell curling the wrists. They're similar to a biceps curl or a hamstring curl. So yeah, I mean, grip strength is associated with reduced mortality and longevity, but it's more so because of what other things are you doing rather than training your grip directly. Now, having good wrist strength will carry over to better pull-ups. If you have better wrist strength, you'll be able to do more pull-ups because you'll be able to hang on the bar a lot longer. The same with deadlifts. You'll be able to lift a lot more unless you're using straps. So, I mean, I'll put it through wrist curls and okay-tier. So next, farmer carries, I think, are... I would put them in the gut-tier. So I like farmer carries. Basically, you're carrying either two heavy dumbbells in your arms and then walking can be kettlebells, can be, you know, whatever type of a weight. It's very functional. And, you know, in most people's lives, it's going to be groceries where they're carrying heavy groceries. But, you know, the farmer's carries are one of the most functional exercises out there because you'll be having to carry stuff. You need to have good grip strength. It also forces some core stability. You're getting some decent calf exercise as well with that because you're walking with a weight and some trap exercise. So, yeah, I mean, the farmer carries are super underrated and I definitely put them in the gut-tier. Trap shrogs. So you're essentially just doing the shrogs with a heavy barbell or dumbbells for your traps. Now, it doesn't really have any functional element. Maybe it will help with your deadlift a little bit, but even then, the deadlift will train your traps a lot more than doing trap shrogs. So I'll put it in the okay-tier. Neck curls, yeah, just having – you can do it with your body weight, laying on a bench or on a chair and then just curling your neck, trying to build your neck muscles. People will eventually add weights on top of it as well. So I think training your neck is underrated for, you know, most people do it for increasing the width of their neck or they're doing combat sports. So they need to have a stronger neck for that. But even in an everyday scenario, your neck is very, you know, vulnerable. If you're going to fall off somewhere, even if you get in like a traffic accident, if you have a weak neck, your likelihood of breaking the neck or having some other spinal injuries is going to be much higher compared to having a strong neck. And, of course, bone density is quite important for the neck and spine. But, you know, the muscles are what cover the bones and keep it more stable. So if you have more neck muscles, then you'll have a stable neck. The issue is that, you know, if you have a huge neck, then you can develop sleep apnea even if you're otherwise lean. So bodybuilders, most of them have sleep apnea because of their huge neck. So it has a double-edged sword. You don't want to have a massive neck, but you do want to have, you know, some muscle around the neck. Yeah, I'm kind of torn between okay and good. I'll put it in a good tier because, you know, so far a lot of the exercises have gone to the okay tier and a lot more of them will go to the okay tier. So I'll put the neck curls in the good tier because, you know, even with bodyweight exercises, training the neck will be, you know, more important than training your delts, if that makes sense. Good mornings. So this is a kind of old-school strength exercise. You have a barbell on your upper back, similar to a barbell back squat, but instead of doing a squat, you're leaning forward, keeping your back straight, and then it's like a back extension, but while standing. A lot of people are afraid of this exercise. They're going to say you're going to snap your back. You're going to snap your neck, whatever it is. Yes, if you have a weak back and if you're just putting too much weight on it, then it can certainly happen if you have bad form. But good mornings done with proper form, done carefully, and not done to failure can be one of the best exercises for improving your barbell back squat, improving your lower body or lower back strength and upper back strength as well, and muscle. I personally think good mornings are good. I've noticed quite good benefits from good mornings. I don't think everyone needs to do them, especially people with pre-existing back conditions and back pain. It's not for someone who has mobility issues or back issues. But if you're with good back strength already and you have no pain, then doing good mornings will actually prevent you from getting pain as long as you're not doing super heavy sets. Next exercise, hanging knee raise. Basically hanging from a bar and raising your knees towards your upper chest. So essentially the ab exercise, lower ab exercise. I think it's good, you know, hanging and combining it with the ab exercise is great for core stability. You'll train your grip strength as well. You just need to make sure that your grip doesn't fail and before your abs do, you know, I'll put it in the gut tier, but the gut tier is hanging leg raise exercise. So you're doing it with your legs straight. It's much harder, requires a lot more hip flexibility and more core strength. So if you're able to lay your legs all the way up where your hands are, that's, you know, the gymnasts do it is one of the best type of exercise for core. And I've noticed my lower abs getting the most development from the hanging leg raise. If you're not able to raise the legs all the way up, then you can just do it like the L-sit. That's a little bit better than the knee exercise. Kind of the progression is hanging knee raise, hanging leg raise only to your waistline and hanging leg raise all the way up. Sprinting. Sprinting is absolutely gut tier. I would put it the second best exercise overall. You know, arguably sprinting is the best. It's even better than pull-ups because the growth hormone surge you get from sprinting will also have like systemic health or systemic anabolic effects. You know, sprinters are pretty jacked. They obviously train some of their upper body, but the majority of their training is sprinting. Printing is the equivalent of pull-ups for your lower body, in my opinion. So these two exercises are the best exercises overall. Dead hang, hanging from a bar. Underrated, I'll put it in the gut tier. It's not the most effect. It's not going to help with, you know, building back muscles or helping with just overall hypertrophy. It's more of a mobility exercise and a grip exercise. Hanging from a bar is great for shoulder mobility. To a certain extent, core stability, if you're able to control your body weight and control your core while hanging. And of course, it's a great grip exercise. So it's not a muscle building exercise. It's more like a mobility type exercise. You should hang for at least one to two sets of at least, you know, 30 seconds up to one minute, depending on how long you can hang every day. Kettlebell swings, I'll put it in the gut tier. Very underrated kettlebells. And kettlebell swings will train kind of this hip hinge. So it's more explosive type exercise. You can scale it up with different weights. You can do heavy kettlebells. You can do light kettlebells. And you can use one-arm kettlebell swings, two-arm kettlebell swings. You can do it in many different ways. So if you just do a lot of kettlebell swings, you get good cardio, good grip strength, good hip strength, hip power, glutes, a lot of different muscles. Rope climb. Climbing a rope up and down. Like a gymnast, arguably it's a lot harder than pull-ups. But it's harder to, I guess, progressively overload. Yes, you can wear weighted twists while doing rope climbs, etc. And it is a lot more, I mean, it's more functional than pull-ups in that sense. Climbing a rope. They're very equal in terms of functionality. Pull-ups are going to be great as well for, you know, vaulting over things. You can do muscle-ups, etc. Road climb is more kind of a military thing and special-ups thing. Hiking, mountaineering type of thing. It's very important. It's more beneficial than biceps curls, more important than chin-ups. So I'll put it in the gut tier, but on the lower end of the gut tier, because I think pull-ups are still going to be a little bit more functional. Next up, we have the front lever. So this is a gymnastics calisthenics exercise. You're doing an isometric static exercise with your straight arms, and you're essentially just lifting your entire lower body in front of you. You can also do the back lever, which is the inverse of that, but essentially a super hard isometric exercise where you're keeping your entire body from your shoulders downward in a straight line parallel to the ground, which requires insane amounts of core strength and insane amount of lat strength. The biggest muscle engaged is actually the lat, in my experience. Now, it's not the most like functional exercise. It is a very effective exercise, though. It's very effective for the muscles that I mentioned, the lats, the core muscles, shoulders, grip, etc. And it's also an exercise where that requires pretty low body weight. If you're overweight, it's going to be very hard to do a front lever, even a tucked front lever. But if you're able to do the front full lever, then it means that you just have a very strong and lower body weight, lower body fat, which doesn't mean that you need to train the front lever, though. You can have good front lever without actually training the front lever. So I'll put it in the good tier, I think. Actually, I'll put it in the okay tier. Mostly people are not going to be able to do it, and it has limited functional purpose, if that makes sense. Planche, the same. This is pretty much on the ground instead of hanging from the bar, and you're leaning forward, and you're supporting your entire body weight with your front shoulders, your lats, your wrists, and your lower back. Your lower back is lifting your feet off the ground, so you're hanging not from the ground, not from a bar, but you're essentially just levitating with your wrists, the only point of contact with the ground, either on the parallel bars or the ground itself. It's a super hard, insane exercise. There's very few people in the world who can do it. If you can do it, then you're definitely in the top 0.1 percentile of body weight exercises. Gymnasts do it. It's an impressive exercise, but it's not that functional in terms of necessity. It's better, and to have a good planche, you need to have slightly lower leg muscles. Yes, of course, if you're super strong, then the upper body will even lift you up with heavy leg muscles, but most people who are doing the planche or the front lever, they don't have huge leg muscles, which is fine, but from a general health and longevity perspective, you want to have a balanced physique. You want to have decent muscles, and leg muscles need to be quite sturdy and strong because they carry you around. Crunches, ab exercise on the ground, doing crunches, everyone knows that, everyone done it at school. I think it's bad. It's not the best, most effective exercise for ab muscles and ab stability, core stability, and it might, you know, cause some back pain issues for a lot of people. If you're doing them properly, if you're doing them sparingly, they're not going to be that harmful. They are good if you're doing them on a bozoo ball or a balance ball, or if you're doing them, like, I think they're like G sit-ups, G sit-ups in CrossFit, where you're doing them from this machine. I have like a language block for that machine. I think it's G sit-ups. Yeah, you're really stretching out the abs, then they can be pretty good. But most people doing them on a mat on the ground, it's not going to be that great. Back extensions, so the good morning, but on the back extension machine, you're, you know, lifting either your body weight or some weight with your upper back bending from your hips. The back extension is guttier, in my opinion. I think it's more suitable for most people compared to good mornings, but, and you can also scale it up with added weights, get your back a lot stronger, reduces back pain and other issues. So I'll definitely recommend doing some back extensions. L sit. L sit, meaning you're sitting like an L on either hanging from a bar while on the parallel bars, the dip bars, or from the ground where you're able to even lift your bottom of the ground, kind of this compression exercise. I think L sit is a very great core exercise. It really burns than kills the core if you're doing it properly. And, it's also hard. Requires hip flexibility, hamstring flexibility and core stability and requires core strength, especially the compression part. So, I think L sit is, it's not like most functional compared to a hanging leg raise. It's a bit more functional than the hanging knee raise. So I'll put it in the gutier, but a little bit higher up compared to the hanging knee raise. L sit pull-ups. So basically, pull-ups with an L sit. Now, L sit pull-ups are significantly harder than regular pull-ups, but the issue, what I've, you know, experienced myself is that you don't get that much stimulus and you're putting a lot of the effort on your core stability and the L sit formation compared to the pulling aspect. So you'll be able to do a lot less pull-ups. So what I find is better to do either the pull-ups or the L sit separately rather than combining them together. Yes, doing some L sit pull-ups sparingly is going to be great. It forces you to do the motion together, but you're kind of missing out the maximal benefits from both exercises. So it's better to just max out on the pull-ups and then max out on the L sit separately and then to do them together. At least in most cases. It's kind of yeah, like a test of your flexibility and upper body strength at the same time. So put it in okay tier. It's not the best muscle building exercise or even endurance exercise. Plyometrics got here. So I think doing some form of explosive exercises, jumping, broad jumping, vertical jumping, different kind of jumping exercises, exercises. It's going to be great for maintaining that fast twitch muscle fibers and speed. It's also very functional. If you're able to jump and be quicker, then you're less likely to fall, less likely to get injured, etc. So underrated. Walking lunges. So walking, doing the lunges and walking forward. You can also do lunges in a single position without walking forward, but most people do the walking lunges while walking forward with dumbbells on their arms or a barbell on their back. Yes, walking lunges are pretty good. I'll put them in the god tier for that reason. They train legs. You can scale them up with weights and maintain some balance. Hip thrust, barbell, and pushing your hips forward with your glutes. A lot of women like to do that, some men as well. Training your glutes is going to be quite important for both, but I think it has less of a role in just overall functionality and longevity. Training your hip thrust might increase your squat, it might increase your deadlift, it might help with hip pain or lower back pain, but it's not like the huge functional exercise. I'll put it in the OK tier, similar reasons as the barbell row. Planking, so just doing the plank, either with your straight arms or your on the elbows. Side planks, all the planks are here. I'll put the plank in OK tier. I think it's, yes, it can be great to train certain, like, being able to stay stiff and maintain this static position, which translates over to a lot of these other compound lifts. If you do the plank, you'll be training your pull-up a little bit, just embracing the core, you'll be having a little bit better barbell squat, etc., but you're already training those muscles with those exercises to begin with. So the planking is kind of just if someone is struggling a lot with mind-muscle connection and some aspects of stability, but it's not really a hugely functional exercise in my opinion. Cycling, so we're moving on with a little bit of different types of sports rather than specific exercises, so we're not just only talking about different compound lifts, we'll also talk about team sports and recreational sports, I think cycling is depending on, you know, you can do zone 2 cardio with cycling, HIIT with cycling, etc., but being on the bike, doing a lot of time on the bike. Now, personally, I think cycling is okay. It's not the best exercise for longevity, it's not gut tier, because of, first of all, you're just spending a lot of time sitting, for males especially, it can be harmful for sperm count if your genitals are squished together on the seat a lot of hours, and it's just kind of this, you know, very repetitive motion. Of course, every type of cardio is repetitive, but it's not the best for bone density, it's not the best for hip flexibility and the testicles for men. Next, we have soccer, football, as we call it in Europe, soccer, as in America, I will put soccer into, so obviously it incorporates sprinting, it incorporates hit, it's very good cardiovascular exercise, it's one of the most intense cardiovascular team sports, in my opinion, because you're just, for 90 minutes, you're constantly running, it has a skill element, playing with the ball, and requires proprioception, different types of slight aspect of balance and mobility, etc., explosiveness, using your brain to, you know, it requires a lot more brain power than just sprinting up a hill or cycling for two hours on a bike, if that makes sense. So, and it has the social element, which based on research is more predictive of longevity than individual sports, so, team sports, like tennis, soccer, basketball, they are associated with greater life expectancy than just going to the gym alone, if that makes sense. So, I'll put it in the gut here, because it has a social element, has a sprinting element, cardiovascular element, balance element, proprioception element, so, for sure, definitely the same with basketball, throwing the ball through the hoop, you know, requires eye, hand-to-eye coordination, balance, teamwork, socializing, sprinting, you know, it's also very intense cardiovascularly, but the, you know, the aspect of the hand-to-eye coordination is very underrated. Volleyball, you know, interestingly, volleyball is associated with a shorter life expectancy than other team sports for some reason, maybe it's just depending on where you do it, like is it the beach volleyball, is it indoor volleyball, there's different elements that might reduce your life expectancy in those environments, so I'll, but it has the sport element, it has the team sport element, and it's less cardiovascular, it doesn't require that much like sprinting, although there's like short bursts of it, but you have a lot of downtime as well, so I'll put it in the good tier for that reason. Tennis is associated with the greatest life expectancy out of all these sports, the reason being wealthier people play tennis, that's like the biggest reason, but tennis is also a good sport in terms of functionality, it has the sprinting element, it has the balance element, it has the hand-to-eye coordination element, the kind of mental acuity element, you need to just pay attention to the ball, etc., socializing element, so it's got your skating, so ice skating, rollerbade skating, I think, yeah, you can do sprinting with it, you can do zone two cardio with it, it's kind of chill, I'll put it in the good tier, skiing is, I would say skiing is god tier, people with one of the highest VOCMAXs in the world are cross-country skiers, cyclists as well, but skiing is a lot more functional than cycling in my opinion, it's also a little bit better on the joints, and yeah, requires kind of more this full body movement, rather than being stuck in this sitting position for many hours, that's my opinion. Mobility, just doing mobility exercises, deep squats, different kinds of shoulder mobility, trying to emphasize your mobility, so I'll put it in the gut tier, you definitely would want to focus on mobility and not neglect it, because if you're mobile, you're less likely to get injured, and you want to do it for the long term, you don't want to do it for the next few years only. Gymnastics,! Gymnastics with all of its glory and all of the things you do in gymnastics, tumbling, straight, the straight bar, parallel bars, all these different types of things you do in gymnastics, it's a very versatile exercise and it has speed, explosiveness, strength, endurance, mobility, flexibility, balance, proprioception, hand-to-eye coordination, so it's pretty much using your body in all planes of motion and using all of these energy systems in your body. It's one of the hardest sports in the world. I think you need to be starting at a young age to succeed in it on a professional level. As adults, we probably don't end up doing a bunch of backflips and different activities like spectacular exercises. We'll mostly be doing calisthenics, maybe some tumbling, some stretching mobility, but as a sport itself, it's one of the best because it covers everything. Hockey, probably a lot of very violent. It has an element of skating and it is pretty good cardio. It's good for your fitness, but it's bad for your brain. The impact skating into other people, there's fighting, etc. You're going to get CTE or the risk of CTE is higher. That applies to all combat sports. Probably hockey is bad for that reason. I'll put it in the bad tier because it certainly increases risk of CTE. Weighted vest walking, I think weighted vest walking is great. It's a bit harder than regular walking. Of course, you don't need to do weighted vest walking, but weighted vest walking is pretty effective for burning more calories while walking. And possibly if you carry the weighted vest throughout the day for many hours, some research suggests that it reduces the drop in metabolic rate that happens during weight loss because you carry the same weight around. I'll put it in the gut tier. Track and field, I'll put it also in the gut tier because you're doing a bunch of different exercises in different plates of motions, in different energy systems. So one of the best exercises for overall health and athleticism. Golf. Golf is also associated with greater longevity or life expectancy, but that's because rich people play golf. And golf as a sport, you're spending time outside, you're getting some sunlight, you're de-stressing probably. It's not cardiovascular in any way. You're even using the cart to drive around so you're not even walking that much. Yes, you're walking a little bit, you're breathing fresh air, etc. But I think golfing is okay. I don't think it has a fitness element to it. You might train your swing, that has some functionality, speed for upper body, but it's not really that beneficial for some longevity goals. And there's the golf courses, they also have a bunch of pesticides and stuff on the golf courts, so it might not be even best for that reason. Baseball, you're doing also swing, you're sprinting, you're in a team sport environment. I'm not exactly sure what's the life expectancy of baseball players. I wouldn't say that it's much greater than volleyball players, so I'll put it in the good here. Rowing, rowing, I think, is similar to skiing, I would say that it's a very great exercise for upper body cardio, and the only limitation is that you're not using your legs that much, but rowing is a very good upper body cardio exercise, I'll put it in the gut tier. Stair climbers, you're just walking up the stairs or using the stair climber, whichever. Now, doing sprints up the stairs can be great, you're getting a really good cardiovascular workout, but spending hours on the stairs probably is not the best, similar to cycling. So I'll put it in the OK tier, it's not harming your health unless you're really overdoing it, but it doesn't have that, I mean, it's functional obviously, you walk up the stairs, but you shouldn't spend hours on the stairs, if that makes sense. You should do maybe sprints up the stairs and carrying stuff up the stairs, but not doing zone 2 cardio for two hours on the stairs, I think that's a bit too much. Next up we have jump rope, I think jump rope is gut tier, it's good balance exercise, good for the element of jumping, it stimulates your lymph, your jumping up and down in small jumps, and you can also do cardio with it, you can also do high intensity interval training with it, so I think it's definitely gut tier. Now combat sports, MMA, boxing, etc., where you're fighting other people, your risk of CTE again is higher and combat sports in the context of longevity is one of the worst, they have one of the shortest careers, the same with like NFL players, American football, so they have pretty short careers, and it's definitely not the best for maximal lifespan and longevity. You can do elements of combat sports in other ways, of course you can practice combat sports safely, but the risk is still higher than training it in other ways. Now from survival perspective, combat sports is very important, like if you can defend yourself, you know how to fight, etc., then you can save your life maybe in some distant scenario, but in let's say all things being equal, then these other sports tend to obviously be better from brain longevity. Stretching, I think stretching is a bit overrated, you don't need to be super flexible, you need to be mobile, so there's a difference between that mobile, meaning that you're able to go through full range of motion, like you can go to the deepest squat with your ankles or your feet on the ground without raising your heels, and you're able to do that comfortably, that's a great example of mobility, stretching is touching your toes, etc., so stretching is not going to prevent injuries, it's not going to really have any metabolic health benefits, yes, you don't want to be super stiff, but in most cases you can achieve decent stretching and flexibility with regular mobility exercises and just training these exercises with full range of motion and good form, you should do some stretching every once in a while if you get super stiff, but I think actively stretching all the time is not that worth it, because you do want to maintain some stiffness for some of these compound exercises, burpees, super hard exercise, you go from a push-up into a jump and you repeat it, so it's considered like a punishment exercise in a lot of contexts because of the difficulty and just kind of how much you hate them in most cases, so they don't really have any like that much of a functional element either, as I said, it's better to train the jumping separately and the push-ups separately than to combine them together, now and it depends how you do them as well, if you do five burpees, ten burpees, if you do one set of burpees, then that's fine, if you do hundreds of burpees, then the overuse and most people, their form begins to suffer, so they'll start hurting their elbows, they'll start hurting their knees, so they'll put the burpees in the bad tier from that perspective. Box jumps, jumping on boxes or from boxes, you can do both ways, arguably it's similar to plyometrics, the difference is that instead of just jumping up and down or as far as possible, you're just trying to jump onto a specific area which is the box and there is a certain element of the cognitive element and the feet to eye coordination, so if you're able to jump onto boxes and from boxes and maintain your balance, etc., not fall off the things, then for a longevity perspective, it's very good. Medicine ball, so medicine ball throwing, medicine ball slamming, those kind of things, you just like weighted ball, usually it's a few kilograms, it's not superweight, there's also heavier balls, but you're just slamming it on the ground or throwing it as far as possible, I think that's a very functional exercise and good for explosiveness, it's similar to kettlebell swings, that it's kind of a niche exercise but it certainly translates over to full body power. Sled pushing and pulling, I'll put it in the gut here, so you have a sled, you drag it on the ground or you push it, and yeah, I think that's a very functional exercise and good cardio. Sandbag, so lifting a sandbag that weighs usually, let's say, you know, 10 kilograms up to 50, 100 kilograms, I think that's a very functional exercise, it's not the best exercise for maximal strength or maximal endurance or maximal power because it's a very uncomfortable thing to lift up the sandbag, but because it's so uncomfortable, it's good for like functionality and, you know, kind of this mind-muscle connection of trying to maintain your balance while you're lifting this uncomfortable odd object that is fluctuating around your body and not keeping it in a single shape as a barbell or a kettlebell for that matter. Wood chopping, so chopping wood, I think that's also gut here, there's some research that chopping wood might actually increase testosterone, maybe it's because of the exercise or maybe because of, you know, you feel like a badass or something, like you feel like some lumberjack, maybe it's that reason, but wood chopping can be great explosiveness exercise, especially if you're chopping heavier wood, thicker wood, like if you've got an oak, it will take you a few swings to chop it open, and especially if it's not dry wood. If the wood is dry, it's been out in the open and has dried up all summer, then it's going to be a lot easier to chop the wood than if it's springtime, the wood is a lot more moist, it's got water in it, it's going to be a lot harder to chop it. So if you've got a kind of moist wood, thick wood, oak, you're going to need a few swings to break it open. And you do get a good sweat, you're outside getting sunlight, I think that is definitely an underrated exercise if you can consider it as exercise, but for the giggles, we'll put it into this list. Turkish get-up, so if you don't know about it, then you're laying on the ground, you have a kettlebell pushed forward in front of you, usually like 10kg kettlebell, 20, there's people even doing it with other people, 50kg, 60kg, the heaviest I've done is a 40kg kettlebell get-up, I think it's great functional exercise, I'll put it in the god tier, I haven't done a lot of kettlebells myself, the get-ups myself, but I think that it's a god tier exercise in terms of training it. Do you need to do it? Not necessarily, but it certainly will be very effective for mobility and stability. Muscle up, now I think a muscle up, you do the very high pull-up, transitioning over into a deep dip, so I think that is a good exercise, it has a higher risk of injury than regular pull-ups and regular dips because most people, they're not able to pull themselves up that high, so they'll end up doing a weird, awkward dip over, they're struggling over the bar. If you can do the muscle-ups with good form, then they're very good for explosiveness and deep mobility for the shoulders, but yes, you can overdo them, so I'll put them in the good tier. Skin the cat, so if you don't know this, then it's essentially you're hanging from a bar, you're doing a hanging leg raise, and instead of going down, the legs go between your hands behind you, so you're just like hanging there as if you've been skinned like a cat, and then you go backwards, so this is a very good, it's the best shoulder mobility exercise there is in my opinion, and it's also more difficult for the average person. I like to do it, it always feels good for my shoulders, I like to do like at least five reps of it, if I ever do it in one set, I think it's good, but I don't think it's absolutely essential for most people, most people can do a variation of it, but if you can do it, then it's got here. Agility ladders, so doing different agility drills, you know, people on Instagram, they're, you know, just tapping their feet and running back and forth, etc., these kind of things, now a lot of it can be just for show that they're, if you look at the ladder on the ground, then, you know, they're just kicking things over and really not having any coordination between, they're just, you know, twitching around, in most cases, athletes obviously use it a lot, I'll put it in, I mean, got here, it's like a micro sprinting, if you're able to do some agility, drills, effectively, and properly, good form, etc., then you're very athletic, you know, I think it's important to maintain athleticism as you get older, especially this speed and changing a lot of different planes of motions. Swimming,! slightly less lower body exercise, but the issue with swimming is that it doesn't, because you're in the water, you're not really doing bone density, so the bone density tends to suffer from swimming a little bit. Of course, your bone density is going to be higher because you exercise, you have more muscle and you're fitter, but compared to gymnastics or sprinting or barbell squats, the swimming is much lower for bone density. Shadow boxing, yes, people in the gym, you know who I'm talking about, who are doing shadow boxing in front of the mirror, in between sets, I'm talking about those people, I mean, shadow boxing is, as far as I'm concerned, is just, unless you actually are training actively with some combat sports as well, you know what you're doing, like you're just mentally rehearsing and trying to go through the same motions as you were fighting someone else and some other combat sports drills, but if you're not experienced with combat sports, you're just shadow boxing without knowing what you're doing, then it's just mostly fidgeting, you know, you're doing a lot of neat, non-exercise activities where you're burning a lot of calories with little to no productivity. If you want to get good at combat sports, you need to be doing the combat sports, shadow boxing is only good for a mental rehearsal, you're practicing in your head and you have the reference experience to back it up, so, I mean, as a form of cardio, it really doesn't matter if you do cardio jogging or if you're doing shadow boxing, might as well shadow boxing, maybe it has some additional benefits, but yeah, I'll put it in the okay tier. Animal flow, so different kind of animal type exercises, bear crawls, crab walk, lizard walk, name your animal of choice, salamander walk, you know, moose walk, I'm just making things up, but animal flow, so I think this is pretty good, I don't think, I mean, I mean, in some aspects it's a gut tier because you're forced to move throughout planes of motions that you wouldn't otherwise train, like if you're doing the bear crawl, you're getting some hamstring mobility, flexibility, and wrist strength, etc., it's just a lot less effective as increasing your mobility and increasing your strength or endurance for the matter, I'll put it in a good tier, it's like a good addition to do, but I think it's better to again train these different systems separately rather than to combine them together. Ab wheel, so using the ab wheel machine to train your abs, whether that be with your knees or full without the knees on the ground, I think the ab wheel is obviously one of the hardest full ab exercise, if you do the full abs, if you can do multiple full ab wheels, then you have amazing core strength, I would put it in AI'll put it in the gut here because of that, because it's super hard to do, most people aren't going to be able to do it, if you're going to be able to do even one or two, then you're pretty well off in terms of your core stability and core strength. Front squat, so front barbell squat, instead of barbell on your back, it's on the front, the front squat targets more the quads, so the front part of the leg muscles, and you're forced to also keep your chest a little bit upright because you might be falling over more likely with the bar in the front. I'll put it in the gut here, I think the front squat is a little bit less functional than the regular barbell squat because most of your leg power comes from your hamstrings, of course, your training hamstrings with the front squat, the quads are slightly, I mean, yes, of course, it's kind of a very good exercise for just overall leg strength, leg development, balance, etc., but I think the barbell back squat is a little bit more effective. Stiff leg deadlift, also good, essentially, you're keeping your legs straight while doing the deadlift, it's called a Romanian deadlift as well, I'll put it in the good here. Chin ups, so pull-ups but with your hands facing your chin rather than the other way around, I think the chin ups, you know, similar to biceps curls, they're okay, because in most cases you're going to be pulling with the regular pull-up grip, put in the okay seal row, seal row is a barbell row, but instead of you standing on the ground, you're laying on the bench on your stomach and then you're pulling the bar, you know, basically the bar is below the bench and you're pulling the bar to touch the bench as a barbell row and essentially just removes your hamstrings and removes your legs from the equation, you can't stabilize the bar with your legs that much and use your legs, so it's a purely vertical pull exercise, you're going to lift a lot less weight than with a regular barbell row, but I think the functionality is going to be limited, I think the seal row is great if you're trying to increase your barbell row and increase your deadlift number or build a very thick pack, but the functional element is going to be limited. Javelin throw, so throwing a javelin, I think this would be good, so similar to jumping, similar to sprinting, people aren't throwing things that much, but arguably throwing things isn't that important, for, yes, it's good to have good shoulder mobility and good shoulder explosiveness, but it's not the biggest priority in my opinion, like I would put in the good tier. Heavy throws, shot put, you know, when you're throwing the ball bump, the metal ball, or throwing the discus, just throwing something heavy, the hammer throw, different kinds of this Olympic sports, I'll put it, I think with the throwing, it's not that much of the weight, you know, it's more important to throw something lightweight than something heavy. Of course, if you're able to throw a heavy ball further, then you're probably going to be able to throw a lighter ball further or a javelin further, but plyometrics, I don't think it's a good idea to do plyometrics with a weighted vest, right? The same with, this is my opinion, there's no data to pack it up, but I think it's better to do like lighter javelin style throws or just a regular ball, tennis ball throws, rather than heavy throws with a 10 kilo bump. Olympic lifting, so we have clean and jerk and snatches, so Olympic weightlifters, they are one of the strongest people in the world in terms of relative to their body weight, and I think Olympic weightlifting is got here in terms of the functionality, it's more functional than just a regular barbell squat because you're doing the snatch into the squat, overhead squat, and the clean and jerk, it requires a lot of explosiveness, strength, and a lot of coordination and balance and mobility and those kind of things, so you're going through the full range of motion with this lifting something from the ground up. I know I might violate some of my previous comments where I said that you don't want to combine things that much, I think the exception is the Olympic lifting because of the artistic, not the artistic element but just because of the functional element of the sport, it's a lot more functional as a sport, and yeah, you will encounter situations where you need to lift something similar to a clean and jerk rather than some of these other exercises that I have mentioned before. Walking, regular walking, I will put regular walking in gut here, I think you should just walk a lot as much as you possibly can during the day, you obviously don't need to walk 20k steps or something, I think most people should walk at least 10k steps on a good day and up to 15k is pretty much where you're maximizing most of the benefits. Suitcase carry, so carrying a heavy suitcase in the context of training, it can be carrying a single heavy dumbbell, a single heavy kettlebell or something else like that, the sandbag, I think suitcase carry is great, I will put it in the gut here because it's a lot more uncomfortable and unorthodox than carrying a farmer's carry where you have two weights each arm, it requires a bit more stability. Postable squat, now this is kind of a meme that people like to use, you're squatting on this balance ball, in some reels you have people doing some heavy squats or kettlebell swings on the bose ball squat, they're about to fall over, those kind of things for sure can be harmful, you're going to get injured. if you do bose ball squats on this kind of half ball, not the full ball that is a lot more unstable, if you do the bose ball squats, it's kind of like a landmine type of shape, that can be pretty good if you're not overloading it with heavy weights. So if you do body weight squats on the bose ball, that's decent, if you do pistol squats on the bose ball, that's decent, if you do split squats on the bose ball, that's decent, and maybe you add a little bit of weight, but you shouldn't do your max squat, max barbell squat on a bose ball, I think that's a bit silly, I mean I'll put it in the okay tier. Assault bike, in terms of cardio, assault bike is one of the best, one of the best for hit, so you're cycling and at the same time doing kind of this rowing with your arms, and it's very intense, it's full body hit, that reason it's got tier. Dancing, yeah, speaking of social sports and kind of this, let's say everyday sports, it's not sport obviously, but dancing is got tier in terms of the research people who do dance, they appear to have pretty good life expectancy and it has this social element, it has a fun element, if you like to dance, of course, and it's low intensity cardiovascular exercise, has some stability and mobility exercise and has a cognitive element, you need to know the moves, etc. Handstand, I'll put handstand in the gut here, I think if you can do a handstand, then that's amazing, and yeah, handstand is great for shoulder strength, you need to have some shoulder strength, if you have weak shoulders or weak traps, then you'll hurt your shoulders, and if you can do a freestanding handstand, then that's great for balance, and if you're 60 years old, you can do a freestanding handstand, then you're in the top 0.5% in terms of fitness in most cases. Hiking, I think also hiking is got here, just relaxing in nature, walking through different paths, different mountains, perhaps having a weighted vest or a weighted backpack, and just fresh air, sunlight, and low intensity exercise with some step climb, with some unpredictable landscape, of course you need to be safe, but just walking up some trails is going to be great for your cardiovascular system and overall health. So here you go. Now I didn't put anything in the junk here because I think any form of exercise, even shadow boxing, can be a net positive for your health because of the increased energy expenditure, increased cardiovascular output, lower blood pressure, lower inflammation, all those things that happen from just increasing your heart rate and letting your body to recover. The systemic adaptations and the health benefits are great no matter what you do in terms of the exercise. Now of course some exercises are better than others, some are safer than others, you don't want to do any exercise that gets you injured, can be considered bad, or if you're doing it improperly, a bad form barbell squat with unnecessarily heavy weights can be junked here if you get injured, if you do a proper form decline bench or leg press then that's better than an improper form barbell squat, etc. So it's relative to the individual. But gut tier exercises, sprinting and pull-ups I think are probably the best exercises in the world that you should want to do as much as possible or as long as possible. Plyometrics are going to be somewhere like here after these barbell squat, split squat, there's some dips, hands and push-ups, farmer's carries, hanging leg raises, kettlebell swings, you know, these exercises we already mentioned. Some of the okay exercises are more specific exercises that isolate the muscles but they don't have that big of a functional role in my opinion. So there we have it. Thanks for watching this video. Make sure you click like and subscribe and if you want me to rank a hundred supplements from worst to best, then check out this video next.

=== FILE: Taking the Sauna Every Day Transforms Your Body [Nl8Kyl5xTOs].txt ===

 the sauna has a long track record of health benefits. Using the sauna frequently is associated with up to 40% lower risk of mortality, 63% lower risk of heart disease mortality, 65% lower risk of Alzheimer's, and 66% lower risk of dementia. But how long do you need to be doing the sauna to gain those benefits? In this video I'm breaking down the science of heat acclimation and sauna. How long do you need to be in the sauna per session, and how long do you need to do the sauna in terms of weeks and months? Sauna is a form of heat acclimation. By exposing yourself to the high amounts of heat, your body adapts to it and experiences an improvement in various cardiovascular health markers. Traditionally, heat acclimation is used by athletes so that they will also perform better in cooler environments. Similar to cross-country skiers who go to train in the mountains to gain the benefits of altitude training. Saunas are a form of heat acclimation, and they raise your body temperature beyond what exercise can do. The main mechanisms of sauna-induced hypothermia include lower blood pressure, reduction in inflammation and reactive oxygen species, decreased arterial stiffness and intima-media thickness, better cardiovascular fitness and immune function, better lung function, vagal tone and reduced stress. These mechanisms are the reason why you see an association with sauna use and lower risk of heart disease, hypertension, lung disorders and mortality. In the finished studies, the maximum benefits are observed that four times per week. Taking a sauna once per week is better than zero, twice a week is better than once a week, and four times a week is better than two times a week. But how long do you need to do this to gain the benefits on your cardiovascular system? A 2015 study investigated the effects of heat acclimation on competitive athletes. They didn't use a sauna, but instead exercised in the heat. However, you can expect similar effects from the sauna. Here's a brief summary of the physiological changes these athletes experience during heat acclimation. The resting heart rate kept progressively decreasing from day one until day six after which it plateaued. They saw about a 20% decrease in the resting heart rate. Plasma volume increased from day one up to day six as well, after which it tended to plateau. Core temperature dropped from day two to around day six after which it stayed stagnant, the same with skin temperature. Exercise capacity kept linearly increasing until day 14 and sweating rate plateaued until day five after which it increased until day 11. Most of the adaptations occurred within four to seven days, such as the lower resting heart rate and increased plasma volume. Some adaptations did require a longer time frame, up to two weeks, such as increased exercise capacity that took two weeks to reach its peak, as well as the sweat rate. Another study looked at the effects of heat acclimation on highly trained cyclists and found that after 10 days, their VO2 max increased by 3%, compared to training in the cool, 5% versus 8%. The control group saw no change in the VO2 max. A 2022 randomness control trial also saw that sauna plus exercise for eight weeks increased VO2 max more than exercise alone, plus 2.6 mL per kg per minute versus 5.6 mL per kg per minute. That's nearly twice as much more VO2 max than exercise alone. Similar effects were seen with blood pressure. Exercise alone didn't lower blood pressure, but combined with sauna, it lowers the stolic blood pressure by eight points. And same with total cholesterol. Exercise alone saw a 5 mL per dL increase in total cholesterol, but when combined with sauna, it was minus 12. So based on these studies, heat acclimation benefits can occur already within days. But to reach the peak of the benefits, you want to keep doing the heat acclimation for up to eight weeks. In these specific studies, heat acclimation was done almost every day, basically every other day. What about the timeline of benefits when you're in the sauna? How long do you need to stay in the sauna per session? A 2018 study on Finnish people saw that those who took the sauna over 45 minutes per week had the lowest cardiovascular mortality. If you look at the specifics, then sauna over 60 minutes and up to 80 minutes per week was linked to a 45% reduced risk of cardiovascular mortality. That was the maximum risk reduction seen in this study. 60 to 80 minutes per week in total is equivalent to about 15 to 20 minutes per session if done three to four times a week. So typically you want to be in the sauna for at least 15 minutes in one go and up to 20 minutes for the maximum benefits. That doesn't appear to be any significant benefits by staying in the sauna for longer than 20 minutes. Here's a quick timeline of what happens to your body in the sauna. 5 to 10 minutes, you start sweating. 12 minutes, your heart rate elevates. 15 minutes, your white blood cell count increases which supports immune system function. Growth hormone also increases at 15 minutes. By the 20 minute mark, the cardiovascular benefits kick in and by the 30 minute mark, you've induced heat shock protein response which increases heat stress resilience and has other health benefits in moderation. 30 minutes also improves your blood sugar regulation and insulin sensitivity. Over 30 minutes, you experience an increased risk of dehydration because of sweating out all the electrolytes and a lot of water. Over 60 minutes, you can experience excessive loss of minerals which can be problematic if you don't recuperate them and by staying in the sauna for over 60 minutes, you can also experience heat shock. This is based on a temperature of 70 degrees Celsius and the effects can be slightly different at higher temperatures. The timing of when you do the sauna also matters. The absolute best time to take the sauna is after exercise to promote recovery and it enhances the benefits you get from exercise. Post exercise sauna for 2 to 3 weeks has been seen to increase runtime to exhaustion by 32% in competitive distance runners. They were able to run 4.1 minutes longer before exhaustion compared to controls. Their total blood volume and plasma volume also increased significantly which improves their performance. In a 2014 systematic review of 8 studies, heat acclimation improved aerobic performance and aerobic tests like time trials and Vio2max but not anaerobic heat power like sprinting. So overall, the sauna is best for supporting recovery and improving cardiovascular function which translates to better cardiovascular fitness. Alright, let me give you a quick overview of the timeline of sauna benefits. For the 7 days, you'll experience lower resting heart rate. To increase Vio2max, you need to be doing the sauna up to 8 weeks. To lower blood pressure up to 8 weeks. To lower cholesterol up to 8 weeks. And for the long term reduction in cardiovascular disease, Alzheimer's mortality risk, you should be doing the sauna frequently over the course of years and decades. When you stop taking the sauna regularly, you will slowly begin to lose the heat acclimation benefits. The optimal duration of saunas per session is 15 to 20 minutes and 60 to 80 minutes per week in total. I think the sauna is one of the best things for your health after exercise and as we showed, it also enhances the benefits you get from exercise. If you want to know what else to you focus on in your health, then check out my video where I rank 100 health habits from worse to best next.

=== FILE: This Popular Sleep Hack Might Be Ruining Your Sleep [lTvqxd4SIMw].txt ===

 One of the most viewed genres on YouTube are these pink, black or brown noise videos that people use to either study or sleep. These videos rack up hundreds of millions of views. For sleep, one of the more popular noises is pink noise. It sounds like this. The idea of pink noise is that it blocks out external noises and thus helps you to fall asleep faster and not get woken up by traffic. However, the actual research about this might suggest otherwise, that not only does pink noise do nothing, but it could even be actively sabotaging your sleep. In this video, I'm going to look at the new study that investigated the effects of pink noise on your sleep. And I also learned what might be the most optimal sound environment for your sleep. A new 2026 Randomness Control trial investigated the effects of pink noise and earplugs in the background of environmental noise for sleep. They took 25 healthy young adults into 20s and put them through a 7 night sleep study while exposing them to different noises and comparing them. The control group experienced no noise at all, they slipped in complete silence. Environmental noise group had intermittent real world noise like airplane, traffic and outside noise. The pink noise group got continuous pink noise. The environmental noise plus pink noise group got intermittent environmental noise with continuous pink noise. And lastly, there was the environmental noise plus earplugs group. The results were quite surprising. Environmental noise versus sleeping in quiet reduced deep sleep in 3 by 23 minutes on average and increased light sleep in 2 by 20 minutes. Pink noise at 50 decibels versus sleeping in quiet reduced REM sleep by 18 to 20 minutes and increased N2 sleep by 20 minutes. Environmental noise plus pink noise at 40 decibels versus control reduced deep sleep by 20 minutes. REM sleep by 25 minutes and increased light sleep by 22 minutes and resulted in more wakefulness. Environmental noise plus pink noise at 50 decibels versus control reduced deep sleep by 16 minutes. REM sleep by 29 minutes and increased light sleep by 21 minutes. Environmental noise versus earplugs showed that environmental noise reduced deep sleep significantly. And earplugs prevented that. Adding pink noise at 40 decibels to environmental noise shifted additional time into light sleep and reduced REM sleep. Adding pink noise at 50 decibels reduced REM sleep even more. Environmental noise plus pink noise at 50 decibels had similar effects but even greater reduction in REM sleep. Environmental noise plus earplugs versus sleeping in quiet had near identical sleep quality. No significant change in REM or deep sleep. Based on these results sleeping in a noisy environment reduces sleep quality. But the worst quality is environmental noise plus pink noise at 50 decibels when we're comparing it to sleeping in quiet. Environmental noise by default reduces sleep quality in all conditions but wearing earplugs pretty much nullifies that effect. Pink noise doesn't mitigate the harmful effects of environmental noise and in fact even makes it worse. What it means is that if you're having a hard time falling asleep in a noisy environment then your best bet is to sleep with earplugs rather than using pink noise. But this is just one study. Does pink noise improve sleep quality in other studies? A 2022 systematic review of 34 studies saw that pink noise showed positive impacts on sleep outcomes in 81.8% of the studies. White noise however was positive only in 38% of them. However the risk of bias in both cases was quite high. 2.36 for pink noise and 2.45 for white noise which refers to moderate bias. In a 2023 study sleeping with pink noise resulted in more time spent in light sleep compared to sleeping in silence. Pink noise during sleep also reduced sleep dependent insight and pattern recognition. There are studies showing that pink noise at 60 decibels helps to fall asleep faster but those studies aren't random as controlled trials. They're done on a very small amount of people and their industry funded. There's also a 2020 study on 8 people who received bursts of pink noise only during light sleep and deep sleep but not during wakefulness or REM sleep. As a result their deep sleep increased by 3% and they saw no change in the REM sleep. But if you use pink noise during REM sleep it'll reduce it. REM sleep is important for memory consolidation and other mental processes. So overall it seems that pink noise during sleep reduces overall sleep quality. The worst case is environmental noise plus pink noise. It might be that pink noise is effective if you use it only during certain sleep stages such as light sleep but it consistent they reduce the REM sleep which is not optimal. I want to take a quick break to let you know about the red light hat by Boncharch which a lot of people have been waiting for a long time. Basically you're getting some red light therapy on your scalp. It's a regular cap and it just gives you the specific wavelengths of red light that will help with the hair growth and the collagen synthesis in the scalp. Boncharch also has a lot of different types of red light therapy devices like the face mask which actually has specific studies on where they use split face experiments and they show that the LED red light face masks do improve skin wrinkles and collagen synthesis in the skin. But yeah, Boncharch has a ton of different red light therapy devices as well that they've come out with over the course of years so this red light hat is the newest one. It's pretty good. I kind of wear it in the mornings just to help with hair growth a little bit and they obviously also have regular red light panels. The big ones that you're going to sit in front of and also get benefits on your skin as well as overall energy. Check out the Boncharch red light therapy devices and their new red light hat at boncharch.co for which they seem learnt for 15% of discount. Let's now talk about white noise. White noise has low and high frequencies that are similar in volume. It's like the static TV sound. Pink noise however has louder low frequencies and quieter high frequencies making it more smooth and warmer. Here's what pink noise sounds like. And here's what white noise sounds like. A 2020 systematic review of 38 studies found that the quality of evidence for supporting continuous white noise for sleep is very low and another 2024 systematic review found the same results. Very low quality evidence for white noise supporting sleep. White noise has been seen to reduce the time it takes to fall asleep by 38% compared to environmental noise. However other trials on insomnia drugs show that the placebo treatment reduces subjective sleep latency by 13 minutes on average which is comparable to the 38% reduction in this study. So we're not really talking about anything significant in terms of falling asleep faster. We're talking about falling asleep faster in single digit minutes. It's statistically significant but clinically not that meaningful. Especially in healthy people. A random ass controlled trial on infants saw that white noise at 55 decibels, 30-50 centimeters from the infant reduced crying duration and increased sleep duration significantly. Crying reduced from 4.8 hours to 2.1 to 2.3 hours and their sleep increased from 10.5 hours to 14 to 15.6 hours. That's a very significant result. Up to 50% reduction in crying. However there are some problems with this study. There was no planning, the mothers knew when their baby was getting the white noise treatment which introduces expectation bias and reporting bias. The infants were one month old and crying and sleeping get better the older they get. So there was no true control week. There was also no washout between the weeks so the infants could have gotten used to their treatment and they had a high dropout rate. 42% of the infants dropped out of the study. Not literally but they stopped participating. The realistic scenario is that white noise might help infants cry less but it's definitely not 50% less. The only realistic scenario where white noise can help with sleep is in noisy environments like in a big city with lots of traffic and airplanes. However as you recall from the previous study wearing earplugs to block out the environmental noise has the best effect. And pink noise made it worse. The problem with chronic noise during sleep is that it might also have some unwanted side effects. A 2018 review claimed that although white noise can provide short term relief for tinnitus it may also induce maladaptive neuroplastic changes that accelerate auditory aging, degrade inhibitory tone and potentially impair cognition. So it might be that this monotonous white or pink noise in the background changes the brain structure in a negative way especially if you use it chronically. At high volumes over 70 to 80 decibels and long duration there's increased risk of noise induced hearing loss and risk of subal cochlear damage. The risk is especially higher in infants who are developing auditory systems. Animal studies show that continuous broadband noise during development leads to impaired auditory cortex organization, poor sound discrimination and altered neuroplasticity. Human observational data suggests that chronic environmental noise correlates with language delay, reading difficulty and cognitive differences. What we know from research is that you should sleep in a low arousal and as quiet environment as possible. The key aspect is sound stability. You want to avoid these interruptions and massive fluctuations in the sound. The more stable the sound environment the better the recovery. Big noise from the environment especially above 50 decibels can lead to more sleep fragmentation and disruptions. Masking the noise with low level noise machines doesn't appear to make it any better as was shown by the pink noise study from the beginning. The best outcome is to wear earplugs, either regular foam earplugs or noise cancelling headphones. Now of course there are some differences between people, some people can sleep in noisy environments, other people need complete stillness but the biggest priority for everyone should be to avoid and minimize these unpredictable changes in the sound environment. Here's a ranking of the sound environments from worst to best. Environmental noise plus pink or white noise. Pink noise alone. Environmental noise alone. Low level continuous noise, 30 to 40 decibels of white or pink noise. Environmental noise plus earplugs and the best is silence or in a quiet room. Sound is surprisingly important for sleep as I just shared with you. However there are a lot of other things you need to pay attention to to get better sleep. I've got my video where I share how I got 100% sleep scores next.

=== FILE: You've Been Worried About the Wrong Insulin Problem [tQBT9l2O6X8].txt ===

 you've probably heard that spiking insulin is bad, that every rise in insulin is slowly pushing you towards diabetes, that idea is mostly wrong. In fact, human data shows the opposite, people who mount a strong insulin response after eating, tend to have lower risk of diabetes and heart disease years later, even after adjusting for body weight and physical activity. What's more, people with the highest blood sugar after eating have a higher risk of Alzheimer's. In this video, I'm going to explain you the huge misconceptions about insulin and its role in health. And I'll tell you how to improve your insulin sensitivity and overall glucose tolerance for better health and longevity. The reason I decided to make this video was because of a new study in the Diabetes Obesity and Metabolism Journal. They used genetic data from over 350,000 white Brits with a mean age of 56.9, and they found that those who had the highest glucose levels two hours after a glucose load had a 69% higher risk of Alzheimer's compared to the lowest glucose levels. They also had a 23% higher risk of all-cause dementia, and they used a specific two-hour post-glucose test for this. I think that most people do know that high blood sugar levels are not only associated with diabetes, but also dementia, heart disease, and overall death. However, this study used a different design. Instead of looking at people's average blood sugar levels, which in fact was found to show no association with Alzheimer's, the researchers looked at specifically the people's blood sugar levels after they had consumed a large bolus of glucose. The rationale is that if a person has poor metabolic health or their body isn't producing enough insulin, their blood sugar levels would stay elevated for longer, and that's why they see an increased risk of future diseases. The researchers did in fact find that a high fasting insulin and insulin resistance were also associated with a higher risk of Alzheimer's dementia. However, the confidence intervals for these findings were wide, and they included 1.0, which means that these associations were not statistically significant. In contrast, the two-hour post-lucose had a narrower confidence interval that didn't include 1.0, which indicates a statistically significant association with increased risk of Alzheimer's dementia. So the true test of your metabolic health and metabolic resilience, as well as future risk of diseases, is how well your body is able to lower its blood sugar whenever your blood sugar levels go high. It basically reflects your insulin sensitivity, how well your body produces insulin in response to the rise in blood sugar, and how well it's going to lower the blood sugar. This made me remember several other studies that have also found that people who are bad at producing insulin in response to eating have a higher 3- and 5-year risk of diabetes, whereas people who have the strongest insulin response have the lowest risk. And these are not small reductions in risk. The risk of diabetes or prediabetes for the middle insulin response group after three years was 33% and 47% after five years in this study. However, for the highest insulin response group, it was 81% lower after three years and 82% lower after five years. You can see from this graph showing the difference in blood sugar levels two hours after the oral glucose challenge. The highest insulin response group had the lowest blood sugar levels in response to consuming the glucose. A standard glucose challenge is 75 grams of glucose in 250 to 300 milliliters of liquid, and they have to consume it in five minutes. This test is supposed to test how well your body would produce insulin when you consume a large bolus of glucose or carbohydrates. If you have poor metabolic health and insulin resistance, your body would produce very small amounts of insulin, and therefore your blood sugar would stay elevated for longer because the job of insulin is to lower the blood sugar. If there's no insulin or little to no insulin, the blood sugar stays elevated. If you're metabolic-healthy and your insulin's additive, then your body would produce enough insulin to lower the blood sugar, and it produces just enough insulin to do the job. It will be auto-regulated based on the demand. It's basically like a VO2max test for your metabolism. How well is your body able to function to lower the blood sugar? The faster and stronger you are with your insulin production, the better your metabolism is. The faster you lower the blood sugar and the lower your risk of future chronic diseases, because your metabolic health is much better, compared to people who produce little or no insulin. The fear a lot of people have is that if you produce a lot of insulin in response to eating, you're going to drive the process of diabetes, kidney disease, atherosclerosis, and Alzheimer's. The explanation is that you're going to wear out your insulin production, as if there's some sort of finite amount of insulin your body can produce, which is not the case. Now, yes, you can cause insulin resistance if you abuse your body, if you eat a ton of processed food, you gain weight, etc., but in most realistic scenarios, that's not going to happen. What's more, the Lancet study found no statistical difference in things like body weight, inflammation, lipids, triglycerides, and waster-conference, which means that a robust insulin response doesn't lead to poor health or insulin resistance down the line. It doesn't mean that abusing your body wouldn't lead to diabetes, but producing insulin in of itself doesn't. This is where a lot of people are confused about the physiology of insulin and how it works. insulin is like a Batman villain in the social media, but the truth is you need insulin to live. Without insulin, you would die. Type 1 diabetics don't produce any insulin, or they do it in very small amounts, and without injecting insulin, they can die. insulin is an essential hormone produced by the pancreas to regulate glucose metabolism, inhibit the production of glucose by the liver, to form glycogen, to trigger protein synthesis, as well as regulate fat metabolism. Whenever your blood sugar rises because of eating or anything else, your body would produce insulin to shuttle that glucose into cells, and lower the blood sugar down to normal. insulin attaches onto the insulin receptors and lets the glucose in. In type 1 diabetes, insulin is not produced, and blood sugar stays elevated, leading to glycation and other types of tissue damage. In type 2 diabetes, the insulin receptors have become insensitive to insulin, and they're not responding, which also results in high blood sugar levels. Chronically high blood sugar levels are what lead to long-term health problems and accelerated aging. Hyperglycemia results from insulin resistance, either not producing enough insulin, or not letting the glucose into the cells via insulin. In type 2 diabetes, chronically high blood sugar also leads to insulin resistance over time. Now, very high insulin levels can cause death. If you're a bodybuilder or type 1 diabetic, if you inject too much insulin, you can die. But this is a completely different story. It would never happen if you're just eating a regular diet, even if you were to be eating insane amounts of processed foods and sugar, you would never produce that much insulin that you could die. Eating too many carbs, more than what your body can handle, can, however, lead to the desensitization of insulin receptors, resulting in type 2 diabetes over time. However, this typically results from poor insulin sensitivity and bad metabolic health, mostly due to obesity and excess visceral fat gain, not because of carbohydrates or insulin per se. For the record, I'm not saying that spiking your blood sugar, spiking your insulin, or eating refined high-glycemic carbohydrates is good for you. It certainly isn't suitable for the vast majority of people who suffer from poor metabolic health. However, what I am saying is that producing insulin in and of itself isn't a problem. The problem is when you don't produce enough insulin and your blood sugar stays elevated for too long. For example, I've done continuous glucose monitoring while eating up to 300g of carbs in one meal, and my blood sugar stays pretty flat all the time, because my body has a robust insulin response and it lowers my blood sugar back to normal. My average blood sugar and hemoglobin A1c is even 4.7%, which is perfect and much lower than what people eat on a low carb diet. So how do we then improve our insulin sensitivity and our insulin response? The biggest determinant of your insulin sensitivity is exercise. If your body burns through more muscle glycogen, your body can store more glucose in the cells. Exercise will help to even lower blood sugar without insulin by activating glut-4 transporters that let the glucose in without insulin. Acute exercise could increase glucose uptake into cells by up to 100-fold, compared to being sedentary, by increasing glut-4 translocation by 2-fold. Exercise also increases your lean muscle mass that stores glycogen, and the more muscle you have, the better your insulin sensitivity typically is. The liver can store only about 100g of glycogen, and that's the only amount it can store, but the muscles can store 400-500g depending on your muscle mass. For insulin sensitivity and glucose regulation, resistance training specifically is the best because it depletes muscle glycogen more than aerobic exercise, and it also directly activates glut-4 receptors on the muscles. Cardio will improve insulin sensitivity, but resistance training also increases your muscle mass, which increases your glycogen capacity. However, doing the right physical activity like walking after meals will also help to lower blood sugar. In this 2022 study, people who did a 30-minute walk after eating had a significantly lower blood sugar after the fact, and the same when they received an oral glucose tolerance test. Individuals who didn't walk had higher glucose in all examples. In terms of diet, the chronic low carbohydrate intake leads to physiological insulin resistance, which means that the body gets weaker in producing insulin. Long-term and short-term ketogenic diets in humans, as well as mice, haven't shown to cause physiological insulin resistance. This is not the same as insulin resistance in diabetes because it will reverse after you start eating carbohydrates again, and the cause is simply not stimulating insulin. However, we don't know what the long-term implications of chronically low insulin and chronically low carbohydrate intake is. Low carbohydrate diets can definitely improve blood sugar levels and insulin sensitivity, and they do it mostly by helping to improve your metabolic health. But the key element here is losing fat, especially losing visceral fat. If someone has metabolic health issues, they're overweight or pre-diabetic, then a period of low-carb dieting can help to lower their fasting insulin and glucose down to normal. However, for optimal metabolic health and insulin sensitivity, you should be eating some carbohydrates at least every once in a while to keep your insulin-producing muscles active for lack of a better word. What you don't use, you lose, and that applies to insulin production as well. The first priority would be to lose weight and get it into a more optimal body composition. For that, you need a combination of exercise and diet. If a low carbohydrate helps you to achieve that, then that's great. But your insulin sensitivity would be better, and your glucose tolerance would be better if you had some carbohydrates in your diet in some shape or form at least every once in a while. And if you think that your body can't handle carbohydrates, then that's the exact problem here. The time of day determines your insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance. Generally speaking, your body is less insulin-sensitive in the evening, however, it's less relevant if you exercise before. The most important thing is not eat too close to bed or during the night. I think this video helps you to overcome some of the misconceptions about insulin and blood sugar. Having poor insulin production, having low insulin production reflects poor metabolic health, which translates to overall long-term health risks. Healthy people produce more insulin, that's just the fact. insulin-resistant and diabetic people produce low amounts of insulin, which is why they might have a higher risk of Alzheimer's and dementia over the long term. If you want to know about other biomarkers and which ones are most important, then check out my video where I rank 100 biomarkers from where's the best.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.345704Z ===
