All right. Hello. Happy to be here. And uh the reason I chose this particular topic for my speech today was because I was listening to a pretty popular podcast where a renowned doctor was saying that if someone is supporting or promoting supplements, then they're immediately disqualified to talk about health, which is obviously not true. There are a lot of supplements out there that are not really effective for anything and there's a lot of misconceptions about supplements. There's no magic pill out there that would replace a healthy lifestyle. But there are indeed several evidence-based supplements out there that do have certain health benefits. So that's what I'm going to be covering in my presentation. And um how many of you take any supplement you know vitamin D, omega-3s, whatever. So most of you do take some supplements. And uh the trend of taking supplements is growing. Right now as of 2025, there's over the market cap for supplement industry in the US is uh over 200 billion dollars, but it's estimated to double by the year 2034. So in the next 10 years, the supplement industry is expected to double in size, which just highlights the popularity of supplementation. So I'll just quickly give a brief summary and then I'll dive into more details of these supplements. Here's a list of uh some of the most that are backed up by dozens of human clinical trials. So there are human studies on these supplements showing that they work for different purposes and different effects. Number one would be creatine ome secondly omega-3s torine ashwagandha vitamin D vitamin K melatonin NAC aentin lutein and zeazanthin protein powders caffeine age garlic extract turmeric bourberine and glycine obviously there's a few more supplements out there that have benefits and evidence but these I would consider some of the most robust supplements with the most robust evidence out there. And uh in the rest of my presentation, I'm going to go through some of the highlights of these supplements. Creatine. So many people might know about creatine as a sports performance supplement, which is true. Creatine is considered at the most evidence-based supplement out there, especially for sports performance. There's hundreds if not thousands of clinical trials showing that creatin supplementation enhances muscle strength, muscle power, muscle mass and u may even support bone density if con combined with resistance exercise. But over the last few years, scientists have also become more interested and aware of the other benefits of creatine such as benefits on brain, benefits on mood, benefits on depression, even benefits on endothelial function and uh improving certain other cardiovascular disease risk factors. So, creatine is not just a sports supplement. It is the most evidence-based sports supplement out there, but it also has other additional uh benefits. specifically for the brain, specifically for body composition and certain metabolic health markers. So from the clinical trials out there, you could expect increased muscle mass, increased muscle strength and power from creatine, possibly enhanced cognition and memory as well. There are some clinical trials on elderly people where supplementing larger doses of creatine supports memory. And there was actually a recent pilot study on creatine and Alzheimer's where they did see improved memory in Alzheimer's patients. But creatine can also help with things like triglycerides and uh fat mass. Next up, omega-3s. I think omega-3s are very known to have health benefits. Everyone's grandma knows that omega-3s are good for you and uh research also backs that up. Similar to creatine, there are hundreds of clinical trials on omega-3 supplementation showing specifically benefits for cardiovascular health. So, omega-3s, they can be in the form of fish oil. They can be in the form of cod liver oil, olg oil, krill oil, it doesn't really matter. What matters is the content of EPA and DHA, which are the primary omega-3 fatty acids. And these omega-3 fatty acids aren't considered essential. They're considered conditionally essential, but they do have a lot of positive effects on the human body. And the research shows that people who have a higher omega-3 status in their blood, so that red blood cells contain more EPA and DHA, these individuals have a significantly lower risk of Alzheimer's, lower risk of heart disease, and lower risk of dying to any cause. So, it is worthwhile to have a higher omega-3 status. Now, you could also consume fish, but uh most people aren't eating fish frequently enough to get the adequate amount of omega-3s to achieve those benefits. So, supplementing some omega-3s is another easy thing that people can do, and I think most people would benefit from some form of omega-3 supplements. Can be algae, can be fish oil, can be krill oil, etc. But there's also research that omega-3s help with things like muscle mass. So individuals who supplement omega-3s see increased muscle mass and the reason or the theory behind that why it is so is that omega-3s lower inflammation and they support protein synthesis by doing that. There's also research about omega-3 supporting brain health. So, individuals with a higher omega-3 index have a lower risk of Alzheimer's and dementia and um individuals with higher omega-3 intake experience significantly lower risk of u these neurodeenerative conditions later in life. Omega-3s um improve your lipid panel. They don't necessarily lower cholesterol, but they do lower triglycerides, which are a form of lipids. And high triglycerides are a risk factor for diabetes, the risk factor for heart disease, liver disease, and metabolic syndrome. Omega-3s lower inflammation. They improve insulin resistance. They increase insulin sensitivity and ultimately the main effect of omega-3s is a lower risk of a heart disease mortality. And the dose appropriate dose for that depends on the individual and depends on their omega-3 status. So usually it's best to measure your omega-3 status before taking fish oil to see what is your omega-3 status and what is your omega-3 index as it's called. The optimal omega-3 index for the lowest risk of Alzheimer's and heart disease would be something above 8%. So the average western diet will typically result in a omega-3 index index of around maybe four to 5%. So for the optimal risk reduction we would want to double that up to 8%. Torine has become also quite popular over the last few years and uh torine is an amino acid and uh it's usually used in sports performance and there is evidence that torine supplementation improves sports performance specifically endurance and the strength endurance. But there's also a lot of metabolic health benefits to torine such as lower blood pressure, lower cholesterol and lipids and lower blood sugar. So there's quite a several clinical trials proving that and the dose can be anywhere between 1 to six grams per day for torine melatonin. So melatonin is considered a sleep hormone which is true melatonin is very important in regulating your circadian rhythms and your sleep but uh melatonin also is a powerful antioxidant. Most of your antioxidant repair happens during your sleep and melatonin is one of the primary agents that coordinates this process. Melatonin regulates growth hormone. It regulates glutathione, regulates autophagy. So it controls a lot of this antioxidant activity in your sleep. And the research on melatonin supplementation also supports the idea that melatonin has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. So in clinical trials, larger doses of melatonin supplementation up to 10 milligrams a day has anti-inflammatory effects and it also lowers lipids such as cholesterol and triglycerides in smaller doses such as 0.1 to up to 3 milligs. Melatonin has primarily sleep benefits. So it reduces the time it takes you to fall asleep and increases sleep quality and sleep duration overall. So the dose of how much melatonin someone should take depends a lot on their goal. Are they just trying to improve their sleep a little bit or are they trying to improve certain um biomarkers? There's also some individuals who are taking insane amounts of melatonin such as 200 milligrams or 100 milligrams. Obviously there's a very limited research about what are the effects of that. But melatonin is generally very safe. Even if you take very large doses, 100 200 milligrams, you might feel a bit, you know, more tired in the morning or groggy, which is one of the side effects of melatonin, but there's no other harmful effects. And uh one myth about melatonin is that it would suppress your natural melatonin production. Uh which is not true. Even doses of 50 milligrams of melatonin hasn't been seen to suppress natural melatonin production. Turmeric. So this Indian uh spice most notoriously known for its anti-inflammatory effects and that is one of the more evidence-based effects of turmeric that in clinical trials it lowers inflammation markers such as CRP. But turmeric also has other effects such as lower cholesterol, lower triglycerides and lower rate circumference through the anti-inflammatory effects. There's clinical trials showing that turmeric also lowers joint pain. So it might be useful for arthritis. Ashwagandha another Indian herb and ashwagandha is most known for improving sex hormones like testosterone and estrogen. But it also supports sleep and lowers stress and anxiety. So the reason why ashwagandha has benefits on sleep and sex hormones is through lowering cortisol and lowering stress. Interestingly, there is also research that ashwagandha might increase V2 max which is a marker of card respiratory fitness and a higher V2 max is associated with longevity and reduce mortality. So the mechanisms for that aren't fully clear but it might have to do with the adaptogenic effects of ashroandha that your body adapts to the stress a bit more uh easily. Glycine and NAC. So this is one of my favorite supplements personally and the combination of glycine and nse is uh interesting because uh both of them are precursors to glutathon and glutathione is a powerful antioxidant in the body which uh has a lot of uh liver benefits, heart benefits and brain benefits. with age you see a decline in glutathan which would make it plausible that increasing it with with something like glycine and or something else uh could have some anti-aging benefits and there are quite a several recent clinical trials on this combination of glycine and nse that uh in elderly people it improves physical function such as walking speed, grip strength and just physical performance while also improving cardiovascular risk factors. such as uh lowering inflammation, lowering fat mass, lowering blood pressure and insulin resistance and also increasing uh endothelial function. So um glycine and are more effective for older people who have lower glyan status. The effects for younger individuals might be much much smaller but um these supplements individually can also still be used by younger people for uh other reasons. So glycine helps with collagen synthesis as well. So it's good for skin health. Glycine also helps with sleep and glycine also helps with um lowering blood sugar for example. So even younger individuals can take quite large doses of glycine with um great benefits. Aanthin is a carotenoid which can be found in salmon and certain. And um the most notorious effect of aanthin is that it protects the skin against UV damage. So it's good for skin and aging and reducing photo pigmentation. As examp also has other benefits shown in clinical trials such as improved cholesterol panel, lower inflammation as well as lower blood pressure. Lutein and zeazanthin are two another two more keratenoids and uh the most notorious effect of these carotenoids is eye health. There's several clinical trials showing that lutein and zexanthin supplementation improves vision and eyesight. But these carotenoids also have slight skin anti-aging benefits because of being powerful antioxidants and uh also improving inflammation, oxidized LDL and blood sugar. Bourberine is a herb. It's called nature's metformin because it lowers blood sugar. And it is true that bourberine does lower blood sugar, but it's not nearly as effective as metformin in lowering blood sugar. But bourberine is better in lowering cholesterol. So bourberine has benefits on metabolic syndrome, certain cardiovascular disease risk factors, and body composition. So it can help with a visceral fat specifically around the organs. Vitamin D. Most people tend to be low in vitamin D status because of not spending enough time outside. And obviously the vitamin D pill isn't going to replace the sunlight. You're getting a lot of other benefits from the sunlight such as infrared radiation and UV radiation and the circadian rhythm regulation, but vitamin D pills can still provide some benefits mostly by raising your vitamin D status. So, it's better to have optimal vitamin D status or normal vitamin D status with a supplement than to be deficient in it and not take a supplement, right? So, because you're not getting all the benefits of sunlight from the pill, you're still getting some benefits by raising your vitamin D status. The vitamin D supplements specifically have also been seen to improve testosterone, lower cholesterol, and lower triglycerides. So, there are some additional benefits as well. And recently last year there was a study showing that vitamin D also um reduced the speed at which tieumirs shorten. So tieumirs are these protective caps on chromosomes that protect your DNA and they are considered one of the hallmarks of aging. So there might be some additional longevity benefits from vitamin D supplements as well. All right. So what supplements have some limited evidence? I went through some of the more evidence-based supplements out there, but there's obviously dozens, if not hundreds of supplements out there as well. So, multivitamins, there is some evidence that multivitamins improve cognition in elderly people. But, uh, that could be mostly because, uh, diet quality tends to decrease as you get older. Elderly people have slightly worse diet quality and they don't eat enough food, which is why they might be deficient in certain micronutrients. And taking a multivitamin in that in that scenario just fills the gap. If you're with an otherwise healthy diet, a balanced diet, then you don't necessarily need a multivitamin. And uh in clinical trials, multivitamin supplementation hasn't been seen to reduce the risk of uh all cause mortality and reduce the risk of other chronic diseases. Uralithna A is a pretty popular supplement online but there is not that much human studies on that or there studies that have been done on uraliththna have found that although it improves lower body strength it has no effect on upper body strength and it has no effect on body composition either. So there's very small benefits to be gained from urthana synolytics. So these are certain compounds such as fiscetin, queretin and epigenine that uh help to eliminate these scinesscent cells that accumulate during aging. Scinsesscent cells are called like zombie cells that spread inflammation to neighboring cells and synolytics help to eliminate these cells. Unfortunately, we don't have any published clinical trials on synolytics yet. We do know from animal studies that they do eliminate senence cells and some of them might also extend lifespan in animals but the human data is still to be verified. Spermdine is uh like a polomamine that you can get from certain foods like mushrooms and u vegetables and cheeses. So higher spermadine consumption, people who have higher amounts of spermadine in the diet have lower mortality and they live longer. But clinical trials on spermadine supplementation have not found significant effects. There are a few clinical trials showing that it might improve cognition but uh nothing definitive yet. So it's better generally to consume your spermine from foods, mushrooms, vegetables and uh cheese. And lastly, NMN and NR. They're very popular. Uh but uh the clinical evidence for NMN and NR has been somewhat uh disappointing. You know, they do have slight anti-inflammatory effects. They improve incident sensitivity. They do raise NAD status, but um that's pretty much it. We don't have that much evidence for everything anything else. And animal studies on NM and NR have also shown that they don't necessarily extend lifespan. I recently made a pretty comprehensive video on my YouTube channel where I go through a 100 supplements and I'm ranking them from worst to best. So, what's the best supplement out there? What's the worst? So, you can see what do I think about a 100 different types of supplements on my YouTube channel at Seamland. So, I go through, okay, what kind of supplements would you create? What kind of or stacks would you create for yourself? When it comes to longevity purposes, some good longevity supplements would be omega-3s, glycine, NAC, TMG that I didn't cover, but it's a methyl donor and supports methylation. A lot of people might have poor methylation due to genetics, uh, vitamin K2, which supports bone health and, uh, helps with reducing plaque in the arteries in clinical trials. vitamin D because most people are deficient in vitamin D and it's a good safe bet and nyinamide which is a cheap NAD booster. So rather than taking NMN or NR, you could also take nioinamide or nascin which are much cheaper than NMN and NR and it's equally as effective. Skin anti-aging asexanthin collagen peptides although controversial there is pretty consistent evidence that collagen peptides do help with skin wrinkles and skin elasticity. Hyaluronic acid also helps with skin hydration. Nioinamide helps to protect the skin against sun damage. And these carotenoids like lycopine, luteine and zentin also have skin benefits. And lastly, vitamin C, which is a uh co-actor for collagen synthesis, metabolic health. So if you have insulin resistance, dysipidemia, etc. Supplements for that would be torine, omega-3s, glycine, NAC, bourberine, aged garlic extract, which lowers lipids and blood sugar as well as blood pressure, curcumin, ginger, chromium, piccolinate that's most beneficial for insulin sensitivity, and benathamine that also lowers blood sugar. Ocular health, so eyesight, asexin, lutein, zeazanthin, and melatonin. Melatonin has shown to also reduce the risk of macular degeneration. Sleep, glycine, eltheanine, melatonin, ashwagandha, and magnesium. Stress, glycine, eltheanine, melatonin, ashroagandha, magnesium, and rodeiola rosia. And if you can't decide what kind of supplements to take, then this would be like a starter pack. Uh, so these are supplements that I think most people would benefit from no matter their situation. Omega-3s for raising the omega-3 status. The majority of people have sub-optimal omega-3 status. So, it's a safe bet to take omega-3s. Asexanthin mostly for skin benefits to reduce the photo damage on the skin. Glycine for collagen synthesis and just metabolic health. Vitamin K2 for reducing plaque in the arteries and supporting bone health. Vitamin D3 for supporting vitamin D status. magnesium because over 50% of people aren't getting enough magnesium from their diet and it's pretty hard to get the optimal amounts of magnesium from foods because of soil erosion and uh things that reduce the amount of minerals in our food and ninamide as a cheap daily NAD booster to support NAD production which declines with age as well as the other benefits of ninamide for the skin. Now the thing with supplements is that the supplements you buy from store or Amazon tend to have very bad labeling. Research has found that up to 80% of supplements have uh inaccurate labeling. So they don't contain the ingredients in the supplement that they say on the label. Only 20% of the supplements out there actually have accurate labeling. So you're getting what you're actually buying. So that's unfortunate because of supplements aren't regulated. So there's a lot of um sketchy players out there that are just selling you uh placebo pills or things that have wrong ingredients. So this is something um us as consumers just need to be aware of and we need to make our purchasing decisions uh more mindfully. So how do you know if the supplements you're buying are actually you know they contain what they actually say they do? You need to look for certificates of analysis. You need to look for third party testing. So this is just an example of what a certificate of analysis would look like that it uh is done by a third party that shows okay this supplement actually contains what it says on the label. So these uh you can find them on the company's website. If they don't share their third party testing then uh it's kind of a sketchy thing that okay why are they hiding it? So you can email them and ask them can you show us your third party testing or your certificate of analysis. If they show it to you, then that's a good sign that they're more reliable as a as a company. And uh yeah, that's it from me. The re one of the reasons I also made this presentation is because I'm writing a book about supplements that's not ready yet, but my current book, the latest book, The Longevity Leap, is uh available for sale right now. You can actually buy it from uh the the the organizer stand. They're selling it actually there. So, thank you