So, it's the beginning of 2026 and in this video, I'm going to do something I've never done before. I'm going to walk you through my full longevity protocol for this year. I'm going to share my results from last year 2025. And I'm going to share with you what are my goals for this year. How can I improve some of my biomarkers and health metrics? And I'm going to walk you through how do I think about these things, how do I structure my own protocols, what kind of biomarkers I measure, what kind of biomarkers I think are more important than others. And I think that's why you will also just learn a lot from this video. Not only will you learn about what I do, you will also learn about how can you structure your own health and longevity protocol based on this information here. So let's begin with my 2025 results. I got um a list of some of these highlight results. I'm not going to go through all these hundreds of biomarkers that I measured turned 25, but I'm going to just list some of the more relevant and more interesting ones such as my age. So, I had my 31st birthday in September 2025 and yeah, I'm now officially in my 30s, which uh means that I'm at kind of the peak of my physical performance. So, uh before males in your early 30s. That's where your strength and muscle mass at least peak. Your bone density peaks. Your V2AX naturally has already declined compared to someone in their 20s. That's when your V2X naturally peaks. But in other aspects of physical fitness, uh that's where your peak is in your early 30s. So um I am supposed to be in my physical peak in terms of uh fitness and it does reflect as well in my uh certain fitness markers like V2 max. So uh my V2 max is in the range of 60 to 66 which would definitely put me in the top 1% of the general population even greater than that. If you were to just look at the general population, then uh that would even be like 0.5%, 0.1% depending on the group. Obviously, it's not still like elite athlete level. Elite athletes might have a V2 max of 70s, but 60 to 66 is still um very good pull-ups. So, I think the pull-ups is one of the best measurements or tests for upper body strength because uh it also considers your body weight. So, if you are very heavy, even if it's pure muscle, your ability to do pull-ups will be slightly lower. So, pull-ups is a good litness test for gauging your upper body strength plus your body weight, making sure that you're just not too heavy. So, uh body weight, muscle mass, etc., they all have this U-shaped curve. If you're too skinny, too frail, too low body weight, that's harmful. You can increase your risk of future hip fractures and fail. If you're overweight, even if it's muscle, then that is harmful. is going to wear down your organs. So, having very high muscle strength, such as being able to do pull-ups, I think, is a very good indicator that your body composition is in check. You don't have too much body fat, you're not insanely heavy, and you're also relatively strong by doing a lot of uh your own body weight exercise. Visceral fat is is obviously this internal fat around the organs and liver inside the muscles but it is mostly an indicator of your metabolic health and it is a risk factor for heart disease as well. So my visceral fat ranges in the in the 54 to 150 g which is uh very low and it would definitely be in the top 1% of uh the population in terms of uh how low it is. CRP as well. You know, CRP is a marker that different labs, they cut off at different points. Some labs cut it off at 0.5, other 0.2 as well uh 0.1. Uh I've had a very sensitive uh result with CRP with the lab cutting off uh and uh yeah, it has counted it at 0.01, which is extremely low, close to zero, pretty much as close to zero as you can get. And that would also put me in the top 1% again even greater than that. So CRP is a marker of systemic inflammation and I think that it is a good indicator of overall health because inflammation is at the root of pretty much all chronic diseases and what we do know is that inflammation definitely drives aging as well. AOB so uh this reflects particle count of lipoproteins specifically and um it's mostly risk factor for heart disease. So mine 58 milligrams per deciliter is also a very good result would put me in the top 1% triglycerides. So um these are also a good indicator of metabolic health. Mostly your insulin sensitivity. If you have good metabolic health then your triglycerides would be lower. It means that your body is utilizing the fat for fuel and it's not accumulating in the bloodstream. So high amounts of triglycerides in the blood will lead to insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome and it also drives visceral fat gain. So my very low triglyceride levels uh would also explain some of the reasons I have very low visceral fat and I have such low triglycerides despite eating uh such a higher carb intake which is often thought to be not possible but clearly shown that it is possible. So it's a matter of more energy balance and insulin sensitivity rather than how many carbohydrates are you eating. So pheno age is one of these experimental biological age clocks. It's calculated from certain um blood markers such as albine, CRP, glucose and others 10 of them in total. And uh this calculation would put my biological age at 12 to 16 somewhere in that range. Obviously it's not stagnant. It fluctuates every day every every week based on the blood markers but in that range from the tests that I've done in 2025. Now, obviously, it's not mean that I actually have a biology of a 12-y old or a 16-y old, but it just means that my blood markers are in um good spot. So, here's a snapshot of a more comprehensive blood marker panel I did in May 2025. And uh the majority of the kind of more vital groups of biomarkers came back in uh green. And I'm going to talk about the blood marker results later in this video. Now let's move on with the different categories of biomarkers and health that are relevant. Body composition, so muscle mass, fat mass in 2025. This was the beginning of the year January. This was somewhere in the middle. And I deliberately bulked a little bit. I tried to gain muscle just so a good support exercise. So I went from around 79 kg to 83 kg. Now this was more muscle memory because uh even earlier than that like 2020 2021 during the lockdown period I actually was around 86 kg. So was you know nothing else to do at home than to bulk and to try to build more muscle. So I was at 86 kg with not as lean as this but um still relatively lean. So this is just muscle memory that my body is regaining some of that old muscle that I had before which is a very easy way to build muscle back if you ever stop training for a little bit and then you stop start to do it again. But uh nowadays I kind of settled around 80 kg. So I did a positive body recomposition change. I lost some body fat. I gained a little bit of muscle mass mostly through muscle memory. So I gained 80 at 83 kg. I lost some of the body fat and now I'm around yeah 80 81 kg. So let's talk about my goals. What are my goals now for body composition? So my visceral fat as I said is around 54 to 150 g. My goal is to just maintain it. So visceral fat is obviously you still need in some amounts. Uh there's a healthy amount of visceral fat that you need to you know shield the organs to protect. It's like 0% body fat isn't good. you uh you won't live without any body fat. The same applies to visceral fat. You're never going to have zero fat in zero visceral fat or at least it's not going to be healthy. So 54 is extremely low. I think it might be too low for optimal health. So 150 gram is decent. 150 grams I had during the midday mid bulk when I was 83 kg which is still very impressive because if you were to bulk you usually will see an increase in visual fat. When I was this 86 kg, I didn't do a dexa scan back then, but I would presume my visceral fat was probably around 400, 500, which is kind of the average for the general population. For the average general population male in their late 20s, early 30s, they would probably have 400, 500 grams of visceral fat. And someone who has less than that, let's say 300, then they are already a healthier individual than the general population. As a general rule of thumb, you want to have your visceral fat below 300 in my opinion. So somewhere in the range of 200 to 300 is uh good. If it's below 200, such as 150 g, then that's um extremely good result. Body fat percentage. So uh I'm around 10% and I intend to maintain it. I'm not going to plan to bulk. I'm not going to plan to lose body fat specifically. Maybe, you know, during some periods I'll just lose a little bit of body fat, but yeah, I'm just going to maintain it. And I think 10% is a very healthy spot for males. So for males, somewhere between 8 to 12, I think, is the sweet spot. 10% is a good middle ground. As a male, you definitely want to be below 15%. Um, below 10% is a bit harder to sustain. Just in terms of food intake, you need to restrict food intake a bit more. And uh, you know, just being too skinny can also be harmful. So 10% 10 to 12% I think is the sweet spot for males. over 15% is a bit you're kind of get you're starting to look a bit chubby in terms of that. For males, it's very interesting uh body fat percentage and uh just body composition matters a lot more for male longevity than it does for females based on the research. So uh for males anything uh above 15% is associated with increased mortality and uh below 15% is better. For females it doesn't matter that much. So first of all, women have generally higher body fat to begin with, but anything between 20 to 30% doesn't really appear to matter for mortality risk. So it's a kind of a fat flat line. If it's below that, then that can indicate higher risk due to uh frailty mostly and low bone density. But if it's too high over 30 35%, then that's just uh in the obesity category, which makes sense. So 20 to 30 for women and less than 15 for for men. I would say 10 to 12 is the most optimal for men. Muscle mass. So you can measure muscle mass as well. As I said, if your muscle mass is too high, then that can still be more counterproductive for maximal lifespan, short-term survival. Yes, higher muscle mass can be more useful, but if you're talking about maximum longevity, like 110 years of age, then uh obviously there's not going to be any bodybuilders at that age. So you do need muscle mass. the general population probably is a bit undermuscled. Having more muscle would improve your metabolic health, your viseral fat, your other health markers. Um, but obviously you don't want to become a strong powerlter or a fat power lifter or a bodybuilder, etc. So, my goal right now is maintain. I think I have a perfect muscle mass for longevity for my goals. And I'm just going to focus on strength and performance otherwise. So, I'm not specifically trying to bulk or gain muscle. And my appendicular lean mass index, which measures the amount of muscle in your arms and legs, is 10 kilograms per square meter. So, you can measure it. I'm going to share the graph showing what does it actually mean. But that will put me in the uh top 5% of individuals in terms of muscle mass. This 10 kg per square meter. Bone mineral density is also very important. I think an underrated aspect of longevity is bone density and mine is 1.5 for 1 g per cubic cm. You can also do it with a dexa scan and that would put me around yet top 5% of individuals. Interestingly, you know, bone density peaks in your 30s. So, biologically speaking, my muscle mass and bone density would be at their peak right now at the age of 31. But because I'm not like your average general population individual, I am a lot healthier. I do a lot more things to improve my muscle and bone density, then it's reasonable that I'll be able to maintain it for at least for the next 10 years, maybe, and possibly even increase it. There's no reason why I wouldn't be able to do that if I wanted to. I think I do think that bone mineral density is possible to increase for me a little bit, but I'm not specifically, you know, trying to do that. I'm not trying to specifically gain mass or gain muscle, which would also increase my bone density by doing that. So, here are some of the screenshots from the tests as well to prove that actually the the results are real. So, uh liver fat, so 1.5%, that's a extremely good result. That will also put me maybe top 1% of individuals, top 5% individual somewhere between that. A normal healthy liver fat percentage is like 2 to 3% for the average person. If it's above 3% then that's uh considered to be fatty liver stage one. So uh 1.5% is slightly leaner than the general population which makes sense. And yeah the visceral fat somewhere the 54 bone density this is from a dexa scan. So as you can see my bone density is uh higher in the average. This middle line here is the the average the median and I'm above that. some yeah somewhere around like the top 5% in terms of bone mass for people of my age in their early 30s. So this dexa scan specifically outline the different parts of the my body as well left arm right arm spine pelvis etc. So how much bone density do I have and interestingly my head has the highest bone density of all my body parts. So all the other body parts are like 1.5 1.6 1.2 two uh but but my head is 2.1. So a significantly higher bone density in my skull for some reason [laughter and gasps] um than other body parts and my total body bone density. So this these zcore and t-core these are like standard deviations above uh the norm. So I'm 1.3 and 1.2 two standard deviations above the norm for my age and the people in their 30s where which is when people which is where bone density peaks biologically in the general population. Appendicular lean mass index. So uh this one reflects the muscle mass in your arms and legs. As I said mine is 10 from the last test. So this would put me right here. Not in the top 3% but uh yeah like in the top 5% something like that. And as you can see in the general population, muscle mass declines with age, but uh the early 30s is the natural peak for um males. So I'm at the top 5% with muscle mass. If your appendicular lean mass index is seven for males, that is considered the sarcopenia threshold, which means that you have low muscle mass and low muscle strength. So in people below this seven number have a high risk of diabetes, high risk of hip fractures, higher risk of dying overall due to the sarcopenia. So you want to keep your appendicular lean mass index above the seven threshold for as long as possible. And for women it's 5.5. So obviously women have lower muscle mass. So their threshold is also lower which which is when they can be considered u sarcopenic. But for women the muscle mass decline is not uh really uh actually it's not actually u that significant compared to males. So for women the muscle mass can be more um stable. It's not declining as the same way as it does for for men. I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices which are the bond charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longevity influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bont Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most relid devices don't have the right wavelengths of light which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bunch charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to bunchcharge.com and use the code seam sim for a 15% discount. All right, let's talk about exercise. So exercise is a huge part of my protocol. I think a lot of my biomarker results, my other just health results are due to me focusing a lot on exercise. I think that has one of the best effects on your overall long-term health and survival. So, uh, let's start with some of the stats. Currently, pull-ups, 33 I did I have a video on my channel. You can check it out. 33 uh pull-ups for my 31st birthday. I've done 33 and then I did 31 pull-ups with complete dead hang paws at the bottom as well. So, if someone says that it's not good form or that I'm just doing half reps, then check out the video. I lock out every rep with the full elbows and I actually lock out the shoulders as well, the scapula. So, yeah, 30 31 dead hang pull-ups at the age of 31, which was a goal for me to have. and uh 33 as well, which was done um in another time. So that would definitely put me in like a top 1% of upper body strength relative to body weight in terms of being able to do pull-ups, back squat. So barbells, back squat, I think that is also one of the best uh just resistance training exercises and a strength test because it's a very functional movement. A squat is something that you know you should be able to do for as long as possible and it a squat requires you to have very good core strength, very good leg strength, very good back strength. Um even neck neck strength to a certain extent. So there's back squat, a heavy back squat is just a full body exercise really if we're being honest then it's more than just a leg exercise and it's such a functional exercise and I think that is very important. So my current uh number is 170 kg which is below 400 lb and I will put maybe like in the top 10%. Obviously yes there's a lot of fitness people who can lift 200 kilos with squat or even more than that. So this this number isn't yet like a significantly impressive in the fitness community, but it obviously is a good result in the general population. So uh and also also all things being considered, I'm not some like um very heavy individual or like I'm lean. So when you're talking about health and longevity, then you just shouldn't focus on one single biomarker. You shouldn't just focus on just the V2 max or just the back squat or you know just CRP or just albamin or just whatever biological age test. You need to look at all of these markers and find a balance or just you wager all these markers and look at the holistic picture. And I also actually don't want to build massive legs because uh I'm more like a calisthenics athlete. I like to do more calisthetics and I've already had a higher back squat before when I was this 86 kg individual a few years ago. I was able to actually do like 185 kg squat. So, this is not my like all-time best, but it's what I'm currently working with because of uh now I'm, you know, 6 kilos lighter than I was before. Uh grip strength. So, measuring it with the the nanometer 135 kg combined. So, 67 kg each arm. That will put me like a top 5%. Now, yeah, the grip strength is kind of a meme that working on your grip and training your grip isn't going to make you live longer. Um, but it's just a very easy test you can use to gauge your upper body strength. You know, pull-ups are all you could also use pull-ups. I think pull-ups can actually be a better indicator than grip strength testing because pull-ups also look at your, you know, body fat percentage, your your mobility, your just coordination, all these other things. So, pull-ups arguably are better marker than grip strength, but uh you know, we can still look at the grip strength. There's just a lot more studies on grip strength and u mortality risk. V2 max. So cardiorespirator fitness, one of the most powerful biomarkers of uh survival. So uh people with a higher V2 max have significantly lower mortality, significantly lower risk of other chronic diseases. And the reason is that people with a high V2 max just exercise a lot. So it just highlights that people who exercise more tend to live longer and have lower rates of these chronic diseases. not specifically that you need to have a specific number for your V2 max. The same with grip strength. Training your grip strength isn't going to make you live longer, but if you exercise regularly, you will have a higher grip strength, which means that healthier people have higher grip strength. The same way with Vtomax, people who exercise more, people do do more specifically cardiorespiratory fitness and cardiovascular exercise, they the the training volume that you accumulate to have a high V2X is what mediates these health benefits. And yeah, that would put me in the top 1%, maybe even lower than that, like top 0.1 or something in the general population. If we were to exclude athletes, athletes have a V2 max of maybe in their 70s. Some Norwegian crosscountry skiers, like the best of the best in the world, they'll have it in their 80s uh or 90s. Resting heart rate, so uh how fast my heart beats when I'm resting, laying on the bed, 38. So um resting heart rate is interesting that it declines with age in extreme uh like longevity. So people who are very old, they might have a lower resting heart rate. So it's not necessarily that having a lower resting heart rate means that you're aging faster or that your biologically old. It's just that um as you get older, your heart gets uh like loses some of its function. And um the key thing here is the HRV. So if you have a low resting heart rate but a high HRV that means uh that's the perfect uh combination because it means your low resting heart rate is due to your improved cardiac fitness and overall health. Low HRV and low resting heart rate is the bad combo because it means it's more reflective of u the aging phenotype because HIV declines with age as well. So, but mine is 100 generally would put me also in the top 1% with HRV metrics in the general population. Uh, with HRV, it's more more important to pay attention to the trends. The same way with all these markers, what's the trend line? Is it getting worse or is it getting better over time? If your HIV stays stable even if it's, let's say, 50 or 30, then that's not necessarily a bad thing. It matters more if it's getting worse or getting better over time. again some uh receipts uh the automax testing 66 now to be to be uh frank with you then yeah this was done in 2023 so that was two years ago but uh I've also had others in the 60s since then this is just the best result best result of all time and uh since then I've just uh dialed down some of the votox training because it's um hard to maintain it's hard to maintain a lot of uh hours with cardio exercise heart rate 38 HIV over 100 breath rate. So how fast you breathe during a sleep that's also actually an interesting marker that again if you're healthier your breathing rate is a bit slower rather than fast. You're more obese, you're unfit, your heart will beat faster and you'll also breathe faster. So let's say if you're above 16 breaths per minute then uh that would be in like the bad category grip strength. So yeah, just squeezing the dynamometer. So one thing about grip strength is the imbalance between left and right arm. So if there's a big discrepancy between your left and right arm, then that is associated also with increased mortality. My results are pretty much stable. They're uh around the same. So there's no statistical difference between these results. So that's a good thing. So that's just to keep in mind. If there's a huge arm, then that is associated with some health uh problems. Now, what are my goals for 2026? So, you know, objectively, I am in very good fitness. I have very good fitness. So, there's not that much that I could work on if I as long as I wasn't I want to sound, but I don't want to become like an athlete. So uh so that I definitely I don't see fitness as something that you just keep progressing linearly that you just need to keep getting better and better and better. You know at some point you just need to maintain right and you need to also look at your nutrition, your sleep, your recovery and other relationships and those kind of things. Um but I do have some interesting goals for 2026. So you know my best pull-ups are 33. I'm around 170 kgs with a squat. My V2 max is maybe in the low 60s. And um here are some like ambitious goals I have in the fitness department. And it's kind of a symbolic interesting uh result, you know, trying to get like 40 pull-ups, 400 lb squat, a 4-minute mile, and a 40minut 10k run. It would be just cool to have like this ultimate hybrid achievement that you can do, you know, elite level pull-ups, elite level uh running and the 400 lb squat. Yes, it's elite compared to the general population, but it's not really elite in like a powerlifting circle. Uh, but yeah, it would be just a symbolic nice achievement to have that I was able to do this at least once in my life. I was able to do 40 pull-ups, 400 p squat, 4 minute mile, and 40 minute 10k run. That is a pretty ambitious goal because, you know, going from 33 pull-ups to 40 pull-ups is much harder than going from five pull-ups to 12 pull-ups, right? It's very easy to go from five pull-ups to 12 pull-ups or even 20 pull-ups, but it's going to be much harder to go from 33 to 40. But I think it's possible. I think I have it in me to be able to do 40 pull-ups at some point with some specific training. So, the pull-ups is easy. It's a realistic goal. The squat is also easy. I'm very close to it already. I just need a few months of some specific training and muscle memory will kick in and I'll be able to get the 400 lb squat with also relative ease. The 4-minute mile though is uh going to be the hard part. So you know we've all heard about the story of Danister breaking the 4minut mile record and it's like this you know very legendary story and uh 4-minute mile is something that you know now thousands of athletes have already repeated but it's not like that you know every person in your high school or like not every high school had a person who broke the 4-minute mile. So it is still a very prestigious achievement to have. Not everyone, not even all athletes are able to do it. So for me to be able to do a 4-minute mile would require me to be very committed and dedicated to training for that. Now I don't really like running that much. I'm like I've always been I've never been like a full runner or anything that. So for me to be able to do a 4-minute mile, I would need to really train super long. It's not going to probably able to be possible within 6 months or 12 months. it probably requires at least one and a half years of very committed training. But the 40minut 10k run is uh I think pretty possible for me to do. So, these are kind of like goals I could have uh for 2026. Just these are kind of just like side quests, fun fun achievements uh to have. And I think if I were to achieve this, if I were to do this 40 pull-ups, 400 lb squat, 4-minute mile, 40 minute, 10k run, I would probably be like probably the only person in the world who's ever done this. If I were to do this, um because I've never seen anyone else actually do it. It might obviously if becomes popular, there's will be more people repeating it, but um yeah, I would probably be one of the first people to ever do this. Um just yeah, kind of a fun um quest to have. Uh grip strength. So, I do think I'd like to increase my grip strength a little bit because I like forearm exercises is going to be also mandatory part for me to get to the 40 pull-ups. If my grip strength is stronger, I'm able to pull um hold onto the bar a bit better. I'm going to get less fatigued. So, increasing grip strength is going to be the byproduct of me doing the 40 pull-ups. My V2 max I'm going to maintain. Now, I don't specifically need a higher V2 max to run the 4-minute mile. If I had a V2 max of 70, then yeah, it would make it easier probably a little bit, but running is a lot more about the form and uh just the specificity. I just need to get better at running, not necessarily having a higher V2 max. I think my V2 max is adequate for a 4-minute mile. it wouldn't hurt. But I think the more important aspect is the actual form and the the skill of running. Resting heart rate, I'm going to maintain it. 38. I don't think I need to get it lower. I wouldn't like it to get increased either, but I'll maintain around 36 38 less than 40 is a good range. I think for me HRV, I'm going to maintain as well around 100. You know, I'm not really deliberately trying to increase my HRV. It's yeah, just useful to gauge my exercise load and my training status. If I'm overtrained, the HRV is going to go down. If I'm gaining too much weight is going to go down. If um if it's increasing, then it's a good sign. Means I'm adequately recovered. So what is the plan? What was my exercise plan for 2025? So I had a very simple exercise routine. So, three to four times a week I do resist training, push, pull, leg split, and 2025 I was doing mostly calisthenics for the upper body at least. So, uh pull-ups, dips, handstand push-ups, uh PLCH, uh push-ups, those kind of things. And um I am trying to focus more on the strength side of things because I not necessarily trying to add mass. So, uh I'm using weighted vest, I'm using bands, etc. to increase the intensity and I'm always trying to keep the reps around five to eight reps. But I also do higher repetition works just to increase the amount of reps you do. So if you want to train for 40 pull-ups, then you need to be doing at least, you know, 30 reps, 35 reps every once in a while. The barbell squat I was doing once a week, three to five reps, uh three sets of uh five reps cardio. Uh so 2025 was actually a time where I was doing much less cardio. So, uh, that's also the reason why I haven't been able to break my V2 max PR of 66 because I've been just doing a lot less cardio than, uh, what I was in 2023. So, I was maybe very inconsistent with it as well. Maybe doing it once a week, either hit cardio or zone 2 cardio. I was doing either some of these like sprint workouts, 10 sprints, 100 meters, walk back there and repeat. So trying to keep your heart rate elevated all the time or these Norwegian 4x4 hit interval workouts, 4 minutes of very intense focus. So let's say 85 to 95% of your max heart rate followed by 3 minutes of 60 to 70% repeated for four rounds. So it's a very brutal workout, but it's uh also very effective. Or I did a zone 2 cardio, mostly cycling. I used the bicycle to ride around in the summer. So 60 minutes of low intensity. What's my plan for 2026? I think my workout plan is very good. Obviously, I'm getting results with it. So, I'm not going to really change much. I'm just going to um adjust it slightly. So, I'm going to still do the calisthenics, but I'm going to increase the intensity of each session by doing more reps and adding more weight, but I'm going to work outside less frequently. So, that's my going to be strategy for the short term. And um yeah, I'll just adjust it based on the progress. If I'm able to do, let's say, 35 pull-ups. So, that will be my new record. Then, um it means it's working, right? If I'm not seeing the progress, then I need to adjust barbell squats. I'm going to just keep doing the same. I need to be more consistent with the barbell squats to reach the 400 lb squat. And that's been the limiting factor so far. I just, you know, usually just work out at home with the calisthenics. So, the going to the gym takes an extra step that I'm not always able to do every week. Uh but I'm going to be implementing some sprinting and plyometrics as well. I think uh the speed training is interesting and I think you know now in my 30s I need to start thinking about more these uh speed development as well which declines with age. So um yeah I'm going to implement some sprinting and plyometrics. So jumping as high as possible, jumping as far as possible those kind of things. Zone 2 cardio I'll be doing. So I need to build a bigger carder respiratory base to reach the 4-minute mile and the 40 minute 10k. So I need to I need a huge base now. So my how do I say cardio base is a bit lacking compared to my pull-up strength and my leg strength. So I need to build a stronger base or re rebuild it to get better at running. And that requires a lot more hours doing zone 2 cardio. I'll still need to do the HIT cardio as well. I'll just do once a week the HIT 4x4 protocol, but I'll do twice a week zone 2 cardio. And the reason I do the zone 2 instead of adding an additional hit is because I already have several days of high intensity training. I already have three, four resistance training days per week. I already have one hit day. So, it's not going to be possible for me to add an additional high-intensity training session because it's going to be harder for me to recover from. And again, I'm not like a pro athlete, so I'm I don't have all the time to work out and I don't have all the time to recover. So, I don't have entire days to dedicate to recovery, etc. So, that's why adding the zone 2 is more appropriate because it's not as intense. I'm able to recover from it faster and it's not going to interfere with my performance with the barbell squat or performance with the pull-ups, for example. All right, let's move on with nutrition. So, this is um very controversial, spicy topic always. Um I've been on the same nutrition plan for a few years now. So, it's around 2,300 to 2500 calories. I eat around 130 grams of protein. So, I've reduced my protein from previous years. In 2025, I was eating around 150 160 g of protein. Previously, several years ago, which would put me at the something like 2 g 2.2 g per kilogram per body weight mark. But now, I'm eating around 130 g of protein. So, 20% less than in the past. And this is around 1.6 g per kilogram. So, I'm 80 kilos, 81 kilos. So, this would put me at this spot. Based on the research, this is more than adequate to support muscle growth. And as I said, I'm not trying to build muscle. I'm just trying to improve performance. And if you just eat a lot of protein, if I if I were to eat 200 grams of protein, then I would sacrifice the carbohydrate intake, which would reduce my exercise performance because carbohydrates are the best fuel for highintensity training specifically, and my workout plan is very high intense in terms of pull-ups, squats, and u running, hit hit running, etc. So, I do need the carbs to support that exercise. And if I were to eat more protein, then I would just end up eating less carbs, which would just counter be be counterproductive for my exercise goals. And I don't need to eat more protein. I've seen that by reducing my protein by about 20% to 1.6 g per kilogram. My blood markers have improved. My visceral fat has decreased. My gym performance has increased because I'm um eating more carbohydrates. And my muscle mass actually also increased because 1.6 g per kilogram is adequate for muscle growth. You don't need more more than that. So yeah, if you eat two grams per kilogram, most of it is just waste. Carbs, yeah, I eat around 250 to 300 grams of carbs. So pretty high carb diet. And um fiber is also high because I'm eating my carbohydrates from whole food sources, potatoes, fruits, etc. that have the fiber in them. So if I were to be eating, you know, refined bread, white bread or sugar or something like that, then yes, the fiber intake would be much lower. But because I'm eating healthy carbs, whole food carbs, I'm getting also a lot of fiber. And in my opinion, fiber is one of the most under underrated, it's not a nutrient, but it's like a food component there is. By increasing my fiber from around 30 grams to 40 to 50 grams over the last 5 years, I've seen better blood work, better gut health, uh better body composition, easier fat loss, greater satiety. So just yeah, you know, it's not it's not because of the fiber obviously necessarily, maybe it's other things as well, but uh yeah, there's a lot of um propaganda about fiber being harmful online. And I do think that it's uh wrong. Yes, there are people who can't tolerate fiber because of certain gut problems, certain microbiome imbalances, certain food sensitivities, etc. Those are legitimate concerns, right? Those individuals aren't going to do doing good with a higher fiber diet. But personally, me almost doubling my fiber has only improved my health. And uh yeah, I'm you know, have perfect bowel movements once or twice a day. I don't have any constipation, no no gas, no no farting or anything of that. Everything is just good. Um by getting these fiber from healthy whole food carbohydrates, fruits, berries, potatoes, those kind of things. Uh fat. So 70 to 80 gram. That's uh not a low fat intake. It's around maybe 25 to 30% of my calories. So uh yeah, the same way with protein. You don't need insane amounts of fat. This is fat intake is more than enough to cover essential functions, more than enough to support hormones and satiety or whatever the thing is it is to improve the food texture and taste. So, uh yeah, I'm not a huge fan of adding a ton of olive oil or a ton of butter or eating bacon or something like that. U you know, I've done similar diets in the past, the low carb uh higher fat diets in the past. They didn't work that well for me at least. I do much better with a high carb diet. High carb, high fiber, lower fat, moderate protein diet. Moderate fat if if you were to be nitpicky about the percentages. So, what foods do I actually eat then? Well, I'll share with you. I do like to categorize myself as eating a semi Mediterranean diet, but it's not a full Mediterranean classical Mediterranean diet as in the clinical research because I eat a little bit more protein. I don't eat that much olive oil and I eat more carbs as well. I eat mostly potatoes and uh other things like that. So I'm eating a lot more carbohydrates than the standard Mediterranean diet. But I do uh have a high polyphenol intake from vegetables etc. So vegetables, broccoli, carrots, cauliflower, peas, beetroot, squash, pumpkin, berries, blueberries, strawberries, raspberries, cranberries, something like that. Fish, salmon, herring, sardines, cord, etc. I eat fish maybe a few times a week. And uh yeah, I'm just that trying to so it's it's more reliable to try to get your omega-3s from a omega-3 supplement in my opinion because you're not going to be eating fish every day. You're going to forget about it. There's actually research that if you stopped consuming omega-3s for a few weeks, then your omega-3 index would rapidly decline, which is a one of the biomarker that is strongly associated with longevity as well. So, I think I just find it more consistent and more reliable to just take an omega-3 supplement, which I'm going to be focusing more on, but it doesn't mean that I'm not going to be eating fish every every few days. Beans and legumes. So, uh lentils, beans, chickpeas. Again, this is something that works great for me. I obviously don't eat them every meal, but um I have no problems with um these foods. I find them that they just improve my blood work over the last few years and my gut health as well. So I might be an anomaly or it doesn't apply to all people but for me at least beans and legumes work very well, improves my gut health, improves my blood work, improves satiety, makes me lose weight more easily. Uh meat, so I mostly eat leaner beef and game. I don't eat that much chicken maybe sometimes. Uh the same with pork, not not a regular intake. So mostly like lean beef or wild game. Eggs, one to two per day on average. Some days more, some days less. Dairy. I consume actually quite a lot of dairy. Lower fat dairy. Cafir yogurt. Um cottage cheese, Greek yogurt. On average, like once a day, I have some dairy. Fruit, green bananas. So I I like the starchier greener bananas. higher fiber, lower glycemic. Kiwis, I like kiwis for for dinner. Apples, oranges, and pomegranate seeds. Those are kind of my go-tos at the moment. And the carbs, my main carbohydrate source are sweet potatoes or regular white potatoes and quina as well. I don't eat it very often, but uh maybe once a week. Drinks, mostly black coffee, green tea, around two to three cups a day. So uh coffee I drink maybe one to two cups per day, green tea also one to two cups a day. So something like that on average. And I also drink chamomile tea and ginger tea in the evening. Some supplements that can be categorized as more food uh protein powder, collagen peptides and gelatin powder. So those are my go-to ones. So it's not a very restrictive diet. It's not very uh hard diet as well, I think. And it's been working great for me. I it's sometimes hard for me to um not lose weight for some reason. Maybe yeah obviously the intermittent fasting window also contributes to that a lot but I've been doing intermittent fasting for 12 years but this specific way of eating has made intermittent fasting a lot more easier at least for me that I just it's yeah hard to not lose weight often times I just need to make sure that I eat enough food especially if I exercise a lot. Uh, so supplements. Let's talk about supplements. 2025. What supplements I was taking? Asinizent 12 milligrams a day. Glycine 10 grams a day. Omega-3 is two grams a day. Melatonin 1 milligram a few times a week. Trimethoglycine 2 grams a day. Magnesium around 200 to 400 milligs few times a week. Collagen peptides 10 grams a day. And I cycle creatine around 5 to 10 grams a day. I don't take it all the time because creatine reduces your V2X gains. And um I think it's better to just not take it all the time. You don't need to take it all the time. I'll take it only if I'm specifically trying to gain muscle or get stronger. What are some supplement stacks I'm going to be taking in 2026? Most of it is going to be the same. I'll underline the additions. So omega-3s 3 g a day. I'll increase the dose. Lutein and zeazanthin 20 and 5 milligs a day. I'll be trying that out. So it's uh research uh researched for eye health. reducing digital eye strain and because I work a lot in front of the computer pretty much all day many hours. Uh so I just want to use that to protect my eyes a bit more. And you know there's uh been this research about circadian clock dysfunction and aging with the circadian clock dysfunction being soon categorized as a hallmark of aging in my opinion. So, I just want to make sure that I protect my eyes from the excessive amounts of blue artificial light which will would damage the eyes and potentially damage the circadian clocks as well. But I am full disclosure going to come out with my own supplement line as well in 2026 quite soon. It's uh going to be third party tested, high quality ingredients and uh the reason I made it is because I want to have a supplement stack that I trust. I know the ingredients. You know, there's a huge problem with most supplements out there. They don't contain the ingredients. They're contaminated with heavy metals, etc. So, I want to make sure that I control the supply line that I'm taking the supplements that actually have the ingredients for my own health. So, I don't want to take placebo pills. I want to take the stuff that actually works. And I'm going to also want to make it easier for myself. I don't want to take 10 pills a day or something. You know, I don't take that many supplements, but I don't want to take a ton of pills. I want to make it easy, convenient, and I want to get the right dosages. Often times, most these regular supplements, they just don't have the right dosage that has been clinically shown to provide certain benefits that I'm interested in. So, I'm creating it for myself mostly, but I think uh it will be also the best longevity stack out there in my opinion. So, it's going to contain a one powder drink for certain ingredients, one capsule, and one soft gel. Eventually the soft gel will come a bit later but these three kind of uh core elements and it will have across all three of these will have around 30 ingredients 30 ingredients in a very small amount of uh things you need to consume at a very good price as well. So the price is insanely good for the value that you're going to get and um you know I'll just leave it at that. I can't announce anything yet but um you will be announced you will hear about it eventually. Let's continue with sleep. So, my sleep schedule in 2025 was a bit suboptimal. It was a bit hectic mostly because I was um having a lot of frequent intercontinental flights to USA, to Japan, to many other uh places um UAE etc. So, I was doing a lot of traveling which you know obviously has a toll on your uh sleep and um circadian rhythms etc. And plus I also was uh with some other important uh commitments that made me sleep a bit shorter. So uh yeah on average I might have slept maybe 7 hours and my goal for 2026 is to just try to increase it a little bit. I'm going to try to get at least 7.5 hours. But uh you know interestingly during this year I just stumbled across a lot of um studies where it shows that 7 hours might be actually more than enough for otherwise healthy people which you know I've experienced myself as well. I don't feel deprived if I sleep 7 hours or even 6 hours. Uh but I will try to get 7 hours, maybe 7 and 1 half hours. So I'll definitely try to, you know, sleep a little bit longer. Uh but it's not inherent. It doesn't appear to damage my health um in any way. And a few other videos will be out soon where I'll discuss uh this uh as this uh relationship between sleep sufficiency and uh longevity. Bedtime is always been quite stable. So 1000 p.m. and I wake up around 6:00 a.m. So I'm already there. I'll try to maintain it and be more consistent with it. So you know a lot of times I might end up going to bed at 11:00 p.m. maybe 12 something like that because of whatever reasons. So I'll try to be more consist consistent with it this year. So the consistency of sleep is uh apparently as as important as the total duration. So I'll try to be more consistent and I'll also try to be more disciplined with the blue light. So um wearing my blue blockers, dimming down the lines, not looking at bright screens, I'll try to be more consistent with it because of the circadian clock dysfunction and aging element that I discussed earlier and because of protecting melatonin production which is a powerful antioxidant hormone. All right, let's move on with the blood markers. So uh I've made some other videos about my results as well. You can check it on even um on Twitter where I outline some of these results. I'll just briefly go through the results. So as I said the more comprehensive blood panel I did in May 2025 uh it was uh pretty optimal in terms of the major markers hemoglobin AMC 4.9%. That's a excellent result. So uh diabetes pre-diabetes is 5.8%. So I'm well below that. The average person might have 5.5%. A generally healthier person might have 5.2% and a person who is more controlled with their glucose levels will be 5% or lower than that. And my insulin as well is very low 3.35. So you want to keep it below 7 for example. Uh lipids cholesterol LDL 58 HDL 62. So higher HDL is good. insulin sensitivity signal lower triglycerides as well 39. So I have very good insulin sensitivity, low insulin, low blood sugar, high HDL and low triglycerides. My metabolic health is excellent in terms of that. lipoprotein A. So this genetic it's always been kind of lower. It's been two, it's been three, it's been four, five. So it does fluctuate obviously a little bit, but um it's uh been this low consistently. So I have at least favorable genetics in terms of lipoprotein little a levels um which I'm happy about. Apo B so 58 that is a very good result. I'm I'm not taking any lipid lowering drugs. I'm not taking anything that lowers cholesterol specifically. So these are all natural due to diet and I think the biggest reason for that is because of the higher fiber intake lower fat diet uh lower saturated fat diet specifically. So uh this is just achieved with uh nutrition these low AOB and yeah the fiber is super underrated for cholesterol and lipids as well. HSC 0.1 in this particular test because it cuts off at the 0.1 mark but I've had other tests that has 0.01 one for example homoyine so this marker I've shared about as well it was 12 2 years ago it was 9 in 2024 and uh now it was a 5.97 which is uh pretty clo it's like yeah close to the most optimal result of five homoyine of five is the absolute best but below 10 is already uh very good uh then liver function and kidney profile so these are all uh green as well. It's uh not going to go into all the details with this. A few uh out things to point out. So, a cistadian C is extremely good for me. 0.67 that's you know can't get any better than that almost and my eGFR is one uh 112 which is also excellent result. My creatinin 0.9 94. So, uh, it's not high, it's not, uh, harmful. It's just high because of my increased higher than 0.8, for example, which is where it's been previously as well. It's, uh, higher because of a higher exercise load, higher muscle mass, and I did see that it dropped. This was actually after my bulk, so that's why it's a higher I had more mass that I was carrying as well. So, um, yeah, it's probably lower now a little bit. So creatinine is not a reliable kidney health marker because of the element of increased muscle mass and exercise raising the creatinine. So uh cistan C is um kind of a more truer marker of kidney health which I'm more focused on and mine is um excellent although my creatinine is also still good in that sense. Albdamine 4.42 in this particular test. Alkaline phosphotase 58.6 GGT 10.7 which is excellent. All the other liver enzymes as well, low 20s, which is good. Testosterone 767. So, um, not insanely high, not low either. Kind of it's a high higher than average, but it's not uh it's not very high, if that makes sense. And, you know, to be honest, I think testosterone is overrated. Hence, in that sense, yes, it matters if you have low testosterone. If your testosterone is 200, 300, then yes, doubling your testosterone to 500 or 600 can be quite amazing. But above 600, 700, you're not going to notice a much huge difference. Maybe if you're going to reach a,000 nanogs per deciliter, maybe you will notice a huge difference. But I think um you know, especially for maximal lifespan, having extremely high testosterone and other androgens is not beneficial. So there's a reason women live longer than men and u extremely high androgens I think are pro-aging so to say. So I'm happy with the 767. It's a level that is beneficial for body composition. I obviously have good body composition and good fitness and also have good drive, good motivation. I have good energy. So I'm very happy with this uh above average testosterone. I don't have I have no interest in taking TRT. I don't need it. I have no interest in in trying to boost my testosterone to 900 or thousand because I would need to eat more calories. I would need to u you know do other things as well. Take some uh testosterone boosting supplements as something like that to try to squeeze more testosterone but it doesn't really support my any of my goals and I have no things that would indicate that I'm suffering from uh anything in terms of hormones. My thyroid are also normal. So my T3 is always on the lower end because of lower calorie intake doing some intermittent fasting. So lower thyroid I do think that is beneficial for longevity as long as you don't have other side effects from having low thyroid such as you're not gaining weight, you have good metabolic health, you have good lipids, etc. If you have low thyroid and you have high lipids, you're gaining weight, you just feel tired, etc., then that's, you know, something that you would want to improve to fix your thyroid. But if you don't have those symptoms, then the low thyroid might be actually more beneficial for long-term maximum lifespan. Now, hematology, different immune cells, I'm not going to go into details of that. You know, there's always going to be a few things that are out of the reference range. You know, these things just fluctuate a lot. One thing to note is my very high lymphosy percentage, which is a more indication of youth, 52.6%. So uh it means I have a strong immune system or act uh like um able to respond to things. My platelet count is uh lower end which is good lower risk of clotting and u yeah all these other immune cells are also in the most green. I'm not really yeah going to the details of this here. The same way with elements. So this is just heavy metals that I did at my retreat in u at the clinic in India. So these are all green thritis profile green uh vitamins and minerals. So vitamin D is normal. My other nutrient intake or nutrient status is also normal except B6 which is uh above the reference. So a bit higher than that for for some reason. Iron levels are all good. So uh with iron you want to be on the lower end as a male especially. So mine is here is 103 micrograms per deciliter. So that's AI think a good result. So very high iron levels uh might increase the risk of heart disease. And you know that's another reason why men live shorter than women. Men have much higher iron levels than women because they don't menstruate and you know they don't cut themselves either. Nowadays mostly if if you're working in an office you're not really you know cutting yourself when lifting something or something like that. So um very high levels I do think are also bad for aging and heart disease risk. So having it around 100 is good is a good result. It could be even lower. I think if our iron level was 70 or 80, I think that would also be fine. It might be even better. But uh yeah, I'm just saying that slightly lower end iron is better than uh higher. What are some goals for my blood work? So um generally I want to maintain it. So, I'm just it's more important to maintain good blood work than to have very good blood work for a short period of time and then fall off the wagon. So, yeah, I'm as I outlined throughout the video, I'm going to still follow my nutrition plan. I'm going to take my supplements, sleep, and do my exercise plan. So, chances are my blood work will stay around the same. Of course, blood work fluctuates every day, but you know, the general framework is going to be the same. Some specific goals that I have is omega-3 index. So right now it's 8% which would put me maybe in the top 5% of individuals but my goal is to get it to 10% and uh that will be the top 1% and this is the reason I'm increasing my omega-3 intake. It's very hard to increase omega-3 status. It might also be that me exercising more makes it even harder because you know exercise raises inflammation at least and omega-3s your body might consume more omega-3s or require more omega-3s for that. So, I might need to actually even double my omega-3 intake. We'll see. But I'll try to get it to 10%. That's the ultimate goal. Hemoglobin C, so average blood sugar and glycation status 4.9%. That's already in like top 2% of health individuals. And maybe I could get it to 4.8%. I'm not really particularly worried about that or I don't think I need to. There's no reason to for me to try to get it to 4.8%. And there's not very strong data that having it at 4.8% 8% would be better than 4.9 or 5% for that matter. So, uh, but I mean would be nice to have maybe 4.8%. Another one is ALP. So, 58, that's maybe around top 5%. I could get it to uh to get it in the top 1%. But uh you know there's also not very convincing evidence that ALP has a huge role in longevity compared to something like hemoglobin A1c CRP or just C or V2 max or something like that. So yes there is obviously some association with ALP levels and my level are very good in terms of the general population but it could be slightly better. It's just that I'm not really trying to specifically improve this number. I've seen people who don't exercise at all and they have a ALP of 40 45 which would in some association studies would be considered the absolute best but in others not so. So um depends a lot what we're talking about and as I said rather than focusing on one specific marker you need to look at the whole picture. Would you would you rather have a V2 max of 60 or ALP of 45? Well, I would always take the V2 max of 60 because the V2 max of 60 has a much stronger and more consistent association with longevity and reduced mortality. And for me to drop my ALP, I would probably need to reduce my exercise, which I don't think is worth it. And uh I would also probably need to stop increasing my bone density. So ALP could be u a marker of like increasing bone density overall, bone growth essentially. So again, I don't think it's a good trade-off to uh not build the bone mass, especially when uh especially for some individuals who might have low bone density. Now, my bone density is already good. I don't necessarily need to improve it, but uh I would much rather keep the things that I'm doing rather than try to micromanage this one specific marker to get it 1% better. Uh Albamin the same. You know, it'S4.6 4.4 something around there. top 5% maybe it's if I were to get it to 4.8 could be better but yeah 4.8 eight for that I would just need to increase my calorie intake or to eat more protein again. So it's a trade-off again. Uh alam is the most abundant protein in the blood in the but uh so um if I were to eat more protein maybe I would see an increase in albamin but again eating more protein would have some other side effects that I wouldn't maybe want maybe it will increase my visceral fat maybe it will do some other things to my body composition that I wouldn't necessarily want. All right. And lastly, I'll cover some of these auxiliary routines. So, just some bonus stuff that aren't super important. Um, obviously, walking is important, but it's not a a separate section. So, I'll aim to walk 10 to 12k steps every day. I've incorporated weighted vest walking as well already in 2025. I think it's awesome. I think it's a very good. It makes weight loss easier because you have to carry the weight around and if you just wear even a small weighted vest like 5 10 kilos in your everyday activities like when you're working when you're going to the kitchen then uh that also has been seen to support weight loss and reduce the decline in metabolic rate that happens during weight loss. So, I'm a actually a huge fan of weighted vests now. And I'm going to get like a very light vest, 5 10 kilos, and I'm going to get a super heavy vest, 30 to 40 kilos for doing weighted calisthenics and hiking. So, it's also kind of low zone 1, zone 2 cardio if you have a heavy vest and you're walking. Sonas, I've been doing them for since I was born pretty much. I've been doing them, yeah, since the age of one pretty much from Estonia. and I'll keep taking them like four times a week. It's one of the most powerful uh activities in observational studies for reducing heart disease and Alzheimer's risk. It's on par with like cardiovascular exercise in my opinion. Although cardiovascular exercise is still better. Sona is very close second. My protocol is like 20 minutes at 70° C and that's it. I'll try to do some more ice baths mostly because they just feel good and I might get like a small ice dunk where I'll be able to jump immediately from the ice from the sauna to the ice. I don't think the cold exposure has that much evidence compared to sauna for health benefits, but um can still be um you can still make you feel good. Raw cacao drink. So there's been some interesting studies about how consuming high flavonoid cacao during sedentary periods of time. So like sitting prevented prevents the decline in this endothelial reduction in endothelial function that happens when you're sitting. So sitting is bad obviously, but if you consume high flavonoid raw cacao or dark chocolate, high flavonoid dark chocolate is easier with a raw cacao because you get more of them. But uh that pretty much helps to maintain better arterial health when you're sitting. So for example, so might experiment. This is just a little bonus. I thought I might add some something new I've uh seen in a recent study. So yeah, I might implement more raw cacao into my daily uh diet so that yeah, it's better for the endothelial function. And u I'll also experiment with more hydration and electrolytes, you know, because I'm going to be exercising more, sweating more. I might need more electrolytes. And who knows, maybe consuming more electrolytes and salt, which I so far haven't done that much. I've actually like never really consume electrolytes regularly. Maybe that's going to be like unlocking my performance. Maybe that's going to unlock my 4-minute mile. Let's see. But I will probably need to get more electrolytes to support that goal anyway. And more frequent naps. So research about napping is also very bullish. Uh so uh people who take more naps, they have lower heart disease, greater longevity as long as they meet also the physical exercise requirements. Uh so yeah, napping is going to be good for for me to catch up on some lost sleep. essentially peptides, you know, I'll maybe do PPC, you know, especially if I might get injured from doing a lot of exercise and um but it's not something that I I really don't need, I think. And I'm not really interested in other peptides as well. Maybe GHK, so copper peptide. I already use a topical copper peptide for skin benefits. So, uh yeah, that's it. All right. So, that's the end of this video. If you reached the end, then thank you for watching. I I think this was very interesting. At least it was for me. I I'll try to make more kind of this unique style content rather than just making very generic topic uh content. I'll, you know, maybe try to implement more of these kind of unique videos. I think no one has ever really done on YouTube. Um, but if you want to, you know, learn more about how I think about these things, what's um, my gauge on the research, then, uh, check out this tier list where I ranked 100 health activities from worst to best. So, it just outlines all these possible the most fringe, uh, health activities all the all the way to the most fundamental activities and how do I rank them. So check out that video