The newest diet trend is the sugar diet. Pure sugar, zero fat, trace protein from whatever's in the fruit you're eating is going to get you ripped. So, sugar fasting is honey, maple syrup, sugar, candy, fruit, and fruit juice. Basically, you eat zero protein, zero starch, and zero fat during the day from things like fruit, berries, honey, and even jelly beans and gummy bears. Then in the evening you eat starchy carbs, lean proteins, vegetables, and low amounts of fat. It sounds very unorthodox and kind of like a fat diet, but a lot of people are reporting that it helps with weight loss by increasing their metabolic rate. In this video, I'm going to look at the science behind the sugar diet, if there is any, and I'll share my own opinions and thoughts about it. The short overview of why the sugar diet works is this. Protein restriction increases metabolic rate and insulin sensitivity. Eating carbohydrates and sugar can also increase your metabolic rate. If you eat carbohydrates and sugar without added fats, your body produces more insulin and it improves insulin sensitivity. On the sugar diet, you get a short-term increase in metabolic rate that then can help with weight loss. But a high sugar diet may have other side effects even if you do lose weight such as dental plaque, skin aging, or a higher risk of neurodeeneration later in life. Now, there is a catch that almost everyone seems to miss is that you can achieve the same effects of the sugar diet by restricting only one single amino acid that I'm going to talk about. Let me explain. When you restrict protein, you elevate a hormone called FGF-21 or fiberblast growth factor 21, which plays a role in nutrient sensing and metabolic pathways. Protein restriction in lean men has been seen to increase FGF-21 levels and increase energy expenditure to maintain body weight. When lean men ate only 0.83 g per kilogram of protein per day, which is around 0.4 g per pound, they required about 20% more calories to maintain their body weight. FGF-21 levels increase 200 to 361% in the plasma during this period. FGF-21 increases metabolic rate through mitochondrial uncoupling which means wasting energy as heat as well as thermogenesis through increased brown fat expression. This is why FGF-21 is investigated as a therapeutic option for metabolic diseases and obesity. It's also seen that FGF-21 mediates the lifespan extension effects of protein restriction in mice. Protein restriction has been seen to extend the lifespan of mice and the key amino acid that mediates those effects is methionine. Methionine is the most abundant amino acid in our diet that you get mostly from animal proteins. Methionine restriction has also been seen to improve insulin sensitivity, liver fat, and metabolic health in human clinical trials. It looks like FGF-21 mediates a lot of the effects of methane restriction on insulin sensitivity and increased energy expenditure, but not liver fat loss. Essentially, when you're eating a very low protein diet, 0.8 8 g per kilogram or around 0.4 g per pound, which is quite low. For me, who weighs 82 kg, it will be only 65 g of protein. That's less than half of what I eat right now. You would increase this hormone FGF-21 that increases your metabolic rate. However, the key for expressing FGF-21 is methionine and sulfur restriction. These amino acids you get mostly from animal proteins such as meat, fish, eggs, dairy. In animal lifespan studies, methionine has no effect on longevity if there's enough glycine present. Glycine supplementation mimics methane restriction and prevents the harmful side effects of excessive methionine intake. Plant proteins are also low in methionine as well as sulfur, which means that if you were to be eating more plant proteins and low or no animal proteins, you would also enable FGF-21 expression without necessarily restricting protein. If you were to also increase your glycine intake through supplementation, it would mimic methane restriction fully. Now, this scenario wouldn't mimic the sugar diet completely because there's also the component of increased sugar and carbohydrate intake that has a beneficial effect on your thyroid function. But the protein restriction or mimicking methane restriction with increased glycine intake can increase FGF-21 expression. In rat and mouse studies, methane restriction leads to visceral fat loss even without calorie restriction. There are human studies showing that methane and sulfur restriction leads to visceral fat loss around the liver and organs. I personally saw a significant drop in my visceral fat from 350 grams to 54 grams by reducing my methane intake and increasing my glycine intake without reducing my calorie intake. So, the takeaway is that the sugar diet works mostly through protein restriction, specifically methane restriction. But you don't necessarily need to follow a sugar diet to achieve that. You can achieve some similar effects by restricting methane and increasing your glycine intake. There's also research that a ketogenic dativate FGF-21, but an actual ketogenic diet is protein restricted and restricted in methane to a certain degree. My main thoughts and opinions about the sugar that is that it works very well in the short term by increasing your metabolic rate and through the calorie restriction, the protein restriction plus the increased carbohydrate intake. Yes, it will ramp up your thyroid function and metabolic rate, which creates a calorie restricted state that makes you lose weight. There's no way around the thermodynamics of the situation, but we don't have any long-term data about the long-term health effects. High sugar intake promotes dental plaque and cavities, especially if you're not getting enough fats, soluble vitamins, which you get mostly from protein sources and fats. High sugar sources are also very poor sources of micronutrients, which can increase the risk of nutrient deficiencies in the long term. There is a correlation between dental plaque and the risk of heart disease and neurodeeneration, which could be a risk in consuming massive amounts of sugar a day. Elevated FGF-21 levels are associated with an increased incidence of cardiovascular disease. But FGF-21 also has cardioprotective roles. So it's not the case that protein restriction would cause heart disease via FGF-21. But we don't know the long-term implications of chronically elevated FGF-21. High sugar intake can accelerate skin aging through the formation of advanced glycation in products. Even when you're not eating anything else with the sugar, the high levels of glucose and fructose can interact with the collagen and elastin producing AES that promote skin aging. On a regular diet where consuming normal amounts of fructose and glucose is not going to be a problem, but if you're consuming hundreds of grams of sugar, it probably has an effect on AG formation. Eating large amounts of sugar might not be suitable for people with severe insulin resistance and diabetes, at least in the short term. Lean and otherwise healthy individuals would generally be fine with a low-fat, high sugar diet. At the end of the day, the question is, why not just follow a regular diet? What about just eating a little bit less? I understand that dieting can be difficult for a lot of people, and it's challenging for some individuals. However, there's nothing about the sugar diet that you couldn't achieve with a regular good old calorie restricted diet. Here's what I do to stay lean year round without any problems. I eat 1.6 g per kilogram of protein a day. That's about 120 to 130 grams of protein per day. I do supplement around 10 to 15 grams of glycine a day to mimic methane restriction and I think it's working. About 70 to 80 grams of fat and about 300 grams of carbs a day. If I want to lose weight, I eat 500 calories less. And if I'm gaining muscle, I eat about 200 calories more. I don't count calories. I don't weigh my food, but this is the general distribution of my macros. I do follow a slightly lower methanine intake because I think it has benefits for longevity, but I definitely am not on a zero methanine intake. The way I get around it is by supplementing glycine and adding an extra 10 to 15 grams of glycine to my diet. After all, my resting metabolic rate based on the metabolic rate test is 3,300, which indicates that something in my diet is increasing my metabolic rate. And I think it is the methane restriction through glycine supplementation. At the end of the day, you have to think about what's your goal with your diet. Is it just weight loss or is it something else? I personally follow a diet plan that's beneficial for longevity based on the available evidence. Check out my video breaking it down