Magnesium is one of the most important minerals in your body and it's involved in over 300 processes starting with energy production and ending with brain function. Just look at this graph. But here's the problem. Most magnesium supplements don't actually reach the brain. This changed in 2010 when scientists at MIT created magnesium L38ate that could easily cross the bloodb brain barrier and it was seen to enhance learning and memory in rats. In mice with Alzheimer's disease, magnesium 30onate has been seen to improve memory and reduce synaptic loss, which could slow down neurodeeneration. That's cute. But what about humans? A 2022 randomized control trial in China saw that 30 days of supplementing with 2 g of magnesium L38 per day improved cognitive performance and memory. The effects were more pronounced in older participants than younger ones. Another 2015 clinical trial saw that magnesium 30onate improved working memory and executive functioning in older people with cognitive impairment. So there are two clinical trials showing that magnesium L3 specifically has benefits in cognition and memory. But these results are seen in people with cognitive impairment or older individuals who tend to have worse cognition because of aging. Magnesium is super important for the brain as it regulates neurotransmitters and energy production. Your brain uses 20% of your total body energy. So you need a lot of energy for the brain. Usually magnesium is attached to different salts like oxide, citrate or sulfate. But these have quite bad bioavailability and poor absorption and virtually none of them get into your brain. L38ate is a sugar acid which is a metabolite of vitamin C and it enhances magnesium's transportation across the bloodb brain barrier. The exact transporter isn't yet clear, but it's thought to be either the sodium dependent vitamin C transporters or monocaroxulate transporters, MCTs. An interesting element is the connection between your gut and the brain via the gut brain axis. Your gut microbiome influences the functioning of your brain and cognition. In mice with Alzheimer's disease, magnesium L3 has been seen to modulate the gut microbiome and increase the amount of beneficial bacteria while reducing the harmful bacteria. As a result, the mice saw improved cognition and reduced inflammation, which is beneficial for treating neuro degeneration. Magnesium L38 also improved sleep architecture because sleep is regulated by the brain. A 2024 randomized control trial saw that 1 gram of magnesium L38ate providing 75 mg of elemental magnesium for 21 days significantly improved sleep quality, especially deep and REM sleep, daytime alertness, mood, and cognitive readiness in adults with mild sleep disturbances. Another 2024 pilot study on healthy adults saw that combining 800 mg of tart cherry powder with 800 milligrams of magnesium 30onate for 30 days improved sleep and cognition. They saw 25 minutes longer sleep duration, 15 minutes more deep sleep, and 5 minutes more REM sleep. It's a pilot study, but it's still very interesting. Tarte cherry powder for the melatonin and 308 for the magnesium. Sleep is such an important aspect of overall health and with age you see a decline in both sleep quality and sleep duration. Because magnesium L3 is uniquely bioavailable to the brain and it supports brain synaptogenesis and creation of new connections. It might be possible to counteract brain aging. Magnesium has neuroprotective effects and this can protect against cognitive decline and brain aging. Magnesium deficiency in the brain specifically leads to inflammation and oxidative stress which accelerates neurodeeneration and dementia. There's a U-shaped relationship between serum magnesium levels and cognition, which means that low magnesium status, less than 0.75 millles per liter, increases the risk of cognitive decline and dementia. The lowest risk is seen around 0.85 millles per liter. All magnesium types can raise serum magnesium, but some are better than others. Thrienate is the best form of magnesium for the brain specifically, but bisglycinate, torate, orotate and malate are also good magnesium types for other purposes. So overall, magnesium 308 appears to be quite a promising supplement for brain aging and improving certain aspects of brain health such as cognition or sleep. About 50% of people aren't getting enough magnesium, and that has a detrimental effect on their long-term dementia risk, but also their risk of heart disease, diabetes, hypertension, sleep problems, stress, and overall risk of dying. That's why most people benefit from some magnesium supplementation. Doesn't have to be threeonate, but if you're looking to target specifically the brain benefits, then 308 is the best one. You can also get magnesium from certain foods such as pumpkin seeds, potatoes, leafy greens, hemp, almonds, salmon, and sea vegetables. But most of the magnesium in food is bound to natural compounds like citrate or oxide, which means it has much lower brain by availability. So 30ionate might still be superior for the brain here. In my opinion, magnesium lionate is a god tier supplement. It's one of the best supplements out there, but there are other types of magnesiums that are also god tier. Check out my video where I rank a hundred of the most popular supplements from worst to