 stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra stra DNA synthesis, cell proliferation, and normal hair follicle cycling. Specifically, B12 helps to stabilize the early anagen phase, the active hair growth phase. If B12 levels are low, cell division in hair follicles is impaired, melanocyte activity may decrease, and pigment production declines. This contributes to loss of hair pigmentation, which equals in gray hair. Does B12 deficiency lead to gray hair then? In people with premature gray hair who are younger than 20, B12 deficiency has been observed more frequently. In this study, patients with premature cannides had significantly lower mean serum vitamin B12 levels compared to controls, and 55.8% of cases were vitamin B12 deficient compared to only 17.3% of the control group. This indicates a strong association between B12 deficiency and premature hair graying. Premature graying of hair in children due to B12 deficiency could happen as young as 5 years of age. In addition to B12, there are other micronutrient deficiencies in children with premature graying of hair. In this study, 39.3% of children with gray hair were B12 deficient compared to the 8% of the control group. Magnesium, 37.5% versus 6%, iron, 51.8% versus 32%, zinc, 19.6% versus 4%, and copper, 25% versus 8%. All of these nutrients are important for hair health and pigmentation. So it's not the case that B12 deficiency always leads to graying of hair. Some people get gray hair because of other reasons like stress or iron deficiency. Some people get gray hair because of smoking or genetics. The next question is, can you reverse gray hair by fixing your B12 status? There is a case study where fixing vitamin B12 deficiency reverses hyperpigmentation of skin hair and nails in people with white hair. It's just one person, but still. In general, reversing gray hair is not always going to happen. It's kind of unpredictable. For some people, it will happen. For others, it won't. The reason depends on the underlying reason why the hair is gray. There is a big genetic element to this, obviously, and there is an age element. Some people in their 50s will get gray hair because of aging or genetics. Other people won't get gray hair until the age of 70 or 80. But if you do have B12 deficiency, then fixing that gives you a greater likelihood of also reversing gray hair. You can get B12 from food and supplements. Foods include primarily meat and animal foods. Most plant-based foods don't contain B12, except nutritional yeast and algae. How does dietary B12 intake affect B12 status? A 2013 meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials saw that doubling dietary B12 intake only increased B12 levels by 11%, 13% in elderly and 8% in adults. So dietary B12 only appears to increase serum B12 to a certain extent. It's not going to increase it massively. The most common B12 in supplements is cyanocobalamin, which gets converted into methylcobalamin inside a body. For B12 supplementation, there's not a lot of difference between cyanocobalamin and methylcobalamin. At least the evidence doesn't suggest that one is better or the other. Clinicians tend to support methylated B vitamins because they support methylation. And some people with variations in MTHFR are poor methylators, so they benefit from the methylated versions of these B vitamins. However, MTHFR affects folate metabolism, not B12 metabolism directly. So the stronger evidence relates to methylfolate, but not methylcobalamin. Cyanocobalamin still works in people with MTHFR variants. I want to take a quick break to tell you about the Bond Charge Infrared Sona Blankets, my go-to way of getting 20-minute sauna sessions on the go without needing to spend an hour to warm up a regular sauna. Taking the sauna is, in my opinion, one of the best things for your overall health and heart function. Studies show that taking the sauna regularly is associated with 63% lower risk of sudden cardiac death, 63% reduced heart disease mortality, 46% lower risk of hypertension, and 40% reduced all-cause mortality. This is mediated by an increase in body temperature and increased heart rate that mimic a cardiovascular workout while at the same time improving arterial stiffness, endothelial function, blood flow, immune system function, blood pressure, and metabolic health. It doesn't matter if it's a traditional wooden sauna, an infrared sauna, an infrared sauna blanket, or anything else that elevates your body temperature above what's normal. Bond Charge Infrared Sona Blankets have the advantage of shining far infrared light that can penetrate deeper into your tissues than regular saunas can. It warms up in 2 minutes to the optimal temperature of 70 degrees Celsius, and it's low in EMF. You can get a 15% discount by heading over to bondcharge.com forward slash seamlund and use the code seam for a 15% discount. All right, back to the video. I'll also talk about what's the optimal B12 status when we're talking about general longevity. Normal vitamin B12 levels are 200 to 900 picograms per milliliter. Enhanced data has found that low serum B12, below 190, is associated with a 39% higher risk of all-cause mortality and 64% higher cardiovascular disease mortality. Likewise, high B12 over 948 picograms per milliliter is associated with a 45% higher risk of cardiovascular disease mortality compared to B12 between 190 and 948. So, the optimal vitamin B12 status is around 400 and ideally below 900 picograms per milliliter. Overall, B12 is an overlooked aspect of gray hair. It's not the only cause and fixing B12 status isn't always going to work, especially if the hair is gray because of stress, smoking, genetics, or some other micronutrient deficiency like iron or copper. But it is worthwhile to try to fix your B12 status if it is deficient. I think B vitamins are quite important and useful, especially the methylated ones. If you want to know how I rank 100 other common supplements, then check out this video next.