Having a six-pack is like more rare than being a millionaire these days. Having good health is very rare. And if that's important to you and you want your partner to have that as well, I don't think I think it should be accepted. So the principles of longevity protocols are all the same, but it's like in the details and the nuance how you implement those. Kyla Barnes Lintz is an entrepreneur and a leading voice in female longevity. She shares her journey on optimizing her health as a woman, fertility, reducing the burden of toxins in the modern world and using different biohacking technologies. She also has a longevity clinic in Ohio. One of the very interesting things that people might know about you is that uh you do you did like a health interview for your husband when you started dating with him. So uh yeah, can you maybe explain a little bit how did that go? Yeah. Um, I mean, it's become a bit controversial, I will say. Like, I've read some of the comments and people say, "Oh my gosh, this is the most unromantic thing I've ever heard of in my life, but it wasn't really like that." So, I mean, you know, this has been, you know, my world for the last like, you know, six years. I have a clinic. So, for me, and, you know, you and I chatted about this on my podcast, it's so important to find a partner that aligns with you, right? Like it'd be very difficult to be pursuing longevity and health optimization if I had a husband that wanted to like sit on the couch and drink like beer and eat chips at the end of the night. You know, it would be not a it would not be a match. So yeah, exactly. Like it wouldn't work out anyway. So it's better to come out clear with what our like values and priorities are with the health 100%. Right. And I think it's it's more acceptable in other areas, right? Like if a man works a lot, he's going to continue working a lot and show that to his future spouse, right? Like, hey, this is what you're getting yourself into. Yeah, that's kind of how I thought of it. Um it's it was one of the most important things to me, you know, like there were other things like faith is super important and morals and but health is huge. So, um yeah, I asked him first I asked him if he had labs of his own because that would kind of indicate whether or not he even cared about his health. Well, first I did like a little Instagram scroll and I checked out like what's going on here. there's like working out pictures. I'm like, "That's good." He's like getting like grass-fed, grass-finish meats at Airwan. I'm like, "Okay, that's good." Um, so I figured he'd be open to it and he was. So, he immediately sent me like his full physical. Things looked pretty good. But then I was like, "Hey, can I send you a bunch of other labs? Are you down to take them?" So, I sent him so much. I sent him a genetics test, a gut test, total toxic burden test, and he took them immediately, sent them back, and we reviewed them together. They were pretty good. I mean, there were some areas that we were able to optimize that was really fun actually because I think for him once I helped him get his like so when we first met he was on a little bit of testosterone like tiny the smallest dosage but because we want to have babies I was like hey do you mind to get off of that and he's like yeah no problem and so we took his testosterone from about like 600 or so up to like 916 naturally so he was like all in after that he's like oh definitely let's do it. So, yeah, the lab thing has been controversial, but you know what? I think this should be like the future to be honest with you. Good health, you know, I've read that having a six-pack is like more rare than being a millionaire these days, you know, so having good health is very rare. And if that's important to you and you want your partner to have that as well, I don't think I think it should be accepted to be honest. Yeah, I think you know that it applies to a lot of other areas. Um you know of course you have people with different uh lifestyles also being together but usually people with the same music get together music taste get together people with same yeah health habits get together so yeah you know there should be like a filter on some dating apps yeah I think there are like some dating apps actually where it's around health so you can you can check I think or at least there should be you know there should be some like option on dating apps that check health like be healthy or that value of health. Yeah. So, yeah. Um, well, on that note, do you do you know this Instagram account, Carnivore Aurorelius? Yeah. Um, so we ended up my husband was apparently like going to Carnivore Aurelius Instagram and like cuz he was intentionally trying to find a wife. He wanted a wife for like a long time, but he just had a really long list of things that he wanted that person to have. So, he would go like and write a comment and see. So, Carnival Aurelius kind of has a dating app, but we kind of met through that as well because like we were both connected to him, which is kind of funny. Yeah, that's interesting. But what got you into what what made you want to be healthy yourself? Yeah, I mean it was kind of like a slow build. I didn't grow up healthy at all. Like just ate standard American diet. Like my mom was giving me like Pop-Tarts, like things that I don't even see as food now. Um so when I started studying nutrition in college, it was just like a little bit, you know, I was like, "Oh, let me just change how I'm eating." But the real desire was that I didn't really come from a lot. And I knew that in order to build a life like that I wanted, I was going to have to work a lot truly. So I became an entrepreneur at the age of like 17 years old. I've always had my own company. And I knew that I was going to have to feel amazing and like upgrade my biology per se to be able to work as much as I wanted to work to build the life that I wanted, which I now have, which is exciting. So that was the first thing. It was just like, let's change how I'm eating a little bit. And then I started to feel better. I got super deep into it about five years ago when I went to go open up a clinic. So, um I have a longevity medicine clinic and when I was thinking about what to offer, I started looking at all these labs that my doctor had never recommended before. So, I had never seen a gut test. My doctor never told me to look at like the amount of parabens or phalates or environmental toxins. Um and my health was like great according to my doctors, right? So, but as soon as I started getting some of these labs back, I'm like, "Oh, I think this can be better." So, it was just yeah, it was a build and I have a very type A personality. I really started to love the fact that you could feel better like as you got older, you know, um I'm 34 now and I feel better now than when I was like 18 years old. So, I'm like this is amazing. Um and then I just started to get so educated on the subject, right? So, as you build these medical clinics, you talk to all these doctors and you know, practitioners and I'm like, what are you doing that's working? And then we started implementing a lot of that and then I got this great clinical experience which was so fun because you you get to see people's lives change. You get to because I would say about 50% of the patients that live are wanting to improve lifespan or health span but the other 50% have like some chronic illness. They've been to 10 15 20 doctors and they can't figure out why they feel horrible. And so those people you get to put the them through these interventions and protocols and then you see their life change. That's like the most rewarding thing. So yeah, I got excited about all these different therapies and um the ability to improve health now but also for the future. Yeah, because you know sometimes people don't care about their health but if they get sick they start to care. So it's like you know you will care eventually and at that at that point when you are forced to care about your health that's the only thing you want like you would you know take give away anything just to be healthy. Yeah. your entire focus just goes to that. And it's so sad because people unfortunately like treat their body like a garbage can, you know, for so long. They just they're like, "Oh, nothing's happening. It's fine." But it just it's accumulating and eventually it's just going to tip over and then you're going to have some sort of chronic disease. So, I love the work that you're doing. That's the work I'm trying to do is just say take care of yourself now when it's easier, when you're younger, and when you haven't developed any chronic disease because it's going to be so much more difficult to reverse that later. Yeah. So, on your podcast, we talked about my grandfather who died to cancer. Do you have any like family history of any chronic diseases or is there something that you're genetically worried about? Actually, no. So my great-grandmother is 95 and she is still living on her own and she is still Yeah. just I mean enjoying life. So there wasn't anything major. My my parents are both My parents also had me really young. So my mom was like 18. My mom was just out here. No one could believe that she was my mom. Everyone was just like, "Oh, who's your friend?" And I'm like, "No, this is my mom." So that's good. I didn't have anything like that. But I just knew that I could feel better. And I knew that like, you know, at one point I was working, you know, 80 hour weeks like for many years in a row. And you can't do that if you're not optimized, if you are not eating the right foods and getting high quality sleep. And it's much more difficult to do that. And I just knew I was going to have to because I wanted a life that was so beautiful, but I just knew I would have to put in a lot of work to get there. So, um, no, not particularly, but it was kind of like my own pursuits, like wanting to see how good can I get so I can achieve all these things. Yeah. Well, if you have a grandma grandma who's so old, you have very high likelihood of living to 100 as well because the research is something like if your mother or grandmother or someone who lived to 100 become a centinarian then the offspring's likelihood of is also like 100% higher than the general population or something like that. So yeah, I love that genes are great. I mean yeah and she by by no means is she doing anything like health health related. Yeah. Before I continue on, I'll briefly mention to you about one of my favorite longevity gadgets, which is the point charge infrared sauna blanket. It's a cheaper and more convenient way to take the sauna anywhere at any time. I've talked a lot about the benefits of regular sona use. I believe taking the sona regularly is the second best thing for your longevity after exercise. In fact, the sauna mimics a lot of the health benefits of exercise. The sona is also effective for excreting heavy metals and other chemicals we're exposed to on a daily basis. It's got a rating of 4.9 out of five based on 176 reviews, which is crazy. But I'm not surprised because I'm using the blanket almost every day and it gets the same job done as a regular sauna. Plus, it's easy to clean and you can store it under your bed. All right, back to the video. You're also like very vocal about like u male and female uh health. So, there's like a lot of differences that there are between men and women. So maybe you can elaborate like what are some of like the biggest things people miss when it when we're talking about health advice for men and women. Yeah, absolutely. So when I started all this, you know, the medical literature is essentially for men, right? So women weren't required to be included in research until like the 1990s, you know, so that's like as old as I am just about you too probably close. So that it hasn't been a very long time. So all these like longevity protocols and a lot of the research is done on men. So then that information is extrapolated for men. So I was doing a lot of these longevity protocols like let's use caloric restriction as one. We know that that's one of the um best interventions for life extension. Right. So I believe was it a 20 to 30% caloric restriction yielded a 20 to 30% longer lifespan. Right. Yeah. Um so I was doing all these things. I was implementing the caloric restriction from the research. I was implementing uh intermittent fasting you know with that. Then I was implementing all the exercise regimes. Uh and at the end of the day I was watching my biomarkers like my thyroid and my hormones trend in the wrong direction. So my thyroid was dropping. My hormones were becoming disregulated. So I really started to you know pull the cover back and say okay why is this? I'm doing all of the right things but for some reason my biomarkers are trending in the wrong direction. And um I really kind of just put it together. Let's reel it in a little bit. And so I found differences in every single area. So let's you know sleep we know sleep is like the foundation of health right so in the literature it says that women need about 11 to 20 minutes more sleep than men which is interesting um what I have found just like in one study so I've been blessed enough to be able to go to bed at the same time and wake up with no alarm clock I have found especially during specific phases so like late ludial or early follicular that's you know the bleed phase for women um that I need even about an hour more sleep than um my husband And if we think about first principles, because there's not a lot of medical research, that's what this whole thing that I'm doing is, right? It's first principles thinking about some of these um really underresarched topics like ovarian aging. We'll talk about that in a second. But um so women detox slightly slower than men because we prioritize fat storage and we have more body fat in general than men. So we detox a little slower. That could be a reason that we need more sleep to detox. And then we're also exposed to more toxins. So, we're it's estimated that we leave the house with about double the amount of toxins that men do in the form of personal care products and fragrances and makeups, all these different lotions and stuff that we're putting on and different products. So, that could be one reason because we don't really know exactly why women need um more sleep than men, but that's one big difference. So, if you're just listening to this, you're like, I'm going to do a super strict longevity protocol, then being a part of the 5 a.m. Boys Club might not work for you as a woman, you know, because we do need more sleep. So that's something um that's was an interesting finding. Yeah. Yeah. And you know more stress or more of these uh even if they're considered positive stressors like too much of anything is also bad for men. Like you know there's a lot of men as well who do the 5 a.m. and 3 hours exercise every day and calorie restriction etc. And you know their health is also not in the best shape. At least their hormones would probably like quite suboptimal if they were to be natural. like it's very unlikely for men to even maintain normal hormone levels with a very stressful and highly physically active lifestyle, not to mention women. So, yeah. Yeah. Because, you know, um women are more sensitive. So, let's say, you know, you and your wife or me and my husband are both getting into a cold plunge and let's say, you know, you can do fine at 35 degrees Fahrenheit. um and then she gets in, she's going to have a higher cortisol spike faster than you are. So that's another difference, right? Is these hormetic stressors, which we know and love for improving resilience and increasing our capacity to handle stress. Women just need to think about it a little differently. So the principles of longevity protocols are all the same, but it's like in the details and the nuance how you implement those can be either amazing and help you optimize health span uh and energy and fertility. You know, fertility is a huge issue right now on both sides of the coin, right? It's 50% from the man, 50% from the woman. But um horatic stressors is another one. So I was doing a lot of cold therapy all the time all throughout my cycle. So, it was just I was like doing caloric restriction and intermittent fasting and trying to be like waking up super early and I was also doing all these hormatic stressors and it was just way way way too much. So, um what I have found now I've kind of optimized my cold therapy protocol and so I'm doing all of my cold therapy in the first half of my cycle. So, this is like day one through about day 14 because we have all this estrogen and so we can take advantage of that as women and we can do our hardest. That's when I'm hitting like all my PRs. I'm really doing most of my HIT training because we know like HIT training is so good for the mitochondria and fun fact but women um the highest density of mitochondria is like in the heart brain but women also have a massive mitochondrial density in the ovaries specifically in these oytes. So I'm always thinking about mitochondrial optimization for that and for fertility also. So that was another big change is changing and reducing the hormetic stressors um timing duration and temperature. So, I'm keeping my cold plunge. I have a cold plunge up there that we walk past um at about 40 degrees Fahrenheit instead of those super cold temperatures because I'm getting the same benefit as my husband, but I can do less time and I can do uh warmer warmer temperatures. So, uh those are a few of the nuances. And then even when it comes to nutrition, you know, um being able to optimize your nutrition for your cycle. So, we're mostly talking about women uh that are the age of like your wife and me. So um this is like a childbearing years maybe you know pmenopause when you get into menopause it changes a bit because your your hormones are really very stable and they're very low but um for someone in their childbearing years that is menrating you can even optimize your nutrition to your cycle because men you it's kind of like groundhog days it's like you guys have this 24-hour cycle of hormones which is great but we have to think through everything in like days 1 through 14 then 14 through 16 and then 16 through the end so I'm eating like a little bit more grass-fed grass-finish red meat in that first week because you're losing iron. So, you can supplement with that. Um, we know that women are more insulin sensitive in the first half of the cycle, so during that follicular phase. So, that is something to know because you want to take advantage of that. You're a little bit less insulin sensitive in the second half of the cycle. So, managing blood sugar throughout that cycle can also be really helpful. Um, so those have been like a few of the differences. And I would say one of the last differences that's really important to know is this total toxic burden thing. I'm really obsessed with this right now because women are exposed to so many more environmental toxins. So I think if women can start to reduce their total toxic burden either, you know, you don't have to test if you don't want to spend the money on the test, but um just starting to swap out products. There's a there's a resource called the environmental working group. Great resource. They have something called the skin deep database. You could just type in the product that you're using right now. It'll give you a score. You want to stay in the green zone of toxicity and you can just start swapping out, you know, products for less toxic products. I mean, here in the US, for sure, regulations are very wide. There's not much regulation at all on what goes in the food or what goes on your skin. But when you're thinking about your skin, it's essentially like a mouth. You know, it's being absorbed transermally. That's why we even need to shower or filter our shower water here. So trying to reduce that toxic burden for women I think is going to be really helpful overall to hormone hormone health. Like a lot of women have these PMS symptoms and these hormonal imbalances. And I think if you can optimize your hormones, you're going to really just feel so much better. Yeah. Yeah. For men, most men it's just the threein one shower gel that that they're exposed to. But yeah, women have a lot more Yeah. the the shampoo, the shower gel, and the conditioner all at once. But but yeah, it's like a small amount compared to women who um are using different personal care products and makeup and things like that. So yeah. Yeah. And even like cleaning products, you know, women are traditionally exposed to more of them. I know that there these roles are changing a bit, I suppose. I don't know. My husband doesn't doesn't touch cleaning products. So I mean, um yeah, I think it's just the accumulation and we're living in an environment as you know, and we were even talking about the differences of like where you live in Estonia versus like living here in LA. It's vastly different. It's the air pollution is really uh something to be so it depends on where you're at in the world. But if you're here in the US, we know that there's just all sorts of these, you know, known carcinogen and endocrine disrupting chemicals like these microplastics that we now know are in the brain, in the ovaries, in the placenta of babies. Um those mimic estrogen. So we see young girls uh starting to menrate earlier ever than ever. We see women entering menopause earlier than ever. So, these are things we really need to be thinking about these like estrogen mimicking substances. Yeah. So, you you're planning to get a baby with your husband eventually. Uh how do you like prepare for that? Like um because uh yeah, like you said, there's a lot of these toxins and microplastics that you know have been found to be transmitted from the mother to the baby as well. So, how are you like preparing yourself uh you and your husband? How are you preparing to get like the healthiest uh with the least microplastics? Yeah, they do. I know it's it's the whole thing. So, I mean, I want to preface that, you know, this is what I do professionally like for my job. So, I don't think anyone everyone needs to do all of this, but for me, I'm trying to optimize every lab. So, of course, just like basic blood work. We want like our lipids to look good, our inflammation to be really low, our you know, insulin and glucose and all of all of our just basic blood work we want to optimize. But then I want to look at like nutrient status. Um, so I do something called a Nutri Eval. So instead of just guessing like what supplements I should take, I literally draw labs and I look at all these nutrient statuses because we know that once you get pregnant, the baby is just going to draw so many of those nutrients from you. So actually all throughout the pregnancy, I'm excited because I don't think this has ever been done. I'm going to do an obscene amount of labs, you know, probably every few weeks, like two to three weeks during pregnancy to see what's going on because we don't even know, which is crazy. It's 2025. We really have no clue what's going on in a woman's body during pregnancy. So, I'm going to be I'm optimizing the nutrial, which is the nutrient status test. Really optimizing the um the the total toxurn test. So, getting those down as low as possible because we also know that higher levels of environmental toxins decrease a lab value called AMH or antimmalarian hormone. This is a measurement of your egg reserve as a woman. So, it's it's not a perfect measurement and there is no exact measurement to test fertility until you try to get pregnant. It's like do you or don't you? But I have gotten all the labs to just see where things are. And I think all women should know their AMH because if it's really low and you're young, that might mean that you either need to do a complete 180 on lifestyle, but you also might want to freeze your eggs. You might want to start trying to get pregnant. Um, are you f familiar with this lab? I've heard about it. The AMH. So, um, that that's a good one just to have an idea of, but going back to what I'm doing for pregnancy, optimizing gut health, we know that like your the mother's microbiome is going to be passed down to the child. So, I do a test called the GI effects by GOVA, just trying to get that as top tier as possible. Um, definitely taking like a a male and female um prenatal. So, we take a we needle. They have a woman's version and a men's version, which is really nice. loaded with like antioxidants and, you know, methylated folate and some of these key nutrients that we need. It's great to know, but there's a three-month window for both men and women that you can optimize to as much as possible. So, women can optimize their egg quality, men can optimize their sperm quality. So, my husband's doing all this stuff, too. So, we're looking at his total toxic burden. We're looking at his gut test, his blood biomarkers to also help him detox. We're doing a lot of sauna, so at least minimum four sauna sessions. Since the fires in LA, I'm doing sauna every day now. So, really helping to just excrete those toxins, doing a lot of binders. Um, this is really extreme and I'm only doing it because of the toxins, but I did therapeutic plasma exchange, doing Eboo to reduce that toxic burden, but just having an idea of where your toxin levels are. It looks at BPA. I've done the microplastic test, too. So, just reducing microplastics in all ways. So, of course, using glass, not drinking out of plastic, no plastic, little cups, and then heating it up in coffee. That's like one of the worst, just dispersing microplastics everywhere. Same thing with tea bags. I mean, that's like a lesser known but really important. Those plastic tea bags, people are putting it into hot water, drinking green tea, thinking it's amazing for them, and then they're just drinking like, you know, millions of microlastics. Um, clothing even. I'm really trying to move my clothing to be natural fibers, organic and just like 100% cotton because a lot of these workout outfits for women, you know, the polyester spandex, they're actually have a ton of microplastics in them. And then when you sweat, they're actually able to like seep in transmine and a lot of the chemicals. So just working out in some basic like 100% cotton outfits instead of those like super cute workout outfits. That's something. Um really leaning into optimal nutrition. So I tend to eat similar to you, you know, like a Mediterranean style diet. I do eat red meat. Always just I think quality is everything and focusing on single ingredient foods, you know, um like one ingredient, kale, avocado. Healthy fats are amazing. We know that eggs um you know, increasing your choline is better for baby's brain development. So I have eggs. I eat fermented foods which are great for gut health. Love things like um pomegranates because they're loaded with uraliththna. A lot of the supplements that we know to be good for longevity, I do try to get in the food forms like um uralithna and like natto, I mean it tastes horrible, but like it's, you know, you get a lot a high dosage. Um love take taking the pomegranates, things like bone broth, which are really great for sealing the gut and improving gut health pre-baby. Um I mean even organ meats or like an organ meat supplement of some kind. I mean again tastes horrible but um really good like nutritional powerhouse just you know in one one small dosage. So optimizing sleep you know women experience stress at much higher levels. So that doesn't mean we have more stress but the way that we perceive it our stress levels are higher. It's crazy because I look at my husband's aura ring and I look at mine. He's a CEO. He wakes up super early, works so hard. He's building a business but somehow he's in restored like all day on a ring. Not me at all. Like I have way less stress than him actually. But for some as a woman, we I think it's just we were built like that because we were built to have children, right? So our senses are heightened all the time because we were meant to like hear the baby crying or, you know, watch out for something. We're just built differently. So our baseline stress is higher. And we know that like 80% of doctor's visits are related to stress. So really trying to intentionally reduce stress uh pre-bab or trying to be the most fertile. So for me I've also like wound in as mentioned you know these cold therapy practices and stuff in the ludial phase and trying to focus on stress reduction I think is huge. One really cool thing that I've found hyperbaric does is that as soon as the chamber is pressurized um my stress levels on aura go from being stressed to being in restored immediately and they stay there. So that's a really cool thing. But I think women should intentionally build in stress reduction. So I have four to five times per day on my calendar starting in the morning that I'm doing breath work. I have a little device called a moonbird and it really helps you like slow down your breath and breathe super deep and then I can see myself transition into parasympathetic. So I think that parasympathetic activation for women is so important because we also know women are experiencing you know 80% of the autoimmune conditions. um we live on average four to six years longer than men, but we also experience a lot more and longer chronic disease. So, um yeah, it's those are some of the things I'm doing for fertility optimization. And my husband's doing a lot of it, too. I mean, leaning into exercise, we know that being sedentary is is um a negative for fertility. We know that having a high BMI is a negative for fertility. Um so, of course, those things, focusing on high quality sleep will help with some of that stress reduction, too. and just balancing your hormones. So, you say like a three-month period before conception, you want to be like a super clean lifestyle, the best ever. Yeah. Yeah. Because you can actually make a big impact in that three months. So, that's kind of cool. You know, I think people should not be discouraged if you know you really want to be in peak health if you're just start now and three months you have this time to really like make a difference in your egg quality and sperm quality. Yeah. Many people don't think about it like they don't think that your current state of health how it influences the child you know even though you might be healthy later but you know during the conception stage uh you need to be in like pretty good health if you want to make the child also like the the healthiest uh there's like in you know after Chernobyl there was like a lot of women who uh you know were afraid of getting uh pregnant and they didn't because of the fear of radiation you know which will you know have some effects on on the child. Oh that's interesting. I wonder if there's like is there a lot of research around Chernobyl and what happened there. Um well I I remember reading a few studies where there was a lot of abortions after Chernobyl because because the because the women were afraid of some risk for the child. But uh apparently it's not like that big an effect that it would like significantly increase the risk of some some mutations or something. So yeah, unless you were very close to it like you know if you're if you were in Sweden during the explosion then you probably didn't have any significant risk. Yeah. So yeah the you know exposure and how far are you away from it has a much more important role. Yeah. And the same with, you know, the environmental pollutants like the LA fire is probably, you know, will have a bigger effect now since it's been recent. So there's a lot more of these pollutants in the air than, you know, 6 months ago. Yeah. Well, I looked into a little bit like I was just trying to understand what happened around 911, you know, so there was two buildings and there are about 130,000 people from what I found enrolled in like a government supported health program. um because of it's not it's of course the initial issues and the initial exposure, but my concern and why we're leaving LA is that I think as they go to clean it all up over the course of the next two years, it's going to keep being reintroduced into the into the air, you know, and they're really harmful things that are linked to things like birth defects and infertility and cancer. And so, I mean, for me, and I know that this is coming from a massive place of like um you know, privilege, I'm leaving. But if I weren't leaving LA, I would definitely do everything I could to detox as often as possible. Yeah. Gotcha. Um what what about like for men? Like is the way to enhance like because you know the there's declining birth rates um for many reasons. People choose to have less children but there's also yeah like declining fertility because of the modern lifestyle. other like uh way like what do you think is the biggest reasons why the your birth rates are declining and are there some things that people can do to like support their fertility? Yeah, of course. I mean well I think the biggest number to think about is like the fact that fertility on and of itself not even just the birth rates has declined about 30% in the last 30 years. So it's going down about 1% each year which doesn't sound like a lot per year but it's compounding right? So when we get to 50 years will be 50%. So, um, yeah, it's certainly 50% for the man, 50% of the woman. So, it's both sexes need to be optimized, right? Um, and I think for sure, I mean, it's so many things, right? Like sedentary behavior constantly. I mean, we know that, um, 60% of Americans have one chronic disease, 40% of Americans have two chronic diseases. This is absolutely insane, right? So, trying to get in the healthiest state ever, lower BMI, exercise, um, improving hormones in general, I think, is helpful. and also reducing the amount of environmental toxins. So both of these things really apply to both sexes. Um gut health optimization really important for both sexes. Um and uh also nutrient status you know optimization I think can be helpful for both sexes. And it's it's great because if you're married like you know for me I make all the meals so like I look at my husband labs and then I make all the meals and then I prepare the supplements. So like he doesn't really have to do much different you know he's just like kind of following the protocol. Um, but I think yeah, definitely just just maintaining a super healthy lifestyle is going to be so helpful. Sleep too chew for men. Really all the same things. Um, and then probably supplementation for men too. So I love you can do like a one-stop shop like a prenatal for men which is like a very common thing now. I think it used to not be but now it's quite common. So I find that to be to be really helpful as well. You mentioned your husband was on small testosterone before. Yeah. So that reduces sperm count, right? Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Um I mean if you're on testosterone and you want to have children, I mean I would be really careful. Um there are other options that you could consider something maybe like enlomophene for a short dose, but um yeah, testosterone it essentially turns off the signaling mechanisms to the testes to produce these sperm. So and and some people on testosterone, not to be like fear-mongering or anything, it's very bio-individual, but um if you're on it for a super long time, you just want to be conscious if you want to have children in the future. So yeah, I mean right away I asked him to start cease that and um thankfully he did. How many kids do you want? We want a lot. So I would like to have like five or six kids. So my husband was one of six. He was all him and all the siblings were homeschooled. I was one of five. So we both had big families. And um yeah, we want to have I didn't ask you that question. How many kids do you want? Um well yeah I mean we were thinking of two would be like uh definitely what we want maybe three four so depends yeah um the interesting thing is that uh women who are able to have children later in life they live longer so like if they can have it in 40s a child then uh that's a good sign of uh of good health. So, um, yeah, maybe maybe we'll have more. So, who knows? I mean, hey, you know, for me, it's like why not why not have a bunch of like little amazing kids running around? It's going to be so fun. Yeah. Yeah. And, uh, for men especially, like I think I saw some study on Amish Amish people um, that for men the lowest mortality was something like 14 children. Oh my gosh. And for the for the woman it was something like six or five six was the lowest. Wow. So, I mean, yeah, people have been having babies, you know, forever, and it's it's really sad that we're in this place that people are struggling so hard to get pregnant. Um, some of it has to do with age in general because the age of first baby is just getting, you know, pushed out. Obviously, it was like, you know, late like late like late teens at some point, like 19, 20 years old, mid20s, but um now we're having babies older, so that means we have to take even better care of oursel, you know. Yeah. there's a lot of some fear that if you if you're past you know 35 or something then you shouldn't have kids anymore because it's too late for the woman but which you know if you look at the studies yeah like women who have children in their 40s they you know are able to live longer so yeah but I do think it's a big correlation that they're already healthier right well that's that's the point yeah like if you are able to do it then you're healthy you have you know healthy body um one interesting thing yeah like we uh touched already is like the pollutants and microplastics and those kind of things. Do you have any like specific protocol you follow and like what kind of tests you do to like remove them because you know they're everywhere and they've become quite like um worrisome in the sense you find them that in higher amounts of microplastics in the arteries uh increases risk of heart disease or heart attacks. So yeah, they're like accumulating in the brain at 2x the speed. It's wild. Um, so in terms of testing, I do the total toxic burden test. I've also done um there's another microplastic only test. Do you know the one that I'm talking about? I'll send you the link. Um, I forgot the name of the company, but that'll just show you if you have microplastics, right? Um, I mean, everybody has some some form of microplastics. I think when I think about this, it's obviously uh, you know, I actually interviewed Dr. David Ferman. Do you know who he is from the Buck Institute? Um and he thinks that microplastics is like uh the biggest threat to humanity after like a world war. So really important topic here. Um so what what do I do first is like reducing it microplastic. So what do I do for that? Definitely no tap water. Tap water is one of the biggest sources of microplastic exposure. So filtering uh preferably with like a reverse osmosis. That's what's really going to get the microplastics out. Then you have to remmineralize it though because it strips out everything including the minerals. So, I put minerals back in. Uh, salt is actually a huge source of microplastics because it's sitting in the bottom of the ocean collecting. So, I have a like my husband was laughing last night. He's like, you have four different types of microplastic free salt in there. So, um, microplastic free salt is a big one. Um, just simply never having plastic. It's it's hard though because even if you order from a grocery store, like things are in plastic. So ideal life for me is going to be always going to the farmers market, never using a plastic bag, but it's so hard. So reducing your exposure as much as humanly possible. I also have a microplastic filter on my dryer, so it actually collects the microplastics from clothing. So that that can be helpful. Um, let me think. Of course, just like steel, uh, anything that you're cooking with, never using plastic. I searched for this coffee. Yeah, I mean I actually I found the best brand over here after like trial and error. Um 100% pure ceramic. It's called Extrema. So I really like that one and I like cast iron too because a lot of these brands they just uh put a ceramic coating on it and then once that coating you get through it then you get like exposure to these harmful uh you know chemicals. Same thing with even cutting boards. So, in the kitchen, doing like a wood or some sort of stone cutting board can be really helpful for the kitchen to reduce your micro microplastic exposure. Um, we mentioned clothing, uh, swapping out that. And then in terms of detoxification, I mean, I love a lot of fiber and like cruciferous vegetables. Sulfurophane is great for that. So, I do sulfurophane supplementation, a lot of like broccoli, cauliflower. Um, not only is it good for just like keeping things regular and fiber requirements, but it's good for detoxing. Um, eating a lot of antioxidants is super important for getting rid of some of these um, microplastics. Uh, sauna is really, really great. So, doing sauna, sauna is amazing, right? Like the risk of I believe it's a 66% reduction in dementia with four sauna sessions or more per week. Um, you have a massive risk in all cause mortality and cardiovascular events. So, doing that um, super important. This This is like way um let's just work from like basic to like up to more extreme. Um so reducing exposures in all ways. Definitely do that immediately. Never drink these like soft plastic water bottles, you know, and then people like put them in the car and then they're in the heat. It's total disaster. So just stop doing that and always be a nerd. Like have a little water bottle that you bring. Unless you're in the Sahara Desert and looking for water and maybe then maybe. But you know it's like so funny like most women carry around like a handbag. I just show up everywhere with a glass bottle of water. Like everyone's like, "You just bring this everywhere." And I do. Um, that's super helpful. And then, so we talked about some detox modalities, the sauna. I mean, exercise, just moving your body, sweating. We were meant to sweat. I don't think that we do that nearly enough now because we're way too sedentary. But sweating is a mechanism to excrete these things. Obviously, regular bowel movements are a way to excrete uh toxins. um a few more advanced things that you know I'm doing to because we actually don't know how to get the microplastics out of the tissues once they've actually embedded. So our best bet right now is to get them before they've been embedded into the tissues. Yeah. When they're in the blood. So um things like you know IU can be helpful. Plasma feresis can be really helpful. Um you could also I don't know the exact percentage of efficacy but you know some people donate plasma and donate blood, right? So you can do these things that are free. Sometimes you even get paid for them. Um so that is something because we of course know TP is like very expensive right now. But those are a few things I think to get them out of the blood in addition to all of the other practices. Is there anything I missed? Is there anything else you're doing? Um so I mean yeah like there's best way to yeah like to get them out of the blood. So like blood donation taking the blood out filtering it with the TP and those kind of things. I think the they're the most effective probably. Um u there's also things like uh this um IV with the UV light or something like that you do the light is shut into your veins. So like there's some research that the UV light goes breaks down some of these microplastics but it doesn't you know take it out. Yeah. So the EO would be probably like a better version because you take out Mhm. It goes through a little filter filter and then you also shoot the UV light in there ozenated. So, and then get get back in. So, that's a more efficacious approach, I would imagine. But, you know, there's no studies on that yet, but theoretically like the TP is probably like the most effective or or blood donation. Blood donation is like a low lower barrier to entry. You get paid or it's free. So, yeah, but yeah, you you're giving it to someone else. I know who is, you know, in dire need of it uh if they if they need a blood donation. But uh you know it's still um you know it's better than nothing. Yeah. So I think I think that's where we're at. I think a lot of companies tech companies are like pursuing this right because it's like a massive issue for human health. Um how do we get rid of these get them out of tissues and I can't even I can't really think of a good way even just first principles thinking like how do you get them out of tissues without going inside the body? I don't know. Maybe I don't know, HBOT or something because oxygen because environmental plastics degrade with oxygen. Yeah. And sunlight. So, uh maybe there's something there. But it's just like how long is it going to take for them to degrade, you know? Yeah. Yeah. The best best thing is just get them out of blood regularly and reduce your exposure like as much as be like think about I'm thinking about it all the time, right? which might seem like a little neurotic, but like once you get yourself set up, it's not so much like stress. Like once you have eliminated plastics, you have your little water bottle and all your things, then you don't have to think about it so much. Yeah, it's hard in the beginning when you're kind of used to the plastic. But if you like start using a stainless steel pan or whatever, you remove the plastic cutting board, then it's I mean it's just there's literally no effort to just replace it. Yeah. Same. Well, and also one other thing about the kitchen is those um you know like black utensils are apparently made from like old electronics. Okay. Wow. And so you're like heating them up. Yeah. I mean awful. So I use like just stainless steel uh utensils, you know, some from time to time a wood utensil. You have to be careful you don't get like mold or something in the wood. But um yeah, just optimizing, you know, as you can like don't be overwhelmed. But I've tried to make like my home environment as optimal as possible so I don't have to think about it. Yeah. What do you think about the total plasma exchange um from a longevity perspective, not just a detox? Uh do you think it has any like longevity potential or benefits? Yeah. One other thing to mention too is air filtration because we actually breathe more than we do anything. Yeah. So um the air inside of homes is typically you know about I think eight to 10 times worse than the air outside. So that I think is another big uh lever that you can pull is really filtering your air and getting those microplastics out of the air and any other contaminants. Uh because that was the issue with the LA situation. And so when you breathe things in, it bypasses your detoxification systems and you have all these like capillaries and blood vessels in your lungs. So breathing something in is actually like one of the worst ways to be exposed to it because it gets a massive dose right into the bloodstream. One of the ways they get to the brain is through the olfactory bulb. Mhm. So, it's like the soft tissue, so they just merge through it. Yeah. Exactly. The brain. Um like I'll show you when we when we go back upstairs, I have like a Jasper in every single room, which is like way too much technically, but like you know, the air quality even throughout the fires, I have little testers all throughout the house of the air quality and it remained good throughout the whole fire. So, um so TPE for longevity. Uh yeah, I mean I think that there's a massive benefit for longevity. So it was originally used from what I understand for people um with very serious autoimmune cases. So it would actually remove some of those antibodies. So let's say you have Hashimoto thyroiditis, you would have um these antibodies that are attacking your thyroid. So it can remove those from the plasma and lower the impact and the damage on your body. It also was used during uh COVID apparently for people experiencing these cytoine storms to really reduce that. So I think yes for longevity probably though the benefit is primarily coming from the reduction in things like microplastics, heavy metals, molds and miccotoxins. Um that would be my first line of thought. What about you? Do you think any other longevity? I mean, yeah, like with age, you'll have just more inflammatory molecules, old proteins, just junk material in the in the blood. And um you know, there's like there's these studies with this blood exchange between like old mice, young mice, etc. And apparently the old mice do get healthier from the blood of the young mice. Um so uh if you just you know take out the old blood and filter it and you have a little bit younger blood then it might have some systemic effects yeah this theoretically. So I'm just very interested in yeah like what it's going to turn out to be in the next few years if you know we will have some studies on it but you know theoretically yeah just removing just even just yeah like the toxins and the junk material then you'll just have like just better health if not longer life. Yeah. Yeah. I mean in in general, yeah, like um becoming worse at fighting off all things, right? So just yeah, like an infusion in those studies, I can't remember how did they track how long the benefit lasted with the old and the new mice, the old and the I don't remember exactly, but uh I think they were attached together. Yeah. Yeah. Like continuously. So like I think it lasted on because you know if you detach them then the the effect is going to wear off eventually. Mhm. So yeah, that is that is interesting. I have I have not gotten any infusions of any new blood. I've Yeah. Um what about HBOT? Yeah, I mean so I definitely need to do exact biomarkers because I've been doing Hbot actually for a very long time like intermittently. I just this year really did like the big protocol. So my Hbot Dr. um do you know Dr. Scott? Yeah. Yeah. He's amazing. So, I have a one base and so he's helped me put together my protocols. Um, and so I I have loved it from a cognition standpoint. I mean, my AMH I wish I had an AMH before I ever started HBOT, but I unfortunately don't. Um, I've definitely feel a lot of good benefits. Um, my health is good, but unfortunately I don't have I wish I had like biomarkers right before and then after, but from what he is showing, um, actually Hbot is a great way to improve sperm quality. That's been proven in the literature. It's really great for brain health. We know that for sure. Any uh concussions or any TBI is really helpful for healing and repairing brain. Uh also things like ED or erectile dysfunction because of the improvements in blood vessels and vascularity and the ability to kind of like revascularize which is incredible. Um the stress reduction I saw that direct impact. So really being able to put into a parasympathetic state. Uh let me think about some they're doing uh studies right now on fertility in Hbot which I'm excited to see what those yield. They're doing studies on uh AMH that antimmalarian hormone or the ovarian reserves because women these days are experiencing diminished early ovarian reserves like more so it seems than in the past and I think a lot of it has to do with environmental toxins and just lifestyle. Um but yeah HBO has been great for me so far. Um also I mean tieumirs they say that they lengthen tieumirs my tieumir age I got a new test yesterday it'S-23 so I mean things are going well um in that regard but I yeah the next one that I do so the way that Dr. Scott framed it for me was that I should do a body protocol so that's 40 sessions one hour per day five times per week until you hit the 40 sessions at 2.0 or no ATA. Then you take a break and do maintenance. You can do like one to two sessions per week if you want just any maintenance. And then you do brain protocol which is 1.5 ATA. So dropping down the pressure and then repeating those one time per or one hour per day, five times per week at 40 sessions. So I'm going to try that and see see what happens. Um but yeah, the the studies on tieumirs are pretty good too. So I think it can definitely play a role in longevity. I mean oxygenation of the tissue and the body and improving you know blood flow are all incredible benefits and really go to like the bottom line of longevity I think. Yeah it's I also think it's very interesting it's not going to be like some radical life extension but again like better I guess better blood markers that then correlate to a lower risk of some chronic diseases. Yeah. Um supplements are like very popular like do you take any supplements or even peptides? I do. I've tried a lot of different stuff. Um, you know, I love them for all different indications. The way I think about supplements are I have like my non-negotiables, things like omega. So, there's interesting research on having an omega index over eight. So, I usually try to keep my omega index at about 10. Um, this is a blood lab for anybody that's listening that will measure the amount of omegas in your body. So, I do an omega-3. Um, I like the Metagenics brand. I do a vitamin D supplementation. I like you keep my vitamin D at about 70 to 80. I think that's an ideal range. There's a lot of research too linking uh vitamin D and fertility. So that's important for women to know. Um and then I have like things like magnesium that's like in my non-negotiable bucket, right? Um and then I have things that are in my protocol bucket. So that will be whatever I'm working on. So right now because of the fires, it's detox. So I have additional like sulfurophane. I have additional vitamin C. I'm doing binders. I'm on like a cell core protocol. I also am doing a prescription called the clusterine that we talked about earlier to help get rid of some of those environmental toxins. Um, and then I have my what I call like longevity stack. So that is a little bit of NMN which you know I do NMN or NAD testing as well and it's it's wild. I mean it's it's you need to do supplementation to keep your levels up at this uh at least in the environment I'm in right right now. So I do a little bit of um NMN. I do spermadine I think is an interesting molecule. Um it kind of mimics autophagy. So I am triing that. I try stuff all the time. You know it doesn't always necessarily stay. Um I think methylene blue is a kind of interesting compound. I kind of go back and forth with prescriptions actually um for some cognitive enhancement. I've also done methylene blue IV therapy and like stack that with red light. Um that's kind of powerful and I mean really good mental clarity. Um let me think what else I really enjoy. I mean I think uraliththna is great but you can also get it from food sources. So really thinking about improving mitochondria specifically in the ovaries and the oites for anyone that's like looking to get pregnant I think can be really helpful. So I take uh the the metopure um uriththna supplementation and let me think what else I really am enjoying these days. um from a peptide standpoint, I think that I've tried so many of them and we also prescribe a lot of them. So like anyone dealing with um glycemic issues, I think MC is something to uh explore. I have tried CJC and epimelen um so that can help with body composition. Um and anyone looking to like lose a little bit of fat, add a little bit of muscle. Actually, I haven't even talked about this, but this is kind of wild. Something that I did an NF1 test. So, I started trying uh a GLP-1 at a very small dosage. So, I was doing um five units. Mhm. I'd only did it for about a month and I wasn't doing it for the weight loss benefits, but supposedly it can be really good for like longevity, metabolic health. But what's crazy is what happened to my leptin when I got off of it. So, my leptin is so high right now just from a month of that tiny of a dose. So a normal dosage of this GLP-1 would to it depends on the provider but like something like 50 units. So I was taking five super low didn't even like have any really weight loss impact but wild how my leptin right now is almost 50. It's that of like an obese person. So it's crazy to me the swing. I think that this is not talked about and I think it should be because if I didn't have as much discipline as I have because I'm like hungry all the time now. If I didn't have as much discipline. So if you think about it, imagine someone on a dosage. So I don't know where I land. I'm just having conversation about this about the GLP ones because it does seem to have of course weight loss benefits and then you get all these longevity benefits from losing weight. They also seem to have some independent benefits of longevity. But imagine trying to get off of it if I was on a high dose like a normal person would be. And then your leptin, so that's like increasing your hunger hormones. Crazy just spikes massive. So yeah, there's like a rebound effect then major. But I did not expect that with such a small dose for such a short period of time. Yeah, you would expect yeah like some people to regain some weight once they stop taking uh GLP once and they'll you because the hunger comes back. Um but yeah, like the leptin is quite interesting or maybe that's the reason why they rebound then the leptin increase seems. So yeah, but I'm just curious like what would it be if I was on a higher a normal dose, right? Um because it almost makes me feel like it really is going to keep people on it forever. Like Yeah. Well, that's very interesting. Yeah. Once they go. But they do have, you know, very crazy results with weight loss. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's kind of a are you going to stay obese or are you going to use it and lose the weight and get to normal weight? You know, even though you have to might take it for a longer period of time, you know, you could be able to, you know, stop it and then regain maybe 10% back, but it's still better than being 100% of the initial weight. So, yeah, I mean, I think for sure like people that really need it, I mean, totally I I would do it. Um, so I mean GLP-1 is a peptide, so there's that. I have tried that, but as just mentioned, it was for a very short period of time. I'm trying to figure out how to like get the leptin back down to like normal levels quickly. Um, but we'll see how long it takes. I'm going to do a little video on that, too. Um, other peptides that I think are interesting, there's like kissipepin and PT-141. Those are interesting for like sexual function for both men and women. Um, not really my thing. I don't really need that, but you know, if you're having issues, that could be something to consider. Um, yeah. So, peptide, which one? BBC. Oh, BBC. I love that. Yeah, actually, I'm taking oral BPC right now. um because it's great for gut health and um you know optimizing the gut pre-baby. So I'm doing a prescription compounded oral BPC and then I've done uh BPC of course injectables. Actually um I broke my finger on the door outside. It's like so heavy and I healed it in like two weeks by injecting BPC right into the fat pad of my hand and it healed so fast it was crazy like Yeah. So, I did that and I did red light therapy on it um for 15 minutes per day and then I did PEMF on it and it like was healed and back to normal within two weeks. So, it's pretty exciting. But that one's a great one. Body um protection compound. Great for people that uh have any injuries like healing uh just want to recover faster if you're really doing intense exercise. Um my husband takes CJC. That one is really, you know, great for him in the gym. Um so, yeah. I mean, I love peptides. I think it's exciting that we're getting access to these fun fun molecules, although then they kind of like take them away sometimes and then now they gave them back. Um, right. There was a whole thing with the FDA here in America, but now they gave them back, which is absolutely amazing. Um, that's Yeah, I don't like the research. I'm not a huge fan of the research peptides though because I'm concerned of like what if they have contamination with something. So, I would recommend people get them from their doctor because your doctor can like prescribe you and then they're like compounded in an FDA approved facility and Yeah, that's the problem with a lot of peptides that you never know what you get. Yeah. Unless it's a quality source. Which one have you tried? Have you are there any favorites you have? I've used only oral BBC. Okay. Yeah. And I mean I I use like copper peptide but very like not all always. Yeah. There then there's GHCKU. That's a good one. more like topically. You can do it in injectable form, but that, you know, could be good for like skin. Um, but yeah, those are probably Oh, I also like thymus and alpha. Um, those are for like immune system boost. So, depending on, you know, if you need like if your sickness is going around, you want to do like an immune system boost. That's something to consider. Um, and yeah, I think that's probably I mean, I've dabbled, you know, in a lot of them. Um, but we've also seen like clinically, you know, we've seen some really good results with some peptides that have been great like for women when as we age and sarcopenia, um, you know, thinking about something like a CJC or a Tessa Moralin or something to like help add on a little bit of muscle mass, mainly CJC to add on some muscle mass. Like I've seen that be pretty effective. Um, but in general, I think, you know, with my exercise programming, I'm thinking a lot about like adding bone density, improving bone health, and adding on muscle as a woman. Like I just hit um like my grip strength is 100. I mean, I really don't know many women that have 100 grip strength. But like getting that muscle mass and thinking about strength is so important because as we get older when you hit per menopause and menopause, you know, you're precipitously going to lose bone density and you're also going to lose muscle mass. And we know that like if you you know women if you fall and break a hip um I forgot the percentage but it's an incredibly high percentage that you will not make it home from the hospital. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty risky for older people and after menopause the bone density goes pretty low. I'm excited to see like I feel like the biggest game changer for women's longevity would actually be to delay menopause because yeah when you hit menopause like your risk of everything increases like everything u you know cardiovascular disease and dementia all causes of mortality increase substantially. So it's amazing that it's 2025. Um I don't know if you know this the ovaries age at double the speed of every other organ. Yeah. And we basically have no idea why still like in the research. So I'm doing some things that are kind of interesting. So thinking like first principles thinking. So as a woman goes through her like menstrual cycle, there's an entire inflammatory cascade that's happening because you're building up this lining, then the lining is shedding and then it's doing it again and again and again every month. So I'm using trying to strategically use like Hbot and red light therapy to um reduce that amount of inflammation. Uh because like I did I actually did egg freezing because we want so many kids. If we only wanted one or two, I we would just start having kids and it would be no problem. But I want to have it just in case. Uh but usually when a woman has this retrieval of the eggs, it takes like two and a half weeks for the ovaries to go back to normal. My doctor almost fell off of her chair when I came in just 5 days after my retrieval. She's like, "Kayla, I have never seen anything like this in all my days of doing this. Your ovaries are back to normal. Like what did you do?" And I did HBOT and of course like general healthy lifestyle, but I did red light therapy like actually on the ovaries combined with HBOT and it really was able to make a massive impact on that inflammation. So I'm just wondering I'm like if we can reduce the inflammation in the ovaries throughout this cycle. Can we prolong the longevity of the ovaries? I'm also doing um not taking it now because we're about to have babies but I was doing rapamyasin which interesting you know there it's very controversial now right because now some people are saying it can increase your biological age but there's an interesting paper it's not been yet peer- reviewed but rapidosin has been able to extend uh ovarian aging by five years in in these new papers so um you know taking it for that reason only for a woman could be interesting yeah yeah I was seen that and it's like very interesting think that women, you know, one of the reasons why women might live longer than men a few years is because they, you know, up until menopause, they have higher estrogen that has cardio effects. So they get like, you know, four, five decades of time where their cardiovascular burden is somewhat lower compared to men which uh you know starts accumulating already much younger because they don't have that high estrogen levels. So yeah like if you can extend that window so we get menopause in your 60s for example then you know women would theoretically automatically add another five 10 years to their lifespan just by doing that. So yeah and it's you know kind of unfair that you have you know normal sex hormones and then after menopause it just drops off the cliff whereas men you know you can have pretty high testosterone even when you're 80 years old but it does you know kind of trickle down slowly compared to women. Yeah. And these hormones are beneficial for health, right? I mean, it's also wild like the misinformation kind of around women's health. So, my mom lives in Ohio. It's a very small town in, you know, the the US and her doctor read the really old study. There was a study on the women's health initiative like over 20 years ago. They used the wrong sort of like hormone rel replacement therapy and they started it way too late. I think they started it like 10 years after the onset of menopause. And this entire generation of these doctors were educated that hormone replacement therapy will cause cancer for women. And so my mom even to as of today in 2025 her doctors are telling her that she shouldn't be on hormone replacement therapy. Thank goodness she has me, right? And I literally have a clinic. I'm like go to live and go get your hormone therapy because otherwise like she would think that it's it's really bad for her. But I think I mean just logically maintaining similar hormone levels and the benefits of estrogen and these other hormones. I mean of course it can be beneficial. So bio identical the right kind under the right like advisement of a provider. You know these things can be very um like tricky to dial in the dose. So you want to work with someone really good. But it's just sad that we're still having like misinformation from that long ago harming women like you know in 2025. Yeah. Um before we start wrapping up, what are like some of like um a few tests that you think are essential for preventive health? Like yeah, obviously blood panel um you can go as crazy with the blood panel as anyone wishes, but uh yeah, like besides the regular blood work, are there like any tests that you think are really good for preventive health and longevity? Well, I think it depends on what your family history is because based on that, what your predisposition like if you have a family history of cancer, you might want to look at something like a Grail test, right? And a prouvo full body MRI to catch anything really early. Let's say you have um you know cardiovascular disease that runs in your family and it's the number one cause of of the number one killer anyway. you know, looking at like an advanced NMR panel like so not just HDL, LDL triglycerides, but looking at, you know, LP little A and Apo B. These more advanced cardiac panel markers are really important. Um, I also, let me think what else I really love. I mean, those are the B stroke and cardiovascular disease top killers, cancer, diabetes. So, you know, uh, HbA1c, looking at your metabolic markers are really important and your, um, insulin markers, glucose, but you if you can only just do a HbA1c, that one's fine, too. And then those advanced cardiac panels because that's going to kind of look out for stroke and uh, cardiovascular issues. And maybe like a GR, have you heard of Grail Cancer pre-screening? Yeah. Liquid biopsies are becoming more popular. I'm going to do one every year just like for the rest of my life because cancers are getting younger and younger. It's insane. Um, and then when you pair that with something like a full body MRI, you can catch anything really early. So, I think it depends on what your personal um, predispositions are. Also, genetics, you can take a look at your genetics and just see like what are you predisposed to because if you have, you know, like multiple copies of Alzheimer gene, for example, you might really want to be putting brain health first. So, that's why personalization is so important, right? Um, but in general, I think everybody should be testing twice a year a minimum. Um, the most advanced panel that you can afford, right? Um, looking at essentially every organ system. How is your liver performing, your kidneys, your heart health, your brain health? Just breaking those down and being as proactive as humanly possible because it's crazy in medicine because it's like one day you don't have diabetes and the next day you do, but that's not really how it works. It's that was a buildup and you could have seen that like 5 years ago on your labs and then you could have aggressively worked to reverse it, right? And then you wouldn't have gotten the type two diabetes in the first place. Yeah. I actually have like a family member who did get diagnosed with diabetes recently last year and yeah, he never took a blood test for the last 10 years or never went to the doctor. So you don't know when did he actually get it or like because yeah, it's a slow process of over over years. But I had a family member that just, you know, got actually went to my clinic and our provider said, "Hey, like you you have pre-diabetes, right?" And but that's amazing because now guess what he can do? He can aggressively work to reverse that and then he doesn't have to get diabetes. But in most medical um establishments, Western medicine, they just will say, "Oh, you're fine." And then all of a sudden you get diabetes. Like the pre-diabetes is like not even mentioned, you know? Yeah. You're fine until you're not. Yeah. Exactly. So, well, yeah, it's been a great conversation. Um, before I ask my last question, where can people learn more about you and your work? Yeah, my website is Kayla Barnes, k a y l a b a r ne.com. Um, I'm also posting on Instagram under Kayla Barnes and I recently started posting like long forum female specific um, longevity content on YouTube. So, any of those places. That's good. We'll put the links in the show notes. And my last question is uh, what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? Um, I would definitely say stress reduction. You know, I really pushed myself super hard and I um allowed my stress to run at much higher levels than I probably should have for many years. You know, I wanted to do all the things. I wanted to be perfect in all the areas. I wanted to be perfect at working out, running companies, building businesses, showing up for everybody. And I wish I would have thought about stress reduction uh intentionally earlier. Yeah, it's important. Uh well, yeah. Well, thanks for having me and record the podcast here and yeah, thanks for having me on your podcast as well, so people can check it out. Well, of course. Thank you for Thank you for having me and thank you for being on mine. Yeah. All right, that's it for this episode. Make sure you check out my new book, The Longevity Leap on Amazon. I'd also appreciate if you share this episode with a friend or family member. Other than that, my name is Seam. Stay tuned for the next episode. Stay in port.