 c splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend splend cycling, swimming, whatever, you know, whatever you want to do it with, but essentially 60 to 70% of your maximum heart rate or below the lactate threshold. And I'm going to put it in a good tier. I think that it is a very underrated form of exercise, still this low form of exercise. And yes, for maximal like fitness benefits, it's not the best form of exercise, but it still has a place. And when we're talking about general health and longevity, then you want to do a lot more of this low intensity exercise, rack that up and sprinkle in some high intensity exercise. You don't want to be doing as much of a high intensity exercise as possible. You want to kind of rack up the hours of low intensity physical activity and then intersperse it with this high intensity exercise. Barbell squats, I think are absolute gut tier, one of the best exercise or the best exercise for building lower body strength, including hip bone density and spinal bone density. One of the reasons I think I have very high spinal bone density is because of doing a ton of heavy barbell back squats. Pistol squats. So these ones are just one leg squats. You go up and down with one leg and it looks like a pistol. So I think pistol squats aren't the most absolutely essential. If I never had to do pistol squats, then that would be fine. I think they are, you know, a good example of if you're able to do pistol squats, they're a great example of good leg strength, good leg mobility, knee mobility, good knee strength, ankle mobility, all those things. So they are a prestigious exercise. If someone is able to do pistol squats, then, you know, they're fit and functional with their lower body. So I will put it in the gut tier. Split squats. So Bulgarian split squats, other types of split squats. So I would consider them also to be, you know, they are a unilateral exercise. So they are a lot more functional than a standard barbell squat in that perspective. So you're, you're doing it one leg at a time. It reduces the likelihood of muscle imbalances, et cetera, and incorporate some balance. So, you know, I'll put a into the gut tier. If you do some split squats, then that's going to be very good for not only leg strength, leg muscles, but also balance. Deadlift. Now, I think deadlifts are the most effective exercise for lower back and even your lats and grip strength and hamstrings and, you know, a lot of different muscle groups. But I don't think that it's the most essential for just general health and agility. If you do deadlifts, then that's going to be fine. They're not going to be the absolute gut tier in my, in my opinion. I'm going to put it in the gut tier. Pull-ups are gut tier. So pull-ups are one of the best upper body exercises, in my opinion, because, you know, you're not only using one of the largest upper body muscles in your body, which are the lats and the other muscles in the back, but it's also an exercise that is relative to your body weight. So it's a kind of litmus test that if you're over it or not, or if you have just too much mass. So if you're able to do 10, 15, 20 pull-ups, then it means you not only have good muscle strength, but you're also either lean or just normal body weight. Whereas if you're, you know, let's say, super strong with a deadlift, but you're not able to do more than five pull-ups, then it can mean that you just have too much mass. Now, maybe if you're a strong man, that's fine. But in the context of this health and longevity tier, I would still categorize pull-ups in the gut tier, probably one of the best exercises overall from this list currently, because you need to be slightly lower body fat and have a kind of decent muscle mass. So it's a balance between these two. That's why it's the absolute best in my opinion. Push-ups. Now, push-ups are, you know, similar category as pull-ups. You need to be semi-lower body fat, et cetera. You need to have decent muscle strength to do a bunch of push-ups, but the push-ups, the limitation of push-ups is that you'll end up doing tens, even over a hundred push-ups if you're super advanced. So in one set, so it becomes a lot less, you know, effective in terms of overall muscle strength. It's going to train a lot more muscle endurance. Now, if you added a weighted waist or something like that, then yes, you can make the push-ups a lot harder, but push-ups have a kind of ceiling. If you're able to do over 50, 60 push-ups, then you're already maximizing a lot of the benefits of push-ups unless you're going to train for muscle endurance, et cetera. So I'll put it in the gut tier. It's a very good exercise. I think everyone should do some push-ups, but it's going to be a lot less effective than pull-ups, in my opinion. Barbell row. So using the barbell to do rowing, you lean over, lean forward, and you're doing the rowing motion. Now, there's a different types of rowing. You can drop the bar in between reps. You can keep it off the ground throughout the set. Different versions of it, I'll put it into okay. So, you know, first of all, if you're doing the barbell row, then yes, you're using your back muscles, but a lot of the effort also goes into your hamstrings. So you're not really isolating the back muscles that much. So that's why you're kind of limiting your own growth in terms of back development. If you're doing the barbell row, it's otherwise a great exercise. I like it. It's one of my favorite, like, horizontal pulling exercise. So a pull-up is vertical pulling exercise. You're doing up and down. horizontal pull is the row when you're leaning forward. So I think it's, you know, great. I like it, but it's just not going to be that effective. And by the way, I'm not incorporating these different machine exercises that much, maybe a few of them. And the reason is because, you know, you can do hundreds of different versions of machine exercises. You can do the barbell row on a machine with a rowing. So arguably the machine row can be a little bit more isolating towards the back. So, but I'm not going to cover all of these machine exercises because we'll be staying here for hours. You know, I put the barbell row, it's not even that functional, right? So in the everyday world, you're not going to be doing this kind of rowing motion where you're just leaning forward and pulling something towards you. A deadlift is a lot more functional in the real world as well. A barbell row, not that much compared to a pull-up or even like a barbell squat, for example. Dumbbell, one arm row, basically the same exercise, but you're doing with a dumbbell and a unilateral. So I'll put it also in the OK tier for that reason. Overhead press. Overhead pressing is, obviously, can be quite functional. If you lift something over your head, that's going to be super functional, but it's very unlikely that you'll be, you know, overhead pushing something over your head in an everyday setting that something that weighs more than like 50 kilos. It's going to be very unlikely that you'll do that. Of course, in a few scenarios, it might happen, but, you know, there's again like a limitation of how functional it is, but it's certainly one of the best exercise for, you know, overall strength for the upper body. So I'm not going to put it in the gut tier. I'll put it in the gut tier. Dumbbell shoulder press. So for hypertrophy purposes, dumbbell shoulder press is better because you're taking out some of the emphasis on the back. With the overhead press, you're really using your upper back a lot and embracing your core, etc. It's a lot more functional, but it is less effective for muscle growth for the shoulders, whereas the dumbbell shoulder press is more functional for shoulder muscle development. So I'll put it in the OK tier. I don't think it's the, it's a safer exercise and the overhead press less likely to get injured. So actually, I'll put it in the gut tier because of that reason. It's a lot safer than the overhead press. Hit high intensity interval training is gut tier. So to really reap the benefits of cardiovascular fitness and, you know, things that help to increase your VF to max and even having shown to reverse cardiac structural changes that happen with your heart doing aging, then hit is the way to go. So I'll put hit high intensity interval training, whether that be the 4x4 Norwegian method or Tabata intervals, whatever the case is, I'll just put it in the gut tier. Rear delth flies. So these are more hypertrophy style exercises. So you're essentially leaning a little bit forward and doing like a delth flight, trying to target the rear deltoid. Now, it doesn't really have that much, you know, longevity benefits aside from hypertrophy. So I'll put it in maybe some shoulder stabilization, et cetera, for overhead pressing or cleaning jerks, et cetera. But I'll put it in an OK tier in terms of longevity perspective. It's not harming your health unless you're really doing super heavy rear delth flies, but I'll put it in the OK tier. Front delth flies, the same story. The issue with front delth flies, you know, you're raising a dumbbell usually in front of you trying to target the front delts. The issue is that pretty much every pushing exercise has already targets the front delts. A bench press targets your front delts. Push-ups target your front delts. Overhead press targets your front delts. So you're really getting all the stimulus you need for front delt growth. And most people don't really lack the front delt hypertrophy. They're actually slightly overhypertrophized with their front delts that it might actually make them lean a bit forward. And it's a lot more important to do the rear delth flies to balance out all the front delt work that you're doing with the compound lifts. But I think it's, you know, OK. It's not really harming your health. It might lead to some injuries or overtraining in the front delts, which is not the highest likelihood, but it's still possible. I'll just put it in an OK tier because it's not like the most important thing to do. Lateral raises. So these are, you're basically doing the sideways with the dumbbells. These are also OK, I think, in terms of ranking the delt exercises. Rear delts are the most important and most beneficial. Then comes lateral delts and then front delts. Incline bench. So a bench press with an incline. So you're targeting a little bit of the upper chest. Now, from an everyday functional perspective, it's not really functional. Very rarely you will, you know, be in this position where you're pushing something off your chest at an incline position. Now, the incline bench can help to increase your overhead press. It can increase some of the muscle strength in your upper chest. So it's a good exercise in that sense. But I'll put it in the OK tier. Now, for muscle hypertrophy, the incline bench is very good because it makes the upper chest fuller and makes the muscle more, have more hypertrophy. From a longevity perspective, it's not, you know, that functional compared to push-ups or some other overhead press, for example. Decline bench. So it's the opposite. Your actually head is downward towards the ground and targets the lower chest muscles. I don't think it's bad. Again, you know, any hypertrophy for your main muscle groups is going to be net positive, even if it just improves your glucose tolerance, even if you're not going to use them in the real world. It's still improving your metabolic health and increases your bone density, etc. So I'll put it in the OK tier. Dips. I personally think dips are gut tier because they're a lot more realistic in terms of using in an everyday setting. And it's also another example of the body weight to strength ratio. If you can do a lot of dips, you can have lower or it means you have slightly lower body fat as well. And you can scale it up. You can do weighted dips, etc. Handstand push-ups. Now, they are gut tier in terms of functionality, slightly more so than the overhead press because a handstand push-up is still very hard. Most people aren't going to be able to do more than five handstand push-ups against the wall. If you're able to do 25 handstand push-ups, then it means you're super strong with the shoulders and you're semi-lean, at least semi-lean and lower body fat. And it's also like a balance exercise. Now, of course, if you're doing it against the wall, it doesn't require that much balance. If you can do free hands, freestanding handstand push-ups, then that's, you know, absolutely gut tier. But even against the wall, you're required to have very good wrist mobility. You need to, you're doing this inversion. You're upside down. So it's, you know, an unorthodox plane of motion or unorthodox situation, which translates over to just better. It just means if you can do hands and push-ups, then you're also good in balance and you have at least an overall good proprioception. I want to take a quick break to let you know about the Red Light Hat by Bonn Charge, which a lot of people have been waiting for a long time. Basically, you're getting some red light therapy on your scalp. It's a regular cap and it just gives you the specific wavelengths of red light that will help with the hair growth and the collagen synthesis in the scalp. Bonn Charge also has a lot of different types of red light therapy devices, like the face mask, which actually has specific studies on where they use split face experiments and they show that the LED red light face masks do improve skin wrinkles and collagen synthesis in skin. But yeah, Bonn Charge has a ton of different red light therapy devices as well that they've come out with over the course of years. So this Red Light Hat is the newest one. It's pretty good. I kind of wear it in the mornings just to help with hair growth a little bit. And they obviously also have regular red light panels, the big ones that you're going to sit in front of and also get benefits on your skin as well as overall energy. Check out the Bonn Charge red light therapy devices and their new red light hat at Bonn Charge.com for 15% discount. Leg press. Now, leg press isn't bad. You're still, again, improving your glucose metabolism, your bone density, etc. You're losing out on some of the functionality in terms of balance and embracing multiple muscle groups for the exercise you're training mostly your legs. But if you can press a lot of weight with the leg press, then obviously you have decent muscles in the legs and strength. So I'll put it, you know, I personally think, you know, you should try to do the barbell squats or the split squats over a leg press, but leg press isn't harmful for your health. Maybe the risk of injury is lower with a barbell squat or the leg press has a lower risk of injury than the barbell squat, but you should try to do the barbell squat as much as possible because, you know, you shouldn't get injured. If you do the barbell squat correctly, then you're not going to get injured. I've trained barbell squats for 12 years. I've never gotten injured because I have good form or at least I don't take risks with bad form. Biceps curls. So, you know, none of these exercises really can be bad. Any exercise is good. But if you're talking about, you know, there's no real functionality for biceps curls. You're rarely really lifting something in the same form as the biceps curls. You're going to be lifting it more like the forearm type of exercise with the other side of the grip. So I'll put it in the OK tier again because of improving overall glucose metabolism. Trisox extensions, yeah, you know, the same doesn't really have that much functionality compared to some of these freestanding exercises or compound lifts. So I'll put it OK. Yoga. So yoga, this will be mostly like mobility type of yoga, some stretching type of yoga. So I think yoga, having some yoga elements in your workouts is going to be good because it balances out some of the heavy lifting and cardiovascular exercise. So you want to also do some form of exercise that is more parasympathetic and more calming and less intense. Hamstring curl laying on. This is like a machine exercise. You're laying on your stomach and doing like a biceps curl, but with your hamstrings. And this can be a great way to improve your squat or at least the limiting, overcoming some of the limitations in your squat. But it's not that much functional. So yes, if you're a sprinter, you're probably going to train some hamstring curls in your workout plan. You'll be doing them in some shape or form the same way hockey players or something would also do some squats, just improve their leg explosiveness, etc. But a hamstring curl is not going to be like a super high priority. If you do the barbell squat, then you don't really need to do the hamstring curl. The barbell squat covers 90% of all the leg exercises you really need to do. Now, of course, you can add some calf raises because you're not really doing calf exercises with the barbell squat, but you absolutely are training your hamstrings, your quads with the barbell squat. So knee extension is essentially the opposite of the hamstring curl. You're sitting on the machine and you're kicking pretty much your knees forward. So I'll put it also in the OK tier. Moving on with calf raises, the only exercise that you're not really training with the barbell squat that much and calf raises, the calf muscles are hard to grow. Other people struggle with that. It seems to be some genetic component there. You know, from a longevity health perspective, they're not really that beneficial. Low intensity calf muscle activation is good. So if you do the soleus pushup, you're doing walking, those kind of things, they are very important. So it helps to pump the blood back up to the heart. But calf raises, heavy calf raises, so you're doing 20 reps, 30 reps, 15 reps, whatever the number is, they don't have really that much role in overall health and longevity. Now, the funny thing is that calf circumference, he's associated with longevity. So people with bigger calves have greater survival and lower mortality. But, you know, the reason is because they're probably just healthier. They exercise and they might be eating a higher quality diet, which helps them to build calf muscles. So there's no direct effect of having bigger calves and living longer. But, you know, it does have some functional element or at least hypertrophy element. Hammer curls, you're lifting a dumbbell this way. So this kind of grip. And I think they're obviously better than biceps curls. They probably have a little bit of a better functional element as well in an everyday world scenario compared to biceps curls. But I would argue that pull-ups are better exercise than hammer curls. So they're not going to be gut-tier. I would put it in the gut-tier. It's a little bit more on the grip side. And it's a bit more functional. So I'll put it here for that reason. Wrist curls. So you're just essentially like with a barbell or a dumbbell curling the wrists. They're similar to a biceps curl or a hamstring curl. So yeah, I mean, grip strength is associated with reduced mortality and longevity, but it's more so because of what other things are you doing rather than training your grip directly. Now, having good wrist strength will carry over to better pull-ups. If you have better wrist strength, you'll be able to do more pull-ups because you'll be able to hang on the bar a lot longer. The same with deadlifts. You'll be able to lift a lot more unless you're using straps. So, I mean, I'll put it through wrist curls and okay-tier. So next, farmer carries, I think, are... I would put them in the gut-tier. So I like farmer carries. Basically, you're carrying either two heavy dumbbells in your arms and then walking can be kettlebells, can be, you know, whatever type of a weight. It's very functional. And, you know, in most people's lives, it's going to be groceries where they're carrying heavy groceries. But, you know, the farmer's carries are one of the most functional exercises out there because you'll be having to carry stuff. You need to have good grip strength. It also forces some core stability. You're getting some decent calf exercise as well with that because you're walking with a weight and some trap exercise. So, yeah, I mean, the farmer carries are super underrated and I definitely put them in the gut-tier. Trap shrogs. So you're essentially just doing the shrogs with a heavy barbell or dumbbells for your traps. Now, it doesn't really have any functional element. Maybe it will help with your deadlift a little bit, but even then, the deadlift will train your traps a lot more than doing trap shrogs. So I'll put it in the okay-tier. Neck curls, yeah, just having – you can do it with your body weight, laying on a bench or on a chair and then just curling your neck, trying to build your neck muscles. People will eventually add weights on top of it as well. So I think training your neck is underrated for, you know, most people do it for increasing the width of their neck or they're doing combat sports. So they need to have a stronger neck for that. But even in an everyday scenario, your neck is very, you know, vulnerable. If you're going to fall off somewhere, even if you get in like a traffic accident, if you have a weak neck, your likelihood of breaking the neck or having some other spinal injuries is going to be much higher compared to having a strong neck. And, of course, bone density is quite important for the neck and spine. But, you know, the muscles are what cover the bones and keep it more stable. So if you have more neck muscles, then you'll have a stable neck. The issue is that, you know, if you have a huge neck, then you can develop sleep apnea even if you're otherwise lean. So bodybuilders, most of them have sleep apnea because of their huge neck. So it has a double-edged sword. You don't want to have a massive neck, but you do want to have, you know, some muscle around the neck. Yeah, I'm kind of torn between okay and good. I'll put it in a good tier because, you know, so far a lot of the exercises have gone to the okay tier and a lot more of them will go to the okay tier. So I'll put the neck curls in the good tier because, you know, even with bodyweight exercises, training the neck will be, you know, more important than training your delts, if that makes sense. Good mornings. So this is a kind of old-school strength exercise. You have a barbell on your upper back, similar to a barbell back squat, but instead of doing a squat, you're leaning forward, keeping your back straight, and then it's like a back extension, but while standing. A lot of people are afraid of this exercise. They're going to say you're going to snap your back. You're going to snap your neck, whatever it is. Yes, if you have a weak back and if you're just putting too much weight on it, then it can certainly happen if you have bad form. But good mornings done with proper form, done carefully, and not done to failure can be one of the best exercises for improving your barbell back squat, improving your lower body or lower back strength and upper back strength as well, and muscle. I personally think good mornings are good. I've noticed quite good benefits from good mornings. I don't think everyone needs to do them, especially people with pre-existing back conditions and back pain. It's not for someone who has mobility issues or back issues. But if you're with good back strength already and you have no pain, then doing good mornings will actually prevent you from getting pain as long as you're not doing super heavy sets. Next exercise, hanging knee raise. Basically hanging from a bar and raising your knees towards your upper chest. So essentially the ab exercise, lower ab exercise. I think it's good, you know, hanging and combining it with the ab exercise is great for core stability. You'll train your grip strength as well. You just need to make sure that your grip doesn't fail and before your abs do, you know, I'll put it in the gut tier, but the gut tier is hanging leg raise exercise. So you're doing it with your legs straight. It's much harder, requires a lot more hip flexibility and more core strength. So if you're able to lay your legs all the way up where your hands are, that's, you know, the gymnasts do it is one of the best type of exercise for core. And I've noticed my lower abs getting the most development from the hanging leg raise. If you're not able to raise the legs all the way up, then you can just do it like the L-sit. That's a little bit better than the knee exercise. Kind of the progression is hanging knee raise, hanging leg raise only to your waistline and hanging leg raise all the way up. Sprinting. Sprinting is absolutely gut tier. I would put it the second best exercise overall. You know, arguably sprinting is the best. It's even better than pull-ups because the growth hormone surge you get from sprinting will also have like systemic health or systemic anabolic effects. You know, sprinters are pretty jacked. They obviously train some of their upper body, but the majority of their training is sprinting. Printing is the equivalent of pull-ups for your lower body, in my opinion. So these two exercises are the best exercises overall. Dead hang, hanging from a bar. Underrated, I'll put it in the gut tier. It's not the most effect. It's not going to help with, you know, building back muscles or helping with just overall hypertrophy. It's more of a mobility exercise and a grip exercise. Hanging from a bar is great for shoulder mobility. To a certain extent, core stability, if you're able to control your body weight and control your core while hanging. And of course, it's a great grip exercise. So it's not a muscle building exercise. It's more like a mobility type exercise. You should hang for at least one to two sets of at least, you know, 30 seconds up to one minute, depending on how long you can hang every day. Kettlebell swings, I'll put it in the gut tier. Very underrated kettlebells. And kettlebell swings will train kind of this hip hinge. So it's more explosive type exercise. You can scale it up with different weights. You can do heavy kettlebells. You can do light kettlebells. And you can use one-arm kettlebell swings, two-arm kettlebell swings. You can do it in many different ways. So if you just do a lot of kettlebell swings, you get good cardio, good grip strength, good hip strength, hip power, glutes, a lot of different muscles. Rope climb. Climbing a rope up and down. Like a gymnast, arguably it's a lot harder than pull-ups. But it's harder to, I guess, progressively overload. Yes, you can wear weighted twists while doing rope climbs, etc. And it is a lot more, I mean, it's more functional than pull-ups in that sense. Climbing a rope. They're very equal in terms of functionality. Pull-ups are going to be great as well for, you know, vaulting over things. You can do muscle-ups, etc. Road climb is more kind of a military thing and special-ups thing. Hiking, mountaineering type of thing. It's very important. It's more beneficial than biceps curls, more important than chin-ups. So I'll put it in the gut tier, but on the lower end of the gut tier, because I think pull-ups are still going to be a little bit more functional. Next up, we have the front lever. So this is a gymnastics calisthenics exercise. You're doing an isometric static exercise with your straight arms, and you're essentially just lifting your entire lower body in front of you. You can also do the back lever, which is the inverse of that, but essentially a super hard isometric exercise where you're keeping your entire body from your shoulders downward in a straight line parallel to the ground, which requires insane amounts of core strength and insane amount of lat strength. The biggest muscle engaged is actually the lat, in my experience. Now, it's not the most like functional exercise. It is a very effective exercise, though. It's very effective for the muscles that I mentioned, the lats, the core muscles, shoulders, grip, etc. And it's also an exercise where that requires pretty low body weight. If you're overweight, it's going to be very hard to do a front lever, even a tucked front lever. But if you're able to do the front full lever, then it means that you just have a very strong and lower body weight, lower body fat, which doesn't mean that you need to train the front lever, though. You can have good front lever without actually training the front lever. So I'll put it in the good tier, I think. Actually, I'll put it in the okay tier. Mostly people are not going to be able to do it, and it has limited functional purpose, if that makes sense. Planche, the same. This is pretty much on the ground instead of hanging from the bar, and you're leaning forward, and you're supporting your entire body weight with your front shoulders, your lats, your wrists, and your lower back. Your lower back is lifting your feet off the ground, so you're hanging not from the ground, not from a bar, but you're essentially just levitating with your wrists, the only point of contact with the ground, either on the parallel bars or the ground itself. It's a super hard, insane exercise. There's very few people in the world who can do it. If you can do it, then you're definitely in the top 0.1 percentile of body weight exercises. Gymnasts do it. It's an impressive exercise, but it's not that functional in terms of necessity. It's better, and to have a good planche, you need to have slightly lower leg muscles. Yes, of course, if you're super strong, then the upper body will even lift you up with heavy leg muscles, but most people who are doing the planche or the front lever, they don't have huge leg muscles, which is fine, but from a general health and longevity perspective, you want to have a balanced physique. You want to have decent muscles, and leg muscles need to be quite sturdy and strong because they carry you around. Crunches, ab exercise on the ground, doing crunches, everyone knows that, everyone done it at school. I think it's bad. It's not the best, most effective exercise for ab muscles and ab stability, core stability, and it might, you know, cause some back pain issues for a lot of people. If you're doing them properly, if you're doing them sparingly, they're not going to be that harmful. They are good if you're doing them on a bozoo ball or a balance ball, or if you're doing them, like, I think they're like G sit-ups, G sit-ups in CrossFit, where you're doing them from this machine. I have like a language block for that machine. I think it's G sit-ups. Yeah, you're really stretching out the abs, then they can be pretty good. But most people doing them on a mat on the ground, it's not going to be that great. Back extensions, so the good morning, but on the back extension machine, you're, you know, lifting either your body weight or some weight with your upper back bending from your hips. The back extension is guttier, in my opinion. I think it's more suitable for most people compared to good mornings, but, and you can also scale it up with added weights, get your back a lot stronger, reduces back pain and other issues. So I'll definitely recommend doing some back extensions. L sit. L sit, meaning you're sitting like an L on either hanging from a bar while on the parallel bars, the dip bars, or from the ground where you're able to even lift your bottom of the ground, kind of this compression exercise. I think L sit is a very great core exercise. It really burns than kills the core if you're doing it properly. And, it's also hard. Requires hip flexibility, hamstring flexibility and core stability and requires core strength, especially the compression part. So, I think L sit is, it's not like most functional compared to a hanging leg raise. It's a bit more functional than the hanging knee raise. So I'll put it in the gutier, but a little bit higher up compared to the hanging knee raise. L sit pull-ups. So basically, pull-ups with an L sit. Now, L sit pull-ups are significantly harder than regular pull-ups, but the issue, what I've, you know, experienced myself is that you don't get that much stimulus and you're putting a lot of the effort on your core stability and the L sit formation compared to the pulling aspect. So you'll be able to do a lot less pull-ups. So what I find is better to do either the pull-ups or the L sit separately rather than combining them together. Yes, doing some L sit pull-ups sparingly is going to be great. It forces you to do the motion together, but you're kind of missing out the maximal benefits from both exercises. So it's better to just max out on the pull-ups and then max out on the L sit separately and then to do them together. At least in most cases. It's kind of yeah, like a test of your flexibility and upper body strength at the same time. So put it in okay tier. It's not the best muscle building exercise or even endurance exercise. Plyometrics got here. So I think doing some form of explosive exercises, jumping, broad jumping, vertical jumping, different kind of jumping exercises, exercises. It's going to be great for maintaining that fast twitch muscle fibers and speed. It's also very functional. If you're able to jump and be quicker, then you're less likely to fall, less likely to get injured, etc. So underrated. Walking lunges. So walking, doing the lunges and walking forward. You can also do lunges in a single position without walking forward, but most people do the walking lunges while walking forward with dumbbells on their arms or a barbell on their back. Yes, walking lunges are pretty good. I'll put them in the god tier for that reason. They train legs. You can scale them up with weights and maintain some balance. Hip thrust, barbell, and pushing your hips forward with your glutes. A lot of women like to do that, some men as well. Training your glutes is going to be quite important for both, but I think it has less of a role in just overall functionality and longevity. Training your hip thrust might increase your squat, it might increase your deadlift, it might help with hip pain or lower back pain, but it's not like the huge functional exercise. I'll put it in the OK tier, similar reasons as the barbell row. Planking, so just doing the plank, either with your straight arms or your on the elbows. Side planks, all the planks are here. I'll put the plank in OK tier. I think it's, yes, it can be great to train certain, like, being able to stay stiff and maintain this static position, which translates over to a lot of these other compound lifts. If you do the plank, you'll be training your pull-up a little bit, just embracing the core, you'll be having a little bit better barbell squat, etc., but you're already training those muscles with those exercises to begin with. So the planking is kind of just if someone is struggling a lot with mind-muscle connection and some aspects of stability, but it's not really a hugely functional exercise in my opinion. Cycling, so we're moving on with a little bit of different types of sports rather than specific exercises, so we're not just only talking about different compound lifts, we'll also talk about team sports and recreational sports, I think cycling is depending on, you know, you can do zone 2 cardio with cycling, HIIT with cycling, etc., but being on the bike, doing a lot of time on the bike. Now, personally, I think cycling is okay. It's not the best exercise for longevity, it's not gut tier, because of, first of all, you're just spending a lot of time sitting, for males especially, it can be harmful for sperm count if your genitals are squished together on the seat a lot of hours, and it's just kind of this, you know, very repetitive motion. Of course, every type of cardio is repetitive, but it's not the best for bone density, it's not the best for hip flexibility and the testicles for men. Next, we have soccer, football, as we call it in Europe, soccer, as in America, I will put soccer into, so obviously it incorporates sprinting, it incorporates hit, it's very good cardiovascular exercise, it's one of the most intense cardiovascular team sports, in my opinion, because you're just, for 90 minutes, you're constantly running, it has a skill element, playing with the ball, and requires proprioception, different types of slight aspect of balance and mobility, etc., explosiveness, using your brain to, you know, it requires a lot more brain power than just sprinting up a hill or cycling for two hours on a bike, if that makes sense. So, and it has the social element, which based on research is more predictive of longevity than individual sports, so, team sports, like tennis, soccer, basketball, they are associated with greater life expectancy than just going to the gym alone, if that makes sense. So, I'll put it in the gut here, because it has a social element, has a sprinting element, cardiovascular element, balance element, proprioception element, so, for sure, definitely the same with basketball, throwing the ball through the hoop, you know, requires eye, hand-to-eye coordination, balance, teamwork, socializing, sprinting, you know, it's also very intense cardiovascularly, but the, you know, the aspect of the hand-to-eye coordination is very underrated. Volleyball, you know, interestingly, volleyball is associated with a shorter life expectancy than other team sports for some reason, maybe it's just depending on where you do it, like is it the beach volleyball, is it indoor volleyball, there's different elements that might reduce your life expectancy in those environments, so I'll, but it has the sport element, it has the team sport element, and it's less cardiovascular, it doesn't require that much like sprinting, although there's like short bursts of it, but you have a lot of downtime as well, so I'll put it in the good tier for that reason. Tennis is associated with the greatest life expectancy out of all these sports, the reason being wealthier people play tennis, that's like the biggest reason, but tennis is also a good sport in terms of functionality, it has the sprinting element, it has the balance element, it has the hand-to-eye coordination element, the kind of mental acuity element, you need to just pay attention to the ball, etc., socializing element, so it's got your skating, so ice skating, rollerbade skating, I think, yeah, you can do sprinting with it, you can do zone two cardio with it, it's kind of chill, I'll put it in the good tier, skiing is, I would say skiing is god tier, people with one of the highest VOCMAXs in the world are cross-country skiers, cyclists as well, but skiing is a lot more functional than cycling in my opinion, it's also a little bit better on the joints, and yeah, requires kind of more this full body movement, rather than being stuck in this sitting position for many hours, that's my opinion. Mobility, just doing mobility exercises, deep squats, different kinds of shoulder mobility, trying to emphasize your mobility, so I'll put it in the gut tier, you definitely would want to focus on mobility and not neglect it, because if you're mobile, you're less likely to get injured, and you want to do it for the long term, you don't want to do it for the next few years only. Gymnastics,! Gymnastics with all of its glory and all of the things you do in gymnastics, tumbling, straight, the straight bar, parallel bars, all these different types of things you do in gymnastics, it's a very versatile exercise and it has speed, explosiveness, strength, endurance, mobility, flexibility, balance, proprioception, hand-to-eye coordination, so it's pretty much using your body in all planes of motion and using all of these energy systems in your body. It's one of the hardest sports in the world. I think you need to be starting at a young age to succeed in it on a professional level. As adults, we probably don't end up doing a bunch of backflips and different activities like spectacular exercises. We'll mostly be doing calisthenics, maybe some tumbling, some stretching mobility, but as a sport itself, it's one of the best because it covers everything. Hockey, probably a lot of very violent. It has an element of skating and it is pretty good cardio. It's good for your fitness, but it's bad for your brain. The impact skating into other people, there's fighting, etc. You're going to get CTE or the risk of CTE is higher. That applies to all combat sports. Probably hockey is bad for that reason. I'll put it in the bad tier because it certainly increases risk of CTE. Weighted vest walking, I think weighted vest walking is great. It's a bit harder than regular walking. Of course, you don't need to do weighted vest walking, but weighted vest walking is pretty effective for burning more calories while walking. And possibly if you carry the weighted vest throughout the day for many hours, some research suggests that it reduces the drop in metabolic rate that happens during weight loss because you carry the same weight around. I'll put it in the gut tier. Track and field, I'll put it also in the gut tier because you're doing a bunch of different exercises in different plates of motions, in different energy systems. So one of the best exercises for overall health and athleticism. Golf. Golf is also associated with greater longevity or life expectancy, but that's because rich people play golf. And golf as a sport, you're spending time outside, you're getting some sunlight, you're de-stressing probably. It's not cardiovascular in any way. You're even using the cart to drive around so you're not even walking that much. Yes, you're walking a little bit, you're breathing fresh air, etc. But I think golfing is okay. I don't think it has a fitness element to it. You might train your swing, that has some functionality, speed for upper body, but it's not really that beneficial for some longevity goals. And there's the golf courses, they also have a bunch of pesticides and stuff on the golf courts, so it might not be even best for that reason. Baseball, you're doing also swing, you're sprinting, you're in a team sport environment. I'm not exactly sure what's the life expectancy of baseball players. I wouldn't say that it's much greater than volleyball players, so I'll put it in the good here. Rowing, rowing, I think, is similar to skiing, I would say that it's a very great exercise for upper body cardio, and the only limitation is that you're not using your legs that much, but rowing is a very good upper body cardio exercise, I'll put it in the gut tier. Stair climbers, you're just walking up the stairs or using the stair climber, whichever. Now, doing sprints up the stairs can be great, you're getting a really good cardiovascular workout, but spending hours on the stairs probably is not the best, similar to cycling. So I'll put it in the OK tier, it's not harming your health unless you're really overdoing it, but it doesn't have that, I mean, it's functional obviously, you walk up the stairs, but you shouldn't spend hours on the stairs, if that makes sense. You should do maybe sprints up the stairs and carrying stuff up the stairs, but not doing zone 2 cardio for two hours on the stairs, I think that's a bit too much. Next up we have jump rope, I think jump rope is gut tier, it's good balance exercise, good for the element of jumping, it stimulates your lymph, your jumping up and down in small jumps, and you can also do cardio with it, you can also do high intensity interval training with it, so I think it's definitely gut tier. Now combat sports, MMA, boxing, etc., where you're fighting other people, your risk of CTE again is higher and combat sports in the context of longevity is one of the worst, they have one of the shortest careers, the same with like NFL players, American football, so they have pretty short careers, and it's definitely not the best for maximal lifespan and longevity. You can do elements of combat sports in other ways, of course you can practice combat sports safely, but the risk is still higher than training it in other ways. Now from survival perspective, combat sports is very important, like if you can defend yourself, you know how to fight, etc., then you can save your life maybe in some distant scenario, but in let's say all things being equal, then these other sports tend to obviously be better from brain longevity. Stretching, I think stretching is a bit overrated, you don't need to be super flexible, you need to be mobile, so there's a difference between that mobile, meaning that you're able to go through full range of motion, like you can go to the deepest squat with your ankles or your feet on the ground without raising your heels, and you're able to do that comfortably, that's a great example of mobility, stretching is touching your toes, etc., so stretching is not going to prevent injuries, it's not going to really have any metabolic health benefits, yes, you don't want to be super stiff, but in most cases you can achieve decent stretching and flexibility with regular mobility exercises and just training these exercises with full range of motion and good form, you should do some stretching every once in a while if you get super stiff, but I think actively stretching all the time is not that worth it, because you do want to maintain some stiffness for some of these compound exercises, burpees, super hard exercise, you go from a push-up into a jump and you repeat it, so it's considered like a punishment exercise in a lot of contexts because of the difficulty and just kind of how much you hate them in most cases, so they don't really have any like that much of a functional element either, as I said, it's better to train the jumping separately and the push-ups separately than to combine them together, now and it depends how you do them as well, if you do five burpees, ten burpees, if you do one set of burpees, then that's fine, if you do hundreds of burpees, then the overuse and most people, their form begins to suffer, so they'll start hurting their elbows, they'll start hurting their knees, so they'll put the burpees in the bad tier from that perspective. Box jumps, jumping on boxes or from boxes, you can do both ways, arguably it's similar to plyometrics, the difference is that instead of just jumping up and down or as far as possible, you're just trying to jump onto a specific area which is the box and there is a certain element of the cognitive element and the feet to eye coordination, so if you're able to jump onto boxes and from boxes and maintain your balance, etc., not fall off the things, then for a longevity perspective, it's very good. Medicine ball, so medicine ball throwing, medicine ball slamming, those kind of things, you just like weighted ball, usually it's a few kilograms, it's not superweight, there's also heavier balls, but you're just slamming it on the ground or throwing it as far as possible, I think that's a very functional exercise and good for explosiveness, it's similar to kettlebell swings, that it's kind of a niche exercise but it certainly translates over to full body power. Sled pushing and pulling, I'll put it in the gut here, so you have a sled, you drag it on the ground or you push it, and yeah, I think that's a very functional exercise and good cardio. Sandbag, so lifting a sandbag that weighs usually, let's say, you know, 10 kilograms up to 50, 100 kilograms, I think that's a very functional exercise, it's not the best exercise for maximal strength or maximal endurance or maximal power because it's a very uncomfortable thing to lift up the sandbag, but because it's so uncomfortable, it's good for like functionality and, you know, kind of this mind-muscle connection of trying to maintain your balance while you're lifting this uncomfortable odd object that is fluctuating around your body and not keeping it in a single shape as a barbell or a kettlebell for that matter. Wood chopping, so chopping wood, I think that's also gut here, there's some research that chopping wood might actually increase testosterone, maybe it's because of the exercise or maybe because of, you know, you feel like a badass or something, like you feel like some lumberjack, maybe it's that reason, but wood chopping can be great explosiveness exercise, especially if you're chopping heavier wood, thicker wood, like if you've got an oak, it will take you a few swings to chop it open, and especially if it's not dry wood. If the wood is dry, it's been out in the open and has dried up all summer, then it's going to be a lot easier to chop the wood than if it's springtime, the wood is a lot more moist, it's got water in it, it's going to be a lot harder to chop it. So if you've got a kind of moist wood, thick wood, oak, you're going to need a few swings to break it open. And you do get a good sweat, you're outside getting sunlight, I think that is definitely an underrated exercise if you can consider it as exercise, but for the giggles, we'll put it into this list. Turkish get-up, so if you don't know about it, then you're laying on the ground, you have a kettlebell pushed forward in front of you, usually like 10kg kettlebell, 20, there's people even doing it with other people, 50kg, 60kg, the heaviest I've done is a 40kg kettlebell get-up, I think it's great functional exercise, I'll put it in the god tier, I haven't done a lot of kettlebells myself, the get-ups myself, but I think that it's a god tier exercise in terms of training it. Do you need to do it? Not necessarily, but it certainly will be very effective for mobility and stability. Muscle up, now I think a muscle up, you do the very high pull-up, transitioning over into a deep dip, so I think that is a good exercise, it has a higher risk of injury than regular pull-ups and regular dips because most people, they're not able to pull themselves up that high, so they'll end up doing a weird, awkward dip over, they're struggling over the bar. If you can do the muscle-ups with good form, then they're very good for explosiveness and deep mobility for the shoulders, but yes, you can overdo them, so I'll put them in the good tier. Skin the cat, so if you don't know this, then it's essentially you're hanging from a bar, you're doing a hanging leg raise, and instead of going down, the legs go between your hands behind you, so you're just like hanging there as if you've been skinned like a cat, and then you go backwards, so this is a very good, it's the best shoulder mobility exercise there is in my opinion, and it's also more difficult for the average person. I like to do it, it always feels good for my shoulders, I like to do like at least five reps of it, if I ever do it in one set, I think it's good, but I don't think it's absolutely essential for most people, most people can do a variation of it, but if you can do it, then it's got here. Agility ladders, so doing different agility drills, you know, people on Instagram, they're, you know, just tapping their feet and running back and forth, etc., these kind of things, now a lot of it can be just for show that they're, if you look at the ladder on the ground, then, you know, they're just kicking things over and really not having any coordination between, they're just, you know, twitching around, in most cases, athletes obviously use it a lot, I'll put it in, I mean, got here, it's like a micro sprinting, if you're able to do some agility, drills, effectively, and properly, good form, etc., then you're very athletic, you know, I think it's important to maintain athleticism as you get older, especially this speed and changing a lot of different planes of motions. Swimming,! slightly less lower body exercise, but the issue with swimming is that it doesn't, because you're in the water, you're not really doing bone density, so the bone density tends to suffer from swimming a little bit. Of course, your bone density is going to be higher because you exercise, you have more muscle and you're fitter, but compared to gymnastics or sprinting or barbell squats, the swimming is much lower for bone density. Shadow boxing, yes, people in the gym, you know who I'm talking about, who are doing shadow boxing in front of the mirror, in between sets, I'm talking about those people, I mean, shadow boxing is, as far as I'm concerned, is just, unless you actually are training actively with some combat sports as well, you know what you're doing, like you're just mentally rehearsing and trying to go through the same motions as you were fighting someone else and some other combat sports drills, but if you're not experienced with combat sports, you're just shadow boxing without knowing what you're doing, then it's just mostly fidgeting, you know, you're doing a lot of neat, non-exercise activities where you're burning a lot of calories with little to no productivity. If you want to get good at combat sports, you need to be doing the combat sports, shadow boxing is only good for a mental rehearsal, you're practicing in your head and you have the reference experience to back it up, so, I mean, as a form of cardio, it really doesn't matter if you do cardio jogging or if you're doing shadow boxing, might as well shadow boxing, maybe it has some additional benefits, but yeah, I'll put it in the okay tier. Animal flow, so different kind of animal type exercises, bear crawls, crab walk, lizard walk, name your animal of choice, salamander walk, you know, moose walk, I'm just making things up, but animal flow, so I think this is pretty good, I don't think, I mean, I mean, in some aspects it's a gut tier because you're forced to move throughout planes of motions that you wouldn't otherwise train, like if you're doing the bear crawl, you're getting some hamstring mobility, flexibility, and wrist strength, etc., it's just a lot less effective as increasing your mobility and increasing your strength or endurance for the matter, I'll put it in a good tier, it's like a good addition to do, but I think it's better to again train these different systems separately rather than to combine them together. Ab wheel, so using the ab wheel machine to train your abs, whether that be with your knees or full without the knees on the ground, I think the ab wheel is obviously one of the hardest full ab exercise, if you do the full abs, if you can do multiple full ab wheels, then you have amazing core strength, I would put it in AI'll put it in the gut here because of that, because it's super hard to do, most people aren't going to be able to do it, if you're going to be able to do even one or two, then you're pretty well off in terms of your core stability and core strength. Front squat, so front barbell squat, instead of barbell on your back, it's on the front, the front squat targets more the quads, so the front part of the leg muscles, and you're forced to also keep your chest a little bit upright because you might be falling over more likely with the bar in the front. I'll put it in the gut here, I think the front squat is a little bit less functional than the regular barbell squat because most of your leg power comes from your hamstrings, of course, your training hamstrings with the front squat, the quads are slightly, I mean, yes, of course, it's kind of a very good exercise for just overall leg strength, leg development, balance, etc., but I think the barbell back squat is a little bit more effective. Stiff leg deadlift, also good, essentially, you're keeping your legs straight while doing the deadlift, it's called a Romanian deadlift as well, I'll put it in the good here. Chin ups, so pull-ups but with your hands facing your chin rather than the other way around, I think the chin ups, you know, similar to biceps curls, they're okay, because in most cases you're going to be pulling with the regular pull-up grip, put in the okay seal row, seal row is a barbell row, but instead of you standing on the ground, you're laying on the bench on your stomach and then you're pulling the bar, you know, basically the bar is below the bench and you're pulling the bar to touch the bench as a barbell row and essentially just removes your hamstrings and removes your legs from the equation, you can't stabilize the bar with your legs that much and use your legs, so it's a purely vertical pull exercise, you're going to lift a lot less weight than with a regular barbell row, but I think the functionality is going to be limited, I think the seal row is great if you're trying to increase your barbell row and increase your deadlift number or build a very thick pack, but the functional element is going to be limited. Javelin throw, so throwing a javelin, I think this would be good, so similar to jumping, similar to sprinting, people aren't throwing things that much, but arguably throwing things isn't that important, for, yes, it's good to have good shoulder mobility and good shoulder explosiveness, but it's not the biggest priority in my opinion, like I would put in the good tier. Heavy throws, shot put, you know, when you're throwing the ball bump, the metal ball, or throwing the discus, just throwing something heavy, the hammer throw, different kinds of this Olympic sports, I'll put it, I think with the throwing, it's not that much of the weight, you know, it's more important to throw something lightweight than something heavy. Of course, if you're able to throw a heavy ball further, then you're probably going to be able to throw a lighter ball further or a javelin further, but plyometrics, I don't think it's a good idea to do plyometrics with a weighted vest, right? The same with, this is my opinion, there's no data to pack it up, but I think it's better to do like lighter javelin style throws or just a regular ball, tennis ball throws, rather than heavy throws with a 10 kilo bump. Olympic lifting, so we have clean and jerk and snatches, so Olympic weightlifters, they are one of the strongest people in the world in terms of relative to their body weight, and I think Olympic weightlifting is got here in terms of the functionality, it's more functional than just a regular barbell squat because you're doing the snatch into the squat, overhead squat, and the clean and jerk, it requires a lot of explosiveness, strength, and a lot of coordination and balance and mobility and those kind of things, so you're going through the full range of motion with this lifting something from the ground up. I know I might violate some of my previous comments where I said that you don't want to combine things that much, I think the exception is the Olympic lifting because of the artistic, not the artistic element but just because of the functional element of the sport, it's a lot more functional as a sport, and yeah, you will encounter situations where you need to lift something similar to a clean and jerk rather than some of these other exercises that I have mentioned before. Walking, regular walking, I will put regular walking in gut here, I think you should just walk a lot as much as you possibly can during the day, you obviously don't need to walk 20k steps or something, I think most people should walk at least 10k steps on a good day and up to 15k is pretty much where you're maximizing most of the benefits. Suitcase carry, so carrying a heavy suitcase in the context of training, it can be carrying a single heavy dumbbell, a single heavy kettlebell or something else like that, the sandbag, I think suitcase carry is great, I will put it in the gut here because it's a lot more uncomfortable and unorthodox than carrying a farmer's carry where you have two weights each arm, it requires a bit more stability. Postable squat, now this is kind of a meme that people like to use, you're squatting on this balance ball, in some reels you have people doing some heavy squats or kettlebell swings on the bose ball squat, they're about to fall over, those kind of things for sure can be harmful, you're going to get injured. if you do bose ball squats on this kind of half ball, not the full ball that is a lot more unstable, if you do the bose ball squats, it's kind of like a landmine type of shape, that can be pretty good if you're not overloading it with heavy weights. So if you do body weight squats on the bose ball, that's decent, if you do pistol squats on the bose ball, that's decent, if you do split squats on the bose ball, that's decent, and maybe you add a little bit of weight, but you shouldn't do your max squat, max barbell squat on a bose ball, I think that's a bit silly, I mean I'll put it in the okay tier. Assault bike, in terms of cardio, assault bike is one of the best, one of the best for hit, so you're cycling and at the same time doing kind of this rowing with your arms, and it's very intense, it's full body hit, that reason it's got tier. Dancing, yeah, speaking of social sports and kind of this, let's say everyday sports, it's not sport obviously, but dancing is got tier in terms of the research people who do dance, they appear to have pretty good life expectancy and it has this social element, it has a fun element, if you like to dance, of course, and it's low intensity cardiovascular exercise, has some stability and mobility exercise and has a cognitive element, you need to know the moves, etc. Handstand, I'll put handstand in the gut here, I think if you can do a handstand, then that's amazing, and yeah, handstand is great for shoulder strength, you need to have some shoulder strength, if you have weak shoulders or weak traps, then you'll hurt your shoulders, and if you can do a freestanding handstand, then that's great for balance, and if you're 60 years old, you can do a freestanding handstand, then you're in the top 0.5% in terms of fitness in most cases. Hiking, I think also hiking is got here, just relaxing in nature, walking through different paths, different mountains, perhaps having a weighted vest or a weighted backpack, and just fresh air, sunlight, and low intensity exercise with some step climb, with some unpredictable landscape, of course you need to be safe, but just walking up some trails is going to be great for your cardiovascular system and overall health. So here you go. Now I didn't put anything in the junk here because I think any form of exercise, even shadow boxing, can be a net positive for your health because of the increased energy expenditure, increased cardiovascular output, lower blood pressure, lower inflammation, all those things that happen from just increasing your heart rate and letting your body to recover. The systemic adaptations and the health benefits are great no matter what you do in terms of the exercise. Now of course some exercises are better than others, some are safer than others, you don't want to do any exercise that gets you injured, can be considered bad, or if you're doing it improperly, a bad form barbell squat with unnecessarily heavy weights can be junked here if you get injured, if you do a proper form decline bench or leg press then that's better than an improper form barbell squat, etc. So it's relative to the individual. But gut tier exercises, sprinting and pull-ups I think are probably the best exercises in the world that you should want to do as much as possible or as long as possible. Plyometrics are going to be somewhere like here after these barbell squat, split squat, there's some dips, hands and push-ups, farmer's carries, hanging leg raises, kettlebell swings, you know, these exercises we already mentioned. Some of the okay exercises are more specific exercises that isolate the muscles but they don't have that big of a functional role in my opinion. So there we have it. Thanks for watching this video. Make sure you click like and subscribe and if you want me to rank a hundred supplements from worst to best, then check out this video next.