There's got to be a certain tipping point once you hit a certain age. It's like if those cancers haven't begun forming yet, the tieumirs can possibly limit how much they can grow. But then you also got to think about some cancers can actually get a mutated tomeorase enzyme and they can actually add the tieumirs back on. But I feel like most of these super sleepers you hear about, they're like functioning completely normal just literally on two to four hours of sleep. >> Tyler, welcome back to the show. >> Thanks so thanks so much for having me on again. excited to uh dig in. >> Yeah, a lot of people were very interested in our [clears throat] last episode where you shared about how genetics influences how people react to different supplements, popular supplements out there and even like common foods. So, uh yeah, I wanted to do a follow-up to um you discuss these things further. But um we uh before we uh scheduled it, we also agreed that we're going to talk about one particular study that came out recently which was quite interesting. It was um on the longest living woman at that time and she passed away and they did a study on her before she passed away at the age of 117. So uh there was quite interesting findings um from that study that they discovered about her genetics. So we'll discuss a little bit about it. So what was your like overall impression of that uh particular study? >> Yeah, I mean it was really interesting. You know, I think it first makes sense to kind of touch on the whole, you know, multiomix aspect of it, right? So for you listening that aren't aware, you know, omix are studies of different, I guess we could call them layers, right, of biology, you know, genomics or genetics, right? That's what I'm a specialist in. But I'll be the first to admit as much as I love it, right? It's just one piece of the puzzle, right? We have things like transcripttoics or epigenetics which can see, you know, how much of these genes are you making, but we know we turn genes into proteins. So there's proteomics, what type of proteins are actually being made? There's things like even exposomics, right? That was the one they actually didn't do in that study where it's really focusing on different environmental exposures and things. So, it's really layering on all these I like to think of them as chapters of a book, right, that layer on on top of each other. Um, it was pretty interesting how she wasn't universally like young all around with all these different measurements, right? It's kind of the overall net effect of these individually smaller parts. >> Yeah. Yeah. that she had some good genetics of the genes that are associated with longevity, but she also had some genes that were associated with a shorter longevity and increased cancer, but you know, she still lived a very long time. >> So there's, you know, colony because in a lot of these cases is also luck, you know, when you're where you're born, what kind of environment you're in, and you know, whether you get hit by a car or something like that. There's a lot of luck as well. Well, I wonder how many senitarians, right, like super longevity people, you know, end up having their life cut short. Exactly. Due to the bad luck, right, like how many do we lose the car accidents that could otherwise be >> in that discussion? >> Yeah. >> But yeah, one of the biggest surprising things I think in the study was uh tie. So uh she actually had short uh tie which uh you know tie are thought to be I guess markers of longevity that and that you need to have long tie to live longer etc. But she actually had >> quite short tie. So what do you think about that? >> Yeah I mean it's interesting when you think of it in terms of like we think of it in terms of you know regular aging right like they're the little like the ticking time bonds are like the fuse for our cells. needs replication gets a little shorter and shorter. But we also need to think about in the context of someone that's a lot older, right? We need to think in terms of cancer, right? So as these tieamirs are really eroded, the cells at that point aren't going to be replicating too much, but that can also apply to cancer cells themselves, right? So the things that may have made her seem not as longevity ccentric, right, for the tieumirs could be the same thing that starve off cancer. >> You know, I feel like [clears throat] >> there's got to be a certain tipping point, right? Once you hit a certain age, it's like if those cancers haven't begun forming yet, the tieumirs can possibly limit how much they can grow. But then you also got to think about some cancers can actually get a mutated tomeorase enzyme and they can actually add the tie mirrors back on. Right? So going back to the luck thing, it's like >> perhaps maybe the mutations that she acquired, right? We're all acquiring mutations and you know you could say forming little cancers, right, all the time, but if they didn't add on that tomeorase, right, they're not going to be able to grow that much because just like the healthy cells in the body, that fuse is very, very short and eroded. Yeah, that was one of the theories that why did she didn't or she she had actually other genes that increased her risk of cancer. So the short tie uh might have been yeah like a adaptive like it turned out in her favor in that case that she had some genes that increased risk of cancer but the shorter tie prevented her from um getting the cancer which uh yeah is kind of a that's a good luck example that she actually had a you know multiple these different genes one of them being negative but the other ones counteracted uh those negative genes. >> Yeah. You know, she she there were, you know, some really interesting mutations that they kind of specifically mentioned, right? I thought it was interesting that there were some linked to um cell adhesion molecules. Um I think there was one this one down syndrome cell adhesion molecule. I'm pretty sure that's the name of that one. I'm trying to recall the other ones. There were two that were for cell adhesion molecules. And you may think, right, well, if there's a protein that makes cells attached to each other, why would that be linked to longevity, right? But, um, normally it's thought about like connective tissue, right? It's also important for brain function. But immune cells, in order for immune cells to be activated, you know, they need to actually link up to each other and form what's called an immunological synapse. This is how we prime our immune system. And if you don't prime your immune system, I like to give the example of it's like uh you know they have those like cold case murder um shows where it's like they need to find the body. They give the blood hound, right, a piece of clothing and goes and find it. That's how I like to describe um antigen presentation, right? In order for your immune system to go and attack a cancer, right, and destroy the cancer so it doesn't keep growing, you need to get a piece of that cancer, show it to your immune system, they sniff it, then they all get primed, you know, in the lymph nodes, and then they're all exiting the lymph nodes, and they could detect that cancer. So these cell adhesion molecules are actually what enable the immune cells to attach to each other in order to literally share that piece of clothing, right? So, it's thought that that was a way that also made her immune system hyperunctioning, right? Um but not too much, right? Because then we get autoimmunity, right? But we want to make sure we don't have that um deficit there. So, that was something else that I thought was pretty interesting. Um and then two, like the connection with the connection with mTor that was there. Um you know, mTor activation, that's what we want when we're trying to, you know, get big and build muscle. But it's that that balancing act, right? Like being too big evolutionarily like isn't great. But um one of the map kinases that she had the map K mutations he had that's one of the actual signaling molecules down into mTor. >> So that may have been one of the reasons why as well mtor is like down here on the cell signaling >> but up here you have that map kinace that signals to it. So if that's doesn't work as well, >> in theory it may have made anabolism a bit more difficult, but at the same point that can be pretty protective for longevity as well. >> Yeah. Um you mentioned the immune system. So there are some of these certain genes as well associated with longevity that strengthen the immune system and I guess like overall resilience. So uh you know some of them being Fox 3 and others. >> So uh I guess the question is that does having a strong immune system then could it be like one of the you know let's say advantages for overall longevity? Yeah, definitely. And the the FOX03, you know, that's when we have cell signaling, you have the surface of the cell, you have something that binds to with a receptor, then you have the secondary messengers, right? Like the map kinases, and then at the end, right, how do the cells actually change their behavior? It's through these transcription factors. Those are what actually make different genes, make different proteins to change the cell behavior. And that's exactly what FOX3 is. So, it's one of those transcription factors. And what's interesting too is that that actually also plays a role in mTor as well. Um, so you have IGF-1 signaling can kind of drive with the well they they oppose each other, right? Because too much of that anabolism IGF-1 growth factors, growth hormone can activate that >> that can turn off the FOX3, you know, turn off some of these longevity genes and activate mTor. So it's kind of that tipping point there, right? Mhm. >> Um but um yeah, the fox3 that's probably the most wellstudied variant for the longevity there. Um and it's >> she had some of those mutations there and it's like I feel like people think that these longevity genes just make you, you know, immortal, right? But it's like you could absolutely have um those FOX3 mutations that, let me put it this way. I've worked with people that, you know, aren't they don't seem to be these super graceful ages and they have the FOX03, right? Just confirming as well, you know, there's no one single longevity gene that guarantees these things, right? Also, where she was living, the food she was having, all these other things definitely play a role. um the IGF-1 stuff is really interesting because we have when that even on the receptor level right whether it's the receptor itself or the transcription factor we want to think in terms of that whole signaling pathway so if it's hyperfunctioning that IGF-1 you know that's linked to things like acromegaly um it could be linked to premature death and you can kind of somewhat compare it to you know growth hormone abuse right and professional bodybuilding as well linked to shorter lifespan. But if it's not as active, I guess my point is whether you have a hypoofunctioning or less sensitive IGF-1 receptor or you have an overactive FOX3 transcription factor. They're essentially doing the same thing, right? Because it's the same pathway. But this is where you know genetics moving from the laundry list of individual mutations to assemble in terms of a pathway right because what if you have the less functioning IGF-1 receptor you have the better functioning map kynise that I mentioned for mTor and you also have the extra active FOX3 that's three different points in the same pathway that are all shifting heavily towards that longevity side. M yeah it's kind of interesting. Um you know personally I have so I don't know if it's genetic but I have like very low IGF-1 levels always they're always like 100 or below 100 you know it might be because of uh I'm doing a lot of intermittent fasting so that might explain it. I'm not eating like a low protein or low carb diet. So those things >> What's your normal schedule? Are you doing that like daily or a couple days a week like extended fast? No, I do daily this let's say 16 and eight or one meal a day type of thing. Um, but I'm eating, you know, plenty of protein and plenty of carbs and calories as well. So, I'm not really restricted. Uh, so the only thing that could explain the low edge of one is either genetics or the inter fasting window. Uh, but I also I build muscle quite easily, you know, given that I do like one meal a day or two meals a day. I I have like decent muscle mass. Um, and I I I do think that I have also like a strong immune system. Like um I've never I'm never like really sick. I've never I've lived in a molded house for two decades and never got sick. [laughter] >> That's the real test right there. Wow. >> Yeah. Like I never got sick. So is you mentioning these three is actually exactly describing me. Um which again but but at the same time I have like no one in my family who has lived a long time like uh no one in my family like grandparents and etc has lived to over the age of 80. So they all like you know have died in their 70s but I do have like this kind of interesting uh trifecta of longevity factors u that might be beneficial but like you said it's not just these genes there's you know multiple factors >> the [clears throat] environment. Yeah, >> you know, there's there's thousands of other genes that I might have that are harmful and uh might also be beneficial. >> That's where it gets really like, you know, overwhelming at times. >> I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices, which are the Bond Charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longevity influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bone Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most REA therapy devices don't have the right wavelengths of light, which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bond Charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research, and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to onecharge.com and use the code seam sim for a 15% discount. >> The receptor mutations, those are personally my favorite types of mutations because they fundamentally change how you interpret labs, right? How you interpret blood work, right? Because, you know, I wonder if too, you know, the fasting definitely could play a role in the lower circulating IGF one, right? But I also wonder too, just speculating here, if you have a re, let's just say you have a hyper sensitive IGF-1, right? I wonder if there could be feedback loops, right? Or even same thing if it was an androgen receptor, right? If your androgen receptor is hyper sensitive, I wonder if there could be possible feedback loops for certain individuals where your body is so much more sensitive to IGF-1 that your body has the feedback loop and says, "Wa, that's enough IGF-1 signaling." We could either downregulate the receptor possibly or maybe lower the amount we're being producing. Um, I would think it would probably be more so a receptor thing, but just trying to spitball here ideas for the lower >> IGF-1 there. Um >> yeah I I might have like higher androgen receptor >> density I would suspect. >> Do do you know if you have so the androen receptors can have uh CAG repeats so that can like increase the sensitivity of them. Do you know if you have any of those in the androen receptor? >> I haven't specifically looked for it. >> Got it. Got it. >> But yeah I I can maybe look it later. >> Yeah those are those are the you know I feel like everyone has that one friend that from like you know middle school right? they would kind of like eat whatever and just be, you know, super super build. So you when you were younger, were you like a prior to consistent weight training, were you kind of already like higher muscularity or more so were you a hyper not so much that but you were a hyperresponder to the training or more so normal response rates just doing the right things for long periods of time? >> Yeah. Well, I was before I started lifting I was like a bit skinnier but when I did start to lift weights I built muscle quite easily. So, I've always like had easy time building muscle uh fast. So, like uh I just eat more and u you know just try to get stronger and I build muscle quite easily. >> Mhm. >> Um but uh yeah, I I started off like from a skinnier side of things. >> Got it. >> When I was on the opposite I was I was growing up. I I I was the endomorph on the other side of things. So, I got to uh like for you, well, you're doing the fasting, so that's probably it's probably pretty difficult for you doing one meal a day to get too much in a surplus, right? That's probably difficult even just fitting that in your stomach to actually like when you do a bulk, you're not doing one meal a day, right? That's probably more maintenance for you or a cut. >> Uh well, if I do a bulk, I would >> do a similar thing. Maybe I would add like some fruit or some more protein before, but um so it's not a specific one meal a day. Uh I have like a protein shake uh in the morning. Yeah. Got it. Okay. >> Yeah. Like one and a half. >> So but yeah if it were the bulk then I would >> I would still like eat in the evening mostly. >> U but uh yeah. What about you? Like have you have looked at yours probably quite thoroughly your own genes? Do you have likeity genes? >> Yeah. So I have I have one copy um of the fox3 gene. Um, and now the FOX01 can help with or help or hinder with insulin sensitivity. So that can kind of be that could be linked to insulin resistance. I have some of that there. Um, so just me for myself, I've never been someone doing super I've always been more of a moderate carb. I just notice if I'm really doing any more I mean I'm 6'3 like 230 right now. um probably around I don't know probably 13% or so body fat. But if I even that I'm doing maybe 200 gram a day. If I try to do I hear people around my size, you know, doing four, five, six00 grams. I notice pretty quickly um like kind of like overspilling, right? It's not really getting partitioned very well. And then it's like, oh well, you know, you have all this glucose disposal agent agents, right? These sensitizing supplements, you know, your bourberine, your cinnamon, your fenugreek, but all those are MAO inhibitors. So, as we talked about in the past, I'm really sensitive to those things, right? I have a slow MAO gene. So, a lot of these supplements that a lot of the fitness people say, you know, they help with nutrient partitioning, which they do. I've tried them. I notice I'm a lot more revved up, right, or energized. So, I need to be very, very, very careful when I'm utilizing those, right? A little too much methylated B vitamins or B vitamins. With some of those, I notice I'm just overly wired. So it's for a really sensitive person sometimes it could be tough to get a lot of these proper nutrients in that people use because the limiting factor a lot can be you know the catakolamines and the overall nervous system stimulation. >> So foxo 3 is uh essentially increases stress resilience um and there are certain activities as well that increase foxo3 expression like uh you know fasting and uh exercise and cold exposure etc. So u would it be then that people with foxo like higher fox3 expression would they be I guess uh more suitable to do those things like cold baths and people who have lower fox3 genetically >> would it actually be harmful to them because their body is less resilient against the stress or is it something that you can just yeah adapt to if you do things that increase foxo3. >> Yeah it's a really good question. Um, okay. Cuz I'm try cuz I'm pretty sure that most of these mutations have to do with the FOX03 binding capability to the DNA. So, I'm pretty certain it's that, not so much that you have you have higher baseline expression, right? So if it binds more tightly and can transcribe these genes better. Um [snorts] yeah, it's I don't know if I would think of it as I would think that perhaps the people that don't have it that don't have the higher binding they may be more it might be more beneficial. They're going to be restoring a deficit if that makes sense. Right? Right? So utilizing the cold exposure, the fasting of these things can help bring that up more. But the people that already have the better functioning, right, the higher binding capability to the DNA. Yeah. I wonder if you could push it too far too, right? Because it's like who benefits more? Someone that is already high and is going to go even higher and higher peak transcription, right? Higher peak levels or the person that's lower than normal? and we want to bring them up to a normal level at least, right? So, it's difficult to say. It kind of depends how you look at it, right? Do you want to just >> be already set longevity wise and just become a super soldier, right? Or [clears throat] do you look at the people that say, "Wow, you really need this just to >> be normal at that." Of course, it's just one gene, right? >> Um but >> yeah, interesting question. Hard to say for sure. What do you think? Well, yeah, you you can make an argument or both ways that uh people who are with higher FOX3, they're just going to get all the benefits from cold exposure and avoid all the side effects because they have higher resilience. But yeah, people who have lower FO3, if they do their cold baths, then they get some also benefits, they might need to be more careful with not overdoing it. I guess just they might able to tolerate less a little bit. >> Yeah, because other factors come into play too, right? like at least with the cold with the cold plunging, right? >> Cold exposure, you also have things you got to think about like the UCP-1 gene um that can actually be linked to people having a harder time um losing fat from cold exposure. So, that's one thing a caveat to take into mind consideration. Um but a gene I've been looking more into, I actually found out highly mutated for myself and kind of finding that out. I've actually been doing a lot more um cold showers in the morning. Um the DB the DBH gene. Um, so this is the gene that actually converts dopamine into norepinephrine. So this gene, there's several mutations studied in humans that can lower its functionality. So this can mean higher dopamine levels, lower norepinephrine or nor adrenaline levels. So this can be linked to impulsivity, um, ADHD, um, just generally poor focusing overall. And I myself, you know, I can be impulsive at times, like, oh, that's interesting. Let's just go check that out. And it kind of ties into ADHD when people think it's all about, you know, I have low dopamine. But we need to think of each individual. For a lot of people with ADHD, you may actually have high dopamine, but you have low you have low nor adrenaline. So, it's like I like to think of it as dopamine is what drives initial interest in something, right? Oh, I want to start this project. I want to sit down and start this work. But it's the norepinephrine that's what really keeps you locked in. Like that's what nicotine stimulates the release of, right? Nicotine doesn't really affect dopamine at all, but it could be great for focusing for people, right? Because it raises >> the more deep focus there. So, people talk about cold exposure, how it, you know, they compare it to cocaine, right? how it jacks up dopamine, how it's, you know, it's like taking your aderal every morning, this or that, right? But dopamine goes up what, I think, two or 300%. Norepinephrine goes up 5 to 700% from cold exposure. So, if we're really thinking about what really drives most of the cognitive focusing benefits of cold exposure, I would make an argument. I think norepinephrine is actually the main player, not so much the dopamine. So if you have people I myself I have several mutations in that gene. So I already have lower norepinephrine production. So when I do the cold exposure, um I mean this is what I speculate, right? There's no studies showing this would be a cool study, right? People doing cold exposure, you know, they can do a cognitive task and focusing task, right? With and without this genetic mutation to really see does that help restore the deficit better, right? I noticed it helps me immensely, right? But again, kind of speculative there. But I've seen for people that I work with that there's a high correlation with ADHD there, poor focusing. So I will I mean not prescribe, right? But recommend, right? Even if it's a quick two-minute cold shower, right? Just start somewhere. And these are people that I've seen that in my clinical experience respond better to the cold exposure therapy. So it's like the FOX3. Then there's also the UCP-1 gene. I mean, some people can get a little overstimulated doing the cold exposure, especially later in the day. So, there's that aspect, but then also, how much, you know, nor adrenaline, norepinephrine are you making as well? >> Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah. FOX3 is one of the, like you said, one of the most known longer genes. And there was a recent uh study on monkeys in China where they did um stem cell therapy and they gene edited some fox mutations. So they resulted in higher fox 3 expression from from the stem cell therapy in the monkeys and uh the monkeys had I mean I think the results weren't like that impressive. they you know did see a decrease in these biological age clocks but you know it's not a very uh significant uh result and they there some of the organ function also improved but not in all organs I think like 54% of the organs improved um >> so just so I understand so you said they gene edited so they edited they edited the host monkey like systemically like like like like an embryo >> no they had a human stem cells and they gedited those. >> I see. >> To to um to do some mutations on the Foxo 3 that it uh reduced the breakdown of Fox 3 or something like that. >> Do you know were they were they introducing were they introducing a novel type of mutation or did they induce a mutation that humans normally have? I exactly don't remember that one. But um >> because I'm wondering too like the the the stem cells they got from the humans. >> Yeah. >> Were those humans >> beneficial Fox3 genetics to begin with? Right. Like >> like I wonder if you took the stem cells from that 117y old woman, right? If they took those stem cells versus someone else's stem cells, right? Like I guess my point is it's like if here's a line of >> you know the maximal FOX3 optimization genetics for a human being were those stem cells just brought up to that or were they like you know yeah >> they did some mutation that may not even be super healthy to have in a human but it just really >> blew that Fox3 out of the water. >> Yeah. Well, the the other monkey group uh got regular human stem cells and they saw some improvement in organ function but they had like a lower result. >> So the m the gene editing did have some unique effect. >> Yes. From the same pool. So so some were unedited somewhere and then >> interesting that's cool. >> There were some additional effects from the gene editing. Um but yeah, I mean the my question is going to be that you know do you think that Foxo3 gene editing will it become like more popular in the future because it's one of the most known ones? It's tough. You know I did I did crisper um in my PhD with breast cancer cells and I remember doing it you know I validated all the primers needed to cut out you know the one specific gene. um did all the validation of the cells and the target gene was gone but then noticed there was you know offtarget effects as well right and it's again you know I was a scientist in training right so like that I messed something up perhaps but the thing with gene editing for me is I feel like we can't be as certain as some people make it to believe that those molecular scissors aren't cutting anywhere else right like you check the whole DNA for that um It's that'd be tricky, right? Because then it's like with the gene editing, right? You know, they're they're helping deafness, you know, all these actual trying to think how to word this. Uh these real clinical diseases that are actually ruining people's health versus, you know, where do you draw the line with eugenics, right? Because if you're going to be jacking up your Fox3, right? Like that's where it's like I'm trying to think would they would they be utilizing that for disease prevention? H interesting. Yeah, the gene therapy stuff it's it's interesting, right? It's also scary at the same point, right? Because it's also we need to fig think about when are we doing the gene editing, right? Are we doing the gene editing um pre-fertilization in the egg and sperm? Are we doing them with the embryo, you know, before they're an adult? Because the earlier you do it, if those mutations that you're changing, if they end up getting produced in the gametes, right, the sex cells, those also get passed down, you know, generations. Um, I don't know, you probably heard about a couple years ago, they did the I think there were twins in a in China where they did the gene editing. um and they made them, you know, immune to HIV. >> And then they said, "Oh, we actually found out too that um these kids are like >> super smart. Super smart." And in my head I'm like, this is actually around the time when I was doing the crisper um in my PhD and I was like with all the validation I was doing to make sure we're targeting the right gene. In my head, I'm like, there is no freaking way. These very intelligent Chinese scientists, they knew they were going to make those kids super intelligent. They just kind of, I think, >> proposed it initially as a noble cause. We're helping HIV, right? You see what I'm saying? It's like the Trojan horses were going to fix a disease, but in reality, we're also making super babies, right? Um, so it's interesting. you you affect an HIV gene, but that's also expressed in the brains and makes them a lot smarter. And then what I think the main investigators what they just disappeared. I don't think anyone's found them yet. I think they did it off the record, right? It wasn't even properly funded. It was kind of like underground. They just did it, presented it, and then just disappeared. >> Yeah. Well, the guy is uh he went to jail, but he's uh out now, and he's on >> I went to jail. Okay. >> He's he's an ex now. He's like posting like very >> Okay. I didn't follow up with that. Okay. Have you any more have you other other updates? I mean those the twins should probably be what probably like six plus years old now at this point. >> I haven't paid attention to that. But yeah, I mean he's he's on X and he's posting like >> some kind of philosoph philosophical posts uh as well. But yeah, that's kind of interesting. And another question I had on in this context would be the tomease. So you mentioned that you know it can be harmful for in terms of cancer and then the last podcast we discussed all these you know supplements that are harmful for some people because of genetics would then let's say because in longevity space there's also like okay the misconception that you want to have longer tie and um you take tomease boosters these kind of tomease activator supplements so within pe for some people it's not going to be a good idea from due to genetics >> so You're saying >> well >> you're saying the plumber you're saying in regards to cancer. >> Yeah. So the you know the the old woman uh she probably was saved thanks to her. >> Yeah. I mean it's really interesting right because something that we do need to think about that I think a lot of people in the supplement space don't talk about much right is if there are existing cancers in the body right that are also going to be absorbing these nutrients right um I remember there was a study I think it was with glutathione I'm trying to remember if it was in vivo or an organoid study um but basically suggesting that that could potentially, you know, promote cancer growth, right? Because it's these cancer cells are mostly our cells that are mutated in certain ways and could some of these mutations make them I guess we'll use the word hungrier, right? For certain nutrients, right? So, it's something to really consider, but like what does that mean? Like how far do you take that? Anyone before they take any natural supplement, they need a full body MRI, right? To check for cancers, right? But even at that point, it's like you need [snorts] a reasonably sized tumor to even pick that up on, you know, a full body MRI as well. So yeah, I think it's be interesting to read more into >> but from a from a gene test, you know, let's say someone does their gene test and they see they have like genetically higher risk of cancer and their family members also died to cancer. So uh for them probably maybe taking a tomeorous activator is not a good idea. >> Yeah I mean hard to say that definitively right. I know we can see genetically if someone is prone to shorter t shorter tieumirs for sure. Um I'm trying to think if we have rigorous data for longer tieumirs. I know definitely for shorter um it's tough right because it's like do you want your cells to be lasting longer it all then again it also comes into the immune activation right all these other factors as well because theory if the immune system is going to be actually going and detecting these cancers then the increased tomease may not matter as much but it's an arms race right cancers are always trying to evolve and evade it's an arms race going back and forth right So hard to say cuz I mean a lot of these tomeores you know like vitamin E does it vitamin D does it like a lot of these we're not talking necessarily about super niche you know hardcore underground biohacker peptides this and that right a lot of these general supplements that the majority of people um take technically lengthen tieumirs but it all depends on where you draw the line because a lot of it's mechanistic right now And with that logic, it's like, okay, so I'm never going to take any vitamin D. Well, low vitamin D is linked to cancers, too. >> So, you know, we need to try to figure out, you know, >> I always tell people, we're all chasing the perfect protocol, health optimization, but there's really no such thing as the perfect protocol, you know, because there's always going to be some potential caveats, mechanistic things that could play a factor, or maybe it doesn't play a factor or maybe it plays more of a factor than you'll ever understand. So it's tricky. >> Yeah, absolutely. Um I guess you know if there was a gene therapy for tieamirs that you you know that okay it's going to make your tie longer. >> Yeah. >> And and it's you know safe um personally I wouldn't probably take it. >> I wouldn't either. >> Yeah. even because I don't think >> even even if it was safe you know I would I wouldn't take it just from the like the understanding of the biology of aging at least my understanding of it that um you know telomers aren't that big of a role or big of a deal in terms of lifespan in my opinion it's more about yeah like the short maybe if if you see that okay your telmmers are getting super short then you can like maybe short-term therapy to get them back to like like a normal scale uh but uh I guess yeah like hyper for long tie are definitely like a good idea. >> Yeah, because we also got to think too what's actually happening when the tieumirs run out, right? We're releasing a lot of this, you know, scinesscent secret, this inflammatory secret. >> But again, going back to if your immune system is more wired for anti-inflammatory states, right? >> Even though like the 100 the super senitarian, right? She was I mean I don't see why she wouldn't have been releasing some of the scinesscent secret, right? But again, if the immune system itself isn't going to be reacting so excessively, then it may not really matter quite as much. And you know, how would they determine a tieomease gene therapy is safe, right? Like, >> right, >> I would want to see >> like we would need to test that. Like I would need to see that everyone screened for circulating tumor cells. We would need to validate that the people getting this do not have any detectable cancer, right? I mean, I'm with you. I wouldn't be taking it either. But for the people that would think about it, it's like you really need to make sure that there's as with as much as technology can prove there is an existing cancer, right? Because [snorts] >> it's like I mean maybe they could do it in mice and also see right if you do or or monkeys if you do actually have existing cancers and then you get that gene therapy, what happens then versus if you don't have existing cancer, that'd be a really cool study. But uh yeah, the longevity stuff, man, you really can be uh playing with fire. >> Yeah, you pull one lever and then another lever pops out somewhere somewhere else. >> And we don't even know what most of the levers are at this point either, right? Like we know I think there's so much more that we don't know than we do know about health and science. And I think it's going to be that way for a very long time. I mean, AI is going to help close that gap faster than we thought, right? But [clears throat] >> yeah, what about IG of one? So like low IG of 1 R is associated with longevity as well. If you could uh dim down your IG of one a little bit, maybe not, you know, completely turn it off, but uh reduce some of the expression. >> Mhm. >> Would you do that kind of a gene therapy? >> I feel like it might depend how much it would affect, you know, my ability to train and build muscle. Like I love, you know, I love hitting the weights hard, right? I like having the ability to like gain muscle if I want to lose a little bit this and that, right? So, I think it [sighs] >> I don't know if I would do a gene therapy, right? Even like even these >> a lot of these cancer vaccines that are coming out and a lot of them aren't even mRNA mediated, right? So, it's like other mechanisms. It's because what if what if you're wrong or what if the science is wrong in your specific scenario, right? Like I think I think that's for me where where I draw the line. And like I think you know I mean it's not biologic but even with all the neuralink stuff right like as much as it would infinitely fold increase you know your work output and stuff it's like that's really weird right. Would you would you get the neurolink? >> Uh probably not like an implant. >> Yeah. But uh you know glasses or something like a >> yeah a wearable you could you could turn off right that >> the monol or what's the the one eye glass or something like that. Um you know those those initially I would yeah use those >> damn they have a that reminds me of the you see Dragon Ball Z like they have the little like scouter thingy. That's what that reminds you of the mon. I know they had a monle one that that'd be pretty funny looking. >> Yeah. Or you know contact lenses or something like that. That's uh I think very feasible. Um but you know in a lot of these like longevity clinics you see growth hormone therapy and stuff like that but uh high growth hormone might have like negative effects on longevity. >> Yeah. >> So it's kind of interesting that why do they actually prescribe it in those clinics. >> Yeah. And I think too it's again we do know there's people that are prone to lower growth hormone. Right. So this is also why I think it's important you know you can check the circulating growth hormone levels but I think it's also important to see the synthesis of growth hormone those genes involved the receptor sensitivity I think it's really important to weed out you know like it reminds me like when I work with people with hormones right like we can see do you have a harder time making pregnenolone making DHEA making testosterone right so >> when someone comes to me with low testosterone hormone hormone issues. You know, I'm not against hormone therapy by any stretch. But for a lot of people, most people with hormone issues, it's lifestyle related, right? It's the microplastics. It's the poor sleep. It's the junk food. It's the stress in your life. So, it's like I would rather Yeah. Could you just go on testosterone and feel better? Sure. But for a lot of people that go on these hormone therapies that are kind of using as a band-aid, it stops working as much after a while, right? there's these feedback loops. So, you know, if we can figure out if someone, let's say if someone has a harder time making DHEA, right? And it's not just based on one mutation, right? The polygenic scoring I use does 48,000 snips for DHEA production, right? So, that's something I see be really accurate with blood work. Is your testosterone here lower because you can't make the ingredient as well? So if you can't make the ingredient as well, I would rather have you try well check the blood work, right? And a lot of times it correlates. I would rather have you try that the actual missing piece for you and then it could flow through into the testosterone. But if you're somebody that literally can't synthesize testosterone from DHEA as well, that's an individual I'll say, hey, you know, we could try to work on all these other things. But I do think testosterone replacement therapy, you're an ideal candidate because it's actually a true genetic suppression. So take that over to the growth hormone, right? Kind of the same thing there how my brain is looking at that, right? if it's a true genetic suppression or the same thing can be true with the DIO enzymes. So DIO 1 and two these are what convert and activate thyroid hormone in the body. So those two isoforms if those are mutated highly mutated in people. um a lot of times they have thyroid issues and similar similar lines I'll say hey even if let's say they have Hashimoto's a lot of inflammation going on even in a perfect world if there was no autoimmunity no inflammation your thyroid will very likely always struggle to activate enough so for you don't beat yourself up if you need a low dose of thyroid hormone because it's literally a true genetic suppression right so that's kind of how I view a lot of these these therapies, you want to really tease out >> is it something that you can do lifestyle-wise or all these other factors first or if you could identify right away upfront with the genetic testing, wow, okay, I'm going to work on all my lifestyle to get my testosterone better, but I'm going to understand that I may not be able to get over a 500 for testosterone, right? Even doing a lot of the right things. >> Yeah. Yeah, obviously it has some uh you know use cases. I think they, you know, medically use it for uh people who have like children who are like stunted in growth like Missy. I think he got growth hormone when he was young. >> And some some of those individuals um they actually can have a lot more severe pathogenic or you know clinically relevant mutations, right? So like the genes I focus on, they're not like going to completely ruin your life, right? But some of these other more severe variants, right? You and I or people listening right now can have mutations for lower growth hormone. But those types of cases, not all of them, but those more clinical cases, they have more severe mutations that are a lot rarer where they've really like their growth is literally like stunted, right? So, it makes sense to utilize that. >> Yeah. >> And who's that you said had that? >> Messi, the soccer player. [snorts] >> Um Yeah. And you know the low of one and low growth hormone. So these um people with a leron syndrome they have like extremely low rates of cancer and diabetes. So they're you know um very short in terms of the height and they have yeah extremely low rates of these cancer because Ian yeah is going to you know it's involved in cancer growth as well but obviously it's not the only thing it does. >> Mhm. But uh yeah, just because these people have extremely low and extremely low growth hormone from birth, then they you know, rarely die to cancer or diabetes. >> Yeah, it's interesting again going back to like what responds better to the IGF-1, right? Like the cancer cell >> or the healthy cell, right? >> I think we're also got to wonder too, right? these mutations, these random mutations that cancer cells gain, what if that makes your hypounctioning IGF-1 receptor hyperfunctioning, right? So, what if you could kind of flip that and now all that hormone is doing that, right? So, >> interesting rabbit hole. >> Yeah. Yeah. And uh you know you can use I guess nutrient partitioning or in this context it would be like hormone partitioning that if you lift weights then you're more likely to use that IGF-1 for muscle growth rather than cancer growth because if you eat the standard American diet you have high age of one you're not exercising then yeah you're probably like promoting cancer with that lifestyle and that uh that like form of physical activity. But if you're doing resistance training then at least you're you're building muscle. And interestingly, you know, bodybuilders don't really die to cancer. They die to heart disease a lot, >> but cancer is not that common in that sport. Although Yeah. Cuz I think a lot of times too >> feel like a lot of them can sadly pass like what like 30s, 40s, early 50s. Right. Right. >> I wonder if they were able to live long like I wonder if part of that could be a survivorship thing, right? Where maybe they're just not living long enough for it to really ramp up, right? where the heart's kind of giving out earlier. Um, interesting. [clears throat] >> Well, I would imagine cancer could, you know, develop much faster because in the general population, you you don't really see heart disease in people who are 20 or 30 years old. >> You do see cancer in even younger people. So, yeah, it's kind of interesting that bodybuilders I mean, they may again like like you just mentioned before, maybe that could be due to what are they doing a lot of a lot of intense exercise, right? as you mentioned maybe could be >> partitioning interesting because what you mentioned before was interesting. So the exercise you think could be partitioning that IGF-1 is that because the mus skeletal muscle it upregulates the IGF-1 receptors so it's just kind of there's more of the ligan binding to the muscle cells versus potential cancer cells. >> Yeah. And you know that's how would I would think about it that you know mtor as well you can use mtor for muscle growth or cancer growth >> but if you are lifting weights then you're triggering mtor expression in the muscles mostly so u you're I guess reducing the likelihood of the mtor being in in going towards cancer but you would but yeah like because if you are let's say on a standard American diet you do have high one levels as well u at least in I would imagine most cases But but >> and is that is that just from the surplus or it's just from the actual the processed foods themselves? >> You know, probably like all of those things. Yeah. Just eating too much eating too much processed foods, sugary foods, etc. >> So, um yeah, at least that's my theory. >> Yeah. >> Um one thing that interesting to talk about is a sleep. So, um some people genetically sleep shorter. I'm not aware if those people have shorter lifespan as well because of that or do they live like normally. Is it that their body is so resilient that they need less sleep and uh they can get away with less sleep? What do you think about that? >> Yeah, I'm trying to I trying to remember off the top of my head. I do know that ereexen signaling can play a role in that. So erection is a really interesting signaling pathway. You know, people think, you know, like adrenaline or dopamine or even histamine, right, can promote wakefulness, but erection signaling is what really drives that real wakefulness type feeling. Um, so I know mutations that make lower erection signaling are linked to narcolepsy, right? So signaling, um, I believe has been linked to, um, I guess those super sleepers, right? Um, trying to remember off the top of my head. Yeah, I see what you're saying. Are they literally just they can't sleep as long or are they actually protected against, you know, whether it's the oxidative stress or these, you know, negative effects of the sleep itself? Like are they kind of bundled up in one thing is what you're asking kind of, right? So I >> that's a really cool question. Yeah. Are there some people that are super sleepers that aren't as protected against those negative effects? >> And then there are some people that are super sleepers that are more protected, right? >> Then I would guess that they probably can't sleep long, but they feel like crap all the time. But I feel like most of these super sleepers you hear about, they're like functioning completely normal just literally on two to four hours of sleep. So >> I would lean probably towards they're probably mutually inclusive there. Um having those Um, >> yeah, >> I can't remember off the top of my head which specific genes have been linked to that. I know there's been some kind of like that map kynise like secondary messengers, right? But sometimes those can be hard to kind of find a clear aha, you know, that's exactly why that makes sense because a lot of these secondary messengers can be involved in multiple pathways. >> Yeah. Yeah. You know, the perfect combo would be that you have the short sleep genes plus then you maybe have like some higher Foxo 3 that uh you uh augment yourself against the shorter sleep, you get away with u less sleep and you suffer less side effects from that. That would be like the if you were to do a gene therapy then you could you could sell that to like u CEOs. >> Well, because that's just interesting too, right? like uh one of my friends um I don't know if he has a super sleeper Jean but he gets four maybe five hours like and he's totally fine on that consistently. Um and talking to him about it he's like you think it'd be great but it's great till it's not because I literally have four more hours a day every day and it's like I don't always just want to work for those four more hours. So there's like a there's a time of day usually later into the night it's like it can feel kind of lonely if that makes sense, right? Because day after day you have so much more time in your day. Your your effective day is so much longer, right? But >> the vast vast majority of people, especially people living in your time zone, your friends and family, right? Like they're not awake with you, right? So, it's kind of interesting to think like, yeah, CEOs may >> want that as long as they keep themselves busy during that period of time, right? Other I could see it being kind of boring slash, you know, >> lonesome. >> Yeah. And I mean, the same can apply to just the life extension that if you stay stay alive for 300 years, but everyone else dies at 50 or 70, then uh yeah, maybe it gets >> Well, it reminds me of uh I don't know if you're into like superheroes in comics. uh like the old man Logan from Wolverine, right? He has the super healing factor and like >> going through that, right? Like having all these separate wives and families and this and that and you just kind of know that it's eventually going to be going away, but you're not going to be going away nearly as quickly, right? >> Um >> interesting stuff to think about as technology just keeps on advancing, right? Like >> how long would we really want to live, right? I think it also depends on would we be functional, right? But I think we could both agree if we were like not able to be very mobile and were very dependent on other people, I really don't think I would want to be adding any more years onto my life, right? But if we could tack on functional years, like extend that true health span, right? Again, I think the limiting factor is how many other people that you love and care about are going to be on that journey with you. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Otherwise, you end up either lonely or you have to start from scratch and try to make new friends with people after 100 plus years of kind of being who you are, right? That that's wild to think about honestly. >> Yeah. Um well, you know, there as you said earlier, there's so many genes and we don't even know all of them that affect longevity. So, you know, we won't be able to go through all of these genes in this episode, but um you know, let's say as a wrap-up, what would be so let's say people are interested in longevity? Obviously, they they do their lifestyle factors, right? But what are things that everyone kind of should know about their genes when it comes to longevity? Like are there, you know, certain genes they would definitely want to test for? And uh how would you like approach uh you know constructing their own lifestyle with the information of their genes? >> Yeah, I like to look at that not so much as you know maybe not necessarily the exact genes to test for. The way my brain looks at this as a pharmacologist is looking at your genes to figure out which of these longevity supplements are right for you. Right? kind of as I mentioned um we were talking about uh which one we're talking about with the MAO inhibitor um I guess my point is pretty much all these senolytics right queretin rveratrol like these all also slow down the breakdown of neurotransmitters so for some people they could help with mood but for a lot of people especially like the rveratrol queretin they block more of the maoa versus ma A O I don't care how good the data looks. If I take it and I feel more fearful and anxious and don't sleep as well, right? Like I need to find something else to help support that, right? Or even methylene blue, um, methylene blue can be great, but G6PD, that gene can be linked to hemalyis or red blood cell issues and it could flip methylene blue into a prooxidant, right? So there's a lot of data around that. That's more so for people getting high doses of IVmethylene blue for more clinical treatments. Um there isn't concrete data yet around the more lower biohacker level doses, but people that I've worked with that I've seen have these G6 PD mutations. They're not doing mega doses, but they don't feel good on methylene blue. Um it can be that, but that also can raise adrenaline in people, right? um we can look at mutations in complex one and three of the mitochondrial electron transport chain complexes and try to figure out those are the two that methylene blue can really help with. So if one and three are genetically more sluggish, right, methylene blue may make a lot of sense to for you. But on the flip side, if you have slow MAO um or if you have G6PD, methylene blue can make you excessively anxious or possibly have actual health risks for you. So that's how my brain looks at it. You know, it's cool to go detective work and trying to find these targetable genetic mutations, but I think more so we have hundreds and thousands of verified neutrauticals. How do we really know which ones map out for you? Like I've had so many people come to me, they're on all the cenolytics, they're wire, or they don't know why. They just have no idea that all these analytics literally raise adrenaline in your body, but you're not going to read that on the bottle. You're not going to read it on the label. And a lot of the people selling it may not know that or they might know it and not want to share that, right? Because who would want to get a supplement that can raise adrenaline? Now, of course, that doesn't mean it's bad for everyone. Some people feel really great. So not finding the the the magical gene but more so how do we understand our pharmacological tools to make sure the tools match with our genes >> right that's a yeah good perspective um but would someone be would it be worth it for someone to um know their APOE4 or something like that? Oh, absolutely. That's the other one that's so tightly tightly linked to longevity, right? Like absolutely. Um, yeah. I mean, that's it's linked to so many other complications, right? It also affects your dietary patterns as well, right? What you're putting in your body throughout your whole life. It's not just thinking, oh, I'm going to get Alzheimer's, right? It's like, why may you have an increased risk for that Alzheimer's and what can we do today, right? It's not always about the gene therapy or the supplements or the peptides. It's which foods that we're putting into our body as well. That's the whole neutrogenomic side of things as well. >> Yeah, it's just like a lowhanging fruit to get it checked. Um yeah, well uh this was very interesting for me at least and um you know we didn't cover a lot of the topics we planned initially. We just I decided to yeah just pivot into the longevity side of things. >> So uh yeah, we'll you know probably have to follow up uh in the future. But uh yeah, where can people learn more about you and your work? >> Yeah, so uh Dr. Tyler Pansner um Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, Tik Tok, www.dtylerpansner.com. And uh yeah, you know, I'm just really on a mission to um a really try to advance the genetic space and make it more palatable for people. Right? genetics can be so nebulous for people, very overwhelming. And on the flip side, really understanding how these supplements work. You know, it's not just this supplement helps with brain health. What else does it do in your body, right? The supplement space is >> people love to bash big pharma, right? >> But it's like at least pharma is regulated. Supplements aren't regulated. And you know, it's for me, it's not even so much about is the supplement high quality or are there like additives and stuff. Don't get me wrong, that's important. But even the highest quality, perfectly pure supplements, if it doesn't line up with your genetics, you're not going to feel good on that. So, trying to bring those two together and uh yeah, that's exactly what I make content about. And yeah, would absolutely love to come on again. It's always love always love talking more about this uh deeper science here with you. So, I appreciate you having me back. Yeah, I'm happy to have you. And uh I'll put the link to the first episode as well in the show notes so people can check out on like specific supplements that we uh discussed and their genetics. Uh well, yeah, it was great to talk with you and I'll see you around.