Every antioxidant combination needs to be studied in a human because you sometimes don't know if that combination is going to be prooxidant, antioxidant, or neutral. Where they showed that when people took vitamin E and vitamin C, the adaptive benefits of exercise were completely eliminated. The only thing that's ever been proven to extend lifespan and probably in our lifetime is ever going to be proven in humans is >> Dr. Mark, welcome to the show. >> Thanks very much. My pleasure. Yeah, I'm excited to have you because um you've talked a lot about uh the mitochondria which are very interesting uh organels and they're very relevant in like the health and longevity space as well. So uh yeah, I'm happy to uh talk with you about all things mitochondria. So essentially we maybe we can start with u you know from high school we know that mitochondria are the powerhouse of the cell but uh it's obviously a little bit more complex than that. So maybe you can give us like a more um brief overview and introduction you what are the mitochondria? Yeah, the mitochondria are thought to be u an invader if you will of ourselves. Um probably two billion years ago as we were evolving uh we took on the mitochondria which was thought to be a essentially a form of purple photosynthetic bacteria and what it did really is helped us to detoxify oxygen but also more importantly to extract energy. So throughout 200 sorry two billion years of evolution uh we've remained uh in close association with the mitochondria. So what they do is they provide our cells essentially with energy. Um and uh because they do that it's called a symbiotic relationship. So we allow them to stay within our cell in order to conserve uh our energy and to provide more bang for the buck. Uh as you mentioned most people feel that it's just energy. It's the powerhouse of your cell. But mitochondria do many more things. And perhaps it's maybe more important to know what they uh do when they're not working that causes more of an issue. Certainly with aging uh with the genetic mitochondrial diseases that I see uh even with things like uh dislycemia things like obesity when mitochondria don't work uh it causes problems for the cell. So when mitochondria aren't working, not only do we not get enough ATP or energy, but we also can activate processes like inflammation, uh oxidative stress, so these free radicals which can damage protein, DNA and lipids, which can then cause damage to the cell. There are various other processes. There's one called apoptosis or aptosis depending on how you want to pronounce it. Uh which is a form of pre-programmed cell death. uh they're linked to shortening of our telomeres and many people are aware that telomeirs are essentially these replicometers at the end of our chromosome and uh as we go through our life and we continually uh make new copies of DNA uh these telomeres shorten and when they get to a certain level the cell kind of goes into a scesscent state. Uh so they are linked to many cellular processes. Um, the other one of course that uh any older adult with thin muscles is aware of is we have smaller muscles and we need energy to drive what's called protein synthesis. So when they're not working, they have a litany of effects on our cells. So keeping them healthy is an important construct when we think about healthy aging and healthy lifespan. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean that's very I guess you somewhat surprising as well as very interesting the idea that they're like a different um life form inside of us essentially that uh help us to produce energy and you know without your mitochondria life as we know it would probably not like exist as as humans um or maybe would have would have developed some different kind of adaptations but uh like how big of a role does the mitochondria play in just let's say you know aging and uh longevity. >> Yeah, it's a good point and uh we know that certainly humans cannot live without mitochondria. Um we have children who have severe mitochondrial disease and uh sometimes they're dying in infancy. I'm called up to the neonatal ICU. Uh kids have what's called lethal infantile mitochondrial disease. Uh and even then they still have some functional mitochondria but it's not enough to sustain life as we know it. Uh so they're absolutely essential to life. Uh what we see over time is even a small diminishment of mitochondrial function can contribute to muscles being thinner. Uh various theories of aging, one of them is this inflammation where there's low-grade inflammation which can be linked partially to mitochondrial dysfunction. So there's a litany of uh of delletterious effects that happen when uh when these aren't functioning properly. Um but uh it's a very interesting point that uh evolutionarily what happened is as a bacteria it probably takes around 1,300 genes to make a mitochondria. We still have this little piece of mitochondrial DNA which is really a throwback to the fact that they were bacteria at one point in time and uh 37 or 38 genes depending on how you look at it are still encoded for by this little piece of mitochondrial DNA which we get from our moms and moms pass this on to all of their children. But that really forms the backbone of the mitochondria. And then uh the nucleus of our cell makes all of the other components which then come in and help us to form these elegant structures which exist in every cell in our body except for our red blood cells. And we see them in much higher abundance in important tissues like heart, brain, and muscle where the high energy demand really dictates that we need lots of mitochondria in order to survive. Whereas other tissues uh you know they're in lower abundance but still important. We've even published uh with aging that we have mitochondrial dysfunction in skin uh and that can as we'll talk about later improve with exercise training. >> H yeah that's interesting. Um you also mentioned that the mitochondria help us to detoxify uh like oxygen and produce energy but uh you know one of the byproducts of that process is oxidative stress itself. So energy production by the mitochondria creates these reactive oxygen species. So you know breathing and being alive is causing oxidative stress and damage. And I guess over the course of decades and you know over your entire lifespan or at least that was one of the old theories of aging that the free radical theory of aging that this um exposure to oxidative stress throughout your lifetime is what drives aging. It's a bit more complex than that but uh essentially you know being alive is uh killing you literally that it's causing this oxidative stress and u inflammation just through the energy production itself. >> Yeah. And it's certainly contextual uh we need some degree of oxidative stress for human adaptation. So uh there's always a level of ROSS or reactive oxygen species that are being produced but we have two ways to combat this. We have endogenous antioxidants things like manganese superoxide disbutase catalase uh the glutathione system which help to detoxify it. So it usually keeps things in check for most uh individuals. We also can take exogenous antioxidants things like vitamin E, vitamin C and uh alphalapoic acid, CoQ10 etc. Uh so that endogenous and exogenous pathway usually damp them down so we don't produce excessive amounts. Uh it's interesting. We did studies years ago where we had older adults do exercise and back then, you know, 20 25 years ago, people said, "Oh my goodness, you're going to damage people because we know that aging is oxidative stress. Now you're exercising and causing more oxidative stress." However, it's a simplistic view because what happens is when we exercise, we produce these ROSS. The cell senses this threat to cellular homeostasis. So what we do is we upregulate mitochondria to deal with the energy crisis. we upregulate antioxidant enzymes and uh Johnny Pery, one of my first graduate students and I were some of the first to show that older adults after training increase their antioxidant defenses and their level of chronic oxidative stress actually goes down. Uh but certainly um you know many diseases uh that I see in the clinic with mitochondrial disease Ross is particularly important. Friedri at taxia for example you know too much iron in your mitochondria >> huge increase in Ross and people are going blind deaf at taxic heart issues and there there's so many Ross that bringing them down with antioxidants and exercise training is absolutely essential. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean that's that's what they also found with the free radical theory of aging that if you completely eliminate all oxidative stress and reactive oxygen species then that actually shortens the lifespan of like these model organisms. So yeah you need some amount of um these reactive oxygen species to uh increase your body's endogenous antioxidant defense systems. >> Exactly. And as you know a similar vein to that point is uh when people completely suppress ROSS production for example there was a study by Risto uh published in PNAS where they showed that when people took vitamin E and vitamin C uh the adaptive benefits of exercise were completely eliminated uh in um sedentary individuals who are doing exercise training. So there was none of the um metabolic benefits because in in theory what happens is the ROSS feeding through PG1 alpha to upregulate mitochondrial biogenesis was blunted when you provide too many exogenous antioxidants. >> So to bluntly give everybody antioxidants it's probably why many of the studies fail. Uh one they may not be getting to where you think they're going to be. Uh if someone's exercising you have to make sure that you're not blunting the benefits. So it's a very nuanced area, the provision of antioxidants to individuals. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've mentioned that on my channel before that the antioxidants especially after exercise seem to like blunt that response. And the same with like ice baths which are also, you know, very anti-inflammatory and they have like similar effect by suppressing that inflammation, but I've never like went into that deep with it. So um does it mean that you're just not really getting any benefits from the exercise? But obviously you're still like you know ex exerting calories and energy. So what are you what benefits are you specifically missing out on? Let's say if you do take high amounts of antioxidants after exercise like are you not getting any the mitochondrial adaptations or are you not getting any this long-term uh lower level of inflammation response? >> Yeah, it's a it's it's a challenge and I think it's uh contextual. So if somebody is completely healthy and young, there's no increase in basil ross. Um it may not be a good idea in the perfect 20-year-old healthy individual uh who's trying to achieve top sport to be taking uh antioxidants during a training session. However, um you know, I used to race internationally in a number of sports and I trained seven days a week for 45 years. Uh crazy people like me who push themselves to going blind. um you know um shutting down your gut and you know pooping out blood. You push yourself so hard that I think you're crossing into more pathology. So certainly for real top sport athletes especially multi-day events or pushing yourself to absolute extremes I think you cross from physiologic adaptation into pathology. It's almost like a starling curve. So in those scenarios and certainly if we're doing a multi-day adventure race or you know I'm racing a top sport and I've got to do you know two races back toback and weekend orienteering or something uh I think antioxidants help you to avoid the excessive ROSS production in basil training uh for an athlete probably of no benefit but certainly there are certain uh combinations of antioxidants and you know we published some stuff and have some recent data as well uh that with overweight people who are overweight or obese um when they do exercise training, there are some benefits to certain types of antioxidants. But again, every antioxidant combination needs to be studied in a human because you sometimes don't know if that combination is going to be prooxidant, antioxidant or neutral. Uh and the you know it's very contextual. So uh proper clinical trials are important before we try and extrapolate too much. But I think aging, obesity, um, and extreme sports are scenarios where antioxidant provision of the appropriate type can be of some benefit. >> I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices, which are the Bond Charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longevity influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bont Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most REA therapy devices don't have the right wavelengths of light, which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bond Charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research, and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to bunchcharge.com and use the code seam sim for a 15% discount. Yeah. So it's like when the person has a very high level of inflammation from Yeah. like too much exercise or obesity or or just being uh from aging then it can be useful because the baseline inflammation level is already very high in that situation. >> Exactly. Yeah. It's very much like a starling curve. You know, you can uh as you go up the curve, there's adaptation, but then when you cross a certain threshold, you go down. So, bringing oxidative stress down on the up slope brings you down in terms of function. If you're over that slope, which could be chronic inflammation from obesity, aging, or uh transient super high oxidative stress by overtraining bringing you the levels of ROSS down, uh then your function actually goes up because you're on that down slope on the other side. So that's the way I conceptualize it and that's where I I really see the benefits is under you know periods of increased stress be it your physiology by being overweight, obese, dislycemic or genetic mitochondrial disease or musculardrophe andor as we uh get older. I mean I'm almost 65 now and clearly things do change and I definitely take antioxidants uh you know now that [clears throat] I've crossed over that threshold. >> Gotcha. Yeah. I also saw some studies that uh elderly people who take antioxidants while exercising they do see greater like benefits from the like bigger performance benefits from the exercise like higher leg press or higher some grip strength than just exercise alone. So I guess that could be because of the have the higher baseline inflammation. Yeah, there's no question that again everything is so contextual and that's why you know you can't broadly give um sort of advice across the age spectrum and across the health spectrum. Uh but it's almost a U-shaped curve, right? because the top sport athletes who are really pushing super hard are probably crossing into pathology and then on the flip side those that are uh elderly aging muscular drophy whatever uh where there's that chronic basil adaptation both are going to get this uh you know starling curve adaptive benefit when you bring down reactive oxygen species. >> Mhm. Is there also like a dose uh response there that how big of a dose would it have to be that it becomes harmful? Let's say exogenous antioxidants, vitamin C or NAC something like that. >> Yeah, it's it's difficult to know. So um the challenge that you have there is that um you know the dose is one thing you have to have an effective dose. I see so many supplements that are being sold with homeopathic levels and you know people put a bunch of antioxidants together. They handwave and you know they charge a whole bunch for these things but the doses are far too low to have any effective benefit in a human. Um and certainly the other issue that we found is the the combination is very very critically important. Uh so the vitamin E and vitamin C if you're you know overweight and you're training you know the Risto study would suggest that's not a good combination. So I would avoid that. uh but keep in mind that vitamin C is more cytoolic. It's not you know going into the mitochondria. Uh so if we want mitochondrial protection which we do in our patients or with aging which we think is an important resource of the ROSS things like alpha lipoic acid which is a co-actor in three of the important mitochondrial enzymes co-enzyme Q10 uh bridge between complex one and complex 2 uh in the mitochondria plus giving redux couples. So it becomes very very contextual to what you're giving uh the doses that you're giving to make sure that they're effective in a human and that's why you know certainly our research uh you know we we look at stuff in animals and cell culture but we're really not convinced until we go into the human and then we can see does this dose work on average in this uh in this specific patient group andor group of athletes. >> Gotcha. Yeah. What about the endogenous antioxidants then? you mentioned that these increase when you are exercising and they have a positive effect. So um yeah how how how should we think about these endogenous antioxidants? >> Yeah, again very few studies have actually looked at that. Um so in terms of providing exogenous antioxidants uh it is very likely and I can't think of a study we didn't even look at this uh where we actually measured the blunting of indogenous antioxidants but I think they they they probably come to an equipose right so more of the exogenous and then you don't upregulate as much of the endogenous um but what one has to do is just make sure that the adaptation that you care about if it's glycemic control muscle strength bone own as sprint performance, endurance performance, that those outcomes that we're looking at are actually favorably enhanced by whatever intervention you're doing. Uh, and we know for older adults, you know, leg strength is uh critical to health span and longevity. Even grip strength is V2 max is very very strongly correlated to uh to health span. So, you know, you want to make sure that those metrics are measured for an older adult and or if you're an endurance athlete, you know, V2 max and, you know, anorobic threshold and all of these other important factors need to be appropriately determined in response to the intervention that you give. >> Mhm. Yeah. As I as I understand then um it's better for your health to take if you ever were to try to supplement antioxidants, it's like better to take some of the precursors. So your body would make the antioxidants themselves rather than just take the straight up antioxidants. So let's say glutathione, it's better to take glycine and AC than to just let's like an average situation. Maybe there are obviously there are specific situations where glutathione is a better option but like as a general person who is just you know taking certain supplements for health and wellness then uh in that situation it's better to take the precursors because then your body can also like autoregulate how much glutathione it will produce from them. >> Yeah, you know it's a difficult concept. I mean in theory that that that may work but to you know again I just emphasize it's so important when you start talking about antioxidants to measure it in a human. So many people provide antioxidants to a human and they assume that they're functioning as antioxidants in that human. And it's critical that in the context that you're looking at that you actually measure is it truly functioning. We did a study for example which has got got me onto this years ago. Uh we were following up on some of the work that Julie Sampierre was doing when she was working with Bruce Figgleman and she was looking at the link between Ross and PGC1 alpha expression. So we tried to do a study with muscle biopsies looking at uh mRNA abundance three hours after an acute bout of exercise. So in vitro we came up with this mixture of antioxidants. you know, we just picked everything off the shelf. Glutathione and vitamin C, vitamin E, selenium, blah blah blah. Threw it all together and it was incredible antioxidant in vitro. Uh we couldn't even generate free radicals. They were just eaten up so much in the ORAC assay. So the ORAC uh assay was just the most potent antioxidant you could possibly imagine. We gave it to the folks and when we finished the study, it went in the opposite direction. So I thought my student must have mixed up the columns or something. And as it turns out, uh, these antioxidants when we gave them to humans in the human body after you go through absorption, digestion, all the metabolic processes going on became a prooxidant. So when we actually looked at markers of oxidative stress, they're actually higher with the antioxidant. So uh again there's so much misinformation about antioxidants that's out there where uh you know people are assuming that some mixture which sounds really good and even in vitro it looks great but you give it to a human you've got to measure um and you know our >> cocktail that we came up with for our mitochondrial patients uh in 2007 we did a randomized double blind crossover study um with a combination of alphalapoic acid co-enzyme Q10 vitamin and creatine. We showed with two markers of oxidative stress in humans with genetic mitochondrial disease, we could lower lactate and lower the two markers of oxidative stress. Uh whereas >> everyone said, you know, Mark, we don't know what's working. Typical drug ccentric approach. We want one compound, that's it. Which is sort of illogical when we're treating complex disease. But anyhow, I went ahead did a clinical trial with huge doses of co-enzyme Q10, which many people are familiar with is a fairly popular antioxidant. 600 milligrams twice daily of hydro-oluble CoQ10. And we showed absolutely no reduction in oxidative stress whatsoever. >> So again, we have to be very careful about what studies we're were looking at to uh to really know is it truly functioning in the way that you expect that it's it's doing so. H. So in your in your research, the combination of those ingredients was superior to just the CoQ10 alone, which uh yeah, yeah, CoQ10 is thought to be like a mitochondrial supporting agent. Uh but yeah, I guess in your case, yeah, you needed to combine it with certain ingredients to get the best effect. >> Absolutely. And part of that is number one uh if you put two agents together make sure they're going to end up in the same spot because when free radicals are produced you know they last for phto seconds and they don't cross membranes. So free radicals produced in the mitochondria are not going to be buffered by an antioxidant like uric acid that sits in the cytool or vitamin C. So our logic behind that what we call the mitochondrial core uh which you know is now standard of care for our patients uh and forms the basis of a number of different concoctions we've come up with for obesity and aging and and and other things. Um so what we found is that we wanted the vitamin E to protect membranes. Uh we wanted the creatine because of the creatine phosphocreatine shuttle in and out of the mitochondria and studies have shown to have some antioxidant potential. But then we also wanted the alpha lipoic acid and the CoQ10 as a redux couple knowing that both coexist in the mitochondria. So they're close to the approximate source of the reactive oxygen species. And again till you study it in a human you don't know and these patients are severe. So put it into context as we sit here our V2 is around about you know 3.5 to 4 milliliters per kilogram uh per minute. Uh these patients at V2 max 7 to 8 ms per kilogram per minute. So you know even a sedentary person is going to be you know 20 to 30 uh for most people. So these patients are profoundly impaired and still we were able to lower the Ross and to lower their lactate values. >> Yeah. So so what about exercise? Um I think most people in the know do think that exercise is one of the best ways to support mitochondrial health. So um what is uh happening with exercise that why is it so good for the mitochondria? >> Yeah, exercise uh [clears throat] uh really is the the gold standard. I mean you know all of this handwaving just makes me sick to think about people saying that they're you know lifespan extension videos and there's even Netflix films on people trying to extend their extend their lifespan. The only thing that's ever been proven to extend lifespan and probably in our lifetime that's ever going to be proven in humans is endurance exercise. So um it's very clear um that there's meta analyses and there's been data for the last 20 to 30 years uh that has come out clearly showing that regular endurance exercise gives us about four year lifespan extension. More importantly, it gives us a 10-year health span extension. Uh and why does it do so? It does so because exercise is a dirty drug. That's the way I think about it. So, exercise increases mitochondria. It increases your antioxidant defense systems. It increases heat shock proteins. And that's probably why things like episodic saunas are probably beneficial. Any stressor to the body is physiology. Our body is going to adapt and it's going to uh it's going to respond better the next time it's exposed to stress. So, heat shock proteins um lower basil inflammation. So pretty much any hallmark of aging, you can think about exercise has a favorable effect on it. So all of these people who embrace drugs and think they're going to come up with an exercise drug, you know, with a single compound, it's it's going to fail because exercise is just such a beautiful evolutionary process that, you know, has allowed humans likely to evolve as homo sapiens, you know, for the last 300,000 years because of the multiplicity of benefits that it confers on the human body. And when we think about this garbage where people think that metformin or rapamy is going to extend their their lifespan uh you know there's so many offtarget effects and delletterious effects which you know other than extreme exercise maybe getting atrial fib which I've had there's really no downside to to proper exercise. >> Yeah I definitely agree with that. With endurance exercise it's something also very unique to humans. So humans are probably one of the best ultra endurance species on the planet. So like we we're not very fast in a sprint compared to like a cheetah. Uh we're also not very fast compared to like a gazelle over the course of few kilometers. But there's no other animal that can literally run like 100 km and not bunk. So yeah, humans are pretty much like the ultra endurance species and uh you know for and it's also like what was evolutionary selected for because that's how that is one of the forms of hunting we did in the past was called like this persistence hunting where you just yeah chase down the gazelle for tens of kilometers. It just gets tired over time. Obviously, we're not going to catch it with a sprint, but over the course of many kilometers, that's how we catch it because then it just gets too tired and it's not able to run anymore. So, yeah, it's kind of evolutionary selected for as well that the humans that have survived up until this point, they were very good at ultra endurance sports. >> Yeah. Yeah. And it's uh it's interesting too because if you think about the out of Africa hypothesis, you know, looking at mitochondrial DNA hlo groups, you know, we uh assume somewhere between 250 and 300,000 years ago, the L0, which is the original mitochondrial haplo group for homo sapiens came out likely somewhere in north south Africa and then uh you know came up through the fertile crescent about 80,000 years ago. And uh if you look at East Africa uh it appears that endurance capacity was selected for and that's where most you know Caucasians eventually came out through the fertile crescent there and if we look now at you know um the the athletes in Kenya Ethiopia very very skinny very endurance rich but if you look at the high plains there that's where I think this endurance conferred advantage but getting back and I only just thought about this now that we're talking about it if you look at West Africa uh you look at the en enrichment of muscle mass. So if you look at people winning the 100 meters um pretty much the top 100 or so with rare exception can ultimately trace their routes to West Africa and the topography of the geography was different. So it's likely that there was some biological advantage conferred by big large muscles in that slightly different uh topography versus the higher plains on East Africa. And uh when we think about the ultimate for aging after all of my research comes together um and even being, you know, previously an international level endurance athlete, uh I was getting skinny, you know, picking up my grandchildren, uh getting back pain. We need both as we get older. So we need both the endurance adaptation and we also need the strength adaptation. And uh it's harder to measure the benefits of strength, you know, because there's no study, very few people did strength training their whole life. So, we don't have the epidemiology to say, "Oh, if you do this your whole life, you're going to get lifespan or health span extension." However, we and others have clearly shown up to age 92 in our studies, you take an older adult, you give them an exercise training program, increase muscle mass, they can get up the stairs better, they can get off the floor better, they can get out of a chair and walk 10 meters better. All of those important metrics of health span are improved. So there's no question that optimal aging uh we really need both to think about endurance but also to be thinking about uh strength and I certainly now try to titrate in as best I can 30 40% of my training more power and strength as opposed to before it was 100% endurance. >> Yeah. Yeah. What is happening on like the mitochondria level with exercise maybe obviously it's a bit different adaptations from let's say power and endurance. So, but uh with endurance obviously there's maybe like the cardiovascular component that u explains the longevity benefits uh with like with reduced heart disease but what is like on the mitochondrial level happening like are you building new mitochondria or are you removing old mitochondria or what's happening? >> Yeah. Um, you know, it's interesting because people call it mitochondrial biogenesis, but we're likely, you know, and they think about these little mitochondrias, these perfect parramium like things in a cell and then, oh, look, they double and they triple and we get more and more. But if you look at skeletal muscle, for example, a lot of that is a reflection of how we look at mitochondria. If you cut a muscle and you look at them, they look like a bunch of blobs. But if you do 3D reconstruction with various electron microscopes, you can see that it's an incredibly uh intricate reticulum. And so what we have is not just little blobs floating around, but this this incredible um almost like you know fungus underground uh uh interactive Borg species where they're all together. And so what happens throughout our life is we do encounter a number of stressors whether you have overex exercised maybe some toxins whatever certain regions of uh that mitochondrial reticulum for example here I might get some ionizing radiation cause some damage to the mitochondrial DNA energy charge or delta goes down eventually it gets identified so what happens is we then cleave off that piece through something called mphagy and the ability to remove damaged mitochondrial pieces and then to fuse together with mofusins the reticulum to reestablish those connections and keep that reticulum healthy. Uh that's very important. So what happens uh we've done muscle biopsy studies after 3 months of endurance training the reticulum of the mitochondria in skeletal muscle can go from about 2% of the volume of the muscle to 4%. So we can double the the reticulum. So what happens is we actually get hypertrophy of the mitochondria. Um but again it's it's improving of the reticulum but we're also I call it the pruning of the tree hypothesis. So if we can't remove the sort of stoastic accumulation of damage that happens throughout our lifespan. Uh we we eventually start to get damage. It's very much like a tree that wasn't pruned. And you probably look at a tree that wasn't pruned. You know you've got the few leaves that are all dying. But you prune your tree in the springtime and you get this beautifully growing tree. And I really think at a very simplistic level, that's really the way as we age, that's what happens to our mitochondria. If we sit on our butt, eat crap, you know, with your skin, you're exposed to ionizing radiation. Don't use sunscreen, you're just going to keep damaging those mitochondria. And as we get older, if we can't undergo autophagy/mphagy and clean them up, uh then we we don't prune the tree and we have dysfunctional mitochondria. And part of the benefits of exercise and with older adults, um, Johnny Preey and I have shown that even with resistance training, doing standard weights, we actually do improve and prune up the tree. So, um, younger people tend to get more hypertrophy and that's all we see. We don't see much mitochondrial biogenesis when they lift weights. But older adults, we get mitochondrial biogenesis and strength improvements. So, I think there's a bit more of a um I should say less lack of specificity, let's say, as people get older. So, there's more bang for your buck. >> Yeah, that that makes sense. So, for younger individuals, it's more beneficial to do uh obviously still like a mix of training, but uh you get more benefits for the mitochondria from endurance exercise. when you're younger and when you're older, you you get any form of exercise will give benefits. >> Absolutely. You know, I think and we've done studies too where we took older adults, we did three months of endurance and then we flipped them to three months of resistance. Um, and as you would expect during endurance, we get increases in V2 and decreases in body fat, but no increases in strength. Then you do weight training, you see increases in strength, but no change in V2. And muscle mass goes up, but body fat doesn't go down. So I think ultimately it's it's that mixture. But again, top sport athletes, you really don't want to be doing any weight training if you're a long ultra runner. Uh you know, you don't want that extra muscle mass. So for top performance, it's a little bit different. And I think the problem is a lot of exercise physiology was really focusing on the extremes. Um but you know, we start thinking about healthy aging, I think we need to blend things together a little bit more. >> Yeah. Um what about highintensity interval training? Is that uh something different or does it provide similar which like which category would it fall into? Yeah, it kind of falls through the cracks a little bit. Uh, you know, and Marty Gabala, whom I'm sure you're aware of, um, a good friend and colleague, we did a lot of the muscle biopsies and the mitochondrial work in our lab. [clears throat] And what we showed is it was very similar to, uh, what we call mixed moderate intensity continuous training, which is what most research is done with endurance. and the adaptations uh you know you can split hairs here and there and one study can show one or the other but really they're very similar in terms of the mitochondrial adaptations that you get you know the only issue is uh I think at the end of the day the type of exercise that works best for you is the one you're going to do uh I hated intervals as a when I used to race at a high level um I loved long slow distance stuff um and other buddies of mine hated the long distance they love doing intervals so Um, you know, I think whatever floats your boat. Um, you the only downside I think of the high intensity uh is certainly for older adults if they have a knee issue or a back issue or something likely a greater propensity for uh for some muscularkeeletal issues. Uh but if you enjoy it, >> you know, um then it's it might be the right thing for you. But you're going to get very similar benefits from properly done highintensity interval training as you are with the uh with the um moderate intensity continuous. >> Mhm. Yeah. Um one thing you already alluded a little bit earlier was muscle loss with age. So which is called sarcopenia and you know apparently there's like some role for the mitochondria in that and that uh dysfunctional mitochondria lead to sarcopenia or they have like a contributing effect to sarcopenia. So uh can you elaborate a little bit more about that? So um essentially um what was shown uh I think the best research was a a fellow named Jed Akin uh who um ran a lab looking at this concept and it was the first really to show that with aging if you do cross-section what you'll see is the um muscle fibers that start to get mitochondrial dysfunction the so-called cytochrome coxidase negative fibers we call them cox negative fibers those negative fibers were smaller so what they did is they used laser capt capture micro dissection to cut out the COX negative fibers and in those fibers they found you know mitochondrial DNA deletions and they were associated with the with the reduction in mass you know some people thought well you know if you do a muscle biopsy and you homogenize it depending on the age of the person sometimes you don't see much mitochondrial dysfunction so some people question the relationship but if you think about it you know aging happens very very slowly you know you're not losing more than one or one and a half% of your muscle mass per year as you get older even that would be a little bit accelerated. So that's a very difficult thing to measure but what Jed showed which is the way I think about it muscle fibers are very very long and you know if I have one area here that starts to get mitochondrial dysfunction just like my reticulum in that area those mitochondria aren't providing the energy for muscle protein synthesis and then that fiber will shrink a little bit but then the rest of the fiber is pretty good. So you're getting almost like this starry sky pattern where these processes are occurring in the muscle randomly throughout. So unless you do, you know, many hundreds of sections, which is what he did, you know, you kind of miss these areas. And remember, once a fiber is gone, it's gone. You can't count it. So, uh, I think that's part of the, you know, methodological reasons why some people were sort of discounting it. But I think Jed's data is pretty congruent. We also see it in our patients for example with you know chronic progressive external opthalmoplegia or mil syndrome uh in the ragged red fibers in the cox negative fibers they are smaller which is intuitively totally makes sense if you don't have the energy for muscle protein synthesis degradation will then exceed synthesis and that region of the fiber is going to shrink so I think it's pretty clear that mitochondrial dysfunction is a contri contributor we also know that uh we lose about 30% of our alpha motor neurons from age 30 to about age 65. Uh there's a little bit of sprouting that goes on. Uh but you know there is some work that mitochondria in the alpha motor neuron also likely is contributing. So I think there's this yin and yang between the alpha motor neuron and the muscle. Uh but collectively anything we can do to maintain alpha motor neurons like exercise uh maintain mitochondrial function prune that tree keep the good mitochondria present uh you know we can attenuate this and Justin Crane one of my PhD students and I have clearly shown that you know top sport masters athletes maintain you know better strength and function uh versus sedentary individuals when they're in their 60s and stuff. Mhm. Yeah. >> With a much higher V2 max too. >> Yeah. So every like cell has their own mitochondria, right? And uh so therefore every neuron also has their own mitochondria >> very much so. Yeah. >> Yeah. So that so is then is like the decline in the mitochondria inside those neurons and in those muscle cells is kind of the first domino um that um you know leads to the domino effect or how does it go in your opinion? >> Well no one really knows uh you know which comes first but the two can work in both ways. So you can imagine that if in my muscle there's a region where I have dysfunctional mitochondria and it's not properly pruned out uh and then I get an atrophic fiber uh the neuromuscular junction can pull away from that fiber and then that can have a retrograde effect on the alpha motor neuron. Conversely, uh if you think about an alpha motor neuron, you know, you've got this this big cell body that's in the anterior part of your spinal cord. Uh and then all the proteins have to go down with these dynam motors all the way down, you know, sometimes a meter and a half. So, uh if you have dysfunction here and then we're not keeping those neurons intact andor as we start to lose some of the muscle fibers, we can't get collateral sprouting which requires protein synthesis. Then muscle affects nerve, nerve affects muscle. So I think the two are integrally related and researchers who start debating it's only one or it's only the other. I think are [clears throat] missing out on the complexities of the human body that it's it's never just one or the other. It's usually an interaction between two. But clearly, you know, we haven't published this yet, but we've shown that lifelong exercise in mice definitely maintains the alpha motor neuron pool and a few others have shown that as well. >> Gotcha. What about nutrition? So we mentioned a few of these u supplements uh ingredients that uh have benefits on the mitochondria like CoQ10 etc. Uh is there any like specific I guess nutritionally equivalent to exercise or something that is you know very important to maintain the mitochondrial health. Well, we do know um work that Stu Phillips and I did after endurance exercise that there is an activation of protein synthesis uh during endurance exercise as we've known for years after resistance exercise. Resistance tends to be more in the fibrillar component. So the contractile proteins synthesis goes up. uh but uh Stu and I you know doing biopsies and measuring in mitochondrial function showed that there is protein synthesis going following this exercise. So what my my very first paper in 1988 if you can believe it was one of the first to show that top sport endurance athletes required maintain almost twice uh the Canadian and USDA at the time. uh and at the time people say well it doesn't make any sense you know you're skinny little runs like why do you need this extra protein I think part of it is likely that you do have this turnover mitochondria there are other enzymes that are upregulated you know mitochondrial creatin kynise glycogen synthesis goes up there's just so many enzymes that are upregulated that there is an increased need for protein um we did a study which I'm hoping to publish in the new year one my previous postocs where we took top triathletes and tried to put them on the Canadian DRRI um many people were dropping out after a week they could not maintain their training on the 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram body mass whereas our estimate for top athletes is 1.6 6 to 1.7 on that. Of course, the that's what they were habitually taking in, but we tried to drop them down to what our government said was fine and they were tanking. We didn't actually measure the, you know, various components of the protein. But I think it's pretty clear from subsequent work, you know, you're failing to make new mitochondria. You're failing to keep all of the enzyme adaptations that we get with endurance exercise if we don't feed enough protein. So, we think of protein always to maintain muscle mass. that's been well shown with older adults. Uh, you know, probably 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram per day. Uh, again, contextual, you know, no two proteins are the same. Collagen protein, which is low biological value versus milk-based protein, the milk obviously get by with a slightly lower amount. So, if you are a poor quality protein, obviously you're >> and that's important to support the enduranceation, but also the resistance or muscle mass component. >> Yeah, that makes sense. So 1.6 g per kilogram is sport like athletes. >> Yeah. 1.6 1.7 [clears throat] you know we uh came up with that I think it was 1.67 with nitrogen balance but subsequently people have used various stabilized sto tracers to show very similar numbers from top sport athletes. U Vims SARS you know did some work on the the guys that were doing the tour to France and came up with a very similar number. So back then I was laughed at. People said it's crazy. There's no way it's athletes need more protein. But I think uh multiple lines of evidence you know vims for day tours folks other folks with stable isotopes it's it's pretty clear that you know 1.7 is the maximum that top sport endurance athlete needs and most people are getting that in. The reason why it's important is that strict and there are, you know, people that go on crazy diets and they have low quality protein, you know, high qual high collagen protein for example or low energy if they're trying to lose weight. Uh those are the folks who losing protein and you know subsequently compromising their performance. We even did a study >> with you know young women athletes they're in their 20s and just changing the timing of protein put them into a more positive nutrient balance. So we gave them 20 grams of protein with breakfast or 20 grams right after workout. And when we gave it to them right after workout, they were in a positive nitrogen balance and perform better at the end of a week of a simulated training camp. Yeah. So the first study that we did uh in patients with genetic mitochondrial disease was to target some of the final common pathways of mitochondrial dysfunction. So what we did was included two antioxidants which we know are in the mitochondria. Co-enzyme Q10 and alphalapoic acid. They're also important co-actors in the electron transport chain and three other metabolic pathways respectively with alphalapoic acid. We also put in vitamin E to provide some membrane protection as a chain breaking antioxidant. Um knowing also that we have complex membranes including the inner and outer mitochondrial membrane. And then on top of that knowing that creatine can help to buffer at least in the rest exercise transition that drop in ATP. We knew that ATP levels were low in the brain of our mitochondrial patients. They drop quickly and recover slowly after exercise in our patients. So we included creatine for that reason. But also creatine is an important signaling molecule. The creatine phosphocreatine shuttle uh that Tio Wallyman first proposed is important to sort of kickstart the mitochondria. So we had those four together. We did a randomized double blind crossover study with a wash out. And what we showed is the markers of mitochondrial dysfunction in our patients. Lactate which is indicator of impaired mitochondrial function and two markers of oxidative stress 8 hydroxy2 deoxyanazine and 8 isoprostain were lower when they were on the active versus the placebo. So that was our first study. uh we were criticized because everybody uh is very pharmaceentric and that's been sort of the uh way everyone's thought about uh treatment for the last 50 years and still continues to be the issue and so everyone wants to identify one compound that's patentable uh ga you know identify the target gauge the target uh look at the PKs and go through clinical trials so we were criticized saying you know you used a final common pathway approach with multi-ingredients uh we think it's just CoQ10 so we did a study with very high doses of co-enzyme Q10 the new water- soluble form 600 milligrams twice daily and showed absolutely nothing no lowering of lactate no lowering of oxidative stress markers and I think part of that is any antioxidant can become a prooxidant many antioxidants need redux couples and in addition uh we really need to have antioxidants present where the free radicals are being produced given this specific uh situation um free radicals are produced you know locally in response to different biochemical pathways and they have very short um distances over which they affect. So if you've got an antioxidant of cittool and the roster generated the mitochondria you know you miss the boat you're not going to be able to buffer it. So that's where we started and we've gone on um you know in full disclosure we actually started a company based on this to treat obesity uh where we took that mitochondrial um base or core whatever you want to call it and then we added to it depending on the circumstance. So for obesity we looked at a whole host of um supplements which were helpful green tea extract, green coffee bean extract, black tea extract for scolon and CLA which probably have the best support in humans and animal models. And we found that those were very effective, but they were synergized with the mitochondrial cocktail addition. Interestingly, the mitochondria uh cocktail that we just described, even with beetroot extract to increase nitrates, was okay from an obesity perspective, but it was really synergized when we uh put all 10 together, but even more so when we pulled out three, we had this sort of unexpected synergistic effect to increase mitochondria in the fat cells. uh and we've also shown protection in the muscle as well from hypoxia with that combination. We've um you know published papers um and file patents on some of these for improvement in mitochondria in the skin using again that core but we use other things like biotin. So I think you know when someone says you know what antioxidants work first they've got to be proven in humans to do what you think they're going to do. Um safety is important, tolerance is important. Um and you know in in our company and my thought process is to start with the core that was proven to work and then depending on the indication you know you can add or subtract certain things uh always keeping uh the core um you know from what we've shown is beneficial. What I can say is we have done experiments where we uh took you know 15 antioxidants at least labeled as antioxidants put them into a mixture and turned out that they became prooxidants in the human. So, a lot of the brands that are out there, a lot of the research is handwaving, even with some of the drugs that are supposed to lower oxidative stress, and it's actually never been proven in the physiology and pathology of a human to do what people think it's going to do, but because it's labeled an antioxidant, they think it's functioning as such. So, that's a big caution I would say for most people. >> Yeah. Gotcha. Um, so CoQ10 alone isn't is, you know, one of the more commonly known mitochondrial supplements. So CoQ10 alone necessarily isn't enough? >> I don't believe so. And and that's based on strong experimental evidence. Those were large numbers. The second study 30 people proven genetic disease. We did spectroscopy cycllergometry uh and didn't show what we showed with the combination. You know, my firm belief, which was a hypothesis I put forward in 2001, is that to effectively target aging and complex biochemical disturbances in pathologies, we can't just rely on a single drug or a single agent. And I think, you know, at the end of the day, um, you know, when I was, uh, younger and studying exercise a lot, people said, well, you know, you're not really a neurologist, you're not really a proper scientist because exercise is dirty. But that's the beauty of exercise is it is a dirty drug and that's why it's the only thing that's been shown to extend lifespan in a human and increase health span because it has this multiplicity of benefits and therefore I don't think a single drug or a single nutrient is going to have anywhere close to the benefits that exercise and properly targeted and clinically studied multi-ingredient supplements are going to come close to. And then finally, it's very important and uh we've shown clearly with our combinations that they have to work with exercise because there is a concern that certain antioxidant can blunt the benefits of exercise. For example, vitamin E and vitamin C together and a good study in PNAS was shown to blunt the adaptive benefits of exercise. Um so we study our stuff in mice preclinical work and more importantly in humans to prove that we're not blunting the important benefits we get from exercise. Yeah. Yeah. That's a very important point. Um what about are there any like specific mito mphagy supplements? So it's the process of clearing out old mitochondria. Do you think there's any evidence in that area? >> Yeah. You know, there's no question that the best way to clean up your mitochondria is, you know, the hypothesis put forward about 15, 20 years ago, is that I think the benefits of exercise in older adults when they start exercising is to put the mitochondria through an acute physiologic stress, induce mphagy, clean up the badria that have accumulated throughout your life, uh, and you're left with a better mitochondria. And it's that physiologic stress cleans mphagy that I think really gives you better mito more so you accumulator damage through. So then everyone got all excited try to activate autophagy. I will say that doing stuff in petri dish only uh and even in animals you can be misled. You know we can take almost any compound. We can take rotinone we can which is a toxin for complex one. We can take sugar. We can take almost anything, put it in a petri dish and induce autophagy. So big deal. You know, anyone can do that. And all you have to do is change the timing, the duration, and the concentration of certain uh uh supplements, drugs, even nutrients, and you can induce autophagy. So I am completely underwhelmed with any um group that says that they have an autophagy inducer, a mphagy inducer with in vitro work. Animal work is difficult to extrapolate as well. We've had many discrepancies between animals and humans. So ultimately it comes down to do these do something in humans and again it's contextual. Um is it uh working on top of exercise? I've not seen a study that's ever shown in a human uh with any of these so-called you know mphagy inducers that they conferred any benefit over and above what you're already getting from exercise. Number two, um, you know, I don't want to get too much into it, but the most famous one, of course, which everyone's familiar with, Mid Pure, the name, you know, that they came up with was that you're purifying the mitochondria with urolith and a um, you know, when you look at the human data, the 500 mgram versus the thousand milligram dose in middle-aged humans, there's a complete discrepancy between the supposed mechanism of action and what it's supposed to do. So when phosphoparin went up, >> there's no increase in mitochondria. micarter went on a far park and it didn't go up. So they're trying to say and you know the title of new papers coming out is the you know mphagy inducer urolithin. So the title of the paper is um misleading and telling you what it's supposed to do. Um but you know when you start looking at it I think that the the data is is not as strong as the advertising the name of the the drug is meant to be. Now, I think it may well be um a component of a multi-ingredient supplement that could confer benefits. Uh but again, do it in humans. Do it in a proper uh GCP um a good clinical practice uh clinical trial uh in humans and in the target group that you're looking at. Uh and for me, every disease I see aging, um I'm a big proponent of the benefits of exercise. So you have to be uh either not in inhibiting the benefits of exercise and then conferring something over and above exercise maybe in a different way. So you V2 if it still goes up by the same amount but you're losing more body fat for example that's a benefit but you cannot attenuate the benefits of exercise with the supplement. So that's why we're big proponents of testing with exercise. >> Mhm. Yeah. Well I thank you so much for your time and uh knowledge. Uh before I ask my last question, where can people learn more about you and your work? >> Thanks so much. It's been my pleasure and uh enjoy it. >> Uh where can people learn more about you and your work? >> Um well, you know, obviously, you know, from a full disclosure perspective, of course, we started the company based on all this work and you know, that company is Exercine. Um and stay above nutrition is the sort of nutritional component to it. You know, people just need to pubmed to see that we've actually done work. I think as you probably aware there's a lot of people who are talking the talk but not walking the walk. Um you know there's very famous people um Peteria and others ever published a paper in his life in nutrition or aging and yet everyone in the world knows these people. So you know the one thing I think that that we do and some of my colleagues like Stu Phillips is you know we're actually doing the research and it's it's very difficult because you're laying yourself out there for criticism. You know all of our raw data is available. Even the stuff from our company, we don't hold anything back. All of our raw data is held by five independent people outside of the company. So upon reasonable request, people can take our data, make sure that it's data locked. And >> uh well, yeah, it was great to talk with you. And my last question is, what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? >> I think um more weight training or resistance training. Um, you know, unfortunately I was an elite endurance athlete and I raced really hard to the point of three cardiac ablation surgeries. Um, and um, you know, did well, but you know, you're skinny and you hurt your back picking up your your children. Um, and uh, clearly with aging, everything we've done shows that, you know, mixing endurance and resistance is the healthiest aging. The other thing, so two things. One is I wish I did more resistance. Number two, I wish that I knew what I knew now about certain supplements and the fact that when you're working at really high levels of elite dur sport, you know, these crazy races, weight, you know, three days, there is some damage that occurs and I wish that I better attention to my protein and I wish I was taking some of the antioxidants that I now take with healthy aging having had three cardiac ablation surgeries uh overexertion for too many years. >> Yeah, definitely like a balance between both types of exercise. >> Absolutely. Balancing exercise and proper supplementation. >> Yeah. Well, yeah, this was been great and definitely looking forward to your future studies and work. >> Thanks very much. There's a lot coming out. Just stay tuned. >> Yeah. Thank you.