!IOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIOIO and 250 grams. If I had to start from the beginning and go from over 500 down to 50 grams, this is how I would do it. Let's start with one of the key factors that most people who discuss visceral fat don't cover. It's not knowing how much visceral fat you actually have. Yes, if you're very overweight and obese, you most definitely have too much visceral fat. But someone who has a normal BMI and is looking slim can still have unnecessary visceral fat. You can measure your visceral fat with a DEXA scan. This graph is from a study that looked at over 10,000 people between ages 18 and 81. Visceral fat increases with age. You want to get to the lower end of visceral fat to be below the 50th percentile of your age group and closer to the bottom 10th percentile. Generally speaking, over 1,000 grams of visceral fat indicates poor body composition and metabolic health. 500 grams is kind of average and less than 250 grams is optimal. If you don't have access to a DEXA scan, you can also assess your visceral fat by measuring your waist circumference because visceral fat mostly accumulates around the organs like the liver. The lower the waist circumference, the lower the visceral fat, generally speaking. For men, you want to keep your waist circumference below 95 centimeters and 85 centimeters for women. That's because above those numbers, there's an observed increased risk of mortality and heart disease. Let's start with 1,000 plus grams of visceral fat, which typically corresponds to a waist circumference of about 100 to 115 centimeters for men and 90 to 105 centimeters for women. The situation here is quite simple. You're just obese and you need to lose weight. Having this much visceral fat is the most harmful and difficult situation metabolically speaking, but it is also the simplest in terms of practicality. You just need to lose weight and your visceral fat will decrease. If you just lose weight, you can get your visceral fat down to 500 grams with no complex tricks. Any diet can pretty much work if you have over 1,000 grams of visceral fat. Remove all ultra-processed foods, junk food, comfort food, etc. Remove liquid calories from juices, smoothies, creams, etc. Start walking 8 to 10,000 steps a day. Lift some weights three times a week. Remove added fats and sugars like oils, creams, and sugary foods. Eat more protein-rich and fiber-rich foods, which support society and weight loss. In this 2022 randomized controlled trial, there was no significant difference between low-carb and high-carb diets if calories and protein were matched. A whole-food high-carb low-fat diet trended towards the best results, but the difference wasn't significant. All groups ate the same amount of calories and they got 16 to 17% as protein. Losing visceral fat above 1,000 grams isn't rocket science. It doesn't require very specific protocols, but it also doesn't mean that tweaking those protocols wouldn't get you better results. So we're going to go a layer deeper now. Moving on with 500 to 1,000 grams of visceral fat, or a waist circumference of 90 to 100 centimeters for men and 80 to 90 centimeters for women. This is kind of an average amount for most people. At this 500 to 1,000 gram range, you still want to lose a little bit of extra fat because chances are you're carrying a few extra pounds. And by doing that, you will see a reduction in visceral fat. For men, get to 12 to 15% body fat. For women, 25 to 30%. In this range, you're also in a better spot to tweak your exercise because you're not that obese and you're probably a little bit fitter. A 2024 meta-analysis of 84 randomized controlled trials saw that all types of exercises were able to reduce visceral fat. However, some were better than others. Here's an overview of the types of exercise for reducing visceral fat. High-intensity interval training and aerobic exercise, which refers to zone 2 cardio. These were number 1 at about 30 to 35% reduction in visceral fat. Aerobic exercise plus resistance training resulted in 28 to 32% reduction. Resistance training alone at 25 to 30% and minimal aerobic exercise, so kind of easy jogging or hiking, at 22 to 27%. Based on this, the best exercise for reducing visceral fat is high-intensity interval training. Things like running at a very high intensity for 1 to 2 minutes. Rest 1 to 2 minutes, repeated for 10 to 15 minutes in total. You can also do longer intervals of 3 to 4 minutes and rest 3 to 4 minutes for 20 to 30 minutes in total. But regardless, HIIT exercise is the best for visceral fat. Shorter intervals like 30 to 60 seconds can also work, but they're less effective. So in this range of 500 to 1000 grams of visceral fat, do regular resistance training 3 times per week and add 1 to 2 HIIT cardio sessions. You should still do the basics that I covered before, walk a little bit more, don't eat processed food, etc. From the diet perspective, the addition of polyphonic compounds has been seen to target visceral fat the most. Foods like olive oil, vegetables, berries, tea, coffee have been shown to reduce visceral fat specifically. One thing worth adding is green tea. There are randomized controlled trials showing that catagen-enriched green tea for 12 weeks resulted in greater visceral fat loss than the placebo group. The catagen group lost 9.5 square centimeters of visceral fat on average, whereas the control group lost only 0.6 square centimeters, which is not significant. In this study, they drank about the equivalent of 2 cups of green tea per day. I want to take a quick break to invite you to my online community, Youth and Society. Youth and Society is a longevity community on school, and it's the place to be if you want to keep learning from me and hang out with other people who are interested in extending their lifespan and anti-aging. We have over 10 courses in the library about things like VR2Max, strength, liver health, visceral fat, sleep, HIV, as well as skin anti-aging, nutrition, and fat loss. More courses and master classes will be added throughout the year. Each course breaks down the topic into actionable steps and outlines the optimal range for dozens of biomarkers. The community also has weekly live group calls, and you can just post things on the dashboard for me and everyone else to respond to. Don't know where to start? Start with the 7-day longevity kickstart challenge, and then move on with the 30-day one. All of that for 60 cents per day for the standard membership or $1.3 if you opt for the premium. You can also start off with a 7-day free trial to see if it's a good fit for you or not. Link in the description. Let's continue with below average visceral fat, less than 500 grams, or a waist circumference of 80-88 centimeters for men and 70-78 centimeters for women. In this range, you're already semi-lean and you're in better metabolic health. If you are below 500 grams of visceral fat, so below average, and you want to get to below 250 grams, here's what you do. You need to get to 10-12% body fat as a man and 20-25% as a woman. Follow the dietary and exercise principles as I mentioned before. However, you need to know that diet can only get you so far with visceral fat. A 2023 meta-analysis of 40 randomized controlled trials found that exercise had a dose-specific effect on reducing visceral fat. The more exercise the participants did, the more visceral fat they lost, even by burning over 5,000 calories per week from exercise. So higher aerobic exercise, especially HIIT and zone 2 cardio, above 60% max heart rate, will burn more visceral fat. The same study found that for calorie restriction, the effect wasn't dose-dependent. Reducing your calories more didn't result in greater visceral fat loss, and the benefits plateaued at around 4,000 to 5,000 weekly calorie deficit, which is around 500 to 700 calories per day. So what it means is that if you're already in a 500 to 700 calorie deficit, reducing your calories more isn't going to burn more visceral fat. However, doing more exercise will get you more benefits in terms of reducing visceral fat. So instead of trying to eat less, you might want to consider exercising more. Speaking of diet, then besides the polyphenolic compounds, there's an interesting relationship between methionine and glycine when it comes to visceral fat loss. Methionine is the amino acid you get from animal protein, and glycine is the amino acid in tendons, as well as some plant foods, as opposed to methionine. There are studies in rodents that methionine restriction lowers visceral fat, independent of calorie intake. In humans with metabolic syndrome, 16 weeks of methionine restriction, 2 mg per kg per day, compared to a controlled diet, 33 mg per kg per day, has been seen to improve insulin sensitivity, fat oxidation, and reduce liver fat, independent of weight loss. So methionine restriction might reduce liver fat, even without fat loss. In the context of life extension and longevity, glycine makes up for some of the harmful effects of excess methionine, and it might do so for visceral fat loss as well. In older adults, they have found that low plasma glycine levels are a marker of visceral fat adiposity, independent of sex, age, body composition, or chronic diseases. Serum glycine is also negatively associated with intramuscular adipose tissue, which is the fat inside the muscles. So I'm pretty confident in saying that glycine has an effect on visceral fat. More specifically, it seems that the ratio between methionine and glycine is what matters. If you have a better glycine to methionine ratio, you'll have better insulin sensitivity, and you'll have potentially less visceral fat. You don't necessarily need to restrict methionine, but most people need to increase their glycine intake. That's why I take 5 to 10 grams of glycine every day, not only for the collagen synthesis benefits and metabolic health benefits, but also for the glycine to methionine ratio. All of these steps that I share with you have enabled me to reduce my visceral fat from below average to excellent levels. The biggest liver is getting leaner, the second liver is doing aerobic exercise, third is dietary polyphenols, things like green tea, and fourth comes the glycine to methionine ratio. Excess visceral fat is incredibly harmful to your long-term health. That's why you want to get it below average. But there are other things that matter as well. Check out my full longevity routine for this year if you want to know how I get all my biomarkers into top 1% of health. and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so