Sam, rate these supplements from 1 to 10. Glycine. Well, for me, glycine is definitely 10. I think for some people it might be an eight or seven because uh some people can't tolerate glycine. They get might get nausea. But for me, it's definitely 10 plus. NN is a six. It's a bit overhyped, but it has a few benefits in terms of raising NAD status. Lutein. Luteane is nine. So, it's a very powerful carotenoid and has been shown to improve eyesight. Magnesium citrate. Magnesium citrate I would say is five. So, it's one of the worst types of magnesium, but uh it still helps with uh raising magnesium status and might help with constipation for some people, but generally it's not the best form of magnesium. BCAAs, BCAAs I think is a two. So, they don't help with muscle anabolism. They don't help with muscle growth or anything like that. They actually may encourage muscle breakdown if you take it in a fasted state without other amino acids. The only thing they might help with is um they might support exercise performance if you take them during the exercise or they reduce muscle uh damage, muscle soreness after exercise, but they're pretty much worthless beside that. Probiotics, most probiotics are too they tend to be very generic and uh not very specific. So probiotics need to be more customtailored to each individual what depending what kind of probiotics they might need. Calcium calcium generic calcium supplements are three they might be more harmful than good especially for people at a higher risk of heart disease. And for bone density I would much rather use something like calcium alpha ketoglutarate rather than regular calcium. So yeah calcium regular is a three. Vitamin C vitamin C I would say six. So it's pretty safe. There's no real downside to even mega dosing it, but it also doesn't do a lot. So, it might support collagen synthesis, right? You need a certain amount, but um you don't need a ton of vitamin C, you can get it from whole food. And um the benefits for collagen synthesis and minor anti-inflammatory effects, you can already achieve with a very small dose. Garlic, garlic, especially aged garlic extract, I would say, is eight. So it has a lot of evidence for lowering lipids, blood sugar, blood pressure, waist circumference and inflammation. The only downside is that it has blood thinning effects. So people who are taking blood thinners need to be more careful. But I think garlic is very underrated. It has a lot of evidence from clinical trials for metabolic health and heart disease risk factors.