 the sauna has a long track record of health benefits. Using the sauna frequently is associated with up to 40% lower risk of mortality, 63% lower risk of heart disease mortality, 65% lower risk of Alzheimer's, and 66% lower risk of dementia. But how long do you need to be doing the sauna to gain those benefits? In this video I'm breaking down the science of heat acclimation and sauna. How long do you need to be in the sauna per session, and how long do you need to do the sauna in terms of weeks and months? Sauna is a form of heat acclimation. By exposing yourself to the high amounts of heat, your body adapts to it and experiences an improvement in various cardiovascular health markers. Traditionally, heat acclimation is used by athletes so that they will also perform better in cooler environments. Similar to cross-country skiers who go to train in the mountains to gain the benefits of altitude training. Saunas are a form of heat acclimation, and they raise your body temperature beyond what exercise can do. The main mechanisms of sauna-induced hypothermia include lower blood pressure, reduction in inflammation and reactive oxygen species, decreased arterial stiffness and intima-media thickness, better cardiovascular fitness and immune function, better lung function, vagal tone and reduced stress. These mechanisms are the reason why you see an association with sauna use and lower risk of heart disease, hypertension, lung disorders and mortality. In the finished studies, the maximum benefits are observed that four times per week. Taking a sauna once per week is better than zero, twice a week is better than once a week, and four times a week is better than two times a week. But how long do you need to do this to gain the benefits on your cardiovascular system? A 2015 study investigated the effects of heat acclimation on competitive athletes. They didn't use a sauna, but instead exercised in the heat. However, you can expect similar effects from the sauna. Here's a brief summary of the physiological changes these athletes experience during heat acclimation. The resting heart rate kept progressively decreasing from day one until day six after which it plateaued. They saw about a 20% decrease in the resting heart rate. Plasma volume increased from day one up to day six as well, after which it tended to plateau. Core temperature dropped from day two to around day six after which it stayed stagnant, the same with skin temperature. Exercise capacity kept linearly increasing until day 14 and sweating rate plateaued until day five after which it increased until day 11. Most of the adaptations occurred within four to seven days, such as the lower resting heart rate and increased plasma volume. Some adaptations did require a longer time frame, up to two weeks, such as increased exercise capacity that took two weeks to reach its peak, as well as the sweat rate. Another study looked at the effects of heat acclimation on highly trained cyclists and found that after 10 days, their VO2 max increased by 3%, compared to training in the cool, 5% versus 8%. The control group saw no change in the VO2 max. A 2022 randomness control trial also saw that sauna plus exercise for eight weeks increased VO2 max more than exercise alone, plus 2.6 mL per kg per minute versus 5.6 mL per kg per minute. That's nearly twice as much more VO2 max than exercise alone. Similar effects were seen with blood pressure. Exercise alone didn't lower blood pressure, but combined with sauna, it lowers the stolic blood pressure by eight points. And same with total cholesterol. Exercise alone saw a 5 mL per dL increase in total cholesterol, but when combined with sauna, it was minus 12. So based on these studies, heat acclimation benefits can occur already within days. But to reach the peak of the benefits, you want to keep doing the heat acclimation for up to eight weeks. In these specific studies, heat acclimation was done almost every day, basically every other day. What about the timeline of benefits when you're in the sauna? How long do you need to stay in the sauna per session? A 2018 study on Finnish people saw that those who took the sauna over 45 minutes per week had the lowest cardiovascular mortality. If you look at the specifics, then sauna over 60 minutes and up to 80 minutes per week was linked to a 45% reduced risk of cardiovascular mortality. That was the maximum risk reduction seen in this study. 60 to 80 minutes per week in total is equivalent to about 15 to 20 minutes per session if done three to four times a week. So typically you want to be in the sauna for at least 15 minutes in one go and up to 20 minutes for the maximum benefits. That doesn't appear to be any significant benefits by staying in the sauna for longer than 20 minutes. Here's a quick timeline of what happens to your body in the sauna. 5 to 10 minutes, you start sweating. 12 minutes, your heart rate elevates. 15 minutes, your white blood cell count increases which supports immune system function. Growth hormone also increases at 15 minutes. By the 20 minute mark, the cardiovascular benefits kick in and by the 30 minute mark, you've induced heat shock protein response which increases heat stress resilience and has other health benefits in moderation. 30 minutes also improves your blood sugar regulation and insulin sensitivity. Over 30 minutes, you experience an increased risk of dehydration because of sweating out all the electrolytes and a lot of water. Over 60 minutes, you can experience excessive loss of minerals which can be problematic if you don't recuperate them and by staying in the sauna for over 60 minutes, you can also experience heat shock. This is based on a temperature of 70 degrees Celsius and the effects can be slightly different at higher temperatures. The timing of when you do the sauna also matters. The absolute best time to take the sauna is after exercise to promote recovery and it enhances the benefits you get from exercise. Post exercise sauna for 2 to 3 weeks has been seen to increase runtime to exhaustion by 32% in competitive distance runners. They were able to run 4.1 minutes longer before exhaustion compared to controls. Their total blood volume and plasma volume also increased significantly which improves their performance. In a 2014 systematic review of 8 studies, heat acclimation improved aerobic performance and aerobic tests like time trials and Vio2max but not anaerobic heat power like sprinting. So overall, the sauna is best for supporting recovery and improving cardiovascular function which translates to better cardiovascular fitness. Alright, let me give you a quick overview of the timeline of sauna benefits. For the 7 days, you'll experience lower resting heart rate. To increase Vio2max, you need to be doing the sauna up to 8 weeks. To lower blood pressure up to 8 weeks. To lower cholesterol up to 8 weeks. And for the long term reduction in cardiovascular disease, Alzheimer's mortality risk, you should be doing the sauna frequently over the course of years and decades. When you stop taking the sauna regularly, you will slowly begin to lose the heat acclimation benefits. The optimal duration of saunas per session is 15 to 20 minutes and 60 to 80 minutes per week in total. I think the sauna is one of the best things for your health after exercise and as we showed, it also enhances the benefits you get from exercise. If you want to know what else to you focus on in your health, then check out my video where I rank 100 health habits from worse to best next.