Torine is a non-essential amino acid that is most commonly used in sports drinks and energy drinks. But we have a brand new 2023 study showing how torine might actually have some longevity benefits. So in this video, we're going to take a look at the study and discuss whether or not torine is something that you should add to your longevity stack. But do you want to slow down aging and live longer? If yes, then I'm looking for more people who want to reverse their biological clock. If you're interested, then email me the word health to info@seimlon.com and I'll send you the details. So the study is called torine deficiency as a driver of aging and it got a lot of uh attention even in mainstream news like in time magazine etc talking about this study and the complications of whether or not it can have some longevity benefits in humans as well. So basically they found but that uh supplementing torine in mice increased the median lifespan by 10 to 12% and life expectancy at 28 months increased by about 18 to 25%. dose that we have used in mice, it is 1,000 migram per kg body weight and uh when you translate or do the multiplication factor for the human equivalent dose would be 6 g per kg sorry 6 g for a for a human and half of that dose that is 3 g was also effective in mice in a studies and the authors of the study point out that torine has those effects mostly through affecting all of the hallmarks of aging or at least a lot of them. So torine apparently has some cenolytic properties that it um inhibits scinesscent cells. It uh even protects against tie shortening. It maintains genomic stability. It uh protects against loss of proteasis or protein clearance like autoavagi. It maintains mitochondrial function and protects against stem cell exhaustion while at the same time promoting intracellular communication, nutrient sensing and epigenetic changes. Whatever we checked, torine supplemented mice were healthier and appeared younger than the control mice. They were leaner, had an increased energy expenditure, increased bone density, improved muscle strength, reduced depression-like and anxious behaviors, improved memory, reduced insulin resistance, and had a younger-l looking immune system among other benefits. You do see that with age your torine levels decrease. So in mice, monkeys as well as humans, the torine levels apparently decrease with age similar to like other kinds of metabolites like NAD or muscle mass or muscle strength or testosterone but whatever. So with age naturally you'll see decrease in torine as well. So torine deficiency is associated with also poorer health like diabetes, obesity, liver disease, abdominal obesity, inflammation, hypertension, high glucose and a higher BMI. Now although the results of this study are quite promising and of course very interesting the problem is that it's a mouse study and we don't have any like human clinical trials connecting to with increased longevity or increased uh lifespan at least supplemental torine. And of course there are like a few clinical trials in humans showing that torine might have some benefits for diabetes management and even in older women torine supplementation boosts their antioxidant events. But right now we don't have enough human clinical trials to suggest that yes torine supplementation will definitely like increase longevity and increase life expectancy in humans. Wait a minute. But we do have another interesting lead connecting torine with the greater life expectancy of the Japanese. So Japanese uh have one of the highest life expecties in the world. And this 2009 study at least claimed that torine might be one of the nutritional factors that describes some of the longevity of the Japanese. So why is that so? Like where do these Japanese get torine? They're obviously not supplementing torine. I don't think that it's part of Japanese culture to take torine supplements every day. Uh where do those Japanese get the torine? Well, the Japanese get the torine from seafood. You see, seafood is the highest nutritional sources of torine and things like scallops, tuna, and seaweeds are the highest food sources of torine. Based on the mouse study that we just talked about, the required dose, the human equivalent dose to see those longevity benefits that you saw in the mice would be at least 3 to six grams of torine per day. You get around 820 mg of torine from 100 g of scallops. From tuna, you get 960 milligrams of torine per 100 grams. And from seaweed like nori, you get 1,300 mg of torine per 100 grams. So the Japanese are easily getting 3 to six grams of torine per day from their diet and they eat a lot of seafood and they eat a lot of seaweeds as well, which is the highest source of torine. When it comes to other protein sources like chicken or turkey, then they're significantly lower in torine than seafood. From Turkey, you get 300 mg of torine per 100 g and 170 mg of torine per 100 gram of chicken. So unless you're eating a lot of seafood, then chances are you're not really getting the 3 to 6 g of torine from your dietary sources. This raises the question whether or not you should add a torine supplement into your routine. Well, I think that the longevity benefits of torine probably are more significant. The older you get and the worse your health is because like based on the study as well, your torine levels decline with age. When you're young, you do have plenty of torine in your system already and don't like experience a lot of the chronic diseases. Yet, with age, you see the drop in torine and that's where you see the increase of the chronic diseases. So torine supplementation is probably more beneficial in the elderly and individuals who have poor metabolic health. One interesting thing is that exercise also increases your torine levels. So any kind of exercise will do so. So if you maintain a physically active lifestyle then that obviously postpones aging and increases your longevity but uh it also raises your torine levels which is like a double whmy in terms of getting the benefits of exercise and torine. So traditionally torine is actually used for boosting performance as well like in different kinds of sports drinks and energy drinks you have torine in it and that torine has been shown to have benefits for endurance and heart function. So if you are interested in boosting your gym performance and endurance then taking torine makes sense as well to the chopper. Overall, it's too early to say whether or not the torine supplements has any human longevity benefits, but you certainly would want to make sure that you get around 3 grams of torine per day from dietary sources or supplemental sources that uh you eat the foods that have the highest amounts of torine and uh if you need to supplement then uh you would benefit from supplementing as well probably. But other than that, thanks for watching this video. Make sure click a like, subscribe, notification bell as well. My name is Seam. Stay optimized, stay empowered.