Japanese people are one of the longest living people in the world with a life expectancy of 85 years. They also have the most centinarians in the world with over 120k people over the age of 100 making up 0.1% of their entire population. That's two to three times more than other countries. Now, there are many reasons why the Japanese live longer than others. They have healthier culture, smaller portion sizes, they walk more, they eat a little bit less processed food, they're less obese, they smoke less, they exercise more regularly, and they have good healthcare. However, there's one specific thing that sets Japan apart from other countries, and it could also explain the reason why they have lower rates of chronic diseases and lower risk of mortality. The reason is their exceptionally high omega-3 index, which reflects the amount of omega-3 fatty acids in their blood. Japanese people have an omega-3 index of over 8% whereas it's less than 4% in the USA and Canada and 4 to 6% in France and Spain. The Japanese diet is very rich in seafood, fish, crab, shrimp, as well as sea vegetables and seamos. These foods are high in omega-3 fatty acids that have a consistent and long track record of health benefits. I think we've all heard that omega-3 fatty acids are good for you. And the Japanese people are a prime example of that and they prove it with their blood work. The omega-3 index reflects the amount of omega-3 fats, DHA, and EPA, in your red blood cells that you can measure with a blood test. It's a long-term marker of your intake of omega-3 fats, whether from food sources such as fish, seafood, or sea vegetables, or omega-3 supplements. There's consistent research linking a higher omega-3 status with lower rates of heart disease, lower dementia, and lower risk of mortality. A 2021 meta analysis of 17 studies saw that people with the highest omega-3 index over 7.55% had a 15 to 18% lower risk of total mortality. A 2022 study also found that the risk of Alzheimer's disease among the highest red blood cell DHA quentile over 6.1% was 49% lower compared to the lowest quintile less than 3.8% in fully adjusted models. The omega-3 index associated with the lowest risk of heart disease mortality is over 8% whereas an index of less than 4% is linked to the greatest risk. So what is a good omega-3 index to have? Based on the research, an omega-3 index of 6 to 8% is already seem to be associated with a slightly lower risk of dying than an omega-3 index of 4% or lower than that. However, having an omega-3 index of 8% or higher appears to be even better. The benefits keep increasing until 11% after which they seem to plateau. But 11% is better than 8%, 8% is better than 6% and 6% is better than 4%. As I shared with you in the beginning of the video, Japanese people have an omega-3 index of over 8% as do the South Koreans. Americans are below 4% and Europeans are between 4 to 8% depending on the country. This works pretty parallel to the consumption of seafood in these regions. Americans eat the least seafood and Japanese and South Koreans eat the most seafood. There are also some regions with a very high omega-3 index such as Alaska and Greenland. But these regions tend to have poor health care and other co-orbidities that shorten their life expectancy compared to regions like Japan or South Korea. Now that we know these omega-3 fats are good for you, the next question is why? Why is it so? The reason has to do with how omega-3 fatty acids lower inflammation and improve metabolic health. A 2024 meta analysis of clinical trials found that omega-3 supplementation improves heart function, reduces inflammation, and decreases the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with heart failure. On top of that, a 2020 meta analysis of 26 randomiz control trials concluded that omega-3s might improve insulin sensitivity and lipid metabolism in type 2 diabetics. Two 2021 meta analyses of randomized control trials found that supplementation of EPA and DHA at a dose of 0.4 four to six grams a day was associated with a significant reduction in the risk of cardiovascular disease events and myioardial inffion in a dose dependent manner. So having more omega-3 fats in your blood means you'll have lower inflammation, better endothelial function, better insulin sensitivity, and better lipid metabolism. All of this translates to lower risk of heart disease, dementia, and lower risk of mortality. Having a higher omega-3 index is a biomarker that you pretty much want to maintain for the rest of your life. There's no benefits to having a low omega-3 index. Based on the vast amount of research, having a low omega-3 index is only harmful. So, how much omega-3s are we talking about? The health organizations recommend consuming 250 to 500 milligs of EPA and DHA per day. A recent analysis across the world saw that Japanese consume at least 500 milligs per day, resulting in an omega-3 index above 8%. Whereas most other countries consume less than 250 milligs per day, which is why their omega-3 index is below 6%. Globally, about 85% of people are not consuming enough omega-3s. In the USA, it's around 95%. Europe, 80%, Africa and South Asia, 90%, and Japan is the only country where less than 10% of people aren't getting enough omega-3s. Just think how crazy it is. In the USA, 5% of people are getting adequate amounts of omega-3s every day. In Japan, it's 90%. If you're not eating seafood regularly, then chances are your omega-3 index is suboptimal, unless you're taking an omega-3 supplement such as some marine based omega-3s or all- based omega-3s. Another thing we need to talk about is torine. Torine is an amino acid that's also been seen to have longevity benefits. In animal studies, torine extends lifespan, and in human clinical trials, torine supplementation improves blood sugar, lipids, and blood pressure. And that's one of the dietary factors thought to contribute to the longevity of the Japanese with higher urinary torine being associated with lower heart disease mortality. The Japanese diet is high in one of the highest torine containing foods such as tuna, scallops, nori, and other sea vegetables and sea moss. In comparison, foods more often eaten in Western countries like turkey, beef, and chicken are much lower in torine, and they're also low in omega-3s. The Japanese people are probably getting two to three times more torine in addition to two to three times more omega-3s in their diet. When they're comparing omega-3s and torine, then there's a lot more evidence suggesting that omega-3s have more benefits than torine. However, both have benefits and that Japanese people eat a lot of both. As I said in the beginning, there are a lot of reasons why Japanese people live longer than others. First of all, they're less overweight and obese than Americans or Europeans. They eat better food, although their diet isn't completely unprocessed or low carb. Their Asian cuisine still comprises of high carb, refined foods as well as deep fried foods cooked in seed oils, but they seem to compensate for that with their very high omega-3 intake. Another thing is obviously good health care. Europeans also have very good health care, which is why life expectancy in European countries is still above 80s in most Western and Northern European countries, despite their omega-3 index being slightly lower at 6 to 8%. Japanese people have good healthare and a high omega-3 index, which is the best combo. Healthcare is obviously very underrated. If you live in a more impoverished region with bad healthcare, then your life expectancy appears to be shorter compared to living in a region with good healthcare and a high omega-3 index. If you want to know why omega-3 supplements and torine are god tier supplements, then check out my video where I rank 100 supplements from worst to best