because everything is sped up in dogs and if we find uh that there appears to be a risk factor in the environment that's increasing a particular kind of cancer for example, we can then do a deep dive into people in that environment in a targeted way and ask if if there's a similar risk for people. Dogs that feed just once a day are also dogs that tend to have lower instances of gastrointestinal problems, pancreas problems, but there's an interesting challenge here. >> Dr. Daniel, welcome to the show. I'm really pleased to be here. Thanks for asking me. >> Yeah, I'm excited to have you on the show. Now, my podcast often talks about, you know, longevity and extending human lifespan, but uh extending dog or companion dog lifespan is also something I think a lot of people care about, especially dog lovers. and you are involved with a very interesting project which you know not only might help to extend a dog lifespan but you know the lessons we learn from there might also be applicable to humans as well. So I'm yeah very excited to dig into the research that you're doing but yeah maybe we can start with um you know what is the dog aging project and how did you get involved with that? So the the dog aging project is a long-term longitudinal study of dogs all across the United States. Uh we have enrolled over 51,000 dogs since we launched in 2020. And these are companion dogs or pet dogs in people's homes. Um and most of what we do for our research is observational. Uh so we collect a lot of data uh massive amounts of data which we then use to understand what makes some dogs healthier aers than others. Why do some dogs stay healthier longer than others? Uh what are the environmental factors, the genetic factors, the the biological factors and uh what are the underlying mechanisms by which genes and environment influence how long a dog lives. And then about 1% of the dogs in the study are also enrolled in a clinical trial to see if rapamy can increase healthy lifespan in dogs. And how it got started is a bit of a long story and I'll try and try and be brief. Uh so way back in 2007 a paper came out on size in dogs from Ela Ostrander's group. And in humans, if you think about the genetics of size, there are probably hundreds of genes that each contribute a tiny little bit to determine overall whether we are average height or taller or shorter than average. That's true in dogs as well, but there's one gene in particular which accounts for about half of the variation in size. If you have one form of that gene, two if you have two copies of one form of that gene, you tend to be a toy breed. And if you have the other form and two copies, you tend to be a giant breed. And that gene is IGF-1 or insulin growth factor 1. When that paper came out, I was immediately excited because we know that the pathway that that gene acts in IGF-1 insulin signaling um is thought to be important for aging in many different species in the lab in mice and worms and flies and possibly even in humans. And so that paper came out and immediately I wanted to answer the question of whether that gene is the reason that we see this really striking pattern in dogs that's different from what we see across species which is that the large breeds are shorter lived than the small breeds. And uh we're still trying to answer that question and a million other questions. And that led to creating this project with my co-founders Kate Crevy who's now at Texas&M and Matt Cberline who was at the University of Washington when I moved there and and now is uh CEO of a company OPISPAN and we continue to work together. >> Yeah. Yeah. That's very u interesting this relationship between body size as well as in in humans is also related to height of how Yeah, like a shorter I guess. Um, so it's interesting that you know that I think the the the relationship is that you know larger species tend to live longer than smaller species but smaller individuals in that species live longer than the larger individuals. So like whales live longer than mice but smaller whales tend to live longer than larger whales if that's correct or like humans. Larger humans tend to live shorter and shorter humans, but humans live short longer than mice, for example. >> Yeah. So, we've got pretty So, the clearest pattern is actually in dogs. There's a twofold difference between really longived uh breeds like a toy poodle or a Havanese and then a very short-lived breed like a Great Dane for example. And there they differ in size by could be 50fold and in lifespan by twofold. uh we see these big effects in mice that many of the mutations that increase lifespan make these mice smaller. And then in humans, there's some support there's some suggestion that that shorter people um have lower rates of cancer. uh the there are so many different contributing factors in humans to heart disease and cancer and so on that it's not a really clean effect but there's a bit of an effect that that smaller people are protected from some diseases. It's complicated too because there there are other data suggesting that taller people might have some benefits in terms of things like socioeconomic status. So it it's we we are a complicated species and that's part of the reason why dogs are such a great model. >> Yeah. Yeah. And uh one good thing about dogs as well. I'm I'm like a dog person. So I like dogs. I've had dogs all my life. But uh you know dog ownership is also associated with longevity in humans. So um you know it's a bit not selfish in that sense. that you know you if you extend your dog lifespan then uh you might have also some benefits on your own lifespan but at the same time you know you love your dog so you want them to live as long as possible so it's a kind of a net uh positive for everyone I think to research this and u like why what do you think is the reason why dog ownership might be associated with u longevity in humans >> it's a a great question and in fact for years I've and try to convince uh someone who runs a large human cohort study to add a matched cohort of dogs that belong to the people in the study. If you think about studies like the the light and longevity study in in the Netherlands or the uh Framingham Heart study in Massachusetts, there are studies around the world. We we we know so much about the people in those studies, their environment and their biology. And it would be really amazing to study the same thing in those dogs. And that would allow us to test one hypothesis uh about the the factors in the environment that might influence human longevity. challenge and I I'll get back to your question, but the the challenge with understanding lifespan in humans from these long-term longitudinal studies is that we live so long and there might be environmental factors which we experience in our childhood that impact risk of disease 50, 60, 70 years later. And we have studies now like Framingham which started in 1948 where we've we've been studying people that long but they're they're challenging long expensive studies because everything is sped up in dogs. We have the opportunity for example to understand how environmental factors might influence lifespan in a dog. And if we find uh that there appears to be a risk factor in the environment that's increasing a particular kind of cancer for example, we can then do a deep dive into people in that environment in a targeted way and ask if if there's a similar risk for people. Um in terms of why it is that that dogs are beneficial for people. Um, and anybody who has a dog can answer the the most obvious part of that question, which is that they just make us feel good. Um, that we enjoy having them in the environment. It's interesting to think about. We, you know, there are lots of people who have who you've spoken with on this podcast who are thinking really hard about uh discovering and implementing gerotherrapeutics, pharmaceutical interventions that might dramatically increase health span in humans. We already know about the factors in our lives that help us live longer that aren't pharmaceutical. So, healthy diet, regular exercise, good sleep hygiene, avoiding too much alcohol um or addictive drugs, smoking, and then uh good healthy social interactions. And if you think about how a dog might influence some of those things, we do know that people with dogs are more likely to get regular moderate exercise taking their dog for a walker. And the other thing that I'm really interested in, and we don't yet have good data, but I would love to see someone study this, is we do know that regular social interactions help us live healthier longer, and having a dog around might could be a part of that. So it might just be that our mental health is better and certainly our mental health is tied to our physical health and so maybe having a dog around longer around us helps our mental health and our emotional health and that helps us live longer but I'm speculating. I would love to see someone study that. >> Yeah, I mean the most obvious explanation could be that you just go for more walks and you're more physically active. But yeah, I do agree that there might be some social or mental health benefits from the, you know, d-stressing benefits of the dog or the the love hormones, the oxytocin and the bonding hormones that, you know, might lower stress and >> Yeah. And and we what we have seen there are many people who are doing studies on the ability of companion animals to improve quality of life um for older people in uh in long-term care facilities for example or with people who have uh cognitive deficits, dementia. Many studies have shown that they feel better by having companion animals around. I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices which are the Bon Charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite lingerie influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bont Chargearge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most REAL therapy devices don't have the right wavelengths of light, which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bon Charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to boncharge.com and use the code seam sim for a 15% discount. In humans, we know pretty much that the lifestyle fundamentals like exercise, sleep, eating a healthy diet, etc. these are very important like a foundation to longevity. Is it the same case in dogs? So, like, you know, obesity is bad for dogs. Um, poor diet, I would presume, would also have like similar effects in dogs. >> It it is. Although one of the the reasons that we're doing the dog aging project and and one of the things that I'm really excited about is we have the ability to to answer the the very questions that you're asking um with a a kind of resolution and statistical power that we haven't had until now to the the challenge is that a lot of what we know we know from cross-sectional studies. These are studies where we just take a slice in time, we take a bunch of people or a bunch of dogs, we measure their health and we and we uh examine their diet and we ask if healthier people have a better diet or healthier dogs have a better diet. But to really tease apart cause and effect, we need to carry out long-term longitudinal studies where we go back in time and look at when everybody was healthy, what were they doing? And then did that impact how they aged? And doing that in people takes a long time. As we talked about in dogs, we can follow a dog from middle-aged to geriatric depending on the breed in about 5 years. And so there's there's real power to that. We do know and there's there's really good data from the veterinary literature that obesity for example is a risk factor in dogs for all kinds of of morbidities for many different kinds of diseases. Although interestingly dogs are protected from some really important diseases that are associated with obesity in humans in particular they don't get cardiovascular disease. So they don't get heart attack or stroke although they do get dementia they get other kinds of heart disease um valve mital valve disease um cardiammyopathy and then the other thing that they're protected from is type 2 diabetes um although they do get type 1 diabetes but there are many issues uh with obesity in dogs. One of so in many ways dogs are a really powerful translational model. One of the things that we see a lot of in older dogs is challenges with muscularkeeletal health. Um osteoarthritis, sarcopenia, loss of muscle mass and with something like osteoarthritis. Um obese dogs struggle more with it than lean dogs. So that that's really important. Um, the diet is a a really an open question and and there aren't a lot of studies where people have compared very different kinds of diet like the the standard um kibble diet, the dried extruded food that most dogs eat compared to raw food diets or frozen diets, commercial frozen diets versus homemade raw or frozen diets. We have those data because we've got diet data on tens of thousands of dogs. We're following them longitudinally. And my hope is that a few years from now, we will have studied these dogs for enough years that if we look at dogs starting from a young age and following them throughout their life on these different diets that we will begin to see which diets are associated with longer or shorter health span, different kinds of disease. So, I don't have good answers for you yet, but we do have the data set that's going to help us get there. So, I'm pretty excited about that. >> The other thing that I would add is we we have identified lots of environmental factors associated with health and lifespan. But in addition to that, for the 50,000 dogs, 51,000 dogs in our study, we have whole genome sequencing for 7,000. And we have a deep dive into the molecular biology of these dogs for about a thousand in a group that we call the precision cohort within the dog aging project pack is what we call the whole group. And within those dogs we've got longitudinal data. So every year we've got data on the epigenome, the microbiome, the metabolome. We have we use flowcytometry to characterize their immune phenotype. We have complete blood counts and blood chemistry. And the power there is that in addition to identifying the genetic or the environmental factors that assoc that are associated with health and lifespan, we can get at the mechanisms and then that can take us back into the lab to validate those things in the in the model organisms like mice or sort of flies. >> Interesting. Yeah. You mentioned the diet. Is there any I guess uh directions you think would lead to longer lifespan in uh dogs in terms of like diet? I mean in humans there's there's some principles obviously that um appear to be better like mostly eating whole foods and minimally processed foods. Uh but is there any anything similar in dogs? >> We don't know yet. Um we so one of the it's it's hard to measure diet. Um so what we don't have is we have we haven't actually collected foods from individuals and process them in in a chemistry lab to to measure protein content, fat content, carbohydrate content and so on. Most of the dogs in our study, most of the people in our study give their dogs kibble and they tell us what kind. And so we will be able to look at components um of those diets in more detail. We haven't done that yet, but that's certainly something that we're excited to do. Um and then we we just uh did a study. So one of the things I love about the dog aging project is that it's team science. So um I am not the dog aging project. There are about a hundred people who worked on it and researchers around the country. Um, one of the teams recently published a paper looking at the diets of uh, dog diets uh, from households where the people are making the diet. And what's interesting and a little bit concerning is that often it appears that there are micronutrients that are missing from some of those >> homemade diets. And uh my hope is that by publishing research like that, we can help people who want to give their dogs a homemade diet make sure that they're adding whatever uh supplements are needed to ensure that that all the nutrients that are required nutrients are present in the diet. >> But what the long-term health consequences are of the different diets, um it's it's we don't know yet. It's a little premature, but as we continue to follow these dogs, we'll be able to ask that question. >> Mhm. Yeah. Um I've also seen I think one study where they saw some aspect of intermittent fasting or this confined eating window had some positive effects on dog lifespan. So like eating less less frequently. >> Yeah. So um this is really interesting and and um it's sort of a good lesson in how we think about study design as well as how we think about feeding frequency. Um so u fairly early on we we've now published about 80 papers and there are new papers coming out every month. Um fairly early on we published a paper um led by a researcher uh at the University of Arizona, Emily Bray, looking at the difference between uh health patterns in dogs that feed just once a day and dogs that feed two or more times a day. Um there are many people who who give their give their dog all of their food at one time in the day and then other people who uh will leave out food. There are some dogs that are very food motivated and they'll try and eat anything and so you kind of have to control what they eat or they will become obese. Um, and others like the the dog that is uh sitting right next to me on the ground here who's not very food motivated and we just leave food out all day and he'll pick at it if he feels like it. Um, what Emily and her colleagues found was that dogs that feed just once a day are also dogs that tend to have uh lower instances of uh gastrointestinal problems, pancreas problems. But there's an interesting challenge here and that is so that was a cross-sectional study and we don't know in a cross-sectional study where we just look at a slice in time and we ask what do the dogs eat and how's their health. We don't follow them over time. We don't know which way the causal arrows go. And um from the the anecdote that I like to tell here is um about our previous dog Frisbee when Frisbee was a 45 lb or roughly 20 kilo dog and so medium largesized dog. Um she lived to 16 and a half which is for a dog for a 20 kilo dog that's a long lifespan. She was a really healthy dog until 14 and at 14 um she started to have a lot of age related challenges. That's one of the reasons that dogs are a good model for human aging. They struggle with what we call multimorbidity. Lots of different things happen as they age. And in particular, when she was 14, she had uh an acute bout of pancreatitis um which she almost died from. And one of the things when we took her into the clinic and they diagnosed her with pancreatitis, the veterinarian um said initially I was going to have to start making a special uh easy to digest diet for her. Um it was not a complete diet, but it was just temporary and that was a diet of uh cooked oats, sweet potato, and chicken breast. but also that I needed to give her small meals. If I if she ate too much, that could put a stress on her pancreas and it could kill her. And so, it's possible that dogs with GI problems and pancreas problems are told not to eat too much at once. And whereas healthy dogs are not. And so we might not expect to see sick dogs having only one meal a day, which might make us think that having only one meal a day, one meal a day makes dogs healthy. So we don't know that. The the cool thing is we're now at a point, and I'm excited for someone to do this, where we have enough longitudinal data that we can now go back and ask for the dogs who enrolled in 2020 who were all healthy. So, we just limit it to the healthy dogs. Take those that eat once a day and those that eat multiple times a day and ask now 5 years later, are they different? Um, so no one's done that yet, but I'm excited for someone to do that. And which leads me to a really important message that I want to give your listeners, which is that we are an open data study. And that means that all the data we collect, we make publicly available for academic researchers around the world. And uh for corporate people are interested in access to the data, we're happy to discuss that as well. Um so if there's someone out there who's interested in asking this question and is comfortable with managing large data sets that have many tens of millions of data points, let me know. I'd be happy for you to have the data and do science with it. >> Mhm. That's cool. What about calorie restriction? So in pretty much others other experimental models the color restriction does extend lifespan. Does it do so in um dogs? >> We have a little bit of information there that is positive that suggests that calorie restriction does uh improve lifespan in dogs but it's a little bit problematic. Um, so the the one long-term study, lifetime study, um, with calorie restriction in dogs was done by Kurina and they had a a group of dogs in kennels that they followed over time with some were calorie restricted and some were not. And um, the ones that were calorie restricted live live longer. The one problem with the study is that the ones were not calorie restricted more were more likely to struggle with obesity and the obesity led to morbidities which in some case um to alleviate suffering led to euthanasia of the dogs and so it's a little bit hard to know whether because at least in this country in the US um when a dog reaches its end of life and and can't do its daily activities ities um is really suffering. Common outcome here in the US is is euthanasia for dogs. Um and so it's hard to know with that particular study whether the calorie restriction really slowed the aging process or whether it was really the the adlib diet that led to problems with obesity and and euthanasia. So you know if I were to do that study again uh I'd be interested in uh like the work that some of your listeners might know from John Speakman. He did this beautiful study years ago where he did graded caloric restriction in mice um 10% 20% 30% 40% um and looking at it how that affected health and lifespan and the molecular biology in mice. So, I'd love to see a study in in dogs where it's not just adlib versus caloric restriction, but sort of healthy weight versus a little bit less than than normal calories. Sort of like the the calorie study in humans that that you might know of. >> Yeah. Yeah, I mean u at least it will help to combat some obesity if if uh the dog is overweight then the calorie restriction will help to um reduce that but yeah I guess it's hard to know um similar to humans it would be hard to know if it does extend lifespan because we live relatively a bit longer compared to mice or yeast for example but you know I think I think you know one challenge with calorie restriction in humans is that no No one really wants to do it. It's very difficult to do for the rest of her life. But I guess, you know, you could do it with your dog um since they can't really go to the store and buy foods, which I guess, you know, then brings up the, you know, ethic problem with uh quality of life for your dog. >> And I I would not advocate um people imposing calorie restriction on dogs. Um, in in the veterinary world, and I should say I'm not a veterinarian. I'm a a PhD trained scientist. Um, but in in the veterinary world, we talk about body condition. Um, in the US, it's typically graded on a a 1 to nine point scale where five is considered optimal. And um and until now anyway, the best information that we have is that the optimal body condition for a dog is five, which is not caloric restriction. So I'm not advocating that people impose caloric restriction on their dogs. >> It's an interesting scientific question whether >> uh a dog being calorically restricted would improve its long-term health. Um but other than the the Purina study, I think we we just don't know enough to say one way or the other. >> Yeah. Uh you mentioned also exercise as well as orthopedic problems, um muscle skeletal problems. So exercise obviously in humans will help to counteract those uh conditions. in dogs. I I I do see that yes, you know, you can do a lot of cardio with dogs. You can do running up the stairs and those kind of things, but um you know, you can't really lift weights with your dog uh to counteract the bone bone mass loss. So, are there any ways any kind of devices, any gadgets or some exercise equipment that or some ideas of how to, you know, do resistance training for your dog to maintain muscle and bone density? That's a a terrific question and I I don't know the answer. I'd be surprised if there aren't. Um I will say that the the one exception to this um which is really a an extraordinary and extreme exception is sled dogs which >> um have uh phenomenal cardiovascular capacity. um just off the charts beyond they they are really uh beyond anything that we see in in human species. Um and what's striking is not only are they able to maintain um a high level activity um for many many hours but also they're pulling a sled and and so they're being challenged in terms of uh just strength muscularkeeletal challenge. Um so uh I don't know the answer to whether there anyone has thought about this. Um I I have heard of people uh trying in the lab for example to to have lab animals like pull uh to to pull something. Um whether this would help a dog or not, I don't know. Um certainly there are many different kinds of sports that that people participate in. Um, and even not just, you know, the the amazing sled dogs, but there many dogs that do ski juroring, for example, which is a combination of a human on crosscountry skis and a dog pulling them. And I think that would probably be a great exercise in terms of both strength and endurance for dogs. um agility training um is great for endurance, but also for uh movement and balance and probably cognitive function as well. Um so I think there there are a lot of things that people can do to keep their dogs active and and there's certain dogs that just uh love doing these sorts of things as well. >> Yeah. Yeah. Like certain species are crazy for the exercise. Yeah. >> Um, but the slit dog, yeah, that that is very interesting that you know, you they do, I guess, use their muscles pretty much for many hours and you know, it certainly does at least build muscle tissue. I'm not sure if it will build like a bone density, but yeah, for muscle tissue, uh, it does does. So, you know, we mentioned all these like lifestyle factors, environmental factors. Um the dog aging project also has a very interesting uh I guess one part of the project is you're using rapamy for uh testing if it will extend lifespan in dogs. So rapomy is you know notoriously extended lifespan in other species and it's like a good candidate to do so in dogs and maybe humans as well. So um what is the result so far with uh testing repin? >> Yeah. So, so it's the one uh intervention study that we're doing. So, I mentioned that we have 51,000 dogs that have enrolled. Not all are still alive. Um and and then our target for the rapamy study, which we call triad, that stands for test of rapamy in aging dogs. Um our target is to enroll 580 dogs. Half of them on rapamy and half on placebo. So, we're we're running it just like uh one would run a human clinical trial. It's a double blind placeboc controlled study. So, we don't know which dogs are getting which drug, nor do the owners, and and half are getting a placebo. In addition, there are two arms to the study. So, about half the dogs are in a cardiac arm. Um we know from mice for example that rapamy improves cardia heart function at late age. It makes older mice uh hearts look younger giving them lowd dose rapamy. And so one arm is looking at rep at heart function in dogs. Those dogs go in every six months and have an echo cardiogram. So we're really doing serious analysis of heart function. And then the other arm is a cognitive arm looking at neurological function in dogs every six months. Um the dogs are on rapamy for one year and it's a lowd dose once a week treatment and we're uh you know obviously it's important to keep in mind that people in the US think of dogs and in many countries think of dogs as a member of the family. This wasn't the case 75 years ago. Um, perspectives on companion animals have really changed over time and now people consider the dog often a family member. And so we're very uh cautious about what we're doing. If anything, we're airing on the side of of too low a dose because we don't want to cause problems. We don't want to do harm. Um so these dogs are on either rapamy or placebo for a year and then we follow them for an additional 2 years and the primary outcome is survival at the end of that 3-year period and uh and then secondary outcomes of heart function and cognitive function. I should mention that we are still enrolling. Um the dogs have to be uh at least 7 years old and at least 40 lb. And so middle-aged large breed um and we're we have sites all around the country. And so if any of your listeners are interested in being a part of this study and I have to say this is the first time that anyone has ever done a real world study looking at the ability of a gerotherrapeutic drug to increase lifespan. Problem isn't you know we live too long in humans to do something like that. We can do it in the dogs. It's a really exciting study. We we have a and we treat it just like a human study through NIH, through the National Institutes of Health. We have a data and safety monitoring board. Um and so everything is is very carefully done. So what do we know so far? Because it's a double blind study, we don't know what the dog which dog is on placebo and which dog is on the drug. And we won't unblind ourselves until the study is over. The study will be over when we've enrolled all the dogs that we want to enroll, 580, and we have followed each dog for for 3 years or until the end of its life, if that comes sooner. And so, in fact, I would say that the sooner people like your listeners enroll in the study, the sooner we get to 580 dogs, the sooner we'll have an answer for you. our um our preliminary data from smaller studies. Uh the first study we did actually showed some improvement in heart function. It was too short a study to look at lifespan and then the second study um showed uh a good safety profile. So we aren't we're not seeing adverse events which is great. Um and so we're excited for more people to enroll in the study. Uh we have sites all around the country. It's uh doesn't cost the participant anything to enroll and they get outstanding care. Uh so if anyone is interested um you can uh click the link on the dog aging project website at dogagingpro.org and and learn more. So we we don't have answers yet. we are there are things that we can do in terms of looking at molecular signals in in in dogs that look like the dogs that are enrolled in triad large breed middle-aged dogs and so that's something that we're doing to try and understand uh so we have a study for example where we're going to be looking at markers of cognitive dysfunction in dogs really interestingly um and unfortunately dogs um when they hit 11 or 12 years old, they begin to be at risk of a disease that looks a lot like Alzheimer's disease. It's called canine cognitive dysfunction. And it's the motivation for that neuroarm in the rapa in the triad study uh to test whether rapamy can delay or decrease the impact of canine cognitive dysfunction. Um we've already done some studies, published some papers looking at the molecular markers that we see in people with Alzheimer's, things like um a beta and phosphotau, these molecules that accumulate in the brain. Do we see them in dogs? Um we do. Does that mean that dogs are getting Alzheimer's disease? That we don't know. But we're really interested in in figuring out all the ways in which canine cognitive dysfunction or CCD in dogs is like Alzheimer's in humans which will then give us this very powerful model to test ways to to address Alzheimer's disease. As as you know we don't have a treatment for this disease which as people are living longer and longer it's become more and more common. Um it's just a a a very serious problem um that we c we don't have treatments for and and to the extent that CCD is like Alzheimer's disease, we might even be able to discover treatments from dogs that we can then translate to to help people. >> Yeah, that's super interesting. Uh yeah, I if I was in US, I would probably also enroll my own uh our own dog uh to the project as well. But yeah, you know, it was one of those um questions uh I was waiting for um you know, to decide if I'm going to give my own or our our own dog rep. So, uh, yeah, looking forward to those >> it's a really good question and it's really important to stress to your listeners that the reason that we do clinical trials um is to test whether something is helpful or neutral or harmful and we don't know the answer until the clinical trial is finished. So many people have reached out to us and said where can I get rapamy and how much should I give my dog and the answer is we don't know yet. We are so excited about the study and what we're going to find. We need to be patient. Um and and the participants appreciate that what that that it takes a long time to learn about the effects of drugs. These are hardearned lessons and and the beneficiaries of of the triad trial might not be the dogs enrolled in the trial. They might be the next generation of dogs. So we just need to be patient. But if people are interested in being a part of geroscience of the science of aging, this is a a terrific way to be a part of it. And I should mention that we're also enrolling, we continue to enroll people just in our observational study of now 51,000 dogs. And and again, if they go to the dog aging project website at dogagingpro.org, they can find out how to enroll. It's still just limited to to the United States. um we would love uh to expand to other countries and that's just a question of of funding and collaborators in other countries and um the the funding pieces for this kind of science is a real challenge. Um it's a very complex study and um there's something for everybody to love in the study but also because it's so rich what we're doing but also when it comes to writing grants and having reviewers look at it grant reviewers job is to find weaknesses in grants and so because it's so complex there's also something for every reviewer not to like. So we've had lots of funding challenges. Um we we have a a major grant that will be reviewed in a couple months at the National Institutes of Health and we're cautiously optimistic that that that will go through well. At the same time um it's led us to create a nonprofit, the Dog Aging Institute and and that's been for us a great experience being involved in the nonprofit world, which is something that the co-founders Matt and Katie and I had never done before. Um, and so we have this nonprofit dog aging institute and there's a team that runs that and we're also using that to try and raise funds not only for the dog aging project but in general for people who are interested in using companion dogs as models for for aging research. There's just so much potential there. >> What's involved in u being part of the study? So, what do they have to do something or keep notes or >> to be part of a dog aging project? Um, if you have a dog, uh, you just go to the website dogagingpro.org and, uh, sign up and there's a survey uh that has 10 parts and each part is about a particular topic. So, there's one just about the the dog demographics, its breed and size and sex and so on. There's another section about dog health. There's a section about the home environment and so on. 10 sections. And once you've completed all 10 sections, you become a member of the dog aging project. And your dog is given a a number and is a member of the pack. For those who are interested in being a part of the triad study, the rapamy study, it's a little more complex. Um, so the dog has to be at least seven years old, 40 pounds. And if you enroll, uh, a team member will then work with you to determine if your dog is eligible. The dog also has to be healthy. So we're we're testing the ability of rapamy to help dogs maintain health rather than to cure problems. And so it's quite limited, especially for the heart study, they need to have a healthy heart. for the neuro study, they have to have cognitive health. And if they are uh if they fit all of those criteria, they will then be invited to one of the clinics in their region where they will be given either uh a a standard exam by a veterinarian plus either a neurological study or an echo cardiogram. And those studies are completely harmless. Uh they don't there's no risk to those studies. Uh and and then if they are invited to enroll, they will then be given either placebo or rapamy. They won't know which they're given. And they will be followed for up to 3 years. And every six months, they'll bring the dog in for an exam. So they will their dog will be a deeply studied animal and at no charge. they don't pay for those exams. Um, and and a lot of the information that we collect, and this is true of the dogs in the regular study as well, like if we in the precision cohort, for example, when we collect the blood counts, blood chemistry that are routinely done and dogs that go into the veterinarian if they're sick, we give that to the owners as well. Um, as well as the the whole genome sequencing we do, we give them information about their breed and so on. Um >> so that the participants are really uh community scientists. They are doing science with us. >> And how long do they need to keep taking the the pill? >> So they'll they'll take the pill either rapamy or placebo for one year and then we will continue to follow them for two more years. >> Okay. Good. And I could just tell you my my my dog is my dog has very acute sensitive hearing and he's whining in the background. I don't know if you can hear him because he must hear something that I don't hear and he might start barking soon and if he does I apologize. >> That's fine. That's okay. Um yeah. Are there any other compounds with potential like longevity benefits in dogs like metformin or some other thing? Uh many people have come forward with interest in having us test other components like metformin, like a carbos. Um doing one clinical trial turns out to be a a considerable challenge. And so we're not going to think about doing another one until um we've enrolled all the dogs in the in the triad trial. There are other people who are doing clinical trials in dogs. Most notably uh a company called Loyal uh led by Selene Haliwa is uh testing several drugs. Um their first drug was looking at uh an intervention just in large breed dogs focused uh really on the hypothesis that we talked about right at the beginning that may relate that gene IGF-1 or insulin growth factor 1 to lifespan. So the large breed dogs have this form of IGF-1 that that leads to large size. It may lead them to live shorter. We don't know for sure. Loyal is uh testing a drug that reduces the expression of IGF-1 to see if those large breed dogs live longer. They have other drugs in trial that for that are for all dogs and I don't know what mechanisms they're testing. Um so they're certainly working on that. And then there are other people out there who are interested in in things like gene therapy. That's not something um that I'm involved in. Um I think the you know the as we've talked about 99% of what we do 99% of the dogs in our study are dogs that we are just watching the as as one of our team members liked to put it the power of paying attention. And there's a lot that we can learn from that. Um, for example, we have a paper that's just now coming out. Um, I haven't seen the proof yet, but the um the init the the manuscript is is online at the Journal of Gerontology looking at biomarkers uh that are in the blood, small molecules that we call metabolites, the levels of which are predictive of whether a dog is going to survive for the next year or not. And it turns out there are some molecules that if they're higher than average, the dog is more likely to survive, others where if they're lower than average in a dog, the dog is more likely to survive. And the really cool thing is that it turns out that these particular molecules that are either positively or negatively associated with mortality risk are the same molecules that are associated in the same direction with predicting mortality in people. So just by watching dogs over time, following them over time, and measuring molecules in their blood, we can identify biomarkers that turn out to be the same biomarkers that we've already discovered in people. And that suggests that as we continue to work, we might discover new biomarkers of risk of mortality, for example, in dogs that aren't yet known in people, but which we could then go and test in people. So we're we're really excited about where we are now with papers uh just coming out. We have these two metabolite papers that have come out and then we have uh an epigenome paper looking at not the sequence of the DNA but the structure of the chromosomes. Um and that's uh in the pipeline another one that's looking at the genetics of various traits in dogs. Um we have papers on the microbiome from uh the gut. We use fecal samples to look at all the bacteria in the dog. So all of these molecular studies are coming out and the because everything is sped up so much in dogs, we have this potential to identify biomarkers of health span in dogs. And the really cool thing about that too is that if we find environmental factors for example that affect lifespan in dogs, we can then ask whether they impact the biioarker and if they do and if that is the same biomarker in people, then we have a way to do studies in people where we don't have to follow them for their whole lives. We can just look at what the intervention does to the biioarker if it if we think that the biioarker is a somehow a measure of aging. So, we're now at a state in the dog aging project where these molecular studies are coming out and and I think that's really taking us to the next level. I'm super excited about it. >> Yeah. Yeah. That's interesting you mentioned that it's sped up in dogs. So, there's, you know, the saying that one one year for dogs is seven years for humans. So, you know, there are some a two-year clinical trial in humans is, you know, considered a long one. um in dogs a 2year would be you know 14year equivalent in humans so you would actually get yeah like much accelerated results with um >> that that's right and if you think about triad if if you start with a healthy 8-year-old dog and you follow that dog for 3 years um an 11year-old dog is starting to get into its geriatric years and so you really are doing a clinical trial where you're following individuals from middle-aged to geriatric years. And that's powerful. And doing that in humans, people have done it like with the Framingham Hearts study. It's not an intervention study, but following people from young adulthood or middle age to to old age and death, but that study started in 1948, and it's now on the third generation of the the grandchildren of the first people who enrolled. But it's it's taken uh a huge investment from NIH and a huge investment of time in the people who lead that study. So so yeah uh a two-year study in dogs could teach us what might be a 15 or 20 year study in humans. And one of the things that we show in this paper that's now online at Journal of Gerontology. Um the data that we collected was over a period of less than a year and a half that allowed us to identify those biomarkers and we compare it with eight different human studies that uh lasted from anywhere from about 8 years to about 20 years. So it took the the human studies a decade or more typically to find what we found in a year. >> Nice. Um we our dog had like um motion sickness. Uh so he he got like a nausea during driving. He doesn't get it anymore, but he last year or two years ago he did. And we gave him one uh this no nausea medication which um I think the active ingredient here was melazine which is an antihistamine and I did a quick Google search as well once and there is some data that the mechazine also extends a lifespan in animals. So yeah, are there any other kind of these, you know, maybe not not supplements necessarily, but certain I don't know medications or things like that could also have potential besides besides rapin and metformin perhaps. >> Thor and this gets into an area that um many people in the geroscience community are thinking about. It's not something I'm working on as much, but many people are interested in the possibility that that drugs that are in common use might have what we call off label effects. Um the my own opinion on this is that it's certainly worth doing clinical trials on these sorts of things. I don't advocate individuals trying them out um without not as part of a clinical trial but because so for example we we actually have some data from fruit flies. I have in addition to to co-leading the dog aging project, I have a fly lab where I study aging in fruit flies and we do metabolomics and some of our work has pointed to his the histamine pathway as a potential pathway in flies to make them live healthier longer. And we've so we're doing work in collaboration with Andre Parquit at University of Pittsburgh um to look at whether altering the the histamine pathway can make flies healthier longer. Uh so we can give antihistamines to flies. Um but humans are not flies and humans are not mice. And so even if we see evidence that that medications that we give people for other things make animals in the lab live healthier longer that the next step is not for you and me to start taking those drugs. There are considerable risks. The next step might be clinical trials. and and the dog is actually a great um intermediate as long as we focus on safety because we can learn things so much more quickly. So there may well be potential and you know I think a great example uh we can think of things like statins um you know people take statins uh not as a gerotherrapeutic but one can imagine a world where statins came out of a lab working on the biology of aging. Similarly, the GLP-1 agonists that are now being so commonly taken for people for weight loss appear to have lots of beneficial side effects in terms of other health domains. And again, if the GLP-1 agonists had come out of a lab working on the biology of aging, they might have called GLP-1 a gerotherrapeutic. Uh so which just raises the interesting question of of what a gerotherapeutic is as opposed to a standard medication like a statin or a GP1 agonist. Uh so there there's a lot there. I mean I think we could have a conversation >> about this issue all day long. Um so I I think the bottom line is yes there's potential. Um I think there are ethical issues. It's really important that people not take a result from the lab and think that the message is that they should start taking that drug. Um the other thing that I think the geroscience community doesn't talk about enough is that and and this was something we talked about at the top of the hour and that is we already have a whole set of interventions that are impactful and safe. We know um how to improve healthy lifespan with effects on lots of beneficial effects on lots of different parts of of our functions through diet, exercise, good sleep hygiene, avoiding too much alcohol, avoiding cigarettes, good social interaction. And one of the things that that I'd like to see more of in the in the neuroscience community is thinking about how to maximize those things and then maybe building on top of that um with the new cutting edge discoveries that that are coming out of geroscience labs around the world. >> Yeah. But what about regular supplements like I don't know omega-3s some other ones? >> Sure. Again, I think there um we should let the science drive decision making. So, um if you know there there are more and more studies coming out about omega-3s, for example, I'm not an expert in supplements and so I'm not going to say anything about this supplement or that supplement. What I will say is that there's lots of information online and there's lots of misinformation online. And I think what we really need to be careful about is making sure that if we're taking supplements, are the the beneficial effects of the supplements and the lack of risk factors for the supplements supported by the science? And if so, that's pretty good. But even you know there there have been so many studies on vitamin E for example and we learned a few years back from a European study that there were some risk factors of vitamin E that only showed up with with a sufficiently large study. >> So uh and and I guess the last thing I would say about supplements is um there's pretty good evidence for the beneficial effects of omega-3s. I think probably the best thing we could do is build a diet that includes uh nutrient or foods rich in omega-3s um which at the same time will ensure that we're not eating foods that are not good for us. >> Mhm. Yeah. >> And in general, just having a a healthy diet is going to give us the nutrients we need. >> Yeah. and and the same for the dogs then that they eat a kind of diverse diet with or the ones that give them adequate nutrients >> there. So there's lots of supplement use in dogs and um what's missing so far is really good large scale either clinical trials or observational studies. Um so uh people give their dogs omega-3s. A lot of people give their dogs um kosamine and chondroitin sulfate for muscularkeeletal health. I'm hoping that the data that we have will help us really understand the potential benefits of those things. Um so I would say there like in humans we need more data to really help us understand what we should be doing to optimize our health. But the potential to collect those data is there. M yeah I guess you know um the main takeaway for dogs is the same for humans that uh you you know follow the fundamentals and then in the next few years we might have some new discoveries about what might actually lead to some additional extension in uh in lifespan in in both dogs and humans. Uh yeah, I think um I mean the dog aging project is just one study and there are others um that are trying to answer these questions. Um I think we're close. Um certainly within uh the lifetime of my career, I think we're going to have some fundamental advances in understanding drivers of healthy lifespan in dogs and that many of those will translate to humans. Um, and a big shout out to the Golden Retriever Lifetime Study, which is another long-term longitudinal study that is just in golden retrievers. They started before we did and they're just about finished. The the last dogs are sort of in the late stages of their life and we're we're going to be learning a lot from them, a lot from the dog aging project. There are some studies um in Europe uh Finland for example studying to uh epidemiological scale studies of dogs. So I would say to your listeners stay tuned 2 to 5 years I am confident that we're going to have some some really major advances in our understanding of both causes and consequences of variation in aging. Who lives healthier longer and why? >> Yeah. And then we'll also learn some things for humans. >> I have no doubt. Yeah, it's an exciting time. >> Yeah. Well, uh it's been a great talking with you. Thanks for joining the podcast. Before I ask my last question, where can people learn more about you and your work and you can also say one more time where can if they want to join the dog aging project. >> Yeah. Well, thank you so much for uh inviting me. It's been a terrific conversation. I really enjoyed it. Um, if you'd like to learn more about the dog aging project, you can go to dogagingpro.org. If you're interested in supporting it, you can go to dogaginginstitute.org. And if you'd like to learn more about my work, um, you can just Google Danielpromislow or you could go to promiselab.org and um, learn more about what I'm doing. And uh I'll be very interested to uh hear more about uh your your listeners are are uh interested in the dog aging project. I hope to see a bump in enrollment in the dog aging project following this. >> Yeah. Well, that's I hope so. And uh my last question is um what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? Um, so, uh, I just started working with a trainer. Um, so I've been very active my whole life. Um, lots of sports and running and skiing and going to the gym and so on, but I've never done weight training. And, um, I just had a health issue. I had to work with a physical therapist and it was a big wakeup call for me at my age. Um, one of the biggest challenges that we face, especially after the age of 60, but it starts around the age of 40, is loss of muscle mass. It happens to all of us. And we can combat it through exercise, especially through resistance exercise. Um, and so I just started working with a trainer and I have to say I've never done resistance exercise, weight training before. I'm loving it. And uh and it's really important for our long-term health as we start losing muscle mass in our 40s and then well into our 60s and 70s it speeds up. So um that's to for today that that's my advice. Um start uh doing weights and and combating what we call sarcopenia or muscle loss uh loss of lean muscle mass. Um, start doing it now and keep on doing it for the rest of your life. >> Yeah, absolutely. And, uh, get a slid for the dog. Yeah. >> Thanks a lot for for the conversation. I really enjoyed it. >> Yeah, my pleasure. And I'll see you around. >> Great. Bye-bye.