Many scientists call ergothanine a longevity vitamin. It's been seen to increase lifespan in mice by up to 29%. Which is not a small effect. There's already multiple papers talking about ergothanine's anti-aging potential. Yet hardly anyone in the longevity space talks about it. Chances are you've never heard about it. In this video, I'm going to talk about why erthanine could be a longevity vitamin and why you might not want to take it as a supplement. So why does ergothanine have benefits for longevity? Erthanine is a powerful antioxidant that fights oxidated distress, inflammation and cell scinessence while also protecting the mitochondria. It works synergistically with other antioxidants like ulthion and superoxulate disysismmitase to protect DNA and lower inflammation. Because of that, it has potential for improving metabolic disorders, cardiovascular disease, liver disease, neurodeenerative diseases and other inflammatory diseases. Another way ergothine has longevity benefits is by increasing NAD levels and enhancing mitochondrial function. We obviously don't have studies looking at if erganine would extend lifespan in humans, but there's some potential evidence for eranine improving brain health. Erathanine is seen to accumulate in vulnerable organs that have the most mitochondria such as the brain and the eyes. It can easily cross the bloodb brain barrier thanks to the erthanine transporters and it has antioxidant effects on the brain. That's why you have several human studies showing that erthanine might improve cognition and memory. A 2024 randomized control trial on older adults saw that supplementing 10 milligrams or 25 milligs a day of erathionine improved multiple cognitive domains in four to six weeks, including reaction times, executive functioning, complex attention, and verbal memory. 25 milligs a day also improved sleep and prospective memory. Another 2024 pilot study on 19 older adults with mild cognitive impairment saw that 25 milligrams of ergothanine thrice a week for a year improved verbal memory and learning. They also saw a biomarker of neurodeeneration called neuroamament light chain stabilizing indicating that ergothanine may protect brain cells from accumulating damage. Low plasma erggothanine levels in humans have been seen to predict neurodeeneration and cognitive decline. So having higher erathanine levels might have neuroprotective effects against dementia by regulating inflammation and oxidative stress. Erathanine also improves sleep as shown by the 2024 study on older adults. In another 2022 randomiz control trial, 20 milligrams of erathanine improved subjective sleep quality while increasing deep enramm sleep and reducing sleep wakefulness as well as waking up after sleep onset. They also saw increased serum antioxidant markers. So where do we get eranine? because our body can't make it itself. Uhine is a sulfur containing amino acid derived from histadine. However, mammals can synthesize eranine and thus you can only get it from food. However, humans do have a dedicated ergoing transporter called ergothanine transporter or ET. The more complex scientific name is SLC224. It's found in the small intestine, brain, liver, kidney, placenta and immune cells. So our body have a mechanism for absorbing eranine from the food and the reason we have it is because we ate it in the past. What food are we talking about? Mushrooms. The main food source of erathanine are mushrooms because mushrooms can synthesize eranine unlike animals or higher plants. Low levels of erathanine are associated with higher cardiovascular disease mortality, dementia and all cause mortality. Countries with the highest intake of erathanine, such as Italy and France, have much lower rates of mortality than those with low erathanine intake, such as the US. Americans consume less than 1.1 millig per day of erathanine, whereas Italians get 4.6 milligs per day. So I would say that it's a good idea to get at least 4 milligs of erathanine per day from your diet. Now erthanine can be obtained from what you would consider healthy foods, mushrooms, vegetables, garlic, onions, tempeh, as well as some seafood. So it is an association when it comes to health benefits. But in mechanistic studies as well as the animal models, ergothanine does have longevity benefits. So it's not a far-fetch to suggest that erathan would have those similar benefits in humans. When speaking of the randomized control trials, then the efficacious dose is seen to be around 25 milligs a day. You could take a supplement for it, but I think that it's unnecessary. That's because mushrooms have a whopping 630 to,300 mg of erggoathanine per kilogram. In a regular dish that contains perhaps 100 grams of mushrooms, you'd get around 60 to 100 milligs of ergoanine. That's more than enough for the brain benefits and is three times more than it was suggested in the study. Tempeh also contains 201 mg per kilogram of erganine. So if you consume 100 or 200 g of tempeh, you'd get around 20 to 40 millig of erganine, which is again more than enough. Chicken liver has 47 milligs of erganine, but realistically you're eating around 10 to 30 grams of liver in one sitting, which would give you around 0.5 to 1.5 millig of ergoine. That's lower than what seems to be optimal for daily intake of at least 4 millig and up to 25 millig. Processed foods don't have any or very minimal amount of erathanine. So eat more whole foods and perhaps add some more mushrooms to your diet such as chantel, porttoelloo, champion or others because they're very high in ergothanine. Overall, there's not that much clinical studies on erggoathanine, but there are a few human studies suggesting that erthanine improves cognition and memory. We do know that it has potent antioxidant and mitochondrial supporting effects. And it seems to extend lifespan in animals, but I don't think that you need to supplement eranine to get 25 milligs of erganine per day. You can just add some more mushrooms or some of the other foods that I mentioned to your diet. Overall, I would rank eranine kind of an interesting supplement with a lot of potential, but we do need more studies about it. Right now, I would stick to primarily getting it from food. If you want to know how I rank 100 other popular supplements, then check out my video about it