the advancement in gen therapy especially in China right now the the the advancement so fast so we think that 150 is totally possible it's is quite realistic celllessness is a normal progress but accumulation of the scinessence cells it's the biggest problem >> Ziko welcome to the show >> thank you for having me um it's my first time doing podcast and uh pretty nervous because well it's not my native language so >> hook me on the English. >> Yeah. But I think we'll still have a very interesting discussion. Um, we met a few weeks ago in Japan at a Tokyo summit and you gave me one of these kind of senolytic supplements that you're making a PCC1 which we'll talk about in this episode. And coincidentally, you know, I thought it's kind of like, you know, just a synolytic supplement. But then also a few weeks from from that I saw some articles written about your company of these Chinese scientists u coming out with a pill that can make humans live to the age of 150. So I thought uh and then I recognized your face on some of the photos. So then I thought hey maybe we should uh have a podcast and discuss it. >> Yeah that was like exaggeration. Actually that was not what we said. Um right >> is that like like um 150 is the >> we think 150 is possible but it's not only one single pill like it you need to combine like multiple advanced therapy and because we see the advancement uh like like growing rapidly so so that um we we reckon we could um uh we could uh uh break the limit or the the the Hick limit limit uh through like gene therapy and such right because uh with hate uh limit it says that uh human could possib it's a has the 120 cap right but uh I would say that the advancement in gen therapy especially in China right now uh that uh we have seen uh the the the advancement so fast so we think that 150 is totally possible as it's is quite realistic yeah >> yeah I mean it would make sense if you're overcoming the hay flick limit to which you know we can talk about it a little bit later but essentially describes the point like the lifespan of a cell at after which it turns scinesscent and if we are able to you know postpone that then uh yeah we could >> we're extending the the the human lifespan limit which yeah people think it's 120 some people say 150 different opinions but yeah like you could just add extra years to the human lifespan if you just overcome this one of the limitations in our biology but yeah maybe we can start with then so what is this that you've made a PCC1 and um what makes it different from some other synolytics that people have heard about like fisetin and corsetin >> yeah so PCC1 is a B type uh turmeric uh proanadine that occurs naturally in certain grape seed um cocoa beans or cranberries and few other um plants And um in nature the content is actually really low. Uh among known sources uh African cocoa beans had some of the highest level but still only on the order of a few parts per thousand. So uh and the raw material themselves are quite expensive. Uh so what makes PCC1 different is that uh um it stands out as a synolytic because it's the it's the it's the the the mechanism and the dosing profile. So PCC1 can selectively enter cells and act on the mitochondria outer membrane uh triggering a burst of RS in cells. they're already under high stress uh uh high o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oxidative stress and scinsesscent cells are right at that critical threat right so this extra RS push cost them to collapse whereas in normal cells the RS increase is too small to do harm so most classical synolytics such as datetin plus uh preetine or ficitin uh works by uh inhibiting pro-survival pathway and enzymes that are uh present in both normal and sinos cells. Cinosin cells just express them at higher levels, right? And that makes those control tricky. You often need like gram level doses before you get meaningful selective uh clearance of scinesscent cells. So by contrast, PCC1 works at microgram to milligram scales and still shows strong selectivity for scinesscent cells. This is particularly variable because uh uh scinesscent and non-cinent cells within the same organ are highly uh hetrogen hetrogen hetrogenous >> yeah hro hetrogenous sorry pronunciation yeah a compound that can sense that difference right uh like pcc1 uh has a big practical advantage >> gotcha so it's made of uh this grape seed extract you mentioned and uh you also said that it's not really found in uh like foods or it's like very rarely found in food. >> Yeah. Uh is it in grape seed extract? Uh we we we have seen that the highest um we have found uh basically we we have bought like the most of the grape seed extract market and um we have tested out the papers coming out and um we have seen that the highest uh potency is about like 0.5 to 1%. And uh so there's a lot of noise in the in the compound in in in the in the in the ingredient that means that and also with the poor bioavailability um that means that it's not going to work. So what we have done is the we we we help the technology to to purify this to to a to a much higher level and adding in the absorption technology to to make you have the the right dosage. >> Gotcha. So how do you make it then? You are just extract it from u >> Yeah. So our technology starts from uh natural mixtures like such as like green tea and cocoa extract and then use the uh and and and and also grape grape seed extract as well and then use like multistep uh purification and separation to enrich the PCC1 to a much higher uh purity. In simple terms, um, we take what nature gives us and distill out the PCC1 fraction so it can be used in more controlled standardized way for health and longevity applications. >> Mhm. Gotcha. Um, what about the sciness? What is your opinion of scinesscent cells? So you mentioned that um the headlines about 150 are a bit overexaggerated with this particular single ingredient. Um but uh scinesscent cells are yeah thought to be one uh contributor to aging or more like even like a outcome of aging. So more the effect of aging. Um so what is your opinion of what's the potential of yeah longevity if uh we target cells inessence for humans? >> It's a great question. So, so this um what we are sure of is that um accumulation of scinesscent cells uh in theory is that uh it will cause like uh neurody uh uh age related diseases. So um not to talk about not not only talking about like extending lifespan but um extending the health span alone has a huge value uh has a huge value for clearing out sin cells and um the current approach in in our uh in the industry which is like um there are a lot of synthetic companies and and and and developing medicine or drugs that targets like diseases which I think is um is not the way our longevity field is should be aiming, right? Like like we we should aim for preventative medicine instead of like um when when you have like irreversible uh um or disease that you use this kind of like the the technique which is the clearing out cells to to to try to reverse the damage. So that is my view for for for this. We I think that he it has a much um much bigger value in the preventative uh medicine field instead of like the uh reversing the the damage from from diseases. >> Yeah. So you think that uh senolytics or clearing out the scinessence cells would be more preventive uh >> y >> more in a preventive health uh approach rather than uh treatment. >> Uh >> uh I would say it will work on treating some disease as well. I'm not I'm not I'm not like uh having that idea out but uh I'm not u but I think that uh preventative is more valuable than treating. Yeah. Mhm. Gotcha. Yeah. Um interesting. And a lot of these uh chronic diseases have a higher burden of sin cells if I'm not mistaken. So um >> it might you know it might be that the association that just being sick increases the amount of sinoscent cells. Um do you think the ciness cells are causally linked there so that they actually causing uh or contributing to uh these age related diseases like dementia and diabetes or kidney disease? Um that's a great question like I think in this field that is what we want to find out right >> yeah and and the mechanism of like the the the is still not yet um completely mapped. So but I think that it would should certainly that's a great help because um uh scinsesscent cells are actually doing damage in that area uh wherever the the the that the uh the disease is located. So I would say that's why we we have seen that in in in some of the studies like it has like reversed some of the symptoms uh in in animal uh it has uh and also it helped with like chemotherapy uh by reducing yeah like applying synolytic uh with with chemotherapy it it also reduces the the tumor size by like around like some of them around 30 to 50%. But um in human that is something that we are not sure of but uh I would say that it will certainly help. Yes. >> Mhm. Gotcha. Yeah. There's interesting like recently or a few weeks ago there was also this study on the bowhead whales which uh can live to the age of 250. And uh >> they discovered that one of the reasons why they're able to live so long is because bowhead whales have this in very powerful DNA repair mechanisms that um so yeah like let's say scinsesscent cells are scinsesscent cells are natural responses for the hlick limit and to prevent the cells from turning cancerous. So they are useful in that sense that we don't you know is it better to have a scinesscent cell and age than to get cancer and die young. So uh it has its kind of evolutionary reason we develop scinesscent cells and the these bowhead whales rather than cells turning scinesscent they actually have a very powerful DNA repair that uh is one of the reasons probably they live so long. I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices which are the bond charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longevity influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bone Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most therapidis don't have the right wavelengths of light which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bon charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to buncharge.com and use the code seam sim for a 15% discount. You also mentioned that you have a kind of a different delivery mechanism. So you developed this um way for PCC to be more bioavailable and uh also safer. So can you like elaborate like what makes why is it what how did you develop that and how does it differ from like regular analytics? >> Yes. So we we we mainly improve the oil viab vi availability that is how much PCC1 actually get into the body after you swallow. Right. the detailed distribution of PCC-1 across different organ is still under active study. uh this and uh so we don't know the optimal PC1 concentration for for scinesscent cells uh for for for each organ because they act differently but um uh where the the the dosage of the PCC1 is relatively really low and uh it does not because the mechanism is um it only targets the the RS s for the high RS for scinesscent cells. So it's different from like the the fiscetine or or or or quizine. Um that has uh I would say it's um it has um much bigger safety profile because the uh the the selectivity of the the scinesscent cells and and and and normal cells. So so this part is the what what makes it different. uh and uh the absorption is through um because the dosage of the uh of the PCC1 right now is um in in mice is around like um uh 20 to 40 migram per kilo uh in in in in mice. So it uh in and um uh >> and using the standardized uh body service area scaling uh that translates up roughly 120 to 250 milligram per day as a synolytic dose uh for 50 to 75 kilogram adults and um but but one one more thing that I should mention is that uh because uh you you asked for like if has other effect not only the uh synetic actually um uh because you were mentioning like DNA repair and and and and things. So I was I was thinking maybe like at the uh if if you if you're saying the uh if it's targeting like other hallmarks of aging actually like it has a it has much uh it has like I think seven to eight hallmarks uh but the the primary one is the celliness and the chronic information because in in lower dose it acts as the cenomorphic Um so the cenomorphic dose for human is still under refined and uh our current estimate is around like 25 to 30 milligram per day and um so we conducted the the internal testing in in collaboration for uh with the clinics to find that the daily intake of 150 milligram of PCC1 shows uh some effectiveness but not particularly significant. uh so it it was merely comparable to an enhanced version of quitine. So due to its uh strong hydrophilicity uh PCC1 has very poor uh gastrointestinal uh tolerance in human. So making it ne necessary necessary to improve its delivery efficacy. So we've spent like over a year developing a new formula to uh make it suitable for oral administration in human and further refinements to the formulation will still be needed in the future. >> Yeah. >> I don't know if I answer you um clear clearly. So if I've not then maybe you can uh >> Yeah. Um >> what what what's the difference with So he has like different effects at different doses. What's the difference between the xenolytic and synenomorphic effects? >> Yes. So um around like uh 50 in in in in the in vitro um so uh around 50 micro molar uh PCC1 mainly suppresses the SCSP. So this is like the cenomorphic range and around like 100 to uh 200 microar uh PCC1 started to act as a synolytic which is selectively killing scenes cells but uh in mice model the as I mentioned is around like 20 to 40 mig per uh per uh kilogram so um I would say that it's still like under active study like like uh and also like refining the dosage for for optimal use for synolytic and synomorphic. So this is the current progress. >> Gotcha. You've done some studies on mice. So what have you found from there? >> Uh we have done study on mice and and and not only mice and also on human uh with mice. Uh we have find that very interestingly. Um so I was um we I I would say we started this um uh percent C1 like PCC1 study uh since the u the nature metabolism study. I don't know you have read that um which is the in in 2021 showing that the um presiding C1 has the um um uh the effects of extending my lifespan uh by 9.4%. 4% and also in in the in in in the remaining lifespan is about like 64.2%. So that was the the originally identified through the joint work through the Chinese uh academy of science and Mayo Clinic and later followup mechanism study were carried out by Chinese longevity researchers. So I would say even today the mechanism of PCC1 is not completely M right and uh the current evidence suggests that the uh PCC1 interact with membrane protein ones and um so uh um in in in our study we we have find we have we have also replicate some of the some of the the part that the previous uh my study has done uh which is the um clearing scinesscent cells. But at first glance, we have saw that um right after taking the PCC1 the hair growth and also some of the hair uh has became I would say um like the mice looked much younger like like right after like two to four weeks I think around like I think I think four weeks. Four weeks. Yes. So >> we seen a a rapid hair growth like between the control and and the PCC1 treated mice and that was the first glance and and we thought wow this is like something really different and also the the hair became how how would I say this like a bit more shiny and also like you can tell that you from the hair itself it looks much more youthful. So that that was the first glance and and and and after that we have done like uh different studies on on mice showing that uh not only in cell but also we have we have tested out on on the scinessence tissues to show that uh it has a decrease in the cell uh the the the scinessence beta galacetate galactosetate or or something. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Did I did I pronounce that right? Uh I think so. Yeah. Um >> so we have se we have seen that it has a dedu uh deduction in this markets in in in the in the tissue level and also not only that we have also tested out the uh comparing like the uh a lot of different the uh anti-aging ingredients in the market for skin tissues in in animal uh to show that um uh PCC1 has the the strongest and the only one that has the the the the the uh uh significant significant effect on decreasing the scinesscent cells in skin tissues. So, so this is the the the animal study that we have done and after that we have done the bioavailability study uh in in in in mice model and um so it shows that our current formulation has a much much better uh uh absorption rate um which is the current current um so which has increased three-fold. So the current absorption rate for the the P the pure PCC one right now is about like 3 to 5%. And uh so imagine like if you have like a low concentration product and uh and also with that there's a lot of different compound within the ingredient that means that that the a lot of noise might interrupt with the absorption itself. And not only that the without the absor absorption technology then you only get like 3 to 5% then the optimal do that then it's really hard to achieve the optimal dose. >> Yeah. >> And yeah so that's the animal study >> right so you uh it has like a 3 to 5% absorption. How much is it with >> how much is it with like other regular synthetics like fisetin or coretin? Uh I was uh it's around uh it's I remember it's around like one to one to 3%. Like even lower >> that's why you like you need like a much bigger dose. >> So and and um and uh if anyone is taking like other synolytic I recommend that you you always look for like the liposomaal or or like uh or or like a liposomaal uh uh uh version of it. I would say this is better than than the uh the without the technology. >> Yeah. So and in the most study 9.4% increase in lifespan. So I mean it's not like a huge amount but it's still u quite a lot. So let's say 10% increase in lifespan. That's you know for humans that would be like around seven eight maybe 10 years. >> Yeah. Yeah. So that is the um because I I would say that they have tested out on age mice and um the um that is the they have converted the remaining lifespan into the total lifespan because the remaining lifespan has increased about like 64.2%. So that is impressive for like age model. we have compared that to like other study uh that has uh that also uses the uh age mice model and that is the I would say I will I will rank that as top three uh for age model and but not only that there's a there's a study in 2007 by a Japanese team I can send you the research later it's very very interesting to show that the person family as in like they have they have they have done the study for like two two two to something years and they have started taking the the proanadine amino acid like the derivative of procanodine um since young since since birth and uh it shows that uh without taking it uh in two years time all the control died and the ones that takes it has 80% survival rate 85% survival rate >> and they have stopped the study because it has been done for too long like two two something years and there's like I can show I I can send you the study later it's very interesting and this is something that we are we are also developing which is the derative and we have already found that uh in some presing uh uh molecules because we we we do have a we we have our own like molec uh uh synolytic uh and cenomorphic compound library to to test them out on different models. Um we we have also found we have also found that in some formulation and also with the the the derative it has a even better effect than PCC1 itself. So right now what we are doing is that uh we are testing them out and also the study is going to be complete next year. um I would say within one year time but right now we are doing a comparison uh between like this um uh uh formulation with like rapamy and and other and and others like EKG and others. Yeah. >> Gotcha. Yeah. Um so it extended lifespan more in older mice. So this would be that uh in older individuals uh older um animals the benefits are greater because uh you have a higher burden of the scinesscent cells at older age whereas if you're young you're you know less you're gaining less benefits because you don't have that many scinesscent cells yet if that's correct. Um yes yes yes. But the interesting part for for the the presiding derative is that they have the con the the the mice has taken them since birth but still extended the lifespan by 85 the survival rate of 85%. In two years time into comparing the control. So we this is still under study. So we don't know the the final conclusion yet and um but in theory it is the uh for for older people it's going to be much more effective because the burden is is clear >> right yeah um so but you know I guess the risk here is that you know cine cells have some benefits so they help to you know protect against cancer and uh so with younger and they support wound healing so like do younger individuals. Um, you know, I guess the risk is that if you clear out all the sin cells when you're young, then you might, you know, increase the risk of cancer or something like that down the line or what do you think about that? Um with this um this is I would say this is a crucial point because several existing um synalytics can also unintentionally kill immune cells and impair like immune surveillance that if that's what you mean right so which may increase the cancer risk for example like recent work in the oral science and heostatic uh medicine show that the data plus combination can actually uh promote skin u papilloma progress progression in mice by eliminating like sin cells but also weakening local uh immune surveillance but so far PCC1 appears to behave much different very different so the current data suggests that PCC1 not only does not compromise uh immune surveillance it may also have direct anti-tumor effects So a recent like uh MPJ aging like the single cell study found that PCC1 can remodel the hemat poetic uh immune system. So it inhibits the the NF uh ex NF XB and MAPK signaling in macrofasages. So promoting the TH1 polarization and strengthening uh strengthens the uh uh anti-tumor responses without broadly suppressing immunity. uh and in parallel the uh uh nature uh communication paper showed that the PCC1 can reverse aging driving im uh micro environment remodeling and suppress tumor um metastas metast >> metastasis. Yeah, >> metastasis. Yes. in a um melanoma uh uh model by rebalancing T17 neutral field DT uh CD8 T- cell as assets. So mechanistically PCC1 is uh clearly multi-target and quite complex but the overall picture is that it kills cells and supports anti-tumor immunity at the same time. So that is the conclusion that the summary that we have right now. >> Do you have like any human studies planned or have you done them already? >> Yeah. Yeah, we we have done it. Uh so for the the human study we we together we we partnered with clinic and we have run a small uh pilot study in in older adults like after just 3 days of oral PCC1. Um we observe the reductions in several scinessence and inflammatory markers in blood cells like such as P21 uh sess uh SA beta galacetate and uh SAS factors such as IO6, IO8, VGF and um uh uh and and uh we have observed like some individual case for TNF alpha. we we have seen the the markets has dropped for around like 40 to 50% within three days and and then we have done and and the measurement was uh so so the whole protocol was uh um first you measure your baseline right and after that you take three days of pores and on the fifth day since the first uh measurement which is two days after you taken the the PCC1 uh we have we have done another measurement to see that in in the the the markets I mentioned um it has around 50% on average drop for uh 50 to 86 years old um and um so with you I guess um you could be you have a a slice as slightly drop as well but I'm not sure how because you are so healthy. >> Yeah. >> Right. So, uh the the the people you tested it on were 50 to 80 years old. >> Yeah. 86. >> Okay. 86. Okay. So, they have Yeah. significantly more scinesscent cells due to aging and up to 40 to 50% reduction in some of the markers. You you said >> that's right in SAS and some of them even go to the rate to go to like 80% deduction >> uh for SASB um such as like IO6 or IO8 >> gotcha. >> Yeah. Mhm. But but I would say but but the thing is um even with the even the dosing and the and the and the frequency of dosing is this part is still uh uncertain because it's very different uh for individuals and some of them they are much older they are much more burden some of them even had cancer or potentially they have much higher level of uh and uh uh scinessence and um they also So the they they also the the the markets also recover from the scinesscent uh from the cinematic. That means that for example within one month's time or some of them like within two to three weeks time they would recover from from a low range to a much higher range and then they would need to like so that means that they they they still have that burden in them and um this is something that we are we are still uh studying. >> Mhm. Gotcha. Yeah. Yeah. with with the cyics the research so far with other synolytics like queretin and ficetin and stuff is u you know there's evidence in animals but the human evidence is kind of limited that uh we don't have yeah like a protocol of okay how much should you take how frequently should you do it um you know is it once a month is it every day is it every other week or something like that so uh right now it's kind of the people are doing their own protocols based on based on their own opinions and some of the available studies out there. So yeah, you know, >> I would definitely like to get, you know, before I would >> consider I guess using it or recommending it this analytics, uh, you know, I would need to see like, okay, what is the actual protocol that do you think there is an actual protocol or does it all depend on the person's age and their health status and those kind of things? I would say um it really depending on their uh the their their markets like like you should always measure right uh and that shows that how much burden that you have from the SASP >> and or so don't do like protocol just by watching some YouTube video and And because it might not work for you, right? And um um uh from from the the renowned scientist well which is passed away now like Judith Campesy uh Dr. subject to hempy said that um uh for older adults which is around like 2 weeks um but uh I would say always measure like if you for example right now what we're doing is that uh some of our clients and and and the the the patients they they are not patients that some of our clients they have been taking it they have been taking it for for for uh a month and Then they will rememeasure like after two weeks and then they will rememeasure after a month. then you will see that okay in two weeks time since the baseline I have recovered let's say they had 20 uh of IO6 in the beginning and then after they have taken it they have reduced like 70% which is like six which is in the normal range and but then within two weeks time it it has recovered from from six to like 16 which is almost to their to their baseline then they should consider maybe in two in in two weeks time they they should take it again. But but if they see that the the the increase of the of the the the inflammatory markers or the SOS has not increased that that much then they might consider to wait a bit because I would say as you mentioned and also that's what we know that cellular scinessence is a known progress but accumulation of the scinesscent cells is the biggest problem. Mhm. >> So we don't want to we don't want people to have that the the risk of the burden. Yeah. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. What what kind of markers then should people uh look at to assess their cell sales innocent burden? There are like some indirect markers but are there like more direct markers as well? Uh it's I would say it's very com complicated and um right now if and and also like scinesscent cells is in all the different organs right and um you will never be sure even with just blood test because you will get the scinesscent cells from the cell blood cell but if you for example it might have the more dist is more distributed with in other organs than we we might not know. But the only thing that but what we know right now is in in the blood cell what you can measure some of them are the SASP which is secreted by the scinesscent cells uh such as like the IO6 IO8 or TNF alpha uh and um and that is more indirect and and some of them like P21 E16 uh that is like the sessence market or the salva girl like sabida galacetate galacetate right and uh and but these are not commercially available like this is like not uh it's it's just something that we are working on and tackling to to to to bring like more affordable measurement to the to the to the field >> um >> and also is it has shown that even P21 sentences cell is different to P6 16. So this is like the the recent advancement in the last couple of months. So I would say this feels quite really new. We are still like learning and and finding out more. >> Yeah. >> Mhm. So one of the interesting things you mentioned were the effects on retina and the skin. So what what is like the role of these scinesscent cells in in eye health and skin health? So first of all, the skin data you're referring to did not come from our lab. It was done by an overseas group like like working on skin and anti-aging. We found that relatively small daily dose around like 2.5 to 5 milligram pc one combining with their formulation uh I think it's PQQ and and uh one more thing I forgot that had were enough to to improve like skin aging markets in in their model. So the but the and the pharmaccoinetic uh work suggests that PCC1 is absorbed and metabolized efficiently. Uh so um so this is like the the uh the study that um and and also their data I don't think that data is out yet right it's for for the for the skin aging uh we have done our own to show that uh it has a around I think around like 60% more effic uh more uh more efficient than like the other cinematic compounds and for the retina so yeah so in age retina uh PC1 has shown to reduce like multiple type of scinesscent cells and SSB factors like improve retinal uh structure and uh significantly enhance uh visual function so sometimes bring it that close to uh young level uh like young levels in in mice models. So the the single cell RNA uh sequencing of the PCC1 uh treated age retinas uh revealed uh strong anti-inflam inflammatory effects and reinforcement of the protective pathways including the modulation of the NF uh NFXB NFKB NFKB uh signaling in ocular tissues. uh together these data suggest PCC1 is not just prolonging life but also protecting uh high value organs like I at the functional level. Yeah. >> Gotcha. Yeah. So yeah needs to be done some more interesting research but um yeah so the you know scinesscent cells I think the one of the major causes of intrinsic skin aging are scinesscent cells based on the research that u uh ex UV radiation and sun exposure lead to the accumulation of more scinesscent cells in the skin and you know other things as well like smoking they create scinesscent cells in the skin which is why smoking also accelerates a skin aging for example. So yeah, that's kind of a you know potential it could be uh for skin anti-aging benefits as well. >> It it is and uh um very interestingly in the this is something that we're working on as well. Not only the the the PCC1 but uh the recent study in in China has advanced so much in the the the in the advanced treatment like Carti or gene therapy. We are also working with uh some some partners on on the a technology called synindo reverse which is the reprogramming of the sessin cells and and um and and the application is uh skin aging. So that means that uh in in future um we we we can uh if it goes well which currently we are still under like uh we're doing the the animal study. uh if it goes well, we will see that uh in future you might not have like missing cells in your skin anymore and that means that uh you you you you will stay young and then also the benefit of that is that it's very different from the the fillers or or like the injection for for collagen because uh >> right >> because the distribution of your collagen right is uh is how you originally distribute you we just trigger >> the gene for for for it's a cocktail for for for clearing up cell promoting the collagen production. That means that you would stay the same as how you look when you're young but not >> Gotcha. >> But not like an even distributed fillers. >> Mhm. Right. Well, I guess I think you probably would have the sciness in essence probably like target more the wrinkles but the you know with age you should have other structural changes with the face uh that aren't just like wrinkles. I think the scinessence cells would yeah help with like just the fine lines and the wrinkle side of things. Um but yeah I mean it's still a good start for people. >> Yeah. Yeah. And and also the the the but the current the the current problem is that uh a lot people uses injection for for the the the collagen and also for like the the uh HA like high hydro >> hydro. >> Yeah. Yeah. And uh and that is um like you see a lot of like the pillow pillow pillow face. It's quite scary. So we want to that and we want to create something that's different. >> So this so so this syn reverse is like using the micro RNA uh to directly reprogram the ciness cells back into the younger functional cells. Actually I would like to show you some photos. It's very interesting. what what else is like brewing in the Chinese longevity space because uh it's a bit a bit of a you know blackbox for a western uh audience >> but >> yeah what what else is like you know gene therapy there's a lot of talk about that that's also like uh quite popular in in there >> yeah so Chinese uh the China's longevity science has made like rapid uh progress in the last couple of years like one striking example is the uh naked mole rat. Is is that how you >> so which is which can live around like 40 years, right? >> And where similar size rodent like mice only live 3 to four years. So the recent work uh trace part of the naked mole rats longevity in uh to a modified version of a seag enzyme that enhance DNA repair instead of blocking them. When researchers introduced this naked mo rat seedats into fruit flies and mice, their lifespan and health span both increased. So another another landmark study from the Chinese Academy science shows showed that infusing age monkeys with gene edited human derived progenitor cells can drive systemic uh rejuvenation. So these universal progen progenitor cells appears appear able to function across species and could lay the groundwork for future off the shelf anti-aging cell therapy. So at the therapeutic strategy level one major direction is scinessence target therapy like scinessence simulic like PCC1 that clears like cenomorphic. So but both have uh but both have in limitation where there are many scinesscent cells aggressive like synenolyis can damage tissues right and cenomorphic reduce information but may also dampen immune surveillance if used indefinitely. So that newer concept of syn reverse that uses microRNA um that directly um reprogram the sinosin cell back to younger functional cell. So this is the so I would say the gene therapy and it's very close right now because it's it has already applied on monkey this on monkey so it's like one step away to human so this is something that uh we are where we at right now um >> gotcha yeah there was the monkey study in China where they engineered these stem cells Um, yeah, I guess >> well they didn't they didn't report on how long did they live or we don't know how long was because a monkeys live significantly longer than mice. So it's uh not something that uh we can just uh see very fast compared to mice. uh but uh yeah I think the the idea the technology is very interesting. Yeah. that you genetically engineer some stem cells or whatever other type of cells to have at least you know they measure these biological age scores which uh you know can be a bit you know inconclusive or we don't necessarily know what do they mean or there's no evidence that they would actually extend lifespan but you know the technology itself will you know certainly get better and it's something that will be needed to significantly u extend human lifespan and improve longevity. So um yeah even just you know regular analytics you know they can only take you so far uh to get you that the 150 and beyond we will need something uh more powerful probably more related to gene editing uh technologies. Yeah, I would say comprehensive right like you need like follow treatment >> but also the fundamental which is what we are doing right now >> like but hopefully like like we we can uh we can see I can I think we can see it in 10 20 years like this is this happening. >> Mhm. Yeah. Well hopefully >> uh well 10 years probably is a bit too early you know I think in 10 years we'll be able to uh you know let's say extend healthy healthier lifespan so that people will live healthily to to 80 plus and 90 plus but maybe in the next 25 years we'll uh see some more significant dent in uh in that actual lifespan. So beyond the beyond the maximum limit that's my my opinion >> also really depending on the person's like mindset like >> a lot would choose even though they know that this is healthy for them but they choose to do something else right that is >> that's that is like the it will only work on people that that that really that mindset that wants to be healthy and uh yeah follow follow the protocol. Mhm. What what are what what is the next steps with PCC? So, uh, and what is, yeah, what what's going to be like some of the future, I guess, uh, modalities? Is it going to stay as a supplement? Are you going to do something else with it with this technology? >> With PCC1, um, first of all, uh, our goal is to demote, uh, democratize longevity. So, not to create a niche prescription drug. And uh right now production cost is quite high for uh excuse me excuse me for PCC1 and so we are working on the process optimization. Our expectation is that we can uh significantly reduce the manufacturing cost over the next year or so which will help us move forward move toward a a product that an ordinary person and their pets can realistically afford. We do not we're not going to plan to position PCC1 as a conventional prescription medicine. Um instead we want to uh become like scientifically rounded biomarketdriven longevity supplement. On top of the the pure PCC1, we are already developing PC1 based longevity formulation that combines uh presiding presiding derivatives uh peptides and amino acids in age in age study. Uh this upgraded formula um already show like better performance than TC1 low. So lifespan data from this experiment uh should be complete next year and after that we will move to into like more extensive like safety testing and at the same time like as I mentioned um we want to move this um we want to democratize like longevity like we want to make it accessible but we noticed that the the importance of the awareness of measurement like measuring like even even a lot like health enthusiasts they might follow the protocol like do like having like good lifestyle good diets but they are not like then they are not they're not measuring enough and I would say that is because of the >> it's not it's not accessible in terms of like the cost of the convenience So that uh that's why we also develop like testing >> right >> we also develop testing which is and and and we open source them so this is like the testing that we have we're testing but we are not selling them yet we want everyone to be involved with a fraction of the cost but with PCC1 is just too expensive to make right now so that but in future we want this to be as as cheap as uh possible. So, everyone should be uh it should be accessible for everyone. >> Yeah, absolutely. Well, uh yeah, definitely looking forward to the future advancements and studies on PCC1 and other things that you're working on. So, um yeah, before I ask my last question, where can people learn more about you, your work or PCC1? Yes, our website longvio.com that is like the where where we put everything on. Um also even if you if you're a lab or researchers you can buy our compound library and you can do your own research. >> Um and and that is for the advancement of this field. And if you and and if you are a lab that wants to do like testing then you can you can uh we have open sourced the the methods. So you can you can actually you can we're not making money from the open source method. You can you can you can buy your own reagents and use the the machine that we mentioned and then you can you can do the testing for SAS >> for semicus >> that is for advancement of this field because it's just not as accessible as other markets right now. So we want to make it like to to to popularize this. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I I I would definitely like to test it. Yeah. The ciness markers myself. Um >> but it'sible like >> is it >> what >> is is it accessible like where you are? >> Well, I haven't found it I haven't found it myself. Um but I I can I can do it if I if I really wanted to. >> But how much is got this stack going to cost though? like because um I know that in some uh in in China that you you can and and I see that it's the cheapest in the in in in in the market like globally it's around like few hundred US dollar um and um per marker so it's very expensive right and and that's the cheapest >> um and um yeah so if you have find it let me know. >> Yeah. Sounds good. Um well, yeah, it's been a great talking with you. And my last question is, what's this once one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? >> Sorry. >> What's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you adopted sooner? >> Adapted sooner. >> Started doing sooner. H follow a routine like sleeping, waking up, eating and then stick with it. Don't break it. And uh I would say that is like the the thing that I because it because I I I've done it. Um because because others other other lifestyle the the uh the for for uh I would say I don't know like sleeping and others I I adapt already like in the past few years um meditation exercise of course and but but I would say sometimes it's not like a a routine like for example um like you have like people that ask you out at night time to eat or something but then it's not within the that time range. I would say that uh it's better for you to stick with right >> and uh that's for me for me. I think that uh if you stick with something then then it's it's it's going to work much better for you. >> Uh >> but you need sacrifice. So, so that's that. >> Yeah, that's >> that's the thing. >> Yeah, >> right. Yeah, that definitely agree. The rhythms are >> quite your body runs on rhythms and works good in rhythms. Um Yeah. Well, it was a great to talk with you and yeah, thanks for coming to the podcast. Thank you. All right, that's it for this episode. Make sure you check out my new book, The Longevity Leap on Amazon. I'd also appreciate if you share this episode with a friend or family member. Other than that, my name is Seam. Stay tuned for the next episode.