HMBB is a supplement that's seen quite a lot of resurgence in popularity because it might help to build muscle and strength. However, there are some people saying that HMBB can actually replace exercise or that you need to exercise less while taking HMBB. In this video, I'm going to break down what does the research actually say about HMBB and whether or not you should supplement it. HMBB or beta hydroxy beta methylate is a byproduct of the amino acid leucine. Leucine is the key amino acid responsible for muscle protein synthesis that builds muscle. You need a specific amount of leucine, which for most people is 2.5 to three grams, to trigger muscle protein synthesis. However, the metabolism of leucine creates HMBB, which might also have effects on reducing protein breakdown. There is research that taking HMBB before exercise blunts the rise in muscle damage and protein breakdown from exercise, even in trained individuals. HMBB before resistance training appears to result in lower cortisol and higher testosterone after the training than placebo, which means the body experiences less wear and tear from exercise thanks to HMBB's anti catabolic effects. HMBB also stimulates muscle protein synthesis, which means you're more likely to be in a net positive anabolic state, resulting in more muscle. All of this would indicate that HMBB is amazing for muscle growth. You would build more muscle while taking HMBB, with all things being equal. But this is where things get a bit more controversial. In the early 2010s, there were several studies published by Dr. Wilson and colleagues that showed that supplementing HMBB resulted in greater increases in muscle mass and loss of fat mass compared to injecting testosterone. That's just bonkers. An over-the-counter supplement outperforming steroids. The results of these studies were taken with a lot of skepticism by the scientific lifting community. And nobody really thinks that HMBB is better than steroids. So, there was probably some sort of shenanigans going on with these studies. However, it doesn't mean that HMBB is useless or that it wouldn't help with muscle growth. Supplementing HMBB has been seen to increase muscle mass and strength in untrained and elderly people, but the effects are much smaller in already trained and advanced trainees. A 2020 meta analysis of 11 randomized control trials on 18 to 45 year olds saw that supplementing 3 g a day of HMBB didn't result in greater lean mass or strength compared to placebo. HMBB was seen to have some benefits in people eating less than 1.6 6 g per kilogram of protein, which is still more than what average people consume. What it means is that HMBB makes up for suboptimal protein intake because if you were on a high protein intake, you would get adequate amounts of HMBB from your diet. There is also an age related effect of HMBB with older individuals seeing greater benefits than younger individuals. A 2025 meta analysis of 21 randomized control trials on adults over the age of 50 saw significant improvements in muscle mass, strength, and gate speed from taking 3 grams a day of HMBB for at least 12 weeks. Doses below 3 g and shorter than 12 weeks were less effective. What's been consistently found is that HMBB supplementation reduces muscle wasting in older individuals. This makes HMBB a potential therapeutic option for sarcopenia and other conditions of frailty. With age, you see a decline in muscle mass and muscle strength starting in your mid-30s already. Let's be honest, most of this decline is because of disuse, not lifting weights. But it's also driven by aging. As you get older, your body becomes less sensitive to the muscle growth effects of eating protein. That's why a young person needs only 2.5 g of leucine to trigger muscle protein synthesis, but a person in their 80s might need twice that amount. Older people need more protein to maintain the same amount of muscle, not to mention build it. Supplementing HMBB is a way to achieve a more positive anabolic state. You trigger more protein synthesis than you break down. This can help you to maintain muscle on a lower protein intake. And for all the people who struggle to build muscle, it will also help to maintain that muscle. You should still lift weights and eat enough protein. But adding HMBB to the mix can help those who struggle with frailty or sarcopenia. I actually used H&M for several years myself and indeed notice some benefits. Now, you might wonder why? Because I'm not old. I don't have low muscle mass. I don't eat a low protein diet. So why did I take it? Well, I took it because I saw some of the studies and I thought it might help me to also build more muscle. However, my situation was a bit more special because I was also doing one meal a day intermittent fasting and I was taking HMBB in the morning in a fast state. Fasting is a state characterized by higher muscle protein breakdown and taking HMBB apparently reduces that resulting in a higher positive protein balance. So whenever I take HMBB, I do notice much better muscle retention and muscle growth because of that reason. probably if I were to eat three, four, five meals a day with protein, then I probably wouldn't see that effect. All right, let me give you a summary. Should you take HMBB? HMBB reduces muscle protein breakdown and has been seen to increase muscle mass and strength under specific conditions. Number one, you're eating a sub-optimal protein intake, which is less than 1.6 g per kilogram per day. Number two, you're experiencing muscle wasting due to some medical condition or just aging. Number three, you're a beginner to lifting weights. And number four, you're over the age of 50, especially over the age of 80. HMBB does reduce muscle breakdown and it can accelerate recovery even for trained individuals, but it's not going to result in significant gains if you eat high protein and you're lifting weights. The best time to take HMBB is either in a fast state or before exercise, and the optimal dose is 1.5 to 3 g a day. There are two types of HMBB, HMBB calcium and HMBB free acid. HMBB calcium has about 13% calcium. So 3 grams would provide 400 milligs of calcium which is a significant amount and it can be harmful for cardiovascular health. However, HMBB free acid is faster acting and it's cleared faster. So you should only take it before exercise whereas HMBB calcium can be taken in the fastest state without exercise. Overall I do think that HMBB is useful especially for the elderly people or those who are suffering from malnutrition frailty or psychopenia or maybe if you're doing some sort of extended inverted fasting. If you want to know the top 15 supplements that are most effective for health, then check out this video