Gentlemen, good to see you both. So, first question to you, Jurgen. I'm going to start with you. Why does longevity matter to you and why should it matter to our audience? >> Um, yeah, sure. So, um I believe longevity for me at least is not about uh living forever, but to maximize my healthy lifespan in order to be able to um see my grandchildren grow up, um eventually play with them, you know, do sports with them, play football with them. And um I think that reason should apply to everyone here. Um I believe it's nowadays it's quite easy to achieve that. Um there are a lot of lowhanging foods out there everyone could um could could work on so to say. Um you just have to sleep well. You just get a healthy diet in um work out and yeah that's a huge leverage we have right now and I would um tell everyone to start with that and see how quickly your body actually um develops. >> Brilliant. and and use them. What does longevity mean to you? >> Yeah, I got interested in longevity as a preventive health tool because uh my grandfather died to colon cancer when he was 36 years old uh way before before I was born even. So I didn't want to um get some sort of a chronic disease early in life myself uh either. So I wanted to you know go beyond just fitness which I was into before that and I wanted to take uh more preventive health approach. I also studied uh anthropology at the time and um anthropology is uh a field that is uh covering you know many aspects human culture uh archaeology evolution you know pretty much everything about humans and all different types of humanitarian fields and as an anthropologist um I was interested in I guess uh the future of the human species you know obviously the past these interesting but the future can be even more exciting and uh longevity is something that is just a very scientifically hard problem to solve. So obviously weight loss and you know diabetes etc. they're relatively simple diseases in the sense that we know what causes them. We know how to reverse them. Um, obviously the practical application isn't always easy, but life extension, reversing aging, making people live decades longer is a very hard problem uh to solve. So, I wanted to dig deep into that as well as a scientific uh problem of okay, how do you actually fix it? How do you achieve it? and also what are the other ethical implications and societal implications that follow if we ever were to quote unquote fix aging or make people live decades longer. I just want to ask a a question to the audience. Who here is here because of something that happened to their health or the health of a loved one? >> Okay. Interesting. Very interesting. I really want to ask a question that that goes into we all think about living long as you know the the diet the exercise the this and that but actually preventing early onset is also an important thing you when given that you're working um you've got your clinic like how far is technology going now to prevent the to to better detect early onset of let's say cancer. >> Yeah. Um so technology is um advancing quite quickly um at least at least in our clinic we are already using AI um to detect um skin cancer for example. Uh we even have a retina scan that can detect um heart risks and so on and so forth. The real problem I see is that it's still uh very fragmented and we haven't quite yet gotten into into a phase where it's um being introduced all together. Um and as soon as we are um capable of doing that um we will see major breakthroughs. Sim I notice you're not wearing any wearables. You've got a gold ring. As someone who is, you know, one of the leading biohackers in Europe, how do you measure yourself? >> Measure. >> Measure. Just measure. >> And and and also just do you go to a clinic? Do you get measured? Do you do you do early early onset like MRI scans or anything like that? >> Yeah, I do, you know, comprehensive health tracking for myself. I track blood work. I track my bone density vot. I take MRI you know not not very frequently but occasionally. So I do u comprehensive health tracking for myself for the major risk factors and the major chronic diseases. Uh I don't do a lot of a daily tracking. So I don't track my sleep regularly. I don't track my blood sugar you know regularly because I I think or at least I just find it not necessary. is mostly like a convenience thing. So you know you have to charge the ring, you sometimes forget to charge the ring and then it uh just collects zero data etc. So I don't find it useful for me to track it all the time because my regular routine or lifestyle hasn't changed that much. So I'm not expecting any u you know big fluctuations in my sleep quality or sleep duration or HRV or things of that. You know I you know I did have like a eat sleep mattress before and this one just you tracked it all the time. You don't have to charge it so it's always on. So that one you know I could have found more useful because of uh I didn't have to charge it but the ring is I just yeah forget to charge it sometimes. >> Fair enough. Moving on to you know on my podcast we talk to a lot of the leading scientists, academics, entrepreneurs in the cell and gene therapy space. This is the kind of stuff that is going to move the needle like crazy. It's also something that needs a lot of uh research and it's going to take us quite a lot of time there. Uh as an example, uh I had Liz Parish on the podcast that talked about gene therapy. She she was one of the first people to take gene therapy for anti-aging purposes and how she felt after taking it was pretty remarkable. If you if you look at her again, there's only been, I think, 350 people that have taken gene therapy for anti-aging purposes. In terms of stem cells, in terms of tissue repair, in terms of all these advanced therapeutics, are there any that you are particularly excited about? Jurgen? >> Um well there is um quite a lot in clinical um use already. I know you know we can um for example um repair skin. Yeah, we um see um companies who uh kind of lab grow skin and uh use that. But um this is yeah all about um repairing really. What we don't see yet is um to actually grow proper organs and um I believe that's probably going to take at least another decade or so. Um but that's going to be the major breakthrough in my point of view. >> So you think replacement is actually going to take over from repair? And I think for anyone who doesn't know, replacement is the idea that, you know, eventually the most extreme version of that is whole body replacement. And so you're basically taking your brain and plugging on it. It's incredibly extreme. There's a lot of people, you know, including pretty much everyone here that I'm sure will raise the ethical concerns around that. Sim, what do you think of that? >> The whole body replacement, anything, >> repair, replacement, all of it. Yeah. Well, I think they're all something that So, you know, when it comes to life extension, then um exercising and taking some supplements, they're not going to make you live to 150 or 200. You will need to do something that is more dramatic and more powerful, such as gene editing. So, you turn on some longevity genes, you turn off bad genes. um you you need to do some sort of damage repair that you reduce the physical damage on your body and uh you know rejuvenation as well. So you probably need to do a lot of things combined. Um interesting there was a recent study that became popular online with monkeys in China where they genetically engineered some human stem cells and those monkeys had a reduction in their biological age scores. You know, that's kind of a first step that probably will be one of the initial, I guess, therapies available in the next few decades. Some form of gene editing, minor gene editing that we know generally will have positive longevity effects in comb combination with things like stem cells or exosomes. But again, these things are still even u not powerful enough to uh make humans live um exponentially longer. But it's a kind of first step that we have to take. But yeah, in the most extreme example, in hundreds of years, you know, we'll be able to grow cultured organs, you'll be able to replace them and um I guess then you're going to reach problems think about like the hard problem of consciousness. >> So, okay, if you replace every cell in your body, but you only have your brain left, is this are you still going to be you? Because you know people think that okay my consciousness is in my brain but that's not really the case. We don't know where the conscious your consciousness is. We don't really know what creates your consciousness. Is it the combination of is it like an emerging phenomenon and is it uh something located in your some specific organ or something like that. So we don't know the answer to that. So then uh the issue is okay if you replace every organ, replace every cell, you're you're like a robot with your human brain, are you still you or are you going to be something else and will you remember your past memories? >> Will you remember your current human form in that uh form? >> It's a very interesting point. Um just a quick audience check. Who here I'm going to go up in numbers. Who here is happy to live until they're 70? You want to put your hand up? What about 80, 90, 100? Actually, keep your hand up. 110, 120, forever. Okay, we got a few people. What about guys? Would you want to What? What? What year? What year would you like to pass? Well, I I always So, I I don't you know, maybe 100 would be good. like a good idea for me is to live across three centuries. So I was born 1993. Uh so I would like to live until the age of 10 106 at least. So I'll be living in 20th century, 21st and 22nd. >> Um but I don't have any like hard goal like in my head the actual kind of fun thing to do would be that uh you stay alive until you figure out immortality. you able to choose to be immortal but then you choose to die >> because because there's nothing like um virtuous in dying because no one has a choice right everyone will die at least based on the current status quo like every one of us will die so there's nothing virtuous about it but if you had the choice the option to die then that could be a virtuous thing because you're voluntarily dying right >> so I would like first like to reach immortality and then choose to die >> it's such an interesting point Because when we ask the question, a lot of people will say, "Yeah, I'm happy to die at 80." Ask that to someone who's 79. To say, we had Mem Khan from Evolution on on the podcast and he said that people want to feel independent in themselves and then financially independent. If they've still got that, they're h happy to live longer as well. But it's an interesting conundrum, right? Because we also have Maslo's hierarchy of needs. Many people are dealing with other stuff. They're not dealing about like I want to live forever because they're dealing with other stuff. I'm not saying that I personally want to live forever, but it's it's a question that I think is something that only a very few people can actually think about because other people are dealing with just all the challenges and issues of life in terms of what people come to you at their clinic for like what are the key kind of problem areas and how do you help them and also how do you see your clinic evolving over the next decade or so with new technologies? Um yeah so um most um most people coming to our clinic um they are actually looking for guidance. You know you have um all these ideas out there um almost every week there are new studies um telling you this is the new thing this is the new thing do this do this and they are they're getting lost in it. So um they um first and foremost are looking for guidance and they want to um establish a baseline on um on their health really and uh we do that running our very deep diagnostics and then it's quite interesting uh what we see. So all the evidence all the science all the data alone doesn't doesn't really um change u behavior of our clients. They need someone to trust our doctors and our coaches and then they need guidance. And the most important thing we found is uh simplicity. So um you can I don't know take 1,000 uh data points but if you're not able to translate them into three or four or five clear action points and a path uh you lose the people. >> Um so yeah, what's years going to be like in a few years? Um um we will be focusing much more um on the part after um after the baseline diagnostic on the guidance um part to actually help people change behavior for good. >> I love that. Do you think the sort of technologies that you're developing and the idea of these kind of longevity clinics will be soon made available to a larger part of the population? >> Yeah. uh me many factors that uh weigh into that one. Um I always believe kind of into the uh Tesla principle. So uh at the beginning every new innovation, any new idea is only available for a few. Um but if we um kind of um put the revenue we are generating by the few people into R&D into scaling um at some point it will be available um for more people if of course politics um help us achieve it. you know, at least in Germany, reimbursement of um of these things is uh quite a big factor and obviously we need politics to um to play along. >> Very interesting. What do you think, Sim? >> Well, it would be financially a good idea for governments to try to make people healthier. So the average life expectancy is increasing in developed countries but um you know the worst case scenario is that people live longer and you know for lack of a better word they they're on more burden on the health care system as well for longer. >> So it's not about just you know making people live longer it's about actually making them healthier so that uh they would uh have higher quality of life later in life and higher life expectancy or the health span as well. So, so that would reduce, you know, the healthare costs and um that also just makes people happier as well to stay alive for longer because a lot of the reasons why people say I don't want to live to the age of 100 is because you know if you're 100 years old you you can't move, you can't do anything. So people uh associate the age 100 with these bad outcomes and the worst quality of life. But the you know the best case scenario is that you are 100 but you're physically as functional as someone who is 50 years old or 40 years old for example. That's what in the government let's say government level and the societal level the initial focus will be probably on just reducing the burden of chronic diseases so that you reduce the health care costs and uh that people would just have a higher quality of life, a higher health span for longer as well. And then maybe later they might pivot more towards actual life extension. But obviously that's not the first priority. Yeah. The most valuable person to society is a healthy 65 to 70y old because they have basically acquired 45 50 years whatever of of lived experience. And so you really need healthy people into their 70s. Now, as we get more more of aging populations, especially when you think about East Asian countries that are really suffering with low fertility rates. All right, let's have a bit of fun. The big moonshots that are going to completely shift the needle forward in this space. I'm thinking embryo selection, gene editing, crazy stem cells, whole body replacement, etc. What are you guys most excited about? >> Jurgen, what can I expect if I if I were to go to your clinic in 15 years time? >> What would be that thing? >> Yeah. So uh what we are um working on uh with our clinic is to understand aging and age uh related diseases because as of now we don't really know in many cases um eg not external factors why we actually age and in order to do so you um need to build um longitudinal data sets of multiomics and um once we achieve that um we will be able to detect risk um ages before they actually um appear. So um I believe that's not so far away anymore maybe 10 to 15 years but that will be the major breakthrough in my point of view. So it give us an example of that like paint a picture would that mean that let's say me as someone who is x age x ethnicity x this and that you've got my wearable data you've got you know that in 2 years and 3 months time I am likely to get x disease >> exactly >> at that granular level. >> Yes. Exactly. >> Wow. And how how far do you think that's that's away from happening? um depends on uh how many um other companies are trying to tackle um this uh problem. If you just take us for example, we are 10 years 10 to 12 years out. >> Okay, awesome. And Tim, what are you most excited about? A moonshot that you think is going to really move the needle forward in the next 10 15 years. >> Well, I think you know gene editing is something that will be one of the more bigger breakthroughs. So the reason why some people live very long like 115 20 years etc is because they have very favorable genetics that u lower their risk of these chronic diseases and also slow down their speed of biological aging. So if you were to figure out okay what are these cluster of genes you know some of them we already know about. So like okay everyone will get this uh that uh that for example APOE4 we already have very established data that APOE4 genotype or genotype is associated with a higher risk of Alzheimer's and heart disease and vice versa those with a AP apoE2 alil have significantly lower rates of Alzheimer's and also greater longevity overall. So there's multiple benefits for APOE2 alles. Now maybe you could do some form of gene therapy for to everyone gets APOE2 for example and now the APOE4 has some evolutionary reason why it exists right uh mostly in the past there was you know other uh environmental risks that made that phenotype or genotype more advantageous but in the modern world we kind of have a different environment and we also would require like a different set of genes So those are like very lowhanging fruit in my opinion like FOXO3, IGF-1, APOE4 and APOE2. A few other genes that we already know are associated with greater longevity in humans. So maybe like a handful of genes like five five six of them uh theoretically could also be already done for gene therapy. Right? Obviously right now they don't exist yet. Right now the only gene therapies are something the related to like polaratin which is a muscle growth gene and um you know the evidence for their effectiveness is still very limited. So it's you know hard to know if it actually does work or not but uh let's say in the next I wouldn't say 10 15 years but maybe 20 years probably we'll have some let's say gene gene therapies that have a bit more evidence but even then I don't think it will become like just readily available that everyone can just get it you will still have you have to be a slightly earlier adopter in that case right now I would definitely not do some gene therapy to go to some sort of um you know private island and get 30k of injection and not knowing if it actually works. So right now it definitely has very limited evidence but hopefully in the next 10 to 20 years and we might have something >> very interesting. I just want to ask a question to everyone here put your hands up or not. You know that feeling when you're 20 years old and you go out, you're at college, university, you go, you have a few drinks, lots of drinks, and then you wake up the next morning and and you feel okay and you can carry on with the rest of your day. I'm sure a lot of you miss that feeling, right? I'm not sure how many of you still drink. Would you take a gene therapy if it would allow you to have that same sort of recovery time that you used to have as a 20-year-old? Do you want to put your hands up if you would actually take that gene therapy? And who would not take that gene therapy? I don't know if we can get a mic for people to maybe say why they wouldn't take it, but maybe you can shout it out why why you wouldn't take the gene therapy. >> You can just give your mic. >> Oh yeah, >> I think it's a bit extra to uh go through that process just to get that out of it. Uh I would be interested interested in it for uh other uh opportunities. Yeah, >> I was just giving a a an example that people could relate to. But yeah, of course. Of course. Anyone else why they wouldn't take it over here? >> For the first alcohol is a poison. I know that. But if I had to drink, I could be well the next day because I know how to do it. I >> I I did I I'm sorry. I was just using an example. I think the question really is, would you take gene therapy? >> No. >> Okay. Okay. Great. Okay. Um, onward to a crystal ball question. Imagine it's 2040. What does the life of a 70-year-old look like? And I'm going to give an example of something that Aaron Duza, who's the founder of the enhanced games, gave me. He believes that in 15 years time there will be 60 year olds, 65 year olds, 70 year olds even that can run as fast as Usain Bolt. >> I know it's a crazy example, but guys, over to you. What will the average 70-year-old look like in 15 years time or potentially could look like? >> Yeah, I'm a bit more conservative on that one. Um but I'm sure that um 70 70 year old people uh by 240 will be as healthy as 50 45 to 50 people right now. Definitely >> same right um but yeah like someone who would be 17 20 40 they would be 55 right now so let's say I don't know Joe Rogan I think he's 55 uh in 2040 I mean he's obviously still going to depends you know if he there's a difference obviously between plastic surgery and actual biological age reheversal someone could just take plastic surgery and look like 30 or 40 years old but >> well they feel like inside >> yeah they be able to I do think that so initially in the first you know let's say a few decades the idea the the main so the idea behind the longevity escape velocity isn't that okay in 2040 we're immediately mortal it's about you're catching this kind of a wave that okay you when you're healthy in 2040 the actual breakthroughs will come in let's say60 or 2075. So if you're healthy in 2040, you're going to reach the benefits of these initial bene breakthrough technology that okay, maybe eliminate cancer or eliminate Alzheimer's for example. So you have an additional few decades where you could stay alive hypothetically until the age of 90 when we will actually make these massive breakthroughs like gene therapies that will turn you into like a 20-year-old. So in the next 15 years at 2040, you're just going to probably potentially halt the speed of aging that okay, Joe Rogan is still going to be as fit and healthy as he is right now. So he's not degenerating for the next 15 years, but he's maintaining it what he currently has. He's probably not going to reverse himself back to a 40 year old, but he's pos possibly staying within the range of 55 to 60 rather than an actual 70-year-old or 80-year-old. Yeah, there's this idea of longevity escape velocity, this idea of reaching biological or physical immortality and Aubry Deg Grrey and some people talk about that and Aubry Deg Grrey thinks it will happen in the late 2030s and that basically means you can start reversing your age, which is crazy. you know, 15 years potentially out from immortality, which sounds very scary and there's going to be obviously a lot of ethical question raised by that. If there's one piece of advice you guys could give to everyone in the audience to take an important step in their longevity journey today, what would it be? Sim I think um you know getting a good baseline of your health. So understanding your health uh risks currently. So you know do you have diabetes or do you have low bone density? Do you have some you know god forbid like you know some cancer or something like that? So just being aware of your current health status. Are you you know in what kind of a health state are you? Are you in a very poor metabolic health? Are you in very good metabolic health? are you in a risk of future heart disease in 20 years because of your poor lipids or poor blood pressure etc. Just being aware of that will be um very important to know okay so let's say the goal is I need to need to stay healthy until 20 240 will I reach it will I reach 2040 or uh will my risk of these chronic diseases increase exponentially before that >> brilliant yeah exactly the same test your biomarkers uh establish your um health baseline um see see understand your weaknesses, find some uh suitable interventions and then get retested and see if your interventions actually worked. If they worked well, move on. If not, find some different intervention until uh your risks lower. We're in a room full of lots of different ideas and concepts and hyperaric chambers and liver tests and everything, right? Without mentioning said companies out there, what would you say is the most overhyped product or thing in the longevity space right now? >> Um, yeah, I think there are quite a few supplements out there which are uh completely useless. >> Okay. Anyone in particular? >> I leave it like that. >> Sim. >> Yeah. Do you think uh a few supplements can be overrated? You know, things like uh reservatrol or spermine or or some of those enammen are, you know, they do have some effects, but um they're not going to make you immortal. >> Yeah, it's crazy how much people uh how much longevity supplement companies sell NMN. It's uh it's crazy. In terms of most underrated out there, what would it be? Um yeah, again unfortunately uh the basics, sleep, healthy diet, and working out every now and then. That's the biggest leverage we have. And since it's so easy for everyone to get, I believe um it's boring and thus underrated. >> I would say maybe sonas, you know, are a bit underrated. So that um they have a lot of cardiovascular benefits and u benefits on Alzheimer's risk and uh blood pressure etc. So you know beyond just the basics up regular sauna practice can be quite useful. >> Brilliant. We'll see you at the sauna later then. Do we have any questions from the audience before we round up about the future of longevity for panelists? Any questions? We've got a question over here. If we can get a mic to the lady over here. And if you want to just address the question to someone or to the whole panel and say your name as well. >> Hi. Oh. Um, so you talked a lot about the things that we can do physically. Um but are you also taking into consideration the emotions like for example repressed emotions and that impact on for example autoimmune diseases and cancer risk and stuff like that. Um I didn't hear any mention of it which is why I would be like super curious to hear if >> that is something you also consider. >> So I'm I'm going to take that first of all because mindset um how we build abundant resilient optimistic mindsets is like so core to everything uh my journey. It's been like a very long journey of healing and so um we didn't talk about it on this panel but I think for me and I again psychedelics and plant medicine are not you can't prescribe them in this country so I've got to be careful of what I say but I see there's just such promising research especially if people are doing the work beforehand like I I believe again you you're so right that we didn't mention that it just didn't happen to be in the question so we've had a lot of panels today on on psychological abuse and emotions but I think it's going to be a core tenant and I think it's the the unforgotten part of longevity. You can't have obsession with V2 max without really finding meaning and purpose in life. Actually, people optimists live 15% longer than people are not optimists. Actually, your I think the two greatest um indicators of long life are do you have purpose in your life and how strong are your social connections and your community as well. So for me like I again uh that is the most important part of longevity for me and it's a part if if do check out my Instagram I talk about mindset pretty much only and and and stay away from the longevity stuff because I think it's it's the unforgotten part of the longevity movement for sure. Guys, do you have anything else to add to that? >> Um yeah, completely agree with you. I uh believe that positive mindset, emotions, um a strong community and smiling, laughing, being easy is uh a very very uh strong leverage on uh living healthy. Yeah. >> Yeah. Well, I think it's a kind of prerequisite that um if uh so like to live long if you want to live longer, then you're probably enjoying it, right? So you know if you if you don't enjoy your life then you probably don't want to live longer. So it's there research that good mental health and uh positive emotions might be even causal in uh longevity. But yeah I think it's more like a prerequisite as well that if you don't enjoy your life then you're probably not even going to do the healthy things that will make you live longer. Just two things on that actually that I I mentioned it beforehand, but there was a a beautiful picture on meme with um Brian Johnson and next to him an 85year-old Italian man and it was this Italian man drinks wine, he eats gelato and smokes cigarettes a day and he's going to live longer than Brian Johnson does everything. And it's again it's a kind of jokey meme, but when you eat the like the Mediterranean diet, um you have community, you laugh, you enjoy life, you also live longer as well. So, do you have any other questions before we wrap up? I know we're just one more question here. >> Hi, I'm just curious about your um opinion about mushrooms both with and without psilocybin. >> Nice. Do you want to start Sim? >> Um yeah. So, the recent study on psilocybin saw that it did extend lifespan in um worms if I'm not mistaken. So um you know there might be some evidence for that as well in the future for humans but uh right now it's more yeah like in the trauma space and mental health uh field. So um it's hard to say what would uh the implications for like actual like hard life extension uh be. It probably has to do with certain like anti-inflammatory properties in u these mushrooms. So you probably might not need the absilocybin per se. It might have you can achieve probably like some similar effects with other mushroom medicinal mushrooms that don't necessarily have that. But um yeah, I think the psilocybin is more I say useful in uh yeah like the um PTSD kind of area. >> So I just want to say something about that because I had again I talk about my podcast a lot. I had Christian Angar on the podcast. He's the leading biotech psychedelics in investor and entrepreneur out there at i life sciences and they they're really the trailblazers in this space and we are coming to this insane time in the human story where AI and there's so many changes that are going to happen and the one thing that really is the mind killer no doubt is fear and he really believes that psychedelics will be the antidote to that and again he's making money from it but I will speak anecdotally as someone that's gone on a number of plant medicine journeys that and again this is anecdotal I did it in a in a legal setting in a legal country but the transformation on my immune system on my emotional health on dealing with not just trauma from my life but preverbal trauma and if you believe it in generational trauma has been incredible and I am a huge advocate of it caveatting that the work has to be done beforehand and that is just my anecdotal um spiel but again that's not a recommendation That's just how it's affected me. And I'm so looking forward to more research coming out there and more people expressing how it's transformed their lives. And again, it it's there's a huge caveat there. This is not an invitation for people to go out there. There is definitely a journey that needs to happen. And um more than happy to have a conversation with anyone about it. Uh yeah, anything else to add on that? You're going to get >> sums it up. Brilliant. And it's just hit zero. Thank you so much all of you for joining this panel. Please do give these guys a massive advocation for