What if I told you your heart has an age and you can make it younger? An aging heart becomes stiffer, pumps less efficiently, and loses its ability to respond to stress. Your max heart rate drops, stroke volume decreases, and the blood vessels stiffen. But here's the exciting part. Scientists have discovered a workout that can make your heart up to 20 years younger. It sounds too good to be true, but it's true. A 2018 randomized control trial took 60 healthy, sedentary, middle-aged people in their 50s, and they were randomly assigned to either two years of structured exercise training or a control group that was getting non-cardiovascular exercise such as yoga, stretching, balance, and flexibility. Those who exercised saw significant improvements in their V2 max, their fitness, and overall heart functioning. Their left ventricular chamber stiffness reduced by about 29% and myioardial stiffness decreased by about 20% from baseline whereas the control group saw no reduction and theirs even increased slightly. The reduction in left ventricular chamber stiffness corresponds to a 20-year reversal in the structure of the heart. They reverted back to the stiffness of a 35year-old which was 20 years younger than their chronological age of mid-50s. While it's just one marker, it's quite impressive. And if I was in my 50s, I would definitely want to get a heart of a 35year-old. So what was their workout? For the first one to two months, they just acclimated to working out and they did three times 30 minutes steadystate cardio per week at 60 to 75% of their max heart rate. During months 3 to 10, they introduced [clears throat] highintensity interval training, specifically the 4x4 Norwegian protocol. four times four minutes at 90 to 95% max heart rate, three minutes of active recovery between the intervals, and one to two sessions per week. By month six, their weekly workout plan looked like this. Two times interval sessions, the 4x4 hit, one time long base sessions over 60 minutes at the lower intensity, one moderate base session of 30 minutes, two strength training sessions targeting core and whole body, and one recovery/walking day. Months 11 to 24, they maintained their training load and reduced HIT to one session per week. However, they continued aerobic training and resistance training. That's a pretty solid workout, and I think that everyone can do it. Those who exercised saw an 18% increase in their V2 max from 29 ml per kilogram per minute to 34.4. Their aerobic capacity and overall fitness improved significantly. Whereas the control group who did no cardiovascular exercise saw slight age related decline in their V2 max from 29.5 to 28.7 and their fitness decreased. An increase in V2 max by 18% isn't that significant especially after 2 years of training and especially given the fact that their baseline where they started from was already quite low but they definitely improved their fitness. It might be that because they were already in their 50s, their body just couldn't increase their V2 max any further because their V2 max plateaued already in the middle of the study. However, they also just plan to maintain their fitness after the first year. And they did decrease the frequency of high-intensity interval training. What it means is that the longer you wait to increase your V2X, the harder it becomes and the less gains you can expect. If you start doing V2AX training in your 60s, 70s or 80s, then you'll get far fewer results than someone who started doing it in their 30s. Their left ventricular end diastolic volume index which reflects the functioning of the left ventricular of the heart increased by 7.1 ml per square meter whereas the control group saw a decrease of 1.0. So the exercise group saw much better heart functioning. The resting heart rate also dropped by 4 to six beats per minute. They saw other improvements in their heart functioning as well. Effective arterial elastins reduced from 2.37 to 2.16 which means their heart had to work less hard. Arterial compliance increased from 1.07 to 1.29 which reflects the elasticity of the arteries. Stroke volume improved and plasma volume and hemoglobin also improved. So overall their heart functioning improved significantly whereas the control group who did just stretching and just mobility exercises experienced aging of the heart. Their heart health got worse. So what's the magic source here? The key component is near maximum exercise such as the 4x4 Norwegian protocol. It doesn't necessarily have to be that specific protocol, but the key component is taking your heart rate close to its maximum. That's the reason the people who did stretching and mobility didn't experience any benefits. They never raise their heart rate to close to its maximum. It means that to reverse your cardiac age, you need to be doing some form of high-intensity interval training. The Norwegian protocol utilizes 4 minutes at your absolute near peak heart rate, which depends on your age. A standard method to calculate your max heart rate is to subtract your age from 220. I'm 31, so my max heart rate based on my age would be 189. For me, the 90 to 95% of max heart rate is 170 to 179 beats per minute. The older you are, the lower your estimated max heart rate is going to be because of aging. But if you're fitter, then your max heart rate can also be higher than expected for your chronological age. It's essentially use it or lose it. If you don't take your heart rate close to its maximum every once in a while, then your max heart rate is just going to decrease and it means that your heart functioning is getting worse. The reason this HIT protocol reversed cardiac structure is because the hemodynamic load and mechanical stress from a hard beating heart stretches the left ventricular walls. It makes the heart work more efficiently and restructures it making the heart less stiff. The authors of the study saw that the heart maintains its ability to reverse the stiffness up until the age of 65. After the age of 65, the collagen cross-linking becomes more permanent and it becomes harder to reverse the cardiac stiffness. So, the younger you start, the better it is. Now, the MVP of this study was the 4x4 Norwegian protocol, but arguably other forms of high-intensity interval training can be equally as effective. It's just that this 4x4 protocol is very commonly known and is also brutally effective. You have to keep doing intervals longer than 2 minutes in my opinion as this has been shown to be superior for increasing V2 max compared to short intervals of just 30 seconds. So long intervals at least 2 to 4 minutes are the best ones that can restructure your heart to a more youthful state. However, this study also utilized low inensity base training to improve overall aerobic fitness. This can be called zone 2 training at a lower intensity. Zone 2 probably had less of a role in restructuring the heart and lowering cardiac age, but it's still important for building a solid aerobic base. So, you should do both forms of training. Introducing zone 2 and hit cardio to my workouts improved my own health and fitness tremendously, making me go from top 20% to top 1% of health. Check out my video about all the other things I did for this.