Practicing being old helps you become old. That if you just wake up one day and say, "Why can't I lift this amount of weights? Why can't I go out and run this mile? Why am I not as viral in bed?" All of the things that come with aging, it'll probably kill you. The quality of your relationships is not by defined by the length of their time. Quality of your life is not defined by the length of it. It's it's what you do with it in the moment you're in it. >> Chris, welcome back to the show. >> Long time no see. Yeah, we had our first podcast in 2018, I think, which uh is yeah, seven years ago. And uh many people might not be aware of you because my channel has grown a lot since that time. So, uh maybe you can introduce yourself as you know, many people call you the the most connected man on earth. >> Yeah. So, my name is Chris Angie. Um I got a chance to go back and listen to the show. Um we'll talk about that in a minute. Um, I am known as the world's most connected person. In 2008, I was turning 40 years old and I was having a lot of health issues. I was about uh, oh my gosh, I don't know in kilos. I used to be able to do this really fast, but I was over 320 US lbs. And then maybe you can do the kilos while I'm doing the rest of it. I smoked a couple packs of cigarettes a day. I'd been on anti-depressants at that point for 22 years and benzoazipines. Um, I drank too much. I used a lot of recreational drugs. A lot of crazy stuff. But I was doing great at work. And I thought to myself, um, gosh, I'm 40. It's going to soon be 2010. What does the world look like in the future? And then I made this crazy assumption that in the future, there were no screens, no keyboards, and everything just reacted to you. So I started writing little recursive programs that when I touched my computer or I was on my phone, I was doing anything in my life, if I was connected to the internet, having that write an entry into a uh a Google calendar. And from 2008 to 2011, this Google calendar collected thousands and thousands and thousands of uh little data points like if I were to go someplace or eat something cuz I was logging food at that point, things like that. Um, and it really remarkably changed my life. And by 2012, so 4 years into it, I had completely changed my my friend group, my my my physicality, my mind. Um, and then I was at a conference, someone sitting behind me saw my calendar automatically creating entries, and it was a writer from a magazine called Wired, which is a big tech magazine. Um, it's really big in the '9s and 2000s. I think they're still around. I don't know. Um, I'm sure they are. I just don't read a lot of magazines. And that was it. I mean, a story came out and then a week later I was on TV and then a week later I was on the cover of Business Week or that was like 6 months later and then around the world for TED talks and then I got a book deal to write a book back in 2016 called Don't Unplug. Did a couple TV shows literally toured the world multiple times about talking about my journey. And then I met you and uh well I think I was actually over in the Nordics doing a road show in >> and then um yeah and then of course the pandemic happened and I didn't travel as much but I just kind of took those skills and moved them into other areas to apply toward population. So that's it kind of in a nutshell. >> Um lot good visuals. I give good Google if you just put in most connected. >> Yeah. Um yeah. Yeah. So your your uh I guess main transformation or not transformation but your tool was using technology to um essentially hack your time and hack your health with different self-conques and tools. So um yeah, how did you use technology to lose weight and get healthier? Because you know I'd say a lot of people just use technology to counter calories or track their weight or track their sleep or something like that. But you took it a bit um beyond that and you had a lot more I guess more detailed approach uh with that. >> Well, yeah. I mean, you know, just just tracking calories, uh you're you're going to lose anywhere from 40 to 60% more weight than not tracking calories. That's just that's just there's studies after studies after studies just writing down what you eat if you even want to track the calories, you know. But for me, it was more of a holistic approach of looking at all the ways this data could feed back into my life. You know, I had a um Is it okay if I share something with you? >> Yeah, of course. >> Let me see if I can just bring this up for you. I don't know if it'll work. We'll try it. Um but like if you just take my calendar from that time, right? So, this is like 2012 or 13. I can't remember which day this one's from. What I was doing was I was color coding the entry. So it wasn't that you know logging my food obviously that would help me be more aware of it in a lot of ways just seeing the calories and macronutrients etc but how it related to other behaviors. So you know there was always specific people or places I was hanging out when I was more prone to eat poorly. It wasn't just going to a fast food restaurant. So that was allowed me to really take the next step which was saying what would it take to create that kind of the conditions around if I wanted to eat poorly or I didn't want to eat poorly. So simple things like if I really wanted fast food I had to actually I couldn't run at that point but I had to walk or run to get it. If I wanted uh something not so bad, you know, but still not very healthy, I could take my bike. But if I wanted something absolutely delicious, I could drive to it. Um and then just, you know, to be honest, I mean, some of the people I hang out with, they only ate certain ways, right? So, you don't see that, you know, cuz you think you're just hanging out with friends. So, for me, it was really about seeing how a life comes together, if that makes sense. Um, but then like really dumb things like just simple hack routines or and I have a lot of this nowadays. It's just embedded in everything, but like if I was on my computer and I was in a conference call long before they were really normal, but they were still web, you know, we we're doing Skype back then, you know, wasn't this um and I spoke loud, you know, just a sensor on my desk. I've got still got one to this day. They're just a lot smaller, you know. um would dim the lights naturally if I started talking too loud or too fast. So, you know, I think a lot can be said about my story about using technology, but it was really about self-awareness. It was taking everything that was in my life and making it a mirror. Um so, it wasn't just a piece of data. It was a piece of data that turned into a behavior. Does that make sense? >> Yeah. Gotcha. So you were using certain rules in your daily daily life to help with >> hundreds. >> If I I would geoence the bar. >> So I went to the bar and I was there past, you know, 15 minutes. I'd get a text message from myself at 1 hour. A text message that got sent to my bartender I knew who were out real well. >> You know, an hour after that, my my partner would get sent a text message. I mean, saying, "Go get me." Um, I geofenced the mall. I was I could Google Glass long before I had, you know, reg regular I have the Meta Glasses now, but and you know, it would tell me to slow down my spending cuz I my credit card was connected to my system and and if I kept spending it would just I would cut my own credit card off. It was I mean it was it was radically different. But I think again most people look at one part of their lives and I saw my life as a a collection of of feedback mechanisms in everything I did whether it was my car or my home or a Fitbit at that point you know. >> Mhm. with, you know, the greatest information really coming from how I how I spoke, you know, how I behaved and the ability to capture that, you know, we had it cuz you we had small cameras that I wore for a long time that photographed every few seconds. Um, and there were some uh wristbands called the capture that would capture what I was saying from time to time, but it was all high friction. I'd have to tap on it to start a session with it. Um, and of course all that's, you know, today you can just you can just wear a pendant, you know, that just captures everything you say all day long, you know. So it's it's so much simpler now to do what I did. But >> I was early. >> Yeah. You were kind of living in the future with uh with uh what what we would now nowadays consider archaic technology or you know less advanced technology and in the future in the next 20 30 50 years is going to be even more obsolete. uh in comparison. So yeah, in the future we will have a lot of you know tracking tracking devices that track your heartbeat, track your uh energy expenditure, track your um your mood, uh body temperature, all those things. Um and they give you direct feedback about your biology. >> Yeah, in real time that's going to happen in the future. But you were doing it already with uh the available means in >> Yeah. I mean if you go back to 200 I know almost 20 years ago. >> Yeah. >> Gotcha. Um >> and today today it's you know and the other great thing I mean obviously with the rise of you know semantic AI um having all having almost 20 years worth of data about my life that can be queried in real time is a tremendous advantage. Mhm. >> You know, it's uh I've been able to nowadays do things as provocative as allow my my spouse to talk or query me. How would I answer something? You know, I've I've long maintained that, you know, death of your physical body is just just that it's your essence and what you left to how you behaved is still around, right? it's in the people that you grew up with or the way that they changed because they knew you. And I just think, you know, a more disembodied set of ways to speak is something that's completely usable. >> We call it Bearbot. So, it's it's kind of neat. and I've, you know, and I've cloned my my video cell. So, a lot of times, uh, if I'm asked to do a like a commercial for an event I'm going to speak at or something, I'll just have, you know, the AI me say it and they don't know. >> Yeah. Yeah. What are some of the things that uh you find most useful nowadays? let's say one of the best tools or so certain of these routines or cues that make life easier or make your health tracking easier. I don't think there's a whole I mean the hard part is nowadays a lot of the tools have become kind of ecosystems onto themselves right you know so back if you go 2010 2011 2012 when you know we had really simple tracking tools like a Fitbit or like that capture I was talking about their APIs were open so you could really connect them to other things through Zappy or if super simply um nowadays the ecosystems are a lot more closed than they ever were so I think it's harder you know to get information out of my my phone and into the system I use now. You know, it's a whole thing where it has to run this routine at night and pull it out of the health system and then send it over to my system. It it's not hard. The good news is with things like vibe coding and you know uh super simple SAS databases like an air table or something, you can create these routines, these really robust routines that I used to do with just a little bit of coding experience. And now with you know tools like Zeite uh or it's fill out is the company but the their web tool Z it'll create whole backends for you. So if you say hey create a backend that can house this type of data uh pull these sources for this data every so often and then give me a web interface for it. I mean it's just amazing. >> Gotcha. Do you have any any um favorite prompts or something like that for let's say even something simple as a Jet GBD that people can use? Oh, I mean there's so many. Um, well, I mean, for me, I mean, you know, I have a very custom system now that runs I'll I'll pull it up real quick that runs a large majority of my life, but all the different I would, you know, prompts and what have you are just kind of basically embedded in it. Let me see if I can find a copy. There it is. There's one. So, it's going to be I'll make it smaller so it's easier to see. Um, but yeah, so it it it pulls out, you know, what I'm saying throughout the day, little journal entries, grabs a lot of biometrics. At the end of the day, it'll grab all this, grab spending for my credit card. Uh, if I've got places I'm scheduled to go, I'll just go back a few days. This will be easier. Um, it automatically summarizes my feelings uh three times a day and gives me a rating. Um, this is where all the biometric stuff goes. Like I said, the places if I interact with specific people that I have a bad experience with, they get tagged there what I got done. Uh well, you know, people can make you upset. Um >> uh and then uh pictures I favorite automatically get uh thrown in here and at the beginning of each day, it kind of gives me an overview based on my entire life on what I should be thinking about that day. Think of it as kind of like a wakeup coach. Uh, and at the end of the day, it kind of looks at that day and then aligns it to like the places I really should be focusing on more. So, in this case, this day, I literally didn't get out and get any exercise at all and I ate way too much. Um, so I like it. Uh, it it but you know, for me, like last time we talked, we talked about hacking time. It's always been about like looking at my time in the larger larger context. So, I have a magical AI sub routine and a lot of the prompts that are in here >> have to reference my entire life, right? So, I've got this coach thing like you saw that earlier that just goes through and shows me like that morning's coach. Um, but then I have a whole magical so and it, you know, it'll create affirmations based on my life that it sends me throughout the day. So, it'll text me this and say, "Hey, don't forget this is really important to you." Kind of like a a super high level of what I was doing before. >> Um, uh, but the magic is kind of cool. So, I actually taught it to do tarot. So, it'll go through and do tarot based on that day. Uh, and then give me a little tarot reading. Um, it's going to sound funny, but I mean, that's really fun. And then I built an entire uh deity sub routine. So, basically, if I want to summon a god from, you know, basically any of the world's great religions and pray to it, it pulls in the day information and then the prompt automatically inserts the summoning and then you can just ask the god a question. So, tell me how my interview is going so far. Uh, talking about my quonified life and then it'll go ahead and you'll see that it'll actually send up, you know, please summon Bridget, you know, the Celtic goddess associated with fire and sun. It'll then do the summonsing and then she'll appear and then it'll go ahead and and Bridget, whatever god I have will go ahead and answer me. Yeah. So it's listening through that pendant that you have that you're saying and collects the information and the AI is creating those feedback about it. >> Yeah. So I mean it's it's come a long way from where I first started. I mean the fact that I've got a pantheon uh and it's doing tarot for me and you know it controls the house you know like my entire house is also connected but instead of being connected to me like it used to be now it syncs to the seasons. So throughout the year, the lights, the sounds, we've got smells and things just slowly move to the next one. >> It's a It's wild. >> Yeah. What What is that dependent pendant call if people want >> Limitless AI? >> Limitless AI. Okay. >> Yeah. I think the website is Limitless.AI. Don't quote me, but if you Google Limitless Pendant, it'll come right up. >> Gotcha. >> Yeah. The hardware is one thing because there's also just a PC piece that'll just sit on your PC and listen to you. >> Um, and they've got the whole service around that. It'll read your calendar, but then they've got the hardware that you It's not always in front of your PC, obviously. >> Yeah. Yeah. It feels like we're entering um some sort of a technology renaissance that uh let's say the years 2000 to 2020 were kind of the dark ages of technology where we were exposed to mostly the negative side effects of technology and social media etc. But now with AI becoming more advanced, these technologies and tracking devices becoming more advanced, slowly we're able to again, you know, not only improve our environment, like you said, you have a house that automatically changes according to the seasons to be, you know, let's say more attuned to your natural biology. >> Exactly. >> The light, even the circadian rhythm is like automatically changing the the light, >> right? And what we also do because the the type of light throughout the year changes. I mean, you know, this where you're from, right? So, it looks a lot different the sun, the midday sun in summer versus the midday sun uh in winter. So, yeah. I mean, it's >> it's remarkable. I mean, I still can't get over how far we've come, you know, I'm almost 60 years old, so thinking that how different the world is going to be in just 5 years when it's 2030. I I don't think people are ready. I I really don't. >> Yeah. When do you think we'll have a you know like a Jarvis like an actual AI Jarvis in our maybe not a phone but a watch or a necklace or whatever thing I mean I mean I've said this since 2015 I can't imagine a lot of people are are using smartphones like they use them now within 5 years I can't imagine smartphones being >> like something that everyday people would want to use uh considering you know everything that's happening with insertables and wearables, >> you know, I why would you, you know, >> just considering like between my watch, my pendant, and my glasses, >> you know, I've got a whole ecosystem of data biology and behavior collection algorithms that are running that just 10 years ago would look like I was from the future. So >> again, if if you had something even smaller, you know, to your point or Jarvis or something that could coach you throughout the day and actually act on your behalf more agentic >> agentic toward you like, "Hey, can I help you with that?" Or, "Hey, you might consider this." I mean, how is that not 2 years from now from being, you know, pretty normal uh within 3 to four years being like, "Oh, a lot of people are using it." And within five it's just you I don't know. I I used to say if you're using a cell phone in 2030, you didn't make the cut. Um, but we'll see. >> Yeah. Well, of course, there's people who are not willing to adopt new technologies and there's people who will adopt them. So, I think the, you know, let's say the gap between the two will be increasing exponentially as well that as the technology becomes more advanced. I would even struggle with that if you really think about it because I mean if you look at life in America right now a lot of a lot of Americans you know for as polarized and divided and awkward as our country has become are are have adopted new technology. It's not that they didn't. >> They're it but it's more like the the technology adopted them. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. >> And I think that's really the big difference in 2030. It's not who didn't use the technology, it's who's being used by it. You know, the same thing we've been saying for the longest time about social media and things. I still can't believe we're still having that conversation. Here where I live in New York, they just banned cell phones in school. Are are phones allowed in schools where you are? >> I haven't paid attention. Uh >> yeah, >> but um I I would you know, you obviously can't use them during class, but you can still use them in the in the recess. Yeah, I I think it's a it's just I'm just I was I was asked to go speak at a school a couple weeks ago in Buffalo, New York, and and the whole state has just banned cell phones, and one of the parents said, "You know, you're very connected and blah blah blah. What do you what do you think about this?" I said, "I think it's a great idea. If it were 201, but I think in 2025, taking away cell phone from a child in 10th grade is a is abuse >> that they don't know how to function without it, >> right? So, it's going to be interesting to see what happens. >> Yeah. With things like that. >> I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices, which are the Bond Charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longevity influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bone Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most REA therapy devices don't have the right wavelengths of light which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bon Charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to bontcharge.com and use the code seam sim for a 15% discount. Obviously there's going to be like implants and uh in some countries you can already have a implant for you know bank transactions or key cards etc. Um and you know I think two years ago or something like that there was the first human patient who got the neural link. Um when do you think something like that will become more widespread adopted? >> I still think obviously implants I mean I' I'm AI'm a big fan of Sweden. I spent half the year in Sweden. Uh most of the 2010s. Um I still think things like Neurolinker are probably a little bit further out from mainstream. Uh yeah, obviously you'll have biohackers. You know, you've got, you know, your famous cyborgs that have have, you know, I uh like Neil Habersonson has had like an implant in his head forever, right? Sensing colors. Um uh but I I I just I can't imagine that becoming what I call pedestrian like you know would just go to the Apple store for an implant. I just don't see that sort of thing happening. Um >> yeah I well not in my lifetime. >> Good. >> Yeah >> I going to be medical grade for a really long time. I think there will be some people who are very specialized in their particular line of work, scientists or quants who will need that just because of the the degradation in the ability to communicate when they can >> is is so much slowed down with typing or speaking that having a link directly to it would make a lot more sense for some jobs. But I again I think that's going to be highly specialized and probably 20 40 at the soonest. >> Yeah. something like uh special forces operations or some policemen or um surgeons those things will probably you know you can they can I I mean I mean maybe we don't need implants if we got very good glasses or spectacles so that uh the glass a lot of a lot of a lot of brain activity is sent through electrical impulses in your arm if you remember the myo band I had one for a long time it can sense what you would do with your hand the Apple Watch does the same thing now so again I I still think and the eye movement is a big trigger for what's going on in your brain. Um, I still think we're we'll have a lot more low friction ways of getting neurological feedback into the environment before we chipped. Uh, we we haven't even scratched the surface yet of what we can do without >> Yeah. >> the old screws in the head. >> Yeah. Um, one thing we discussed last time was uh hacking time and uh I find it actually very interesting because time is obviously you know the the most I would say precious resource we have that uh essentially how long we live is a is a representation of time of how long we've been alive and how long we will be expected to live and uh time perception can also change or you can vary a between individuals. Sometimes time goes by very fast. Sometimes it's slow and uh you know what we don't want is to just not only waste time obviously we we can waste time on social media and you know doing a lot of other stupid things but uh just we don't want to have the time go fast. We want to savor the good moments and uh enjoy our life and have time go slow when we're enjoying the time. And um I don't think we >> I hate I hate to interrupt you. I love the fact this is everything we were talking about in 2018, >> right? Yeah. So, you know, it's a good good to maybe uh recap as well that okay, how can we, you know, let's say extend our time that make time field go slower or not have time go that fast? Because one interesting insight of research I've seen is that time the subjective perception of time speeds up as we get older. So that in your 60s the years go by faster. It feels that it goes faster through various reasons like brain aging and you know you become more accustomed to your daily routines etc. But uh you know we don't want that. We don't want necessarily our time to go that fast. So what can we do here with with uh the help of technology? I mean obviously I mean this is you know I I always say to people who pay attention to my life with any bit of diligence not as a novelty because uh I think it's very easy to find me in my life is interesting or novel or you know I've had been I've had every uh superlative and adjective used about me but I think people with a more of a discerning eye will notice that you know literally between 2008 2015 was really about biohacking and hacking and understanding and changing my physicality. Uh but 15, you know, to 19, uh possibly even 20 was really about the time, you know, that's I was literally doing a time tour when I was last on your show. Um because to your point, I I felt that understanding your subjective your subjective experience of time is the most important thing you can do. You know, it's long before you hack anything out, you have to understand how you perceive the world around you through the lens of time. Uh your brain does it because circadian rhythm and circadian rhythm drives everything, right? So like if you don't really have, you know, obviously you can't talk to your circadian rhythm. You can through, you know, uh you can ambiently talk to it, but you can't like talk to your your super supermatic nucleus, the the thing that controls the the your brain and when it releases hormones. But after that I went through you know stage three or what I call it which is just more of the esoterica of of the data you like how do you do these things and create uh interesting things with it. You know one of the things I did when I was uh exploring your point about the subjective uh version of time was try to help people understand that the what they were doing with their technology changed their perception of time. Right. And a lot of people like what does that even mean? And I had this great little chart that I created at that point. And it was really about understanding, let me see if I can go ahead and share this kind of like a bunch of different apps that you would possibly come in contact with using a phone or using any type of technology and how they made your mind consider something. So temporary apps like, you know, where you get a uh a security code sent to you or Snapchat where things just disappear, you know, that live just forward in the in the ephemery of the future. they they have a very anxiety uh uh provoking part of their nature. You know, you just go a little further out into what I call the soon, right? You know, maps that tell you how far you are from something, how close you're getting, or reminders of appointments, also very anxietyprovoking. But if you go way out, you know, a little further in the future and you look at, you know, things like a Google listing, it will show you when something's busy. Not as anxietyprovoking because you can actually plan that. So there's a there's a part of your future that's very much in your control that we don't really think about because we just take it for granted because it's just past the anxietyprovoking part of the next three hours. Um and then you've got, you know, super far future, your death and what happens after that, how you deal with that. But your brain responds completely differently when you use technology referring to the recent, right? So that's kind of like the temporary from the future, but just in the past. And those are like when you use your phone to like look for an app and it shows you things you've recently used or the things it thinks you want to use based on patterns or a lot of apps will show you what you've done like you know hey on this day you did these five things or apps that like really sum up your whole life or like photographs and I think once you kind of get your head around that using apps in a very deliberate way to like you said earlier as you get older things seem to speed up. spending more time using things that slow apps, slow your brain down are super helpful for someone like me. I have a lot of countdown apps. So, you know, in the future, this is coming up, but why I love them is they also count show me how far things are in the past. So, I like watching things go away real slow that I was looking forward to in the future. Like maybe it's a concert this fall. Like it'll just count. I've got a bunch of them on my phone right now, right? But I've been doing countdowns and count ups for the longest time because I think they're so important for helping you get a hold of your brain and how your brain works. Um, but I love watching something I knew was far away in the future kind of come arrive and then slowly go and watch it get farther out. So this is just I can't really show that cuz the screen's not going to but you know it's >> like looking forward to my you know my 25,000 year 25,000 days is you know 4,000 days from now right? So like weird little esoteric kind of big things like that. You know, a big party at my h had at my house was, you know, 152 days ago on April 16th. You know, I just I love that. This makes sense what I mean by like changing how you look at time, >> but you have to do it every day because everything around you is programming you to live in this next few hours >> which will make you so anxious. >> Right? So looking at these okay um in five day or in in let's say 45 days I'm going to this travel or this trip whatever. So every day you see it okay 45 44 43 40 39 etc. looking at it every day slows down your perception. >> Slows it down, right? >> Because it seems like, oh my gosh, I was just planning, you know, people who plan trips like, "Oh, I was just planning this trip. Now we're on it. Oh my god, it was 2 years ago." Again, it's not that it came that fast or it was that long ago. You didn't pay attention to any of it happening. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And I did something for Spotify and I don't know what year it was. I was visiting spot Spotify's offices in Stockholm or one of their offices. I'm sure they got millions of those offices. Um, but I did something for them when they asked me about how they could help people with time. Um, where I basically took the two types of time. So, we live in chronological time, which is the what we all know days, weeks, hours, minutes. But before that, before we had clocks and calendars and we just kind of lived with, you know, the land, the sun, the seasons, we had this thing called they called a chyros time. But I went ahead and mapped all of their ability to manipulate someone's feelings of time in their interface for them uh when I was visiting their office once and they loved it because again how they recommend music to you is based a lot on behavior and mood and what you've been playing and and actually what they want to do with that is is what interface they express it in. >> So temporal interfaces are a big big big deal for me. >> Gotcha. Yeah. So time feels like it goes by faster if you're not paying attention. If you're uh lost um I guess yeah like distracted or not paying attention to the >> you could also be hyperfocused right so not paying attention time travels super fast but hyperfocus travels super fast too you know working on something that you're really in I mean you know you end up with a bladder infection because you needed to pee but you totally forgot because your whole biology was focused I mean every bit of energy >> yeah that's flow state right >> get so hung yeah flow 100% right there's no time in flow Um, but people like then people want that. I'm like, you know, I I love flow state. I love that feeling. But I think it's kind of like heroin. You have to have the smallest hits of it because >> flow is all very isolating for you when it comes to your ability to socialize. And we know if there's, you know, if the number one thing is, you know, uh, you know, your ability to understand and process time, number two will be your process people. >> Yeah. >> You know, biohackers are very lonely people. >> Yeah. Um what about meditation? So like I often feel that you know meditation does speed up time or it feels like it I don't know like it creates this weird state that you know if you're in a meditative state you seem to come out of it and uh you don't really remember what was going on that much or you know it's it's yeah like the time does in my experience feel like it goes by faster if you're meditating in like a really deep meditative state. Um but meditation in some ways can help you to also be more attentive in your everyday life. You become more mindful about things and if you slow down you become let's say mindful in the present moment. You know I'm currently standing. I can feel the the floor underneath my uh feet and you know I can sense certain things light sounds and if I become super attentive of that be become very mindful of that then it does slow down the the time. But if I were to be in a completely meditative state then uh it would go by faster. So what is there like some sweet spot of okay meditation is good in some situations uh do I need to be always mindful or Yeah. What is your thoughts? >> You know mindfulness is is a hard one because uh you know in 2014 I started meditating pretty heavy and doing isolation tanks. Um, and by 2015 I was doing, you know, 10day silent retreats. Um, by 2016 I was, you know, hardcore meditating a couple hours a day. Um, you know, first, you know, hands down, there's nothing more important you can do than have a relationship with your mind. So, meditating in any way that you feel, you know, there's a million ways to do it now. Well, there's a million apps, there's a million different, you know, mechanisms that'll help you do it. Um, but I will say, you know, I just want to put this out there because I I don't think I ever was clear enough about this. I do think there's a line you can cross with meditating where, you know, there's a there's a phrase in that we called the dark night of the soul. Are you familiar with this? >> Yeah. >> Where you get to a point where it can become almost terrifying to be as aware of awareness. Um, now there's a point past it, right? You can But a lot of people, I especially think today, people who don't meditate or have never meditated, it's not something you're just going to start and like, you know, I know a lot of people, but you have to be real careful because if you're used to being distracted, working with your mind can feel like an assault. Um, in the opposite way, giving someone your full attention can feel like an assault. I know for me when I work with the public or I'm I'm speaking to someone or I'm in a in a social environment where I have a lot of people interacting with me, I have to almost pretend to be distracted so they don't feel overwhelmed because if you give someone your full attention and you know what attention is, it feels uncomfortable to the receiver. Does that make sense to you? >> Mhm. It's like if you're being intimate with someone and you look in their eyes, you know that connection where your eyes just lock, >> you know, that's that's that's mindfulness, right? That's that's that's using the mindfulness and awareness of that moment. Um Yeah. Sorry if that's creepy. Yeah. Um what about daily routines? So um if you let's say so you know the one of the reasons u the time goes by faster is that your brain wants to preserve energy and you know your brain doesn't care about how fast time goes by you for you subjectively um so uh just you know let's say following the same routines every day eating the same things and following the same path to work walking the same roads etc you know I would imagine there is a lot of energy efficiency there so that you save a lot of energy and uh your brain you you become you pay less attention to the things that you do every day like you know most people have the same routines you know they're they walk the same route without even thinking about it they automatically do it so they're skipping steps in in terms of paying attention there so I I would imagine that does speed up time >> I mean is it's the law of energy conservation right so it doesn't really matter whether it's your body your brain everything is always trying to conserve energy you know >> um and 100% I mean Routine allows you to extend your life longer, right? But it also allows you to not pay attention to your life. So, you know, like everything, it's a fine balancing act, right? You pay too much attention to it, you can go crazy, but if you don't pay enough attention to it, it goes too fast. You know, for me, I I I personally feel like I've become really skilled at that balance of just aware enough to be with the moment uh and not so much uh that it overwhelms me. I think the hardest part about any type of journey, whether it's physically biohacking or spiritually biohacking or mentally biohacking, um, is just working with yourself enough that you don't go through people too fast, right? You know, there's not enough talk about, in my opinion, social, you know, sociality, like, you know, being social with others as it relates to at what point are you allowed to dispense with people, right? You know, a lot of people like, you know, I've got lifelong friends or I'm hear a lot, you know, people are so lonely and they can't find friends. And, you know, there's there's a real pathology about finding and keeping friends that we have as a species. Um, you know, as if it's some type of medal of honor to say, you know, I've got all these friends and I've had them forever. And the reality is that's not healthy and that's not true. you know, to find a good friend and be with someone that you admire and you respect for the briefest amount of time. Maybe it's an hour while you're sharing, you know, a bus station conversation. You know, some of the best friends I've ever had have been people who didn't last more than an hour at an airport when we were talking to each other, right? >> And I think that's important for people to know like the quality of your relationships is not by defined by the length of their time. The quality of your life is not defined by the length of it. It's what you do with it in the moment you're in it. you know, cuz listen, no one's going to remember your drama from last week, a week from now. Uh, and neither should you. And I wish we spent more time on like the richness of people comes from the immediiacy of what you do while you're with them, not with the, you know, if you and I were to define our relationship on our last podcast and what we did with our lives between now and then, you know, we'd be pretty shallow people. You know, the richness of this conversation is what defines us, >> right? Yeah. Are there any, I guess, you know, let's say little reminders or notifications you have in your toolbox to uh, you know, I guess change routines or or do you even think about it or do you just >> Oh, yeah. I mean, yeah. I mean, I've got a million little things. I've, you know, I've got, you know, shortcuts to text people to tell them I'm thinking about them. You know, some of the more provocative social uh hacks that I use for relationships are the people I'm closest to are blocked on all social media and have been since, you know, the last 15 years. My spouse and I have never seen each other online. Um I have no idea what my spouse does online. I no idea what music my spouse listens to, what friends, what conversation. I don't know. Um my closest friends, the people I've known uh for the longest time are not connected to me online. uh you know they they wanted to you know for the longest time but I said no. Um and then I also don't connect to people online. So I only connect ideas. Um so like I'll follow you know groups on Facebook or on LinkedIn. I'll only connect to someone in a business way if I've actually met them. It's just the way I am. And I think that while it sounds weird, what you'll find is again with technology, it's become way too easy to consume another person's life as if their content. Somewhere between 2012 and 2015, people disconnected social relationships uh and combined it with passive consumption. And social relationships require synchronous conversations like we're having now, right? this podcast would be completely different if you text me yesterday and I'd answer a question today and then next yesterday you text me a question I answer it right it doesn't work but we expect our relationships to work when we have asynchronous communication so I think that's a biggie um I I loved reminders on my phone for the longest time you know reach out to soand so one of my favorite kind of time plus social hacks is putting a calendar appointment in the future for yourself uh and reminding yourself like, "Hey, uh, today is, uh, 2028. Um, you had a, you know, podcast, uh, 63 and now you're having podcast whatever, hundred and some. You'll probably be on podcast 250." Uh, so make sure you reach out. Um, and you know what's crazy is you'll forget that appointment's there and by the time it comes, it's kind of this weird synchronicity that h in synchronicity is another time thing you can do. uh working with mindfulness and awareness uh where like oh it's just you know people like it's a coincidence. No not usually not usually had some hand in that but does that make sense? So those are like some simple hacks that I think you know reminders future appointments and then not connecting to people you actually care about. >> Yeah. Yeah. What about uh your routines? So, so I've like experimented with a little bit over the last few months that, you know, I live a very routine lifestyle that I, you know, write a lot, I make a lot of videos, so, you know, work a lot, etc. Um, and I've tried to, okay, on some days I'm just going to, you know, break it up. I'm going to do something different and follow a different routine. And it does, you know, in some ways feel like time goes by slower um because of, you know, it's a new thing. We talked about the energy efficiency. So your brain is forced to exert more energy again to pay attention to the task that you're doing. >> Um so are you doing anything something like that that you just I don't know >> yeah I I I you know it's a old calendar productivity hack but I've been I've time blocked my life for a long time where there are certain periods of time where I do things during the day you know because my life in the system that I shared with you earlier is really driven by this sense of values. So I, you know, these these core values, health, home, service, work, finances, um, I I automatically think about those, you know, when I'm doing something. So while my time is a lot looser and and less structured than it used to be, I'm also at an age where I I can be, you know, I don't have to be at a specific job at a specific time. Um, and I'll make time in the future for something that's very family focused or something that's very community focused. A lot of the work that I get hired to do in the last five years is really about taking a lot of these technologies and focusing them on large groups of people. And when I'm doing, you know, communities, cities, states, um, uh, counties, we have um, so, but I haven't done any like break the routine habits or or experiments uh, a long time. I used to do a lot of those cuz obviously breaking a routine, especially if it's a bad habit, is super important. Um, I I do I I do commend you for for doing it. Uh, I just I still can't get over how much different you sound now than 2018 when I was explaining to you kind of time and time hacking and I almost felt he must think I'm crazy. And now to hear you talk about as if it's so normal, you know, it's like ah, it makes me kind of happy. >> Sorry, I don't mean to make this about you. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, I think uh you know, these things uh become more aware of them as you get older. Myself as well. >> How old are you now? >> I'm 31. >> That's exciting. >> Yeah. So, yeah, we had our first conversation 7 years ago. I was uh 24 back then. Um so, yeah, you know, I I'm not saying I'm like old, but uh you know, I'm 7 years older, so my perception of the world has changed quite a lot. They say, you know, your brain fully matures when you're 25. So maybe there's been like >> late 20s you cross a bridge of, you know, I call it the psychosis bridge where like if you haven't become psychotic by your late 20s, early 30s, you're fine, right? Most schizophrenia and you disassociation happens in that fear of things. But everything specifically for you, you know, if you spent seven years and you'd been doing your podcast at that point before I even met you, you know, you I was episode >> I just started. It was like maybe a few months when I started. >> Yeah. So, you know, you also have a just a world of experience of talking about things that most people I think a lot of people don't even consider. >> So, you know, I think you're probably aging, you know, in in a level of wisdom faster than maybe your peers, which can be lonely, I would I would think. >> Right. Well, I'm I'm I'm married, so it's good to Yeah. So, it's a it's going to be uh or it's not like obstacle in the sense. >> Oh, good. >> Yeah. Oh, good. Well, hopefully your spouse keeps you grounded and because I I know one of the things that I did when I got married in 2018 um uh I got married in February of 2018 um was I made sure that I allowed my spouse's point of view which is completely different than mine you know >> undocumented unplanned unmanaged uh unexamined all of those things you know it's best if you're someone who likes these things to have a chaos agent at close at hand, >> right? >> That can be a puppy if you don't have a partner. A puppy's a good chaos agent. >> Yeah. Well, well, my wife, we have similar lifestyles that we're both into health and longevity, but we do have a puppy as well. So, that's the the chaos agent right now. >> Um, what what what about you? So, how has your perception of time changed as you're, you know, reaching your 60s now? Um, well, first I mean it's going to sound completely like out there, but I'm really struggle with the fact that people who are my age don't look like me. >> Mhm. >> So, I'll meet people in their late 40s and 50s, you know, definitely in their 60s who just look so old. So, I think it's a little bit weird for me to function a world where I have to be biologically 60, but I sound and look 20 or 25 years younger than I am. Um, it it almost is disassociative at at times because I don't know how to relate to those people because when I look at them, my mind starts thinking treat them like an old person. >> It's just the way I was raised. I mean, it's not anything, you know, I hate to say I'm not being rude. Um, but then I have to go, wait a minute, that's me. So I mean, you know, when you think about time perception, I have to deal with that. So one of the things I do, and it's gonna sound just out there, is I do practice being an old person. >> So I'll ask for help like at the grocery store, can you put these things in my vehicle or or help me lift something? I'll ask for all sorts of assistance. Can you read something for me that, you know, it's just I could probably read it if I just, you know, put my glasses on and like took a second. Um, and I've long maintained that practicing being old helps you become old. That if you just wake up one day and say, "Why can't I lift this amount of weights? Why can't I go out and run this mile? Why am I not as viral in bed?" All of the things that come with aging, right? Uh, it'll probably kill you, right? >> So, um, I think that's been super important for me. um to just make sure I allow myself to be as old as I am regardless of how I feel and look uh because a lot of people also have this age bias like where you can't be old you can't act old and again there nothing kills you faster than self judgment so for me like not judging myself because listen no matter how well I treat myself no matter how mindful I am no matter how good my diet is and no matter how strong I am I will age it is just part of life right So, you know, getting okay with aging has been a really super important thing for me for about 5 years. >> Um, and then also, you know, understanding death and thinking about what does that look like and how do I deal with it? Because again, I could have the most I have the most loving spouse, but at the end of the day, I have to die and I have to die alone, which means I have to really be okay with my mind, right? And it took me a long time to realize that I will die young in my brain. >> I thought at some point I would be an old man. I'm sure at some point you would feel 30. You know, unfortunately, you're never going to feel 30. You're never going to feel 41. You're never going to feel 51, right? It's just not. It doesn't happen. You know, our brain is our brain for a reason. And if you're under some illusion that one day you'll be a grown-up, it's you won't, you know? So get okay with that thing you call you >> and you'll be better. >> Yeah. And a lot of let's say suffering and that's that's different from pain but suffering is a lot of uh you know like a mental framework as well the perception thing. >> Yeah. Buddhism we call >> in Buddhism we call it dooka. Mhm. >> Uh so dooka pain of life is duca in in Buddhism and Sanskrit and you know it comes from striving or you know wanting needing you know right >> you know and wanting needing striving comes from not >> living non-judgmentally moment by moment which is the definition of mindfulness. So yeah, I don't know. I think the strangest thing that's like is and this going to sound so much fun. I'm going to love saying this, but how fast I can just bring an outrageous an outrageous amount of clarity to a situation. You know, I work with like huge cities, right? And all and there'll be all these people with all this stuff like what about this, what about this? and I'll just like drop some like crazy nugget like and I don't know where it comes from but I do think it has to be practicing working with myself. Don't you think? I mean I do think there's some type of almost environmental control that comes with some some level of awareness that almost seems otherworldly. >> I think Steve Jobs in some ways had the ability to shift time and shift perception. You know a lot of stage craft is energy. you know, working with a crowd. I'm sure you've done a bunch of talks by now, right? Right. So, yeah. I don't know. I I makes me excited for like what does life even look like in the future if this continues to grow at the same rate that it's been growing, you know? >> Yeah. >> Do I get a wizard's robe at some point? >> Yeah. Um what about do you think like some um technology would be able to so one idea I've had is that okay maybe in a few decades or 50 years or something there's going to be you know VR that is you indistinguishable from reality and uh in the VR you know obviously you can just control how fast the time goes by so you can be like one minute inside some sort of a VR simulation which in the real world as we call that where we are right now it would be only 1 minute but in the VR it's going to be you know 500 years for example so you can >> be able to do that sooner than that probably just with uh once we get better understanding sleep you know because you can have a lot of time happen in and or at least what you think in a dream so I yeah >> you I I I don't know I believe that and I'm sure you've had a lot of sleep hackers on and a lot of dream hackers I mean based on what your show to talks about or you've had that. So, I'm sure in VR I think they'll be able to do that, but again, you'd also have to probably >> be, you know, the VR would have to be so immersive in a way that almost took away your senses. So, I'm not sure how that would work, but yeah, I like I like where you're going with that. >> Yeah. So, you know, maybe the So, there's a lot of people who are interested in life extension and this longevity escape velocity to make people live hundreds of years and immort to reach immortality. And so maybe maybe part of the answer is just you know being in a VR that feels like immortality but in the VR it's you know let's say one year for in the real world it's a one year but in the VR it's >> for some longevity people and me schism uh I don't think death is optional. I think death is required to be remaining >> uh I I want it uh I'm pro death you know I'm uh I move to a state where death is actually assisted if you you know at end of life. Um, we also allow you to have green burial, so we don't have a cremation. But no, I I think maybe I'm a little bit different than biohackers and longevity people because I, you know, I I unlike Brian Johnson, I don't think death is a is a disease that needs to be cured. Um, I think that is a disease. Uh, you know, uh, and there and there's something about time perception is is hinged on mortality. >> Yeah. So, I'll just leave that there without getting too ugly about people who believe that dying is a is is a mistake. Um, >> Right. Yeah. I mean, we can, you know, discuss the debate. >> Yeah. The ethical implications of that, but, you know, as as a like just the pure physics of it to uh >> No, no, that's where I think I was going with that. I'm sorry, I got off track. Um, yeah, I I don't know. I also think, you know, I don't even know what this would look like, but chemically, I'm sure we're going to be able to do things with time and time perception. We already do. I mean, you know, with, you know, drugs for different neuro neuropathologies with a known, you know, whether you've got ADHD or PTSD, we're already working with some of that. So, I mean, that'll be really interesting. I I kind of like the fact I I might have went the more natural route with my time perception. >> I, you know, but it was it felt like I was on drugs sometimes, especially after like five, six, seven day retreats where you don't speak or look at anyone, you know, it's like, oh my gosh, like what happened? I don't even know. You know, like I remember one time I came home from a 10 10day retreat and it was like an hour ride from Spirit Rock back into San Francisco and a friend took me to their house to stay for a couple days so I could recome back into life, right? Cuz we've not spoken for 10 days, not wrote, not had a watch, not don't have time, don't have, you know, just your do yogi job. The rest of the time you're meditating. And I remember standing in my friend's kitchen trying to open a jar. And I couldn't remember how jars worked. I couldn't remember to hold it and twist. >> I had been so detached from like my reality for so long. And my friend said, "Are you okay?" I said, "Yeah, I don't know what to do with this." And they said, "You know, it's just charge open." I'm like, "I can't remember how that works." It was just so disassociative in that moment. I'm like, "Wow, to be that far from to be or I guess that inside, you know, and then to be that aware that you don't know how to do something, you know, but even then I had to like slowly go out like go outside for an hour or two and see people just doing regular things." And I didn't even speak for the first 30 minutes after I got picked up. And my friend who had done a bunch of retreats at the time said, "This is okay. You'll be fine." You know, >> have you done any long retreats? >> I haven't done any silent retreats or something like that. Yeah. That's but it's yeah for sure like very interesting because you know it's our sense and um you know sounds and speaking they change our perception of the world and if you you know artificially lose it by voluntarily abstaining from it then uh you know imagine if you could just if you never smelled anything you know for 10 days you didn't smell anything your perception of the world would be quite different I think >> yeah you brought up something really cool when I was a teenager in the 80s There was a um I have it on the shelf. I if you can see it. Let me see if it's it's back here somewhere. See it? It's on this side. It's real small. See these little cans right here? >> Yeah. >> So, this was called Moroccan Spice. And they sold this at a place called um Evelyn and Crab Tree, which is a European apothecary that we had here in the United States in malls in the 80s. I think they might even still be around. Long story short, I used to buy this Moroccan spice as a teenager and just put it in my pillows in my room, spray in the air. I was one of those weird kids that like their bedroom, every kid, I think, is like this to some extent, but my bedroom was like a sanctuary. Like it didn't look like the rest of the house. The lighting was different. I had like strange music playing all the time. Um, but I I still to this day will I have an eBay alert and when >> it's 9:00 >> when I find this spray, I'll buy it. really expensive. And then what I love to do is just randomly every now and then just spray it in the air and be able to like it takes me so quickly back to being a teenager in my room. I know it's kind of a a weird thing, but find some scent that you grew up with that's hard to find, acquire it, and time travel. It's the coolest thing. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, looking at old photos, I guess, also is one one way of doing that, >> especially nowadays cuz old photos are such high resolution. My old photos had to be scanned. M yeah um we can start wrapping up but what are some things people you know can do on a daily basis to let's say make technology better for them in terms of uh you know the perception of time plus their mental health and just quality of life what kind of small things that people can do >> gosh small things um you know I think depending on if you're on and iPhone or Android they each call it something different but work with focus modes on your phone. So, focus modes allow you to replace icons and wallpapers and just all the settings with a quick switch. So, you can have like a work mode or a home mode. Work with that. I think that's like one of these fun things cuz it allows you to switch context and a lot of our lives is dictated by how our phone is talking to us. Um, a lot of people use that for what I would call productivity hacking, but it's great for just mind hacking. Countups and countdowns. There's a million apps for that for your computer, for uh your phone. Um you know, setting those, working with them, watching them, setting one. Uh another fun one, make an appointment with yourself whenever you're listening to this podcast for one year from today, right? Uh and write yourself a note in your calendar. Uh I promise whatever you write, it will come true. So, make sure you write something good. Uh but I think most importantly, just I don't know, be okay with not being okay. I mean, I spent my entire life, you know, wondering what happiness looked like, why I was so [\h__\h] happy I couldn't see straight. Um, and it wasn't until I said, "Okay, I have to be okay with wherever I am, however I am, and just show up for that." It was kind of the biggest hack in the world. And that didn't take a lot of technology. >> Yeah. Yeah. There's >> Yeah. You know, technology can be useful and it can be very helpful, but uh you can also get lost lost in it. So, it comes down to how you use it. >> Yeah. >> I've I try to be a good grandpa cyborg. >> Yeah. Um well, it was great to talk with you. Um before I ask my last question, where can people learn more about you and your work? >> My gosh. I don't I don't do much online anymore. Um when I speak nowadays, it's usually to talk about uh you know, this type of thing in community at the community level, but just you know, chrisansancy.com is my website. I don't do a lot on social media, so like you're not going to find a bunch of bio hacks. I have a YouTube, but it's usually just like me talking about something I'm working on. So, I don't do I mean, most of the times I do stuff, it's through interviews like this. Um, it's hard because like I'm an old cyborg, you know? No one wants to talk to old cyborgs anymore. >> Need to get a new updated exoske. But it's it's been a it's been good. I've had a really good life and I'm really I'm really proud of me. >> Well, it was a Yeah, great. Uh we'll put the links in the show notes. Um the last question is um what's this one piece of advice or habit that you wish you'd have sooner? Don't be afraid to find new friends. That's it. Like you know, like I talked about earlier, just don't be afraid to ask people to get out of your life or just stop dealing with people. I I you know for so long I kept people in my life who were more interested in being me than being with me. >> Uh and that's you know you never get a second you can't get that time back from people who just who want to be you. They have no desire to be with you. >> Yeah that's yeah insightful. And friends are yeah quite important >> as well. Don't Yeah. Don't don't be afraid to cycle them. It was so good seeing you. I appreciate you having me on again. >> Yeah, it was great to talk. And >> I'm going to take old show and I'm going to take this show and I'm going to pull the text out of them and and compare and see how I've grown. I'll send you the link when I'm done. >> All right, sounds good. Well, thanks for coming and I'll see you around. Thanks.