Now you should see it now. Sorry. Yeah. Sorry. Like I said, it's uh been a long time since I used the streaming software, so it's kind of new. All right. Ashwagandha is in the A tier. Nanoynes. I'm also going to put it in the A tier because of that reason. Um and I do think that it's a pretty good. Okay, now it's there. Sorry. Uh next supplement, torine. So, this one has gotten got a lot of um let's say positive press, positive news recently over the last year and it kind of started with this mice study that showed uh it extended lifespan in mice and I do think that torine has a quite a lot of clinical evidence as well mostly for metabolic syndrome. So there are quite a lot of studies that torine supplementation improves metabolic syndrome in like quite larger doses three to six grams per day and it also has some exercise benefits in those quantities. So athletes tend to use torine. I'm going to put it in the S tier which is the number one uh tier. Yeah, that's better. All right. Next up, hyaluronic acid. So, this one can be useful for skin hydration, skin anti-aging. And um the u re research about hyonic acid is mostly done on is only mostly based on like a few of these clinical trials that show that it helped with skin moisturization and hydration and uh reduction in wrinkles. So, it's not like a massive amount of studies, but you know, I've used hyaluronic acid and I do think that it works great. Now, there is some of these concerns about that it promotes cancer or something, but uh animal studies don't support that argument. So, even in mice who have cancer, like aggressive cancer, hyaluronic acid didn't increase or promote their cancer any further. So, it's kind of safe in that regard. So I wouldn't be like afraid of using hyaluronic acid because of the fear of cancer because yeah even in animal studies they don't find that effect. So it's like found to be safe in humans and it also found to support this skin hydration aspect which I think you know depends yeah like how do you grade these tiers is it it's not going to obviously extend your lifespan hyonic acid but it does have like the skin anti-aging effects and it's relatively safe. So in that sense it could be in the S tier but because you know it's kind of you know just one effect mostly that you see currently in the studies that I've seen is that the skin hydration aspect so I would put it just in the A tier uh because of that reason. So it's not like super miraculous. It's not going to extend your lifespan or anything like that. But uh if skin anti-aging is your concern then um yeah that is a certainly a good supplement to take. only hearing you in the left channel, nothing in the right. Is that correct? Um, should be from both or not. Let's see. It should be from both just here left. Okay, that's interesting. H Well, it works from here. What about No. No. I guess we need to run with it right now. Yeah, sorry about that. That's kind of the issue with live streams. Uh, next up, vitamin C. So, I guess vitamin C is generally like a very safe supplement. It does have some research, but yeah, the problem is again it's not miraculous. And um yeah like large amounts of vitamin C aren't really provi shown to like provide any like significant let's say preventive effects against a lot of these chronic diseases. So yeah if you're like sick or something then you can use vitamin C but regular use of vitamin C hasn't been found to really like reduce the risk of heart disease or something like that and metabolic syndrome etc. So that's why, you know, yeah, it's kind of safe and it has some benefits mostly if you're like sick, but not a lot beyond that. Next, aspirin is kind of a not a supplement obviously, but it has um like a long track record of use for decades. And uh when it comes to like cardiovascular disease then uh they don't find it effective for primary prevention which means that uh it's not going to prevent the uh development or the like the onset of heart disease but secondary prevention apparently is recommended by the American Heart Association. Uh so it can have some benefits there. The problem is that if you're at a risk of like bleeding or something like that, then um it can be an issue because yeah, aspirin can increase the risk of bleeding. So, uh you know, if you're going to fall while taking aspirin, you might have worse outcomes. Uh so, it does have a risk. So, that's why they don't recommend it for people who are at a risk of um bleeding. But, uh for secondary prevention in heart disease, that's what they do recommend it for. So, I'm going to put it in the C tier. Uh there are like some animal studies as well that it can extend actually. Yeah, the ITP study they found that aspirin indeed extend um mice or mouse lifespan as well. But um yeah, I wouldn't I wouldn't think that it's worthwhile to take a lot of aspirin all the time because of the risk of a bleeding for most people. Omega-3s, you know, old but gold. a whole blood but gold supplement and um you know omega-3s in my opinion are the gold tier because there's so much data that higher omega-3 index is uh associated with lower rates of heart disease, Alzheimer's and or cause mortality and um like it's also like a biomarker that you can measure. So you don't know when it comes to torine or narokinus, you don't have a torine biioarker generally speaking, but you do have it with omega-3s. So that's why it's kind of a a very great one to um uh like use in in terms of that. So you have a marker that you can track the effectiveness over time. And yeah, just the idea of having a higher omega-3 index is something that we should generally like try to aspire towards. 8% is uh kind of the sweet spot. 8% and above fisetin. So the cenolytic uh that helps with the clearing out the scinesscent cells. Uh the problem with these analytics is that you don't have a lot of human data yet. There are some animal studies but these analytics haven't been shown to like extend lifespan. So fises was one of the ones that failed in the ITP trials um quite recently. I did find a study today which I'm going to actually talk about next week on the channel where some of these analytics like queretin and fisetin were found to lower epigenetic age. So lowers the biological age. But you know the the problem with these clocks is that they have some issues uh when it comes to accuracy and and the confounding variables. So I would put FISET into the C tier because of the lack of data currently and uh it doesn't really extend lifespan in animals either. Corsetin the same I would put it it's it's just kind of not going not going to be worth it because of that same reason. Maybe in a few years we'll have more uh like say studies on the analytics but you know the problem is that you don't necessarily want to inhibit all the cenolytic cells either. Senolytic cells are or scinesscent cells are important for wound healing as well. Uh for example calcium alpha ketoglutarate so one popular longevity supplement that people use and I guess the idea is that it's been found to lower biological age in humans in a clinical trial. Uh the issue is that the you know the company made their own study with their calcium alpha ketogluterate. So you would need to take it with a bit of a grain of salt the results and uh you know there they are doing another study not the same company but another group of scientists are doing a study with calcium alpha ketoglutarate which would probably come out in like next year or something and uh we'll see what the results say at that point. So, I'm going to put it currently in the C tier because of that reason. NMN kind of same. I'll put it in a C tier because, you know, there are quite a lot of uh human trials right now with NMN, but so far almost all of them have been quite u unimpressive that uh NMN specifically does like improve incident sensitivity. Apparently, they find that it increases like gate speed, etc. But um I wouldn't say that it's very convincing at the moment. NR the same. I would put it in the C tier because of that reason. There are some clinical trials in humans and the biggest effect from NR is seen to be anti-inflammatory effects and both of them do raise NAD levels you know very dose specifically. So higher doses of enamin and NR both increase the um NAD levels in humans. But you know what do you do with that information? We don't necessarily know yet because yeah like NAD levels do appear to decline with age. Not in old tissues but um that's a general trend and not in old people. But um yeah, we don't know necessarily if NAD uh re like regeneration or increasing NAD would have any actual effects on the lifespan. Now ninamide is one of the NAD boosters that I do like and the reason is because it works through a different pathway. So ninamide goes to the NAD salvage pathway which uh is different from the NMN and NR. So NMN and NR go directly to NAD whereas nyinomide supports the recycling pathway of NAD and uh and uh yeah the recycling pathway is kind of the more important one for s long-term sustainable NAD production which many people underestimate and uh yeah and ninamide is effective in raising NAD levels. So it's uh much cheaper than NM and NR but uh it raises NAD equally as well. Regular nasin so this one you know does also raise NAD levels equally as good as ninamide. The difference is nasin nascin causes the flush effect and it does increase HDL cholesterol levels but increasing HDL levels with nasin nasin specifically hasn't been seen to like reduce the rates of heart disease. So even if it does raise HDL levels there's no effects on total heart disease um events and rates. So yeah and that applies generally across the board for all HDL interventions. So um and the issue with nascin is that in large doses it can have like liver harmful effects on the liver. So I would still yeah I guess it's hard to say if it would be B or C. I would put it in the C as of now. Epigenine. So this one is a CD38 inhibitor is like a herbal. You get it from parsley. So this uh let's say compound from herbs and uh epigenine has inhibitor effects on CD38 which uh is uh this enzyme that reduces NAD levels. So high CD38 results in lower NAD levels and uh CD38 is like like a inflammatory glyoprotein that yeah mostly rises in response to inflammation and uh inflammation is one of the like biggest consumers of NAD as well. So epigenine can increase NAD through reduction of CD38 and it also has these anti-inflammatory effects uh as as a result of that or or you know that's the reason it raises the energy levels. So I would put it I would still put it to C tier because uh there's there's not that much more data. So yeah, it can be great if your if your strategy is okay, I need to raise my energy levels. For example, you've tested your energy levels. you see that your energy levels are low then I would use nasin ninomide and epigenine for example that's like a great stack for for that garlic so that can be aged garlic extract that can be allisonin or whatnot I would put that to so like you know there's a lot of clinical trials meta analysis of clinical trials showing the garlic effect on blood pressure and uh lipids and uh inflammation and blood sugar etc ETA. So it just is such a like a safe supplement and it has quite a lot of uh results from clinical trials to show as well. So yeah, I think garlic is a great like a supplement to use uh collagen. So again, you know, collagen has quite a lot of clinical trials more so than hyaluronic acid for example and it also has effects on skin aging like hyaluronic acid. And the issue is that yeah the collagen that kind of is mostly limited to the joint function, skin and aging and there are some studies that it has some like cardiovascular or it helps to modulate the cardium metabolic risk factors as well like lipids and uh inflammation etc. So, I would then put it into the S tier because of that. It's u very effective especially for skin anti-aging and it has like some additional benefits beyond hyonic acid whereas you know hyonic acid currently I've only seen it has benefits on skin hydration and wrinkles but collagen has more benefits than that. All right. You can yeah put it in the chat if there are any issues inosetil. Uh so this is kind of a sugar molecule that has great effects on blood sugar regulation and exercise performance even and sleep as well. So I like inositol. I think it's a very great let's say uh supplement as a sugar sweetener sugar substitute. It doesn't have like any actual sugar in it, but it just tastes sweet like glycine and it has benefits. I would put it in the A tier mostly because there's not a ton of like, you know, clinical trials on Inosl at the moment, but it's certainly the one I would regularly use for sleep and blood sugar management for example. And glycine, let's guess where I'm going to put the glycine. Now, glycine is something that doesn't have like a ton of clinical trials either for let's say the outcomes of interest like cardabolic risk factors or sleep even or something like that but it has like um something of uh each of those conditions like it has been seen to improve sleep in humans. It has been seen to like affect inflammation and u other like blood markers in a positive way. It obviously is a part of collagen. So it supports collagen synthesis. And uh when it comes to like animal studies then there is yeah quite a lot of studies about glycine extending uh animal lifespan mostly through mimicking this methane restriction. And um yeah, one of the interesting like one of the biggest things that I have actually seen from taking glycine is uh the reduction in the visceral fat. So as you recall from I guess it was two months ago or something where I did the visceral fat video of how I reduced my visceral fat. And um one of the biggest things that did change was increasing my glycine intake a lot and reducing my methionine intake. Now I do think that the reduction in methane had a bigger role to play in reducing visceral fat than increasing the glycine uh but low glycine levels are seen to be associated with higher visceral fat in humans. So uh yeah, start glycine maxing if uh you want to uh improve visceral fat for example and but like I said I think the reduction in methane has a bigger role to play in this area. But I'm going to put glycine to S tier. Like I said I'm kind of this is my list. For me glycine is S tier forever S tier. You know you can put it in the number one spot here as well. Um, yeah, for collagen synthesis, for visceral fat, for sleep, for GABA. So, it can make you more relaxed. Some like I said, some people might react bad to glycine that, uh, they might get some hypoglycemia or headaches or something. Uh, well, in that case, uh, you might need to like take a lower dose or and take it with food to avoid the hypoglycemia response. Spirulina. So supplement with these supplements um they're a good source of spermine dietary spermine and uh some other kind of a compounds as well and you know dietary spermine is associated with lower rates of mortality. Now I don't know if it's like causal because healthy healthy foods generally have more spermadine like mushrooms, cheese, vegetables, uh those kind of things they have a lot of spermadine. So but spirulina also has one of the highest dietary spermine out there. I don't take spirulina myself. Uh but I would put it like in the B tier in my opinion. Methylene Blue is a popular supplement or not a massively popular but uh it has like a niche niche of people that do use it. Um and I did make a video about methyline blue last year as well and it does appear to have effects on skin anti-aging. So um it uh can have like ant like inhibits scinesscent cells anti-inflammatory effects. So, but yeah, like there's no massive amounts of human trials with it. Obviously, it is like on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines if I'm not mistaken. And uh they do use it for for certain medical conditions at the hospital, but um I'm not really convinced that I would start maxing methyline blue at the moment. So, I'm gonna currently put it into the B tier. It probably has effects on skin antaging. Uh but there's no clinical trials to confirm it yet. Multivitamin. So now this is like very context dependent like which multivitamin are we talking about and what does that multivitamin have? Because you know multivitamin is such an umbrella term that you know you could you could almost categorize anything in here. And all these multivitamins have different ratios of uh different vitamins and minerals and it's hard to say okay what is the gold standard. Now when it comes to the studies then there are yeah like this few clinical trials on elderly people that multivitamin use is associated with better cognition um in their later years. But uh there's other more these um longitudinal studies that find that multivitamin use has almost like no significant effect. So I personally am not taking a multivitamin. I have a pretty good diet. I'm getting plenty of nutrients from my diet. So I don't think it's necessary to kind of have this insurance policy for your micronutrients in the form of a multivitamin. But again, it depends a lot on the type of a multivitamin. Now, there might be some multivitamins that are good. Most of them are probably not good. So, I'm going to put it into the D tier right now because um yeah, it's just hard to say which multivitamin are we talking about. Creatine. Uh creatine obviously is the OG of sports supplements and probably has the most studies out of all these supplements here. So, I'm going to put creatine in the S tier. It has, you know, decades of research about um sports performance, muscle growth, speed, power, and those kind of things. And uh like I said in my one of my recent videos that it also has a lot of brain benefits. So, I would use creatine for uh let's say cognitive health as well and uh and cognitive um anti-aging if that's if that makes sense. Melatonin, another S tier supplement for me. So, you know, you know, I'm a huge fan of melatonin, not because of the sleep benefits. You know, I would I would be fine if melatonin had no benefits on sleep. Uh I have no issues with sleep, but uh the reason I like melatonin is because of these anti-inflammatory antioxidant effects. So, melatonin is very powerful antioxidant. It actually regulates glutathione production, which is considered to be the master antioxidant. But uh because melatonin is like let's say at a higher hierarchy of antioxidants then I would say that melatonin should be called like the master antioxidant and melatonin levels go down with age quite a lot almost like tfold compared to your teenage years and uh yeah I think that's a issue. So uh yeah melatonin supplementation is in the S tier in my opinion. Magnesium as well S tier supplement. So like almost everyone should or would benefit from taking some magnesium very u safe unless you have some kidney issues and uh yeah it's hard to get from food in a lot of the cases and a lot of the food has lost a lot of the magnesium as well because of soil erosion etc. vitamin D3. So vitamin D3 obviously can be useful if you have low vitamin D levels. There doesn't appear to be any like preventive effects on you know these chronic diseases if you have let's say normal vitamin D levels but low vitamin D levels themselves are associated with obviously higher mortality higher cardiovascular disease etc. Of course getting it from the sunlight is better than from a supplement. you get a lot of the other benefits from the sunlight that you don't get from the supplement such as this infrared radiation, circadian rhythm alignment, etc. So, um yeah, the supplement alone, just the vitamin D3 supplement alone is not that great. Uh it can raise your vitamin D levels, which we don't necessarily know if it is going to be if it's going to be better in the absence of the sunlight, uh the infrared radiation. So, I'm going to put it into the C tier because of that reason. Vitamin K2. So, usually if you take vitamin D3, they recommend to take K2 as well. So, support coagulation and um like I guess uh directing calcium into the bone. A K2 I would put in the A tier. There are some clinical trials on K2 supplementation that they do reduce plaque scores in people who have higher calcium scores. Um, and dietary K2 intake is also associated with lower rates of heart disease and lower all cause mortality. So that's why I'm going to put it in the Can you make the camera smaller? All right. It's going to go like this. Uh yeah so dietary K2 intake is associated with lower heart rate uh sorry lower heart disease rates and lower all coat. Uh right. DHEA. This one is a a hormone and um I don't think that you should take DHEA just uh because of no reason. I do think that uh people who have low DHEA levels appear to or it can be good to increase DH DHEA levels because low DHEA levels are also associated with higher mortality, high rates of heart disease and with age you do see a decline in DHEA levels. Now my DHA levels are fine. I'm not taking DHEA. But if I was if I was going to be like, you know, 60 years old with low DHEA levels, then um I would consider taking that. And there are some studies on DHEA as well, which um makes it more appealing, but I'm going to put it in the B tier at the moment. So there's no like additional like life extension effects that I know of. A lithium orate, you know, this mineral is usually used uh for like a bipolar disorder, but a lot of like I guess biohackers and health enthusiasts have also started to use micro do lithiumate 1 milligram a day to support mood. Plus there might be some uh let's say benefits on brain aging. which uh like higher lithium uh higher lithium levels in the drinking water are associated with lower rates of like suicide and lower rates of homicide even. But um is it worthwhile to take it as a supplement? Because of that reason, you know, it depends a lot on your area and whether or not you're getting enough lithium. So people take like a micro dose of lithium as a preventive measure. I'm not doing it myself. So I would put it in the C tier as of now. Cert six. So this supplement this one um you know C six is the only certuin that has been found to extend lifespan in animals. Uh the other certuins haven't been found to do that. So Cert 6 theoretically would be the most uh let's say the best longevity tune in um but u the issue is yeah that that there's almost like no other research about it as of now. So that's why I'm going to put it in the C tier because of that reason. CoQ10. So, CoQ10 appears to have benefits on fatigue and um they say it helps with like cardiovascular health, but uh the evidence for that is like limited, but that it would actually have any effects in preventing heart disease or something like that. So, CoQ10 I'm going to put into C tier because of the limited evidence. NAC. So there's quite a lot of these studies with glycine and NAC that they help with a lot of these hallmarks of aging in elderly people like inflammation, gate speed, grip strength, body composition, waist circumference, and uh those kind of things. And NAC generally is also like very safe. It increases coolath. I'm going to put it in the S tier because of that reason. Bourberine. So, I like bourberine. I think it's h great. A lot of people call it like nature's metformin, which uh you know, it does reduce blood sugar levels, but it's not nearly as effective as metformin uh for blood sugar regulation. Bourberine is much better at lowering lipids like cholesterol than it is for lowering blood sugar. And um it does uh help with weight loss as well. So reducing weight circumference in human glucon trials. Um and there was also yeah like this uh stories about bourberine being nature's ompic because of the weight loss trials. But I it's again it's not as effective as ompic. It's not as effective as metformin but it does have those effects. So it does lower blood sugar, it does lower lipids, it does lower waist circumference. And uh because of that reason I'm going to put it in the A tier. The issue is with bourberine that is that it um it probably reduces your VHMX similar to metformin and uh it probably has inhibitory effects on muscle growth if you take it chronically. So that's why it's not in the S tier. Next, metformin. So again like I said metformin has you know effects on lowering blood sugar and it is for diabetics life-saving you know diabetics who take metformin live longer than those who don't and uh there was this kind of ideas that metformin even in non-diabetics is going to extend their lifespan but uh yeah those studies weren't properly controlled for and uh they don't So if you don't have diabetes, you're not going to live longer by taking metformin, at least based on the current evidence. H but it does certainly have a lot of benefits for diabetics. In animals, metformin doesn't extend lifespan either. Uh although there was this uh recent study that I'm going to make a video about next week that metformin interventions did result in lower biological ages, age scores. So uh you know what that what does that mean? What does a lower biological age score mean? depends a lot on who you ask and what what kind of a clock did they use to measure that biological age. So yeah, there's not a lot of uh animal studies even to suggest that metformin would have like longevity benefits, but it again it's very beneficial for diabetics. So I'm going to put it in the D tier because it does reduce VTX. It does uh potentially result in lower muscle growth as well in humans. So, uh, for otherwise healthy people, it's not really worth it unless you have higher blood sugar levels or if you're trying to keep your blood sugar levels are super low for some reason. Rapomycin, you know, this is the goat. This is the the goat life extension molecule. It's uh shown the most impressive life extension in animal studies. Of course, there's no human studies for longevity right now, but my opinion about reproycin has changed over the, you know, last two years or something. In the beginning, I might have had uh more worries about reproyc that it would like result in lower muscle growth or that it has some negative effects, but um or that it would like weaken your immune system because it is used in organ transplantation uh in uh to prevent organ rejection. So it suppresses your immune system if you take it during uh organ transplantation. But uh if you use it like acutely like once a week or something like that then it doesn't apparently suppress your immune system. And uh the studies on elderly people who take rapomycin have found that it actually enhances immune system function. So uh yeah that has kind of changed my opinion about rapamycin a little bit and it potentially doesn't even result in lower muscle growth either. So there's this kind of weird dichotomy with mTor and muscle growth. Um which um yeah I haven't found the complete answer to yet from from like the studies that uh chronic mtor suppression apparently does result in like lower muscle muscle growth but acute mtor suppression might even preserve muscle better than chronic activation of mtor. So that's why you know I'm not I I can't put rapomy into the S tier because it doesn't have that much clinical trials in humans and I'm not taking rapomy myself at the moment but I do think that it probably will you know it it has been certainly shown to extend animal lifespan repeatedly and um in humans it appears to have benefits on the immune system in elderly people. Now is it going to extend human lifespan? I don't know. You know, we'll see you in a in a few years when more studies come out. Uh, you know, I could put it in the D tier because of that reason because of the uncertainty, but I will put it into B tier right now because uh I think the potential is there. We just need more studies in the next few years. Uh so yeah it it certainly has the biggest potential for becoming the first world's first gerrotective uh drug that it would be used to uh slow down aging in humans but yeah it's too early to say. Uh next up reseratrol. So, this is another one of those uh popular longevity supplements that doesn't really hold up the hype in my opinion. I when I put it in a D tier, so it's kind of similar to Metformin that it has negative effects on fitness. It can lower V2X and it also lowers u testosterone levels in men or androgens. And uh the like life extension effects in animals aren't that great either. Most of the studies have have been seen to be like debunked or not accurate. And that there is like one study where reserrol did extend lifespan in mice, but those mice were like severely obese. So it's not life extension, it's just living longer with obesity. if that makes sense. So, but there are like again but you know that actually in human trials reseratrol does improve like lipids and blood sugar. So, uh yeah, if you have obesity or diabetes then reseratrol can be great but it's not again like beneficial for otherwise healthy people in my opinion. Uh yeah, curcumin. So uh research about curcumin mostly the most impressive uh results about curcumin is is the anti-inflammatory effects. So there's quite a lot of clinical trials with curcumin showing anti-inflammatory effects. So lowering inflammation and CRP. I'm going to put it in the A tier because of that. Uh yeah glucosamine sulfate. So this um can be useful for joints also has anti-inflammatory effects. You know from the observational data you can find that glucosamine supplementation is associated with lower rates of heart disease and lower or causeity. But uh you know the problem with that is that if you take glucosamine then you're probably like a healthier person or you you pay attention to your health more by taking glucosamine. So, uh it's hard to say if there's like any causal link there, but generally glucosamine has benefits on the joints uh in clinical trials as well. So, I would put it in you could put it in the A tier. It's like, you know, just general anti-inflammatory. It's certainly better than vitamin C or like uh spirulina in my opinion. Actually, I would maybe put ninomide here, but uh because there's not a lot of let's say outcome studies with ninamide like I would put it here because it does raise NAD levels, but there's not a lot of other like outcome studies in my opinion. And lastly, TMG, so trimethly, this supplement um you know has benefits on methylation, homoyine levels, which worked great for me. lowered my homoyine levels and it has exercise performance benefits as well. So, I'm going to put I'm a new fan of TMG because of my own uh let's say blood blood markers that improved with TMG. I didn't notice any fitness or like exercise benefits from TMG, but uh yeah, I'm going to put it in the S tier right now. So, this is the list at the moment. You know, you probably have a few more supplements that you want to add. So, I'm going to like answer a few of these supplements that I might have missed. So, if you have any questions, okay, what supplement should belong where? But keep in mind, this is again my personal list with my own personal biases. Axiganthin, that's a good one. I forgot about that. Axiganthin, you know, I'm a big fan of Aziganthin. I think, you know, for me it's in the S tier, but I'm going to put it in the A tier because um it it has anti-inflammatory effects and can lower blood pressure, but mostly in people who have high blood pressure or high inflammation. So, it's probably not going to have like additional anti-inflammatory effects or like this blood pressure blood pressure lowering effects in otherwise healthy people. But it does have uh skin benefits protecting the skin against UV radiation. So I'm going to put it in the A tier. But I you know it can also be considered in the S tier in my personal list. I take asantine every day myself. Um luteine luteine. And so this carotenoid good for the eyes and brain. So the thing with luteine is that yes dietary lutein intake ease uh associated with lower risk of macular degeneration and uh lower risk of lower rates of neuro degeneration as well. But you know it's dietary luteine mostly. I'm going to put it in the B tier currently. I do think that taking some luteine every day can be useful for eye health uh as like insurance policy, but um we probably need more data about that. It's certainly not harmful in my opinion. What next? bread yeast rice. So this supplement um mostly used for lipids so lowering cholesterol and uh yes there is clinical trials showing that effect. The issues red rice is that it can also is because the herbal supplement herbal supplements tend to have some negative effects on the liver. So it can elevate liver enzymes especially if it's like u not a not a clean source of the herb. So I'm going to put it in the B tier similar to luteine. It's not again it's not going to be as effective as like statins or something for lowering cholesterol. So, but but it does do so a small a little bit PPC 157. So, peptide, you know, BPC-157 probably has no life extension effects. I'm pretty sure of that. And uh the you know the issue with BBC is that yes it can have like regeneration regenerative effects on like tendon health or tendon integrity and joint like injuries but you know it's a after the fact of an injury. If you don't have an injury then you probably aren't going to see any benefits from PBC 157. Um but BBC you know has general anti-inflammatory effects as well systemic anti-inflammatory effects. uh it might have gut health effects based on animal studies. It might have uh brain health effects as well. So I would limited because of the limited research. I'll put BPC in the C tier because it's not going to it's not going to have life extension effects. I'm Yeah, like I said, I'm pretty sure of that, but it's very useful. If it's if you have an injury, then BPC might be in S tier back. Yeah, like I said, if you don't have an injury, then um it's not going to have a lot of effects. What's next? Tongat Ali. So, Tongad Ali, it's going to increase testosterone if your testosterone is uh let's say medium to low. If you have very high testosterone, then it's probably not going to do it. Although I might be wrong. Um I haven't taken Tongadali for like longer periods of time, but in some studies it does appear to work. I'm going to put it. And again, depends what your goal is. If your goal is testosterone maxing, then uh it can be for sure in the stack to use based on the Yeah, in my opinion, it will be in the B tier or A tier somewhere between there. We can put it in the A tier. What's next? Pero still bean. So this one is a kind of cousin molecule to reseratrol. It belongs in the D tier. It has even less studies than reseratrol. So uh yeah not I don't think it is very effective. Theonine. So theonine improves sleep in humans can have like angelic effects. You know it's S tier because it's like safe. It has probably most people will have some effect from taking theineine. But uh the effect size I would say or the kind of outcome it's probably not it's not going to reduce your like I don't know heart disease risk unless it improves your sleep and unless it like lowers your stress. So that depends a lot on the person who is uh taking it. I'm going to put it in the A tier because it's pretty effective and safe and multiple multi multiple benefits. What next? Carnosine. So carnosine uh the biggest effect is this uh protection against advanced glycation end products which um develop from high temperature cooking especially proteins and fats. Uh so um I think the issue with carnosine is that is not very bioavailable as I as I've seen. beta-alanine is the one that actually creates carnosine in your body. So beta-alanine is better than carnosine itself. But beta-alanine also gives you the itch. It makes you itchy. Um so carnosine alone probably is in the B tier. Glycine also has anti- advanced glycation end product effects. So glycine is I think better than carnosine for protecting against the advanced glycation end products and it's also cheaper and glycine has other benefits. So beta-alanine um beta-alanine is the one that converts to carnosine in the body or makes carnosine. So that could be better like a tier and the betalin also lowers cholesterol levels. So it uh makes carnosine that reduces advanced location products and also lowers cholesterol and it has some exercise performance benefits as well. Carnitine so oral carnitine is not bioavailable so it doesn't have any almost effects on fat metabolism or something like that. And the problem with carnitine supplements is that it can convert to TMAO which um is considered like a risk factor for heart disease and kidney disease. Uh but it's more so probably based on the research that people who have kidney disease or heart disease have high TMAO levels. So TMAO itself probably has less of a causal effect on heart disease. But uh regardless oral carnitine is not bioavailable. Uh you would need to inject carnitine for it to have effects for like usually people take it for like exercise and fat fat metabolism. So you would need to inject it. I haven't injected any carnitine myself or anything so I don't know if it works. So there's very little research about injectable carnitine as well. Zaxanthin so it's zaxanthin is the same as like luteine you know higher zaxanthin intake associated with lower rates of macular degeneration neuro degeneration as well but the supplemental form is not that studied. um glutathione. So I'm a bigger fan of taking glycine and NAC to increase glutathione. So, Gulathan supplements alone, they can um I guess um it's better to take the precursors for for Gulathan than this is interesting. I'm getting a fire alarm in my apartment building right now. So, I'm probably going to have to cut the stream short. So, yeah, Gathan, I would put it in the B tier. So, uh, that's not as effective as glycine and NC, but um, yeah, I'm sorry about that. I'm having a fire alarm in the apartment building, so I'm going to have to go, which tends to happen every once in a while in this building. But yeah, I mean, uh, thanks for watching. This is the list. This is my supplement tier list. I wasn't going to make a full video about it, but uh short live stream in celebration of the 200k subscriber I think is worthwhile. And uh yeah, thanks for watching. Thanks for subscribing. 200K I'm going to be going more towards higher subscribers and growing. So yeah, I'll see you around and uh thanks for watching.