this idea that if you live a healthy lifestyle, everything's going to be hunky dory and nothing's ever going to go wrong. Like, that's just not the way it works in the real world. >> For me, the top tier is leanness, low visceral fat, optimizing uh physical cognitive function, all that stuff. And then the question is though, that only goes so far, right? Because everyone that's ever lived has died. Functional decline comes for for us all. Almost nobody's escaping functional decline. So then the question becomes what's under the hood? If you try and target these biomarkers too much, you can actually do unintended hum. >> Gentlemen, welcome to the podcast and we're very excited to uh talk with you. It's it was a bit of a hassle to organize all of us on the same podcast, but I think it's going to be worth it. We'll have a very interesting uh discussion. So the topic of today's panel is uh blood work especially in the context of uh health and longevity and anti-aging. So um maybe we can start with you know first of you introducing yourself and uh then giving your framework of what is your like perspective or framework on uh blood work and we can start with uh Matt. >> Sure. Uh hey everyone uh my name is Matt Cberline. I am the CEO of a healthcare technology company called Optispan. And before I started Optispan, I spent about 25 years studying the biology of aging or longevity. Um really focused on the the basic science. So I I I kind of approach this space through the lens of a scientist, but over the last few years um have really started thinking a lot more about what we can do in the real world with people trying to have an impact on their health. >> Gotcha. Yeah. Um Brad. >> Yes. So I'm a GP in Oakland, New Zealand. Um so I'm still practicing. Uh, and the way that I sort of see um, blood work is ideally you want to be doing something uh, where you want to be measuring something where you might potentially change, you know, the inputs. Um, and so the the framework that I rely on is my training and also the clinical guidelines. Um, so the the one that I typically follow here is called uptodate.com and there's also, you know, Oakland specific ones called health pathways. So be interesting to hear the different uh, perspectives here because I think there's going to be some healthy disagreement. Yeah, that's uh that's the goal here to uh have each each everyone's uh different views on it because you all have a slightly different angles to longevity or like you have different backgrounds and experiences. So uh it's going to be very valuable to hear all the different perspectives on it. Um Michael, >> yeah, I don't know what we're going to disagree about, but it'll be interesting to see. So uh I too uh was a a research scientist like Matt uh not as long 15 years after postP PhD uh recently left in 2025 to pursue conquer aging or diet trying on YouTube and all of the things that come under that umbrella uh last year. Uh so yeah, my specialty is basically biomarkers, but not just what's optimal in terms of potentially optimal in terms of health and uh potentially longevity, but how do you actually move the needle, right? It's it's easy it's easy for most people to get one test or two tests and then they kind of guess, you know, and don't really have a clue of what they can do to move the biomarker needle and what differentiates me or maybe what's unique about my approach is multiple testing over a very long period of time, tracking diet, supplements, etc. looking at correlations and granted there's a lot of noise in that approach, but you get in you collect enough of your own data and the the signal starts to separate from the noise. So >> generally longevity has become quite popular over the last few years and uh recently let's say over the last 2 three years I've noticed that there's a lot more talk about blood markers and different biomarkers and blood testing and etc. So what do you think is the biggest misconceptions about the topic like what can blood work tell you about your health and longevity future health risks and what can it not tell you. So there is obviously blood work is a more like an snapshot in time about your you know blood work but uh it has some you know correlations and associations with future health risks but there's also some uh misconceptions about that kind of a relationship. So what do you what do you think is uh this let's say uh misconceptions and what are some truths about it and Brad has you know a lot of everyday work related blood work with his um patients. So maybe we can start with uh him. So, I think it's really important um again like I was saying in the intro that you ideally want to be measuring something um where you may want to change that value because you know that it's going to you know prevent heart attacks or prevent strokes. Um so like a classic case is just a really quick biioarker if you like which is blood pressure that you that you check for all of my patients uh that come into the clinic because we know that if you lower your blood pressure you're going to lower your chance of heart attacks and strokes and there's even emerging evidence that you're going to lower your dementia risk as well. So I think it's important to frame the blood tests that you do in a similar way. So say for example if you check apo um if you lower your apo generally speaking you will lower your risk of heart attacks and strokes. Um so you know those yeah those are the sort of biomarkers or blood work that I focus on is the ones that we you know we've got very good clinical data showing that if we change those uh blood results we can affect hard clinical outcomes right yeah so you're saying that um there is a relationship between certain biomarkers and certain chronic conditions like um stroke and heart disease and you can if you you know measure and intervene early, then you can move the patient towards a more positive outcome. >> Yeah. >> Right. >> And then it it's tricky because then there's a bunch of other tests that you can do like one of the uh one of the markers at the moment that's quite popular is things like biological age clocks uh which are interesting research tools. >> You're going to derail the whole conversation if you go there. >> I think it's important to dive into that because they are incredibly popular. um you know later >> they are great research tools like you know say for example with the rapamy and and exercise clinical trial that Matt and I did one of the outcomes that we were looking at is what happens to um you know a couple of biological age measures the concern that I have is that when those measures are done in the general population and then people try and change the results like you know if if you take X Y or Z supplement or if you do this exercise protocol or if you eat that food um then you're going to change your biology ological age. That's where I get a little bit concerned. Um because that that realm uh is doesn't have a huge amount of strong evidence behind it. >> Yeah. Um Michael, so you've mentioned in your videos that you've been tracking like everything that you eat and your blood work for many years. So um what is your opinion on let's say blood work as a way to predict future health and longevity at least? What do you think about if you're tracking your blood work, what do you think you're doing for your own future health and >> Yeah. So, I should say blood work is a piece of the puzzle, but it's not the first piece of the puzzle. First piece of the puzzle is uh the the standards, diet, exercise, sleep, air quality, I mean uh water, water quality. uh I don't know that nobody knows how much of an impact trying to optimize your biomarkers through whatever method diet supplements etc hbot whatever the thing is nobody knows the the ROI on that so for me the top tier is um leanness low visceral fat um optimizing uh physical cognitive function all that stuff and then the question is though that only goes so far right because everyone that's ever lived has died. Functional decline comes for for us all. Almost nobody's escaping functional decline. So then the question becomes what's under the hood, right? So um to Brad's point, I started on this journey just measuring the standard chemistry panel and and uh complete blood count, which is a if you add HSP, now you're at an $80 test. So nothing fancy. um you know you've got information on kidney, liver, immune, metabolic health, inflammation etc. So even just starting there but not just focusing on the reference range because you can be in the reference range and your data getting worse over time and you're still in the reference range and you know you guys know this but for people who are watching maybe they don't. So um even just doing the basics is essential. Now, if you want to get into the more exotic stuff like metabolomics and whatever else, that that's that's a different layer of what's under the hood, some of that may also be noise versus signal because how much if you move metabolites up or down, how much is is that going to be relevant to four markers of established kidney function, you know, satin C, B2M, creatine, bon uric acid. So, um, anyway, so in terms of I don't know this long-winded answer, uh, in the biological age questions, it's I guess a story for later, but, um, I agree with Brad too about not trying to move numbers around. For me, this is about, uh, potentially optimizing health. And sure I could increase vitamin D from 45 to 75 nanome or reduce my biological age on the Bort's longevity clock which is as good as pheno age in a public published paper. Have I really done anything to my health? Right. So I'm not interested in doing stuff like that. I I'm trying to uh track trends over time and uh you know for things that are established. So that the biological age using pheno age or something like that. It's just a QC number but it's rate of change right? Can you flatten that rate of change over time? And if and if so, are you slowing aging? >> Mhm. Yeah. I guess you know an extreme example of it is uh diabetes. If you have very high blood sugar, so let's say your hemoglobin A1c is 6.5% uh then uh that is reasons to be concerned about uh your future health. Um and because but but if you move closer to more the normal ranges and let's say standard ranges then the um relationship between like a causal relationship with the blood marker and future longevity becomes a bit less clear. But in the extreme examples I guess you could pretty confidently say that you know very high blood sugar will deteriorate your health over time and you know the same with blood pressure. If your blood pressure is very high over time, then as Brad said, it it it's reasonable to consider that it will increase the risk of a stroke and uh dementia over time. >> Yeah. But I'm I'm I'm in the details, too. I'm example, you know, an HbA1c of 5.4 versus five, right? Sure. Five or four is still youthful. Um it's better than average for A-50-year-old, right? But if you move it, if you're able to move it with, you know, lifestyle related measures and again not I'm not art talking about artificially doing it because what do you what have you really done there? Have you fixed mechanism, right? So, but for five versus 5.4 or 5.2 versus 4, what's the rate of change where that HbA1c difference can impact things like the eye which is sensitive to glucose or hyper hypoglycemia? Even though 5.4% may not seem like a high amount, if it's not 5.2, too over a long enough period of time maybe you know you're pushing out the window of eye health and other systemic health but for me it's about how can I get on to the lowest the lowest rate of change over time you know what's that what's that recipe so >> you also have to balance it though like there's been say for my type 2 diabetic patients and this is somewhat changed now because we've got GLP-1 medications but when we previously had things like you just had you know insulin metformin um buildup medications like that to try and lower someone's A1c and obviously, you know, diet and weight loss advice. What what we actually found is that when you were dosing insulin to try and get the A1c down sort of fairly low, you'd actually cause more harm than good because what was happening is that a lot of these patients were having high pose as in their blood sugar levels were going too low and then they would fall over, etc. So our our targets in the clinical setting had to had to change. Um, and that's why we often accept slightly higher A1c's uh if patients are on insulin or if they're on glucoside. So there is that balance to strike. Now this is somewhat changed now because we've got GLP-1 medications and we can get a lot of patients off insulin. So so that argument kind of doesn't hold. But I that that example I think is important to highlight that if you if you try and target these biomarkers too much you can actually do unintended harm. >> Not just that not just to the specific biomarkers and organ systems that you're targeting. It may be stuff you're not thinking about like you know uh what's popular in the keto crowd is they'll cut their carbs their triglycerides and HDL will you know TGS will come down dramatically to quote unquote optimal levels and HDL will go up sometimes too high but um and anyway they'll site you know hey look at my TG to HDL ratio which is a measure of insulin insulin resistance or my heart disease risk is low because glucose is low and triglycerides are are are low. So, but then they'll forget about okay, what's the impact on kidney function or liver? So, you know, it's not just about optimizing one biomarker. It's it's what's the net systemic effect of whatever intervention it might be, whether it's pharma or whether it's trying to do it through diet and lifestyle, but looking at the comprehensive net. So, yeah. Yeah. I I think I mean I think what you guys are both saying is context matters and and one number by itself is not the whole story. And then that really is the framework or the lens that I think about blood work through is that it's one of the tools that we have to assess where a person is at currently in their health trajectory and what their future risk is. And so we should use all of those tools together. I I sort of think of this from a systems health perspective, right? and trying to really understand how the different systems within the body are functioning and interacting and using blood work as one of the signals that that we can get to to estimate that. Um, I think you know other tools in addition to blood work that are really valuable, Michael, you mentioned cognitive assessments. I think functional assessments, strength, mobility, flexibility, body composition by DEXA. All of those together can paint, I think, a very powerful picture of the individual. And I agree completely with one of the things that Brad said, which is that optimally we want to be measuring things that are informative and actionable. And so I, you know, I'm I'm a scientist by training. I'm not opposed to the measure everything approach in the research world. But I think in the the the world of healthcare, first of all, that's not pragmatic. And what we really want to do is understand what are the most informative biomarkers that we can measure and then how do we integrate all the different data types to understand what interventions are most likely to move the needle for that person. And then something I don't think we've talked about yet is measure again. So I'm a big fan of the philosophy measure, intervene, measure again, and then do that iterative iteratively in the hope that we'll see the biomarkers move in the direction that is consistent with better future health outcomes. So that's really the way I think about about blood work. The only other thing I'll I'll add to that is that, you know, blood work and other things that we can measure can be informative both for trying to optimize for future health outcomes, but also detecting existing disease or existing pre- disease. And so, you really want to know if somebody comes in at baseline with an existing disease, you want to be able to detect that and then take action to address that disease. I think blood work can be powerful in in both of those contexts. >> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. the chronic diseases are mostly diagnosed with certain uh blood markers because you know there is no diabetes virus in your body right so it's a it's mostly like a set of um blood markers and other symptoms that that tend to reflect poor insulin metabolism or glucose metabolism >> yeah and and and they can suggest future or or uh additional diagnostics right so for example we wouldn't necessarily diagnose cardiovascular disease by blood work but it can be suggestive and then you can go get future diagnostics to detect plaque burden as an example. >> Yeah. The only thing that I would add is uh tracking right so not just test intervene test again uh but even there it's like how often right because even with eight blood tests per year which I know probably seems seems outrageous to Brad but even with mo people who are testing a lot you know is once every two months really representative of full year average and then are you tracking things like rate of change doing it like that I mean granted things like the fitness metrics which we get every day blood pressure we can do every day the things we can measure every day will be most informative and easiest to to move the needle on. But the only thing that I would add to that whole recipe that Matt mentioned was uh uh you know tracking as many variables in conjunction with whatever biomarkers that you're measuring, right? Because if you you could say, well, I'm going to take this medication or I'm going to take this supplement, but you have to actually quotequote control the other variables in your life, right? So maybe your diet's a little bit different that that that period. And even though you're taking some intervention, whatever it may be, you've got some negative positive and negative effects going on. You did something, you know, uh, lifestyle-wise, and you're taking some pharm pharmaceutical or supplement, and they cancel cancel each other out, and you think nothing happens. So, you'd actually have to track, uh, variables in your life, whether it's diet, whether that's how much certain supplements, and then line it up with each of your biomarkers so that you can actually look at correlations over time. That's where the difficulty comes in for most people. It's uh you know which makes it even harder to to separate signal from noise unless you're going the hardcore farmer route which now you've got side effects that you maybe have to worry about. Right. So >> yeah. Yeah. Um I want to ask so um what would be maybe your top three most significant or useful biomarkers that um you you know like personally would uh consider tracking. Now, of course, it's a very uh narrow question, the only three biomarkers or blood markers um because there could be, you know, a lot more. But if you had to narrow it down to only three, which one uh would you choose? Maybe Brad can start. If I had to choose only three biomarkers, I don't actually know if any of them would be blood tests. I'd probably do things like weight, blood pressure, and then how the person is feeling themselves. I think those are probably the three most important. >> Um, >> blood work. >> Yeah. Then if if you had to look at at blood work itself, >> um, so I think a cholesterol panel is probably important, but again, if you had to pick one, you'd probably pick Apo B. Um, I'd probably want to get someone's kidney function. So if I had to pick one market, and again, I'm thinking about costs here as well. I'd probably just go cretinine. Um, and then if I had to pick another one, maybe full blood count, probably do those as the as the top three. Um, but obviously, you know, that that's quite a that's quite a limited range. But you can do a huge amount of uh you can do a huge amount for someone's health just with that information. If you've got their weight, their blood pressure, how they're feeling, and then those three blood biomarkers. Um, to to me, that's the bulk of what I do at the clinic. Oh, sorry. I I'd love to have an A1c, but um yeah, it it's tricky for me to pick three. Can I >> ask you a question? I I was sort of shaking my head when you said when you said creatinine. I know you said because of cost, but I'm I'm interested in your thoughts on cyatin C versus creatinine for a eGFR assessment. >> Yeah, it it it's a better test. It's just more costly. >> Yeah. Okay. So, that that was your rationale for picking creatinine. Yeah. Got it. >> Yeah. >> Gotcha. Uh what do you think then, Matt? Uh, well, I'm not going to repeat what Brad said, although I think those were good answers. Um, I mean, I think so, a couple of the areas that I think about I I for metabolic function, again, there's there A1c is is obviously great. I think without insulin, you you lose a lot of information. So, I would put insulin on the list. um you know one area and this is hard to limit it to three that I think is is and this is also from my personal experience experience but um for women definitely and for middle-aged men I think hormones are super important so you know which three would you measure if you had to limit it to three I'm I'm not going to go there but I think that's an area that is not considered as much as it should be for overall quality of life in in particular during middle I'd push back on that as a screen. >> That's fine. We can have a conversation. But you're thinking at Well, I think we could have a conversation about population versus individual, but I would still be willing to argue with you about the idea that at the population level measuring hormones is uh I think it's worth it. >> So, okay. So, so let let's start with testosterone then for for men um what so the the clinical guidelines would say if you are clinically worried that someone may have hypoganism um as in they they don't have great muscle mass they're struggling with erections maybe mood um you know maybe you know smaller testicles than what you would expect then doing the um testing for testosterone is a a good thing to do. Um, but outside of that, just doing it for a otherwise healthy person, most people or most men, their testosterone levels would be absolutely fine if they are a healthy weight and they're exercising. So, I'm I'm just not convinced that there's a clinical utility of just general screening for testosterone. And again, the clinical guidelines reflect that. >> Yeah. So I guess my response would be I I kind of agree that total testosterone is not a particularly useful biioarker to begin with. Um and I would suggest first of all I don't know that it's actually true that uh the average let's say 65year-old man who is a healthy weight and exercises regularly is going to have uh hormone that are what I would consider optimal for that individual. I think there's a lot we actually don't know about what that what what percentage of men undergo uh dysregulation of their hormones that that impairs their ability to maintain a healthy body composition and bo bone density and muscle mass. I think we don't know the answers to that. I understand what you're saying. The guidelines are based on population recommendations and are often out ofd. So, so I personally, and we've had this conversation before, am not a big fan of blindly following guidelines. Um, I think at the individual level, assessing hormones in the context of additional information, uh, including talking to the individual and understanding what their experience is actually provides a lot of value. >> Yeah. So, so guidelines are guidelines, right? that they're not hard and fast rules that you absolutely have to um to always adhere to, but they are written and and and I think I think it is a fallacy that the clinical guidelines are out of date. One of the reasons why GLP-1 medications for weight loss really started to kick off is that as soon as the clinical trial data came through, guideline databases like upto-date.com immediately published and and we we all got the alerts that this paper had hap um had happened, there was now good evidence to be recommending GLP-1 medications for non-diabetics to help patients lose weight and and so doctors immediately could get behind it. And I think that along with Tik Tok is one of the reasons why it really kicked on. So I I I sort of push back about the concept that the clinical guidelines are out of date. Yes, if you look at textbooks, they're going to be out of date, but online clinical guideline databases, I'm I'm not sure about that. >> And in terms of um you know, maintaining muscle mass, I I I think we well the way that the clinical guidelines are written, I think we do have enough evidence. So um to show that if if a if an older person who doesn't exercise, if they start exercising, they can most of them will gain muscle mass. And I think it's the ones that don't, those are the ones that you Yeah, maybe we do need to be testing their testosterone levels, but then you've got a clinical justification to do it. So I I'm just not Yeah, I I'm not convinced that populationwide testosterone testing is a good idea. I agree it should be individualized and and again, that's what the clinical guidelines would say. I'm just not convinced that everyone needs it. I've certainly not got mine done. >> Well, and again, I I as I alluded to, I don't think total testosterone is maybe that's not what you're talking about. That's why I think limiting it to three biomarkers is tricky, right? But there but and part of this would be a data gathering exercise. If we were to actually look at hormones as a comprehensive picture across the population with age, my intuition is certainly in women, we know that you're going to see massive dysregulation in every woman at some point, right? Um, and my intuition is we would see a similar thing in men and and we would learn from that and that most men can benefit from some sort of and I I agree with you completely. lifestyle. So, diet, exercise, sleep quality, all of those things are going to impact your hormonal health status and your metabolic health status and it's all tied together. Um, but my point is we don't look because it is the perception that there is nothing to see and and my intuition is that's a mistake in in men and we know it's true in women. So, what about women? Would you also say that there's no reason to do hormonal testing in women? >> Well, no, there is. If you're worried about someone who's might be undergoing early menopause, that's what the clinical guidelines. But before before we dive on to that, let's finish up with with men. So we do have the testosterone trials and we do have the traverse trial. Both of which were >> somewhat underwhelming in terms of when you've got clinically diagnosed hypoganadism as in they've got symptoms and they've got low levels of testosterone. When you start giving those men testosterone that yes, there were some improvements, but they weren't drastic improvements. And and I think that's one of the reasons why the clinical guidelines are kind of dragging their feet a little bit on this because there's not a great clinical justification um for again just generalized testing and then to give people testosterone level uh testosterone replacement therapy if they're within that normal range cuz we yeah there's just not that strong a clinical justification for it based on the evidence that we have. Yeah, we can um talk about the hormones later or continue with it later. But yeah, I guess the point is that um with testosterone there's a a bit more nuance to it compared to yeah like APOB or the fasting insulin which have a much stronger relationship with poor health outcomes in the future. >> So and andropause is a real thing. Now, I'm not gonna I'm not going to jump on the testosterone hype train because it seems like everybody and their grandmother is measuring testosterone as the big bad wolf of biomarkers, but andropause, what I mean by andropause is not just testo testosterone, but almost everything in that pathway that's made from cholesterol, um, androin dione, you know, uh, epi epiandro sterones like progesterone, pregnant, pregnenolone, pregnnenolones. uh I I've had the fortune of being a part of a few metabolomic studies, longitudinal cross-sectional uh metabolomic studies that include a wide age range and uh the dominant signal of what declines during aging are androgens. So I'm not saying it's specific to testosterone, but for me uh DHEA sulfate is on my radar as one of them. I think measuring one of at least in that pathway during if the goal is to uh track some measure of androgenic status um I'm not saying it's t testosterone I'm not saying it's dha or dha self but but you want to make sure and again I'm in a different boat from Brad here I'm interested in the high achievers the health optimizers are attempting to right it there's a difference in mindset there from you know the the person who comes in and they're overweight and they're out of shape and they kind of want to use pharma to to do stuff, right? So, um, if the goal is to slow and andropause, you've got to measure something or a few things in that pathway. >> Uh, so wait, so my three, can I give my three? >> Yeah. >> So, the uh prevent what's going to kill you is, you know, and the top cause of death or top two cause of death is CBD, right? So, uh, so I'd include AOB to Brad's point, but um there's a paper that was recently published. Um, so so not all lipoproteins are equally aogenic. VLDLDL is four to 5x more based on mandelian randomization studies. Uh VLDLDL is four to 5x more and lipoprotein A is six to 7x more than LDL. So there's a paper that was just published I don't know last month uh where uh April B plus VLDL and lipoprotein A they derived an equation from UK bio bank. They replicated that equation in a few other cohorts and that was a uh more stronger predictor of coronary heart disease risk than uh LDL non HDL cholesterol and April B alone. So if the goal was to not die from heart disease and that gives you a little bit more time to measure some of the other biomarkers that would be ap lipoprotein A uh VLDLDL and if your if your lipoprotein A is super low less than 10 animal would basically forget about it. Uh but if it's higher than that, I'd say track it often. Even though the the the standard published idea that it it's genetically determined and you can't move it, false. Uh I have I have data 35 blood tested that is false. So um but if it's super low, then you've got an extra biomarker you can measure something else. >> Yeah. So yeah, I mean it depends a lot on the age and the potential family history and things like that that would make the person interested or more worried about certain biomarkers. If someone has even a lot of heart disease family history then of course they would be more concerned with heart disease markers and if like a female is uh closer to menopause or uh around the age of menopause then yeah measuring estrogen for them can also be one of the bigger priorities. So yeah, that's uh context that matters at the end of the day. >> Yeah. Um same, can I can I just add add one thing to what Michael said? I again I agree completely with with the the the biomarkers that Brad and Michael picked. So I wouldn't want to suggest that they're not they're not important to measure, but when it comes to cardiovascular disease, so there's the biomarkers are useful in a couple of ways, right? One is you can you can if you see say high apo, you can take steps to to reduce that, right? You can you can you can take steps and then measure and see if you've actually accomplished that. But the other is it can be suggestive. It doesn't it doesn't prove that you've got significant cardiovascular disease. You that can be a an impetus to then go do the followon assessments to actually measure soft plaque and and calcified plaque and things like that. So biomarkers can be useful for in a couple of different ways in that context. >> Yeah, absolutely. And another fun question uh would be one misleading or confusing biomarker. So, what do you think is creates this um false idea about someone's >> health or creatinine? >> I got a better one. I got a better one. And I actually that's not the what what I thought was going to be what uh you were going to say, but >> I just said it cuz Brad said creatinine. >> Oh, that's >> but I got another one. >> And if you and if you take creatine, it actually can boost creatinine and make it look like you have bad kidney function. >> Epigenetic tests. >> Oh, yeah. >> Right. any any quote unquote biological age test that claims to measure biological age, but epigenetics are particularly challenging. >> Yeah. Yeah. Maybe we touch upon the creatinine. So why did you pick that? >> Oh, because because if you take creatine, it can in fact raise creatinine levels and make it look like you have lower kidney function than you actually do. That that's >> Yeah. And I think muscle and exercise as well. If you have higher muscle mass and you exercise then you can have higher levels. Yeah. But it's not a terrible biomarker. It I not think of a worse biomarker than than uh creatinine. I don't know. >> Yeah. You know what what I think is that you know if you're you have more muscle and you exercise then your creatinine may be a little bit higher, right? But it shouldn't be very high. It shouldn't be above the reference range. If it's above the reference range then it should you should try to get it lower. I think >> I don't want to see >> I I I can tell you when I I I when I first started taking creatine again, my creatinine was above the reference range and I know it was the creatine because as soon as I stopped it went back down >> when my cistatin C said my eGFR was fantastic. So at least for me in that context, unless it was a spurious lab reading, but I've heard of enough other enough other people that happened to that I I'm pretty sure it was it was the the creatine. uh total testosterone is worse than than creatinine as a as a biioarker because it's completely uninformative by itself, >> right? Yeah. So, >> and just to tie up the conversation about creatinine, so this is one of the reasons why um creatine supplements, there was such a scare about, you know, are they damaging kidneys and whatnot. >> Um and now we've got, you know, long-term data showing that it it doesn't. So, um people, if you're watching this, so long as you don't have, you know, really bad kidney disease, um creatine is fine for your kidneys. What do you think is your biomarker red? >> It's tricky because most of my patients at the clinic um they they don't they're not part of you know quote unquote the longevity community. Um most of them are you know just regular people who um you know sort of trust in in the tests that that we just I don't I don't actually have that many conversations uh with people in real life about you know biological age clocks and and things like that but on online I do. Um, and that's why I brought it up at this at, you know, near the beginning of this podcast is the biological age tests. Um, again, that they're interesting research tools, but I wouldn't be making any uh, you know, diet or exercise or supplement decisions based on those results. >> Yeah, I think that's a good good idea. The only thing I would push back on that is that uh like for example pheno age which has you know nine clinical chemistry biomarkers you're actually measuring real things >> and if you measure it enough over time because they're actual biomarkers you can track some measure of rate of change in at least those nine biomarkers. To Matt's point are you really 15 years younger or 20 years younger? Debatable. Is your is your health going to be better? It should be based on all cause mortality to risk and a bunch of other studies. I mean phenage is heavily studied in the published literature. It's not like >> tally health or some of these others where it's one publication and then disappears. They never use it ever again or some of these CPG clocks that have three CPGs and it's only in the publication then they sell it as a you know to consumers and then it's like who knows how good or not that it is. But for something like pheno age where you're actually actually measuring biomarkers and you're looking at rate rate of change of those biomarkers over time at least you're measuring some amount of uh inherent biology that may or not be changing over time whether that's the actual age it's a cut number but uh >> you know >> yeah the pheno >> I agree >> yeah has like glucose ERP creatinine ALP a few other like liver and the kidney markers. So it yeah like as m said it looks at direct biology and uh has a lot of more relationship with some health outcomes than some >> if your fetal age is increasing over time and you know albamin's decreasing and glucose is increasing something's wrong you're doing something wrong like you know it can give you insight into uh potential things to move the needle in the right direction so as long as you're not doing it like artificially >> I I would just add to that and and I was going to mention I think line age too is it's a same similar kind of test, right? Has has more parameters but is mostly clinical chemistry or urine uh blood or urine uh biomarkers. And the nice thing about those tests is they are potentially actionable. To to your point, Michael, if you know what the biomarkers are that are changing your score in the wrong direction, we through decades of medicine know with some degree of certainty how to move those biomarkers in the direction that's predicted to reduce mortality. And uh I appreciate how precise you were trying to be in your your language, Michael, because that's that's really my problem with the biological age test is none of them measure biological age. They're all measuring other things and they're indirectly estimating mortality risk which is correlated to biological age. >> Yeah. >> I want to take a break to invite you to our online community called Youth Span Society. You Society is an evidence-based online community on school where we have a ton of different online courses and many courses on health optimization, longevity, and anti-aging. Starting with things like exercise, fitness, body composition, and ending with things like skin care, sleep, and nutrition. Youth Span Society just launched three of the introductory courses. A 7-day free longevity Kickstarter challenge, a 14-day body composition challenge, and a 30-day longevity consistency challenge. You can join the community for free for 7 days and cancel anytime. In addition to the courses, you'll get access to the online discussion board where you can ask questions from me and other members of the community. We have live weekly calls where we discuss new research, talk about our most cutting edge protocols for anti-aging and longevity and just answer questions. So if you like my videos and you want to learn more, then our online community, Youth Society is the best place to do so. Check out the link in the description and start the challenge. Right. Uh now we can move on with some specific areas of biomarkers or categories. So uh let's start with lipids. Now I think uh we I think we probably agree with the general framework that uh the apo and some of these other athogenic particles are um causally related to uh heart disease and aththeroscerosis. So um at least that's my impression based on the discussion so far. Maybe let's start with um APOB. So why is that a good biomarker to measure and why is it as Michael said better than um some of these other like LDL? Um maybe Brad can start. Yes. Apo B covers the total particle count that has that could contribute to um you know plaque developing in your blood vessels. It's a tricky one though because say in in my clinical practice here in Oakland, New Zealand, it it's the government that pays for um the blood tests and if you add on APOB, it immediately doubles the cost. So it's actually relatively rare that a patient would pay for APOB in terms of the patients that I see in the clinic. Most of the time we're just relying on a standard lipid panel because it is cheaper. Um and you know that there are certain instances where LDL cholesterol doesn't correlate particularly well with APOB. Um but it is relatively rare that that happens. Um so most of the time you can make clinical decisions um and and reasonable clinical decisions based on a standard lipid lipid panel. But if a patient was going to pay for, you know, an extra blood test, APOB would be probably the first one that that I would suggest that they get. >> M especially especially if you're using non-HDL cholesterol as a proxy for April B. I mean, that can get pretty close, but it it doesn't take into account and I get the extra cost, but April B is pretty cheap to get it's it's the clinic. People don't want to pay even an extra $20. I don't know what it is in uh in New Zealand, but um but yeah, I I've recently been deep diving on April B and just the uh you know, you can have someone with an AP of 70 or lower, which is quote unquote optimal, but if all of your LDL within that context comes from lipoprotein A, knowing that lipoprotein A is more agroenic than LDL, you're going to have a higher risk even though April B is less than 70. So, I'm more in the weeds these days with things like that. You know, trying to make sure that the uh more aogenic parts of April B are as low as they can be that my genetics will allow. But, you know, this is this is details. You know, for most people, just get your APO be less than 70, you'll be good. Where whereas I'm trying to trying to move every little lever. >> Yeah. So, Brad, you you mentioned that there is a pretty tight correlation between LDL and APOB levels. In what circumstances is it not so? Like when when is it not? >> It it can be when people have got fairly high um you know A1c or they've got metabolic syndrome. Um it it can yeah be misleading if you just rely on LDL cholesterol. You can sometimes undersshoot as in you may have a a normal LDL cholesterol but your APOB is still relatively high. Um so yeah that's that's one instance. Um it's yeah it this is somewhat changing though because of the GLP-1 medications again. Um because if you these medications now that we can get a lot of people off insulin we can get their A1c into a normal range and and in a healthy weight um it it's becoming rarer that the discordance between APOB and say nonHDL cholesterol um is a big deal. Um, again, if you still um had to pick one marker, APOB is the one. But um it I I think with how medicine is is changing, I I think it's becoming less of a of an issue. Gotcha. Yeah. So, if someone has normal blood sugar, then uh high LDL for them might be indicative of high APOB as well more so than someone who has high blood sugar >> generally speaking. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I mean, I think again it's important to to appreciate all of these biomarkers individually are are going to be correlated or predictors of of your risk, but none of them are are definitive. And I mean, I think unfortunately this leads to some of the misinformation out there that tries to, you know, the people who try to say LDL has nothing to do with cardiovascular disease, right? because in a small subset of people you can see a dissociation to the correlation for reasons that Brad alluded to or for dietary reasons and and things like that or even genetic predispositions. So um there is no biioarker that's going to be 100% perfect for predicting your cardiovascular disease risk, but there are a probably the best we've got right now if you had to to pick one. I I think and I I sounds like you guys would agree with that. in in terms of blood. Yes. But if someone's >> Yeah. Right. >> Yeah. Um but yeah, if if you're focusing on, you know, other things like, you know, blood pressure and things as well, you'd probably say that a blood a sky-high blood pressure is probably more an imminent risk compared to a sky-high APOB. >> Sure. >> Yeah. And I guess it's also a matter of um minimizing risk. So, as Michael said, heart disease is the number one cause of death. And um if you want to live longer then um you know managing your heart disease risk will have the one of the highest ROIs at least in the general population because most people will die to some form of cardiovascular disease. So yeah, it's just about >> minimizing the risk and even if even if some people don't develop heart disease with high hippo bead like do you want to take the risk right you don't you never know if you have the good genes uh so it's about just pract um rational risk management I think >> one of the other oh sorry you guys go on >> yeah well wait one of your earlier points seem family history starting there right maybe CBD is not the top cause of death in your family history maybe cancer maybe you had relatives who in their 30s with cancer, right? I've been looking at cancer markers or inflammatory markers that associate with cancer, right? Things that are relatively easy to measure, TNF alpha, IL6, HSCP, uh, which, you know, go pretty much skyh high during cancer. So, um, you know, family history and starting there from whatever biomarker journey that, you know, you might want to be on, um, would be a good start. >> Yeah. Uh, what about HDL? So um that's considered or people call it the good cholesterol. Uh obviously this can be a bit more nuanced than that but uh what do you think about uh HDL as a biomarker? Maybe Brad can start again. >> It it can be useful in other calculations. So, for example, if you're working out your non-HDL cholesterol, it, you know, it's useful then. Um, but you know, there were, if memory serves, I think in the 2000s, there were a couple of studies looking at drugs that raised HDL cholesterol and because it was thought that it was the good cholesterol that it would be picking up um, you know, cholesterol from your blood vessels and and um, taking it back um, and or taking it out and those trials failed. Um, so that's why there's not a lot of excitement in the clinical world, you know, about adjusting HDL. Um, again, it's useful if you're working out someone's non-HDL cholesterol, but looking at HDL by itself as a biomarker, it's not that useful. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And again, I think it's this just comes back to the to the idea that the context matters, right? you really need to to there are very probably very few blood-based biomarkers that by themselves are you know extremely informative. Apo I would put in the category of one that individually is quite informative. Um but in general a lot of these biomarkers you really have to know the context in order to be able to really understand what it means and even then it's a it's a probabilistic understanding. >> Yeah. Uh Michael you mentioned that earlier the high HDL can also be uh harmful. So can you elaborate a bit on that? >> Yeah. So so I wouldn't I wouldn't say a given biioarker is more or less important than others. You know for me I have a different lens where I'm thinking about this in terms of uh how do they change during aging and how do they associate with risk of death for all causes. So um HDL declines during aging you know so if your HDL was 55 and now it's 45 and then maybe it gets to 40 where there's a J-shaped curve for HDL less than 40 increased risk above 70 increased risk. So, um, if you're on that age related trajectory, you know, now granted, this doesn't get this is a different story than the clinic, right? This is for me, it's about age related change. Uh, but making sure you're avoiding age related change and staying away from being too low or quote unquote too high. Um, now could someone have a 75, you know, 75 milligrams per deciliter, you know, and and be close to optimal with other variables? Yeah. But, uh, to Matt's point, you know, context does matter. I mean if your if your HDL is 50 and it's and everything else looks beautiful I mean maybe change nothing right so um it's not just about chasing numbers in a in a in a study of 16 million people it's also the full context of you know is is your data declining during aging um things like that >> that's tricky though because that's when you can start to run into reverse causation >> if it's your own data how do you mean >> so say if you measured your HDL cholesterol and you noticed that it started to decline. So, you wanted to try and do something about that. >> Y I'm not convinced that whatever you'd specifically be doing to raise your HDL cholesterol would actually give you a a longer life or a healthier life. >> Yeah. Nobody knows. Nobody knows if that would be the case. And by the way, let's acknowledge my pit stains. I sweat like a machine. Somebody's going to yell at me on >> Seems making you sweat on the podcast. >> No, I'm totally relaxed. That's the crazy thing. my armpits just um no I honestly Brad I don't know how much of an ROI in terms of health or lifespan you would get but um I try to air on the side of caution right and you know uh even if it's a 10% difference or a 5% difference in CBD or other uh risk uh I' I'd want to avoid the age related change uh if there's an age related change and the diet and everything else is exactly the same it suggests that something has gone on physiologically that is potentially bad news now maybe that doesn't manifest right away but over time. Now, in terms of reverse causation, that's that's it's good that you raised that because um you know, in many of these epidemiological studies, and that's where I think there are a lot of people out there that put out information and it's it it's it ends up being misinformation because they are uninformed about how models that are evaluating biomarkers in association with outcomes um need to account for as many variables as possible in that association. For example, there are a lot of studies showing that low LDL is associated with an increased all-c cause mortality risk, not decreased. Then you have other studies that show the opposite. Right? So for example, 80-year-olds who have low total cholesterol have an increased all-c cause mortality risk relative to 80-year-olds who have higher, right? So um if the model that looked at that association didn't account for factors that can reduce LDL coorbidities uh you know for example like liver disease or cancer cexia which are prominent in 80-year-olds then it's going to look like an 80-year-old who has liver disease low cholesterol and uh andor cancer cexia they're going to be sick they've got a comorbid condition that's got low LDL right so uh that's I guess what when I think about reverse causation something like that but if it's within your own data and your data when you were 25 for HDL was 60 and now you're 55 and it's 44 and your diet is the same your body weight is the same and everything else is pretty much the same some physiological mechanism has gone on that has led to some amount of aging whether it's the liver or whatever and you know I I wouldn't look at it pharmacologically to raise it I would look at you know what is the endogenous recipe to try to restore that while keeping everything else as youthful as you can systemically. >> Yeah, the age related change is a good point because uh a lot of the blood markers do change with age or at least we see that in the general population that like insulin sensitivity gets worse with age, lipids gets worse with age, inflammation tends to rise with age and um you know you can find things like HIV drops etc. So if if you are you know living so that the general population doesn't really have a optimized healthy lifestyle in terms of they don't exercise that regularly they might do it every once in a while they might have a more uh less restrictive diet etc. So in them you can see that if blood their lifestyle is the same pretty much all the time but there is this worsening of certain biomarkers uh during aging over the course of 5 10 years. So uh that might be a signal that okay I can't eat that much processed food or sugar as I was able to do that in 10 years ago or something like that that can be like um signal to change that lifestyle and they might reverse this decline in their HDL if they start to exercise more they start to eat a better diet so they can reverse this age related trend. Uh, I guess that could be like a gza. >> I think it's a good point that Brad's measuring, which is there are no published studies. Nobody knows what the ROI on that is. Do you get how many years of disease prevention or longevity or any of that? How many years do you get? Nobody knows, right? So, I'm not waiting around to find out. >> So, I think it depends though, right? Like if if someone's using that as motivation to exercise more or to have a healthier diet, happy days. That's wonderful. Um, but I I don't I don't necessarily I I don't think that in of itself, you know, raising or lowering HDL is going to have a huge clinical impact. >> Um, so if it's one biomarker, I agree. But if the goal is to do that with as many biomarkers of as many organ systems as possible, uh, and when you think about aging as a biochemical process that happens aging and disease of decades, right? So if your if your biomarkers are literally the same at 20 than they are at 70 or 80, your physiological function and your body composition and hearing, eyesight, whatever it may be, is all the same in conjunction with those youthful biomarkers. Have you discovered something for actually slowing your rate of aging? Because your biomarkers are everything is literally the same 50 years later. Now imagine the person who doesn't track any of that stuff and they're on that age related decline. Now the biomarkers probably also look aged, right? So I I'm looking at it a little bit differently. You know, I >> But again, if people if people are using that as motivation for a healthy diet or for exercise, then wonderful. I'm just not convinced that you need those biomarkers for that motivation, right? So let's take kidney decline for instance. All of our kidney function is declining with age. Like and there will be different rates of that declining, but that it is declining nonetheless from about the age of 30 to 35. Um, so yes, we want to try and slow that decline and we want to, you know, make sure that our blood pressure is under tight control and we're exercising, we're having a good diet, etc. Um, but I I I don't necessarily think that you need such rigorous testing of your kidney function every couple of months. Um, unless you're using it for motivation to stick to a healthy diet. >> I don't I don't know that it would say it's motivation, even though that is a part of it. the the motivation is I want my aging rate to be as slow as physically poss uh flatlined right so how much how much lifespan and health health span extension will I get I don't know but um yeah that's how I see it >> yeah I think you know you don't necessarily need to test um if you just adopt a healthy lifestyle and you do the exercise and a good diet >> I would push back on that I I I don't I mean I I I don't think that's accurate I mean I I I think what Brad is saying makes perfect sense, right? If you're thinking about this at the population level, it does not make sense for everybody to do comprehensive blood testing every two months. For for an individual, if you really want to know and who's especially somebody who's doing a lot of different interventions, you really want to know are those interventions having an impact one direction or the other, having a a a a higher cadence of measurement could provide value. it. Again, my intuition is every 2 months is probably not going to provide that much value, but it could. If something's going off the rails, you can catch it early. You can catch drift early, right? Which is one of the things that that people are monitoring for. But this idea that if you live a healthy lifestyle, everything's going to be hunky dory and nothing's ever going to go wrong. Like, that's just not the way it works in the real world. >> That's not what I'm saying either, Matt. >> No, I know you're not. That's what Seam said. Or I mean, he didn't mean it, but that's the way it sounded. And so I'm just trying to make the point that um that that it's still important to monitor your health status in a variety of ways, I think, and try to get your lifestyle as dialed in as as is as is reasonable for you given your goals and your current situation. Um but I I I would not want to suggest that just because you're doing everything right that you're going to your biomarkers are going to be perfect and and you're never going to get sick and nothing's ever going to go wrong. That that's just not the way biology works. But I don't think anyone's well I hope no one's sort of arguing for that. >> I don't think that's what seam meant but it is kind of what he said and I think some people do believe that and so it's important to be explicit. That's all. >> Yeah. I was I was mentioning that that it's uh you know more likely that it's going to be more normal. >> Uh >> and that's true. It's probabilistic. Yeah. So I'm looking at it as early detection potentially early detection by so for me that every two and to Matt's point you know it I don't expect everybody to do this uh it's maybe a small segment of the population will want to do it. Um and I'm happy I'm that is it is it is what it is. If you fast forward you know 100 years ago the the phone was on a wire and very few people had one right and you fast forward we all have phones. I think you fast forward enough in time, the proportion of people who were will care about uh things like bio biomarker optimization and what is the precision exercise or diet or supplement approach based on objective data. It's only a matter of time before that's a real thing. I mean, I don't know if you guys have seen the movie Gatka, but in Gatka, it's like everything is precise. So, for me, it's about early detection if I can. That's why I'm measuring so often. I'd measure I I would measure blood tests even more if I wasn't worried about, you know, looking like a heroin addict or my veins collapsing over time. Who knows how many times I can poke my veins and then it's enough, right? But so I'm I'm I'm in it for potentially early detection, but then also this idea of precision health, right? So studies are going to be coming out slowly over the next few years claiming to uh be able to, you know, have a precision diet or whatever it may be, precision medicine. Uh but the fact is in order to get on that road you need a lot of data a lot of your own data um and not relying on studies and other people. So that's a part of what I do which is you know how much fat should I eat? How much fiber should I eat? You know, sure I can jack up fiber to 120 grams per day. Is that but is that really optimal for the full net biomarkers and everything else, right? So, I want to know what the recipe is for how many days a week should I exercise for? How long at what intensity and how many days does it take to recover based on objective metrics, right? So, for me, it's not just about quotequote biomarkers. It's how can I optimize my existence, you know? And then again, what that translates into in terms of health and longevity, who knows? But uh I don't see a better way to do it other than just guess. You know what I mean? So >> yeah, I think this this this will get easier over time. So the ability to track and test things. So um yeah you know pre- AAI and uh pre- internet pre apps it was a lot harder to do that kind of thing which is you know obviously going to be a very limiting factor for the general population but hopefully it will get easier over time and the more uh I guess advanced the data collection becomes and the better you know conclusions we can also make but yeah we're moving on with the blood sugar markers so um Matt mentioned insulin and hemoglobin A1c so Um, why do you why do you think those markers matter? >> Well, I I mean I think they matter because metabolic dysfunction is probably one of the core drivers of a whole bunch of chronic diseases and and disability. And so being able to catch metabolic perturbations as early as possible and address those is probably at least for most Americans one of the most important things that we can do to help people improve their health. And so I think they're just good biomarkers, inexpensive, relatively non-invasive, easy ways to assess metabolic function. There are other biomarkers that are in informative and important in that domain as well. Uh I think Brad maybe Brad somebody mentioned visceral atapose right so being able to assess visceral atapose in people is a good way to assess metabolic health as well. Um so that that I mean that's why they're important and uh and we know what to do in many ways to address metabolic health. Brad's mentioned GLP1s a couple of times already. Those are those are great drugs. We have other tools outside of lifestyle that we can use if lifestyle isn't enough or if people are not going to lean into the lifestyle components necessary to improve metabolic health. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of similar to obesity that it drives up pretty much every disease risk, the high blood sugar and insulin resistance. >> Yeah. I'd be interested in Michael's views on and and Brad's views as well. I mean I I don't think again it's difficult to prove that uh uh diabetes and and and metabolic dysfunction accelerates biological aging but I think you can make a pretty plausible argument that that's the case which then it follows that almost every major chronic disease um and functional decline that goes along goes along with aging would onset at an accelerated rate. >> Yeah. Well, just look at hard outcomes for instance like with say with um you know heart attacks, strokes um they all go up with diabetes. So I think that in of itself is motivation to control blood sugar levels. >> Yeah. >> The only the only thing that I would add is uh just in terms of things like insulin, insulin follows a uh inverse U shape during aging. So low in youth peak somewhere in the early 30s actually not later. And then very old age you know beta cell dysfunction and beta cell failure it's low again. Right. So, >> yeah, >> somebody only measuring insulin and not things like HbA1c as a longer term measure, um, they may be misled, right? So, they may think their low insulin is a good thing, good thing. So, um, I actually place little value on insulin for that reason. And, you know, >> insulin sensitivity, I think, is really what we're talking about. >> Yes. So, with that 2-hour glucose, I've been measuring that a lot lately. I know I know Brad, I hear you. Most people aren't going to do it. I'm a different breed. Uh so >> so you you're consuming this uh 75 g of glucose or >> No, no, just playing around with my meals and different foods at different times, thinking about circadian uh rhythm in terms of insulin sensitivity at different times, morning versus afternoon, trying to move things around in the diet to see if I can optimize that. What will that translate into in terms of health or anything else? I don't know, but you know, uh trying to you know, minimize risk. >> Yeah. What what do you think about this fluctuations in the blood sugar with a CGM? How uh like important is that and how does it I guess uh affect future health outcomes compared to things like the hemoglobin A1c and the general insulin sensitivity. >> Yeah. So you would expect that a higher average daily glucose with a CGM would be associated with higher HB1C over time. I haven't looked into that data uh to know for sure, but um I'm think I'm not the guy that will say have no glucose spikes, but also, you know, I don't want my glucose spike after a meal to be up and then take six hours to come back to baseline, right? So, um yeah, that that's how I'm thinking about. >> But the CGMs, I had a hard time. I bumped into a wall, knocked it off. I had a hard time getting them to stick in my arm after that two or three times and I just gave up. So now I'm on finger pricks, you know, pink cushion, pink cushion fingers. >> So yeah. Yeah, I would only add on on CGMs. I mean, I think CGMs are a are useful educational tools in addition to potentially, you know, information you can get about your metabolic health. You don't need to use a CGM to get information about your metabolic health. But I think I have yet to find a a tool um to assess metabolic health that has such a an and and potentially educational impact and behavior modifying impact as CGM when it's done well as part of a uh an educational program because people can't really unlearn what they learn about how the food that they're putting in their body is impacting their metabolism and their their metabolic health when they see it in in real time. So, for that reason, I like CGM. But I think again, context is super important. And I think unfortunately CGM has gotten a little bit of a bad name because there were companies that went direct to consumer, didn't give people very good education or made claims about how every glucose spike is bad. Oh my god, you're going to get diabetes. And so, a lot of consumers were misled in the way that the tool was used. But I think I think they can be useful for non-diabetics for that reason. >> Yeah. What do you think about bread? >> Oh, no. Go ahead, Mike. >> Yeah. The only thing that I would add is uh I think um some people may SCGM is intended to be intended to be a short-term thing. So, I think uh for those who are interested in optimizing long term, right? you know, maybe they eat a specific diet or take specific supplements in youth or at some age and then they they see their CGM data, they make the changes that they want to make, they see some CGM improvements, their average daily heart rate comes down over that period and then they forget about the CGM and glucose data forever, right? But the fact is aging is a moving target. You know, at some point in the future, whether it's 5, 10, 15, 20 years, the recipe that work for your optimal, you know, uh, insulin sensitivity at some younger age may not be the same at 55 or 60 or 65. and they may need to repeat a CGM and then see what is the actual recipe for getting you to the optimal insulin sensitivity at that age. Right? And it may be different from uh before and you may not be able to move the needle like you did before. Now you may need some things like you know the prescriptions and metformin and other things. Uh so right yeah Brad um how do you approach it in your clinical practice? >> So for type two diabetic patients and for pre-diabetics it's a wonderful tool. It helps people yeah figure out which types of foods is you know is causing you know blood sugar level spikes or which you know potential foods they should be avoiding. And it's actually quite motivating for them as well if if they can see if they eat quite a large meal and then their um CGM shows that their blood sugar levels are taking ages to come down that's you know uh quite triggering for patients to say actually I need to cut down on the amount of food that I'm eating. Um, so in in those clinical aspects or instances, it's really useful for non-diabetic patients. I've just seen it do more harm than good. I've seen patients come in who have started to avoid bananas and apples and oats um because they have a sudden spike in their um continuous glucose monitor and so they avoid those foods. Um I'm yeah I I've I've not come across any solid evidence that it's beneficial. So in my view that yeah the harms outweigh the good uh for non-diabetics. >> Can I just ask about that? So I I I agree with you there is no solid evidence that that it's beneficial. I guess the question I would ask is is it necessarily a harm if people are replacing bananas and apples and oats with with you know broccoli or other healthy foods that don't cause a glucose spike. So I would just I understand what you're saying and I appreciate the point especially if it's creating anxiety in people. I'm just not sure that's harmful depending on what people are substituting those foods that do cause a glucose spike uh with. And then the other point that I thought of when you said this is is um you said diabetics and pre-diabetics. And I'm thinking, you know, maybe it's different in New Zealand, but if you went out into the average American, there's probably A-50% chance that person is going to fall into the category of of diabetic or pre-diabetic. So it's maybe a bigger population here where those tools are going to have that sort of impact that that you're talking about. >> Yeah. So there's a lot of diabetics here in New Zealand as well and it's pleasing that the government has started to fund CGMs for um for type two diabetics. So for type ones it was um you know we've had that funding for ages but for type 2 it's only relatively recent that this has started. Um and and you're right you know there's the the prevalence of pre-diabetes and type two diabetes is is huge. Um but you know with A1 with HbA1c we can screen for that fairly effectively. I'm just not sure that you needed a continuous glucose monitor to make that diagnosis. >> Sure. I think a big problem is a misconception about what is optimal blood sugar spike necessarily isn't a bad thing. It's more about if the blood sugar goes up and it stays elevated for many hours like Michael alluded to. If the blood sugar goes up then it comes down then is not necessarily more indication of you know diabetes or insulin resistance. It just means that blood sugar goes up >> and it comes down if you have enough insulin to lower the blood sugar. So it's actually a healthy thing for your body to you know lower the blood sugar fast relatively faster than to have it elevated for you know 5 6 hours afterwards. So that's if the blood sugar stays elevated for you know 6 hours then you know that can be something uh to be concerned about. But yeah, the spike itself isn't that harmful in the broader context of things. Especially if you eat like a, you know, ice cream for example. Let's say a healthy person eats ice cream, their blood sugar might go up with a spike, but it comes down fast normally. Then, you know, that's not a huge concern. You know, grant >> I think everyone agree I think everyone agrees with that. I guess one question would be though over 50 years are those repeated spikes actually doing damage? I don't know that we actually know the answer to that, but it's certainly plausible. Um, the only point I was making is that I don't I don't necessarily I wouldn't necessarily say that if somebody who's eating foods that cause their their glucose to spike and they substitute those foods with healthy foods that don't cause their glucose to spike, that's a bad thing. I actually would say that's probably at least netneutral and it might be a good thing in the long run if in fact repeated spikes are contributing to insulin resistance, you know, and metabolic dysfunction over over decades, right? Maybe I don't know. >> It depends though because then then people start to to have even more restrictive diets. And generally speaking, you know, I maybe not the audience listening to this podcast, but generally speaking, people can't stick to restrictive diets. So if if someone is um you know has has seen a glucose spike because of an apple or a banana, um maybe that will stick with them to say, "No, I'm never going to touch an apple or a banana again." And then they start to go back into other more unhealthy habits and start eating chips and biscuits. um rather than reaching for an apple, you know, that that's more harmful, right? So, yeah, that's the concern I've got is that yeah, we don't want to be too restrictive on on people who when we don't actually have evidence that trying to avoid these initial spikes um is going to be beneficial. >> Wait, so context, right? So, context. So, imagine they take out the banana and the apple and they reduce the spikes, but then what's the net effect on all on all the other biomarks, right? So, sure, they've reduced the spike by taking out the apple and banana. I'm not saying they add broccoli or anything else that's quote unquote healthy, but what happens within that context to the foods that were causing the spike? Now, what's going on with the kidney function bioarkers and immune and and and you know, uh, inflammation? What if within that context them taking out the apple and banana actually is associated or correlated with other biomarkers improving around that same time point? Then I would say take it out, right? But but wait, so uh but I I I agree with Matt's point too that uh I would bet on um making sure your glucose levels come back as soon as possible uh is some is going to translate to some improved health, a slower rate of systemic aging. Wait, I want to throw a curveball because the keto crowd is going to is was listening to you talking about glucose spikes and the keto crowd and I'm not in any crowd. I am not these things. I couldn't care less. I care about the biomarkers, right? So the keto crowd is saying, don't eat any carbs, you'll have no glucose spikes. Just go into gluconogenesis. Let your liver regulate blood gluc blood glucose levels. No spike. Problem solved. Which then brings us into a little bit of controversy because then that same crowd will have very high APO B without any carbs. Now you've got very high APO B. So how are you going to juggle that? And then maybe they'll say maybe they'll say, well, April B doesn't matter because lipoproteins have nothing to do with heart disease. So uh you've got a big segment of the population who will say some things like that but how how can context it comes back to context again. So what is the approach that leads to your most optimal insulin sensitivity your your lowest apo B and the aogenic like proteins you know um how can you discover the recipe that that minimizes risk across the board >> testing frequency or how much should people test in terms of uh annually >> uh difficult to say you know there are some patients that I'm I'm testing every you know every week there are some patients I'm testing every year or two years so it really is you know patient dependent um I think if you're you know Say, say for myself, what I do, so I'm 34, generally healthy. Um, I'm on a couple of cholesterol medications. I test I I do my bloods every 6 months to a year just to make sure that, you know, my um APOB is is in range, that nothing new has cropped up. Um, and that's what I do for most of my patients, uh, who are otherwise healthy. >> Cool. Thanks everyone. That was fun. >> Yeah. >> Good to see you, Brad. >> Bye. >> Yeah. All right. Um, I guess we can move on with uh, liver markers. So, >> do you want us to answer that last question about frequency or do you >> Yeah, let's let you. >> Okay. Because because we know Michael's got a got an answer. >> So, I would say uh I mean I I think Brad what Brad mentioned is correct in that it's very context and individual dependent. I think it's dependent on age as well and and it also is dependent on on you know what your purpose is. So for population level assessments that are funded by insurers or by the federal government, I think we have to be pragmatic and annually probably makes sense, but that's not optimal. Uh I like to do quarterly, but also I'm doing a more comprehensive blood panel and I'm 55 now, so I want to keep a closer track on my biomarkers. But again, I think it really depends on the individual and their goals. >> Yeah, goals goals definitely matter. Uh the the only thing that I'm in a different boat though because you know I'm I'm trying to get to the truth you know what moves the needle as soon as possible. So for me it's if the more data you collect on a given group of biomarkers uh the faster you you'll you'll kind of figure out what may move the needle. Um so for example if I had a kidney uh related issue so say my statin C was I don't know.9 or even 0.9 is not crazy terrible when you think about the population based averages but in terms of what's youthful less than 7 right? So, let's say mine was 0.95 one. Can't figure out what's going on. I've got some kidney issues based on that, right? So, uh I can't I can't take it out of the vein. So, what am I going to do? So, I'd probably do a urine test and maybe urine test every day for, you know, 30 to 60 days. Now, again, I'm in a different boat where, you know, uh at this point, I can afford to do that test and, you know, look at um you know, urine urine levels of albamin and creatinine and and get a better assessment of of kidney function. And then because I have diet, track diet, now I've got 30 or 60 days, however many days I'm doing this urine test to really try and figure out what I'm doing wrong, maybe adversely affecting my kidneys. And then maybe there's only so much that I can do, right? It's, you know, maybe there's some aspect of my diet that's off that should be different that I can improve kidney function, but then maybe I can only improve it to a certain amount and then that's the best I can do. So, uh, I think it depends on the individual and what their goals are. You want to get to the truth fastest, you got to measure a lot. >> Yeah, I guess. Yeah, that dep depends. Of course, we would like to measure a ton and have like continuous monitoring of uh many other biomarkers and use AI to kind of analyze it. Uh but in the real world, there's some limitations with budget and uh time and just mental effort. So, uh yeah, that that varies a lot between um individuals. What about the liver markers? So that's not that commonly talked about but liver is obviously quite an important organ. Uh Michael what do you think about liver? I mean so the standards on a you know on a clinical chemistry panel is uh ALT uh albamin biler rubin um alkaline phosphotase uh but in in terms of uh liver health and damage generally ALT as they they follow a J-shaped curve too low can be bad too high bad bad greater than 29 but uh because of their J-shaped curve very low levels it can be debatable what's actually optimal so I find more value in GGT T gamma glutamal transferase which is pretty linear during aging and all cause mortality risk. So uh using that as a b basic general guide of liver health um while also obviously paying attention to abin and and alkaline phosphatase and biller rubin what do you think meth? Yeah, I mean I I think I I don't really have anything to add other than, you know, I think there's a difference between trying to use these biomarkers to optimize and and use them to detect disease, right? And so again, it really depends on the context and and and and what you're trying to do. I guess I would more ask a question for for Michael than than than me to have an answer, which is clearly you're in the optimization boat. So, if you feel like your liver markers are not where you want them to be, you're already practicing a healthy lifestyle. What do you do about it would be my question. Yeah. So, I'm tracking diet, right? I've tracked diet. So, every every blood test is a tracked dietary period. Test the test. So, I look at correlations and you know, granted, uh, even with a significance threshold of P less than 0.05, that's five false positives out of 100, right? So >> then I could account for false discovery rate. But now maybe I'm throwing away potentially meaningful correlations. So uh for me I just follow the correlations. I go to the top of the list and try to move the needle like that and iteration you know the f around find out approach. Over time I can kind of get a sense of what may move the needle and what may be good for the quoteunquote biomarkers and what may be bad. But um for most people who were kind of guessing it's just using the published literature what's worked in studies of others as a guide like and that's how I started you know it was uh milk thistle has you know some research on improving liver health it didn't do anything maybe my fructose intake I was eating too much fruit like 5 lb bags of blueberries cut down on blueberry intake cut down on fructose that didn't make a dent maybe too much ecg eigallocatakin jal galate from green tea I drink green tea every day, but I was drinking like a pitcher. So, cut down on that can damage liver enzymes. So, in the beginning, it was guessing based on the published literature, but because I'm tracking uh and I recommend people track. So, people that uh you know reach out to me for help, uh I have them track. Uh so, that's how we would basically try to do it. It's uh figure out what your own recipe says for optimizing those biomarkers. >> Yeah, I guess genetics and some other factors affect how people respond. And yeah, we mentioned the blood sugar response, but you know, affects like you said even supplements and some uh foods, >> but even there there's going to be a range like everybody's got a range, a genetically determined range. Like for me, lipoprotein A, if I do nothing as high as 145 nanomer, uh but my average value over about 35 tests, 90 nanomer, but over the past few tests, I've followed the correlations and discovering the recipe more. Now I'm down to 70 nanomar and I'm not doing anything pharmacologically. Is 70 an animal really going to be a big difference from 90 for uh CBD risk? I don't know. But when considering that if I did nothing and only measured once and had 145 an animal, you know, I don't know what that risk reduction would be. But uh you know, it's it's it's anyway, it's it's measuring a lot to try to discover the recipe. >> Yeah. Can can I just make a point because I think, you know, we've talked a lot about about measurement and and I think it's important when we're talking about how much you measure, what do you measure? I mean, I'm a data guy. I would love to measure everything all the time. You know that as much as I can, but you know, listening to you, Michael, first of all, completely respect what you're doing and and why you're doing it. If I tried to optimize every little thing like that, it would drive me nuts. Like, so I think you need to know yourself. And I think if measurement is creating anxiety for you, like if it if you can lean into it and you love it and that's energizing to you, great, do it. If it's creating anxiety for you, just back off. And I think that's one of the things that that that I think is becoming more common as we have the opportunity to to do wearables and get all this data and use AI to to try to understand it. I think for a lot of people it actually creates anxiety that's counterproductive. So I guess my uh thought would be know yourself and and if it is creating anxiety for you just take a step back, relax, go have a pizza, whatever it is that's that's going to cut the anxiety. Um it's okay. You don't have to be perfect. You don't have to measure everything. I >> I agree with that 100%. Uh there there are people that that I work with that uh will say, "Look, you know, I'm sticking to the the the approach and everything, and they're like, I'm with my family in Hawaii." And I'm like, "Have fun. Enjoy yourself >> and then do everything else afterwards." You know, I I'm not an anti-fun guy, but to your point, Matt, I I love this. I live it, you know. Uh it doesn't give me anxiety. Like it does energize me. So, uh somebody >> Yep. Yeah. Somebody wrote an article I think about Brian and called it uh longevity fixation disorder. And I don't want to say I have it, but I'm probably the poster boy for it, too. Uh that said, I don't stop my life. I don't stop living my life for this thing, but it I am obsessed with it. And the fact is, you know, you could you could say LeBron James has basketball fixation or Michael Jordan. >> And I'm not saying I'm the best at what I do, but that I I live it. I do it. I it's 247. There's nothing else that I want to do. Uh to be great at something, you've got to be obsessed with it. You've got to have a passion about it. And and and uh so, but yeah, I I agree. I agree, Matt. If it gives you anxiety, don't do it. Back off. Get off the treadmill. Walk, you know, uh instead of run. Uh I agree with that 100%. Yeah, that's that's a good point that if you don't like it, then of course doesn't mean that you should start eating donuts and uh sitting on a couch, but uh just yeah, following a more >> I guess um generally healthy lifestyle and maybe >> Yeah. >> And feeling good, too. I mean, if your biomarkers are quote unquote great, but you feel terrible, what what are you doing? Right. So, and that's something actually I still work on. you know, you know, I'll feel a little sleepy after a meal and I'm like, is there something that I'm eating that is causing that? Is this a blood sugar thing? What's going on there? So, you know, it's not just about numbers on a page, it's how do you feel, right? So, but then again, if you're diluted and you think you feel good and you pay no attention to biomarkers and you have a stroke at 45 and you're dead at 50, you know what what good is that, too, right? So, yeah. >> Yeah. Right. Um, any closing thoughts that we can wrap it up with? Well, one one thing I'd be interested to hear hear your you guys' thoughts on and and it's a blood-based test are these multic-cancer early detection tests like like Gallery and I asked because the Gallery clinical trial, I don't know if you guys heard, but they had this big NHS clinical trial where they didn't hit their their primary endpoint. And so I I I would be interested to hear your thoughts on the utility of those tests. Um, you know, do you use them? Who are they right for? What should we think about the the clinical trial that where they didn't hit their primary endpoint? >> I haven't studied it unfortunately. The the I have looked into uh cellfree DNA as like a cancer biomarker because I guess tumors release that. >> Uh but it's not commercially available. So, but yeah, I that's a big black box. I think if uh we could get cancer biomarkers that are as you know wellestablished and and and researched over decades as thing as as well as things like like glucose and HBAC as well studied it's just emerging right so um >> it's early for sure yeah >> yeah uh yeah I'd I'd love to track cancer biomarkers for me it's more indirect like I look at the uh the phenotype of of someone being diagnosed with cancer and then there are some studies showing that you know like uh inflammatory markers that precede the cancer diagnosis start to spike things like TNF alpha IO6 CRP so I'm kind of looking at it indirectly um even even people diagnosed with cancer and then when they the progression to uh you know the cexia staging so things like albam start to precipitously uh precipitously decrease and lymphosytes decrease platelets increase so I'm kind of looking at patterns and data in that way in relation to cancer but I could definitely benefit from uh including cancer bioarkers. I mean I could even flip it a different way. Things like ner degeneration I'd love to measure neuro degen degeneration neurogenesis biomarkers you know um and they're just super expensive. It's it's it's >> they are really expensive. Yeah. >> So uh you know yeah cancer and the neuro degeneration that's the future. >> Yeah I I you should look into the gallery test. It's it's an interesting test. Like I think it still has val a lot of value. the clinical trial was was sort of flawed in the the end point, but it's it's imperfect for sure, but it it's a that I would put in the tool. Not necessarily that everybody should do, but I think for certain people, um there's a lot of value in in those sorts of multi-cancer detection tests and the neurogenerative markers, the ATN profile and and stuff like stuff like that. Um maybe maybe one thing we can close on is cost because I think that's something that a lot of people are concerned about like this is going to be really expensive. Insurance isn't going to pay for it. Um, and so what I would say is like you don't have to do the $1,000, $1,200 blood panels. Um, there's value in measuring all of those things. I wouldn't want to say there isn't, but I think there's a core set for a couple hundred ballpark that will get you the 8020. And so that's kind of the way I frame it is there's an 8020. It's more like a 9010, I think. But there there's an 8020 there where it's not going to break the bank. And if you do that a couple times a year, you're going to get the majority of the value that that you can get from clinical chemistry blood-based biomarkers. And that's about the ballpark where I would I would put the cost. >> I'd agree. I'd agree 100%. Uh and even less than $100. I mean, just the CBC and standard chem panel, it's $35 USD. You're getting information on kidney, liver, immune, you know, across the board. Um that think these are things that most people should know about, right? So, uh, adding add in blood pressure, you know, blood pressure, it's cheap, $30 blood pressure cuff. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's good to test something, but, um, you don't need to go crazy with it. >> Yeah. >> All right. Well, this was, uh, very interesting and, uh, very insightful. Thanks for joining the panel. Where can people learn more about you and your work? >> Well, thank you for for for putting this together. Uh, really appreciate it. Uh, so people can check me out at MKBerline on uh Instagram X and the Optispan podcast on YouTube. >> Michael aging or die trying. Just type it in. You'll find me. >> All right. Well, yeah. Thanks. Thanks for joining and it was a very interesting discussion. >> Cool. We could probably go for like five hours. We may have to do >> I know, right? >> All of us. >> We'll do another one on biological age tests. How's that sound? Yeah, absolutely. All right. >> All right. Take care, guys. Bye, guys. Ciao.