Dehydration is actually one of those signals that then forces your body to sort of upregulate all of those processes. When you become dehydrated, when you're sweating more, that forces your body to say, "Oh, we got to uptick production of say EPO and we got to prod increase our plasma volume expansion." So, if you're in the sauna and you're chugging a gallon of water and really not not letting your body reach that dehydration point, like dehydration is kind of the point of the sauna sometimes. You don't get like a plateau where, oh, I'm not benefiting from the sauna anymore because I've been doing 30 minutes three times a week for years. You're still going to keep getting those benefits unlike exercise where at a certain point you're going to kind of plateau in your benefits. You need to add more exercise. I don't really think that that happens the same way with the sauna. >> Brady, welcome back to the show. >> See, thanks for inviting me back on. Happy to chat. >> Yeah, we did our first podcast about V2X and uh aerobic fitness like a year ago. And uh yeah this time I wanted to bring you back so that we could talk about something very interesting in my opinion which uh both of us have written about on online and in our books which is a heat acclamation and uh how does it relate to cardiovascular fitness and how can we you know leverage that for better performance and health as well. So um I don't maybe we can start with u giving an introduction to heat acclamation and what does it actually entail. >> Sure. So heat acclamation sometimes goes kind of by the other names like heat acclimatization. Um but all the things mean pretty much the same thing. So essentially you know you're training your body to perform better in the heat and there are several ways to do it and then there are several adaptations that occur. So, how to do it? You know, it's it seems pretty obvious. I'm sure we'll talk about some of those strategies, but the typical strategy is to exercise in the heat. You know, endurance athletes use it a lot. Not just endurance athletes, you know, I'm sure other types of athletes use it too, but exercising in the heat, an environment that is hotter or as hot as say the environment that you're going to be performing in. Um, and it's a strategy because, you know, if say if it's winter and you're going to be performing, you know, at the Tokyo Olympics next summer or something or you're trading in the spring, well, it's going to be really hot there. And if your body's not ready to handle it, obviously the heat is is a huge stress. So, exercising in the heat, um, typically you can, you know, also wear some layers with that or add extra humidity. Athletes will typically do that to prepare themselves to perform in hot conditions. and the classical adaptations that occur um several adaptations occur when you do these strategies. I'm sure we'll get into some of the strategies, but the first one is and maybe paradoxically uh some people, but you will sweat more and you will start to sweat earlier. That is one of the main adaptations to heat acclamation. So, it's funny because a lot of the times you will say, you know, if somebody's outside and it's maybe a little bit hot and they're sweating a lot, you might think, "Oh, that that person's like out of shape. Why are they sweating?" But really, the more heat acclimated you get, you're going to start sweating earlier and you're going to sweat more. And that makes a lot of sense from a physiological perspective because what is the point of sweating? Well, we sweat and that uh sweat evaporates and it cools off the body. It helps us cool down. So the earlier you can start sweating when you're exercising in the heat and the more that you can sweat, the better that you will be able to perform and the uh the better uh you'll be better able to handle um the heat and regulate your body temperature. So earlier onset of sweating more sweating that's kind of one of the classic signs of heat acclamation. There's probably also something that goes on and I'm not too aware uh updated on this but like with the sodium content of your sweat as well because obviously if you're sweating a lot and sweating out a lot of electrolytes that's not a good thing. You want to replace those. Um so sweating one of the key adaptations as well. Several things also happen though in the body and this will relate to you know the cardiovascular performance stuff that we're going to I'm sure get into later but your plasma volume expands. Um so you know you get more plasma volume you're just that expands as well and your red blood cell volume also maybe expands a little bit um in addition to that which would you know higher hemoglobin higher hematocrit so higher percent of your blood becomes red blood cells very similar to something that occurs with altitude training which is kind of neat there's some really interesting data on that um so overall those are kind of the two key adaptations your heart rate uh in the heat during exercise is going to be lower due to that expansion of plasma volume and just the fact that you can better regulate your body temperature. Um, so those are kind of the two key adaptations that occur and when you say somebody's being acclimated to the heat, that's what happens to allow you to just handle the heat better at rest also, but you know key is during exercise as well. M yeah I think yeah the main thing people associate with it is that you're just tolerating the heat more and uh yeah you're going to get less tired in the heat I guess so you can exercise longer but uh you know there's also research that just just being more heat acclimated will also improve your performance at normal temperatures so to say because one of the things that I guess limits your performance is your rising body temperature and if you're more heat tolerant then that you know first of all you will delay that rising body temperature and second of all you'll also be able to tolerate for a bit longer. So there's like both ways it uh supports performance that yes in a hot climate you'll be just able to tolerate it better and uh perform better but uh your performance even in normal temperatures will also just improve because of postponing the rise in body temperature that uh makes you bunk in your performance. Yeah, I think that's an important point that you make because a lot of people will think, well, if I'm not going to be doing an endurance race in the heat or if I'm not going to be doing a competition in the heat, why do I need to heat acclimate? Well, >> yeah, like you just mentioned, you get better at performing in the heat and you kind of put yourself in that under that stress of heat acclimation, you're going to perform way better in cooler temperatures, too. I experience this every single year. So, I live in Texas in the United States and so training over the summer, super hot, super humid. Then I when I go to a marathon race in the fall, it's 50 degrees, it's cool, low humidity, you perform really well because those adaptations carry over. Um, but something interesting too about heat acclamation, you know, is >> unfortunately, you know, the well fortunately the benefits happen really quickly. One to two weeks after you start doing some of these heat acclamation protocols, you get those adaptations that we were just talking about, but you lose them very quick. So if you stop for about a week, almost all that stuff is like goes back to baseline. And just similar to altitude, you know, if you're training at altitude, you go to sea level for a week, you kind of lose out on all those. So, you sort of have to >> take advantage of them kind of quickly. >> Gotcha. Yeah. You know, exercise itself is also a form of heat acclimation, then I guess because your body temperature rises and you know, if you're very used to exercising then, you know, that also is a form of or that you know, obviously will increase your performance over time and one way is that it is a kind of soft version of heat acclamation. But I think yeah the one one thing that we want to talk a bit more about as well is uh saunas because that's I guess heat acclamation with you specifically training for heat acclamation. Obviously people take the saunas for other reasons you know it feels good and it's has like cardiovascular benefits but uh athletes tend to do it for the heat acclamation uh benefits. >> Yeah they do. And the sauna is interesting because you know some of the things that I was just talking about when athletes usually do heat acclimation that's sort of what you would call active. So I'm going to go outside and run in the heat and I'm going to maybe wear extra layers. That's active because I'm exposing myself to the heat, but I'm also exercising during it. With the sauna, it's a little bit different. I mean, I'm sure if you have a sauna at home and want to put a treadmill or something in there, you could do that. I wouldn't probably recommend combining that with uh the sauna, but um it's passive heat acclamation. So, you're getting in the sauna, you're getting those heat acclimation benefits, but you're not actually exercising, which can be good and bad, obviously. >> Mhm. Yeah. So, uh how would you let's say a regular person go about doing it? So, they don't have any specific uh trading in mind if they want to just Yeah. Okay. I want to, you know, like I guess it is a good perk or a good advantage to be able to tolerate the heat a little bit more because um, you know, at least I I don't like to just feel super hot all the time. Um, it's, you know, bad for many other reasons. But yeah, how would how would I like combine this kind of exercise program with uh saunas or or would I be better off by doing this? Yeah. Training in the heat, turning off the AC in the gym or something like that. >> Yeah. So for for say like the beginner or maybe somebody who is not an athlete training for something, if they're just maybe exercising for health and want to add the sauna to sort of get some of these or add heat acclamation to get some of these benefits, I really wouldn't recommend doing sort of this active heat acclamation because it can be pretty uncomfortable and I feel like it's a little bit more of an advanced strategy. Maybe for athletes who are kind of like looking to take their performance to the next level. You could maybe if it's hot outside put on an extra jacket and do that. That can certainly be a good way to do it. But yeah, let's talk about the sauna. Um, I think there are two ways that you could kind of use the sauna as an addition to a cardiovascular training program. The first would be simply just add a couple sauna extra sauna sessions per week. So maybe you're doing two to three endurance exercise sessions a week. Maybe you're doing some hit high-intensity interval training, your zone 2 sessions. And what I would say then is just maybe on the days you're not doing cardio, um, add the sauna. So do 20 to 30 minutes in the sauna. you know, an extra two to three times per week because in a way, um, it's an exercise mimetic. That's kind of how I refer to the sauna, where you're getting a lot of the same responses in the sauna as you would to low inensity exercise. Heart rate goes up, you start sweating, body temperature goes up, your stroke volume goes up, all those things. Um, so you could just add the sauna on maybe days you're not doing aerobic exercise. That's going to give you those passive heat acclamation benefits. it's going to just benefit your cardiovascular health as you mentioned and sort of supplement your um endurance training that you're doing. You could also do it on your strength training days, you know, as well maybe if you're going to do it that way. But the second way to combine it, and this is my preferred way of doing it, there's a lot of interesting research to sort of support this protocol is tack it on to the end of your endurance exercise session or your cardio session. So maybe let's just say somebody does Monday uh Monday, Wednesday, Friday, they do 30 to 45 minutes of zone 2 cardio. So you're going to go do that 45 minutes zone 2 cardio. Maybe it's longer, maybe it's shorter. And then right after, so as little bit of a time increment between them as possible, hop right in the sauna after you're done almost uh you know, you don't even want to stop sweating if if possible. So maybe you're on the treadmill at the gym, maybe your gym has a sauna, you go right in the sauna after your cardiovascular exercise session. essentially, you know, I think that has several benefits. One, your body temperature is still elevated from exercise. Your heart rate is still somewhat elevated from exercise. So, when you're getting in that sauna, you're sort of extending that cardio session by a little bit and sort of, you know, you're ext you're making that 45 to 60 minute cardio session, you know, maybe 80 to 90 minutes long. Um, it's not obviously the same intensity, but you're sort of still extending it. Your heart rate's elevated, body temperature staying elevated. And there's also, you know, several studies at this point showing that when combined with a cardio training intervention, endurance exercise intervention, the sauna will increase your V2 max, increase some of these other markers of cardiovascular performance better than say exercise training alone. So, it's a addition and it's giving you that extra boost without ex actually stressing the body more. Obviously, you could just run more. You could run 90 minutes, but a lot of people maybe you're maxed out. maybe you just can't exercise anymore and you don't want to risk getting injured. Um, but you do sort of want those cardiovascular benefits. I think that's what uh the sauna is really good for. And I do that especially when the temperatures kind of start to drop. I'll do that two to three times a week. Um, I'll like run to the gym, get in the sauna right after my run and uh finish that way. So, um, somebody told me there was also what there was like a word maybe a Swedish phrase for the sauna called like lanky sauna or something. There was like a name for it. It basically meant sauna after a run, which I which I kind of liked. So, I don't know if that really exists. Maybe they made it up, but I thought that was a cool cool phrase. >> I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices, which are the Bond Charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longevity influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bone Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most REA therapy devices don't have the right wavelengths of light, which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bond Charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research, and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to bunch onecharge.com and use the code seam s iim for a 15% discount. Yeah, I guess the sona is like passive exercise that uh >> it uh obviously doesn't involve active muscle contraction, but it is a good cardiovascular workout. So, you're getting a lot of minor of these small amount of these additional benefits from that. And yeah, I guess it's like almost like even blood flow restriction training that you know you're getting benefits with less effort uh compared to like actual workout. >> I would agree. And you know it is obviously the sauna is a stress. I don't think it's you know it's not free lunch. You can't just do as much sauna as possible and gain all these benefits especially for athletes. And I I'm try I I'm wary of this myself where if you do too much sauna you can certainly you know literally I guess and metaphorically burn yourself out. you can really do too much and so you have to be wary of doing too much sauna on top of your training but I think as an additional two to three sessions per week um yeah it's you're not risking you're not elevating your injury risk you're not increasing impact of extra running extra cycling or or something like that but you're getting these extra benefits >> yeah how much um I guess uh it's obviously not going to be as effective as some interval training for Riotax but uh how much of an like additional boost would someone expect to gain like is it something that really would move the needle for uh like is it yeah like the difference between the first place and the second place in Olympics or is it just u you know you know kind of small benefits but still significant. >> Yeah, potentially I think you know some of the studies what are they're showing is like a 2 to three mls per kg per minute increase in in V2 max above what you're going to get with training. So, you know, with training, say 8 to 12 weeks, you can maybe improve your V2 max by 4 to 5 mls per kg. That sauna might get you an extra 2 to three mls per kg per minute, which was, you know, is is significant. Um, and I think, you know, V2 max is obviously an important component and a lot of people are striving to sort of optimize that. But a lot of these studies also will show that even if V2 max doesn't increase if runners or endurance athletes use the sauna, they they perform better in the heat if they combine it with their training, but they also perform better in temperate conditions. So cool conditions um if they add the sauna to their training. >> Mhm. Gotcha. So like I guess yeah it adds still extra benefits. Um but in in in the heat acclamation scenario because you know the sauna is a lot hotter than um you know outside air even unless someone is running in some sort of really uh extreme heat because you most saunas are going to be let's say 70° C. You know there's not never going to be a situation outside where you'll be at 70°C. Um but you know doing your body doing the exercise your body temperature does rise. So I guess the question is uh which one is better for the heat acclamation training is uh the sitting in a sauna not exercising or is it outside in a heat exercising which raises your body temperature? Uh which one is better for like getting the heat acclamation heat adaptation benefits? >> Yeah, that's a really good question. I would probably tend to favor the active heat acclamation because you're simulating more so what you're going to be doing. I mean, if you're trying to heat acclimate for a certain reason, say to perform, maybe you have a race, a marathon that you're going to run in a hot environment, then I think that active heat acclimation does a little bit better because you're forcing your body to perform well under stress. Um, you know, the muscles are contracting, you're running, um, and you're getting that heat stress. So, it may not be as hot as the sauna. Um, but if your goal is actually performance, I think the active heat acclamation is a little bit better. But if you're kind of just interested maybe then in the health benefits and maybe making your exercise feel a little bit easier, then you know the passive could also be a good idea. >> Mhm. Gotcha. Yeah. I guess u you know is one of similar to the question of why do athletes do a lot of zone 2. A lot of it is because of it uh is less stressful on the nervous system and that it u you know they can uh do more of it without uh overtraining and I guess a similar scenario is with the sauna that you know yes obviously too much sauna can be harmful but you know training in the desert uh in extreme heat is still significantly more stressful to you than being in the sauna. So I guess it's like a one way of stacking additional heat acclamation hours under your belt during the training, >> right? Exactly. I would not recommend, you know, if you're somebody who wants to actually improve your performance, the number one way to do that is obviously to train more. I don't think it's, >> you know, the sauna is exactly going to give you 30 minutes of sauna is not 30 minutes of of exercise. But if you're somebody who, yeah, I've kind of reached the limit as to how much I can exercise in a week and I really don't want to say run more, then yes, I think that's kind of where the sonnet comes into play. If you're sort of maxed out in terms of I'm just not going to like do any more minutes of exercise. >> Mhm. What about like the recovery and injury perspective? So there was actually some recent studies with sauna um after exercise helping with muscle strength specifically and so like muscle growth as well as recovery. So uh have you noticed anything yourself when doing the sauna about that? Like are you recovering faster? Are you recovering faster from injuries and just overtraining? And what's your like take on the research about it? >> The recovery aspect is really interesting. It's that's one of actually the main reasons why I uh will use the sauna if I have a recovery day where I'm not running or something like that. I'll go in the sauna for 30 minutes and then just an additional couple days per week going in there. I do feel like it helps recovery because it's an active form of recovery. You know, again, you're getting you're getting the increase in blood flow. So, you're getting kind of circulating things around, flushing things out. I hate the word flushing. It's not really that physiological, but you know, feels like that's happening. But, you're uh you're getting the blood flow mainly and you're forcing your heart to kind of, you know, pump blood throughout the body. So, I think there's a huge recovery aspect to the sauna. The strength stuff is interesting because, you know, there are several studies showing that the sauna may have somewhat of an anabolic effect where similar to using it after a cardio session, using it after strength training might increase muscle protein synthesis. And overall, I mean, it kind of makes sense because you're just getting you're getting this increase in blood flow. So, you're delivering more nutrients to the muscle. you're, you know, circulating amino acids and so you're just going to get this greater anabolic response which I think is is very interesting. Also anti catabolic effects too though. So if you are injured say um using the sauna appears to have this effect on reducing like muscle protein breakdown. So, if you're trying to maintain your strength, maybe if you're injured or if you're not as active as you might want to be, I think using the sauna, um, because like the heat shock proteins and other things that are elevated when you're in the sauna, they kind of work to counteract, you know, maybe some muscle breakdown. So, I think that's super cool. And yes, definitely sauna for recovery. One of my favorite uh modalities as well. >> Same thing with um, you know, hot hot baths, getting in hot water. I think similar to the sauna, you're going to get the increased blood flow, the increased temperature, which I think is good. But something interesting that you get with the water is sort of that pressure, which actually will also help with the blood flow. So you sort of get this compressive pressure, this hydrostatic pressure when your body is underwater, and that can help as well. Um, so if your main goal is recovery, I would almost recommend maybe a hot bath over the sauna. But um I think the sauna feels good and I'm I'm a little more partial to the sauna too, especially due to some of the uh the fertility stuff that uh data on the hot baths. It's not too great if you're a male uh trying to maintain your fertility to you might want to stay out of the hot baths. >> Yeah. Yeah. But and because you can't even use the ice ice cubes or ice pack in the bath. >> Yeah. No, you can't. You can use it in the sauna but not in the bath. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. You mentioned the bath. Uh so there's a few actually studies already now showing that you get equal this equal hypothermia in the the hot path even like greater even greater than in the sauna. Uh so you know one of the reasons why the sauna has these benefits is because it raises your body temperature. So yeah you can get the same same benefits from the hot bath and because yeah you're in hot water. >> Yeah. And probably quicker. I mean, you know, if if it's hot enough and because you're in direct contact with that water, you know, you >> a lot of these studies, it's kind of crazy. They stay in for a long time, which I guess you might need to do to get some of those adaptations, but they're keeping them in likeund, you know, 4 to degrees Fahrenheit. I'm not sure what that is in Celsius, but 104 Fahrenheit for like 45 to 60 minutes, which is pretty insane. Um, I don't think you have to stay in that long, but yeah, you get a quicker rise in body temperature in the water just because your skin is in direct contact with that water as opposed to the sauna, which takes a little bit longer. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's a 40° C is one of the ones I've seen. >> Um, but um what about uh cooling? So, that's also kind of interesting. Obviously, the people use ice baths a lot after exercise, after workouts. And I think you know by now we most people know that okay don't take the ice bath after uh lifting weights because it can reduce the inflammation that would increase muscle growth but uh for cardiovascular workout uh what do you think about that? Is it safe to do it after cardio? >> I think it's safe. You know the data there aren't as strong as they are for strength training in terms of it being detrimental. I don't really think that it's it's probably a bad idea. I would still just be a little bit cautious and probably separate it by maybe a few hours. And obviously there are certain situations if you're preparing for a competition and are really trying to dampen down muscle soreness, then maybe getting an ice bath, you know, it it does reduce muscle soreness and some studies have shown that. But why I would be weary of even doing it right after is because just overall, you know, you see a reduction. Ice tends to reduce muscle protein synthesis. And we often think about muscle protein synthesis when it comes to strength training. Oh, you want muscle protein synthesis to build and repair new muscles. But you get more mitochondria also due to protein synthesis. Protein synthesis isn't just building uh skeletal muscle fibers. You know, our body needs to make proteins for mitochondrial proteins. It needs to make proteins for um you know, enzymes for metabolic processes. And so protein synthesis is just as important for endurance exercise and adaptations as it is for strength training. So for that reason, I would probably say, you know, stay away from it, at least chronically, like don't take a ice bath every single day after your training session. What I think could be possibly good is doing some sort of contrast therapy. So if you have an ice bath and a sauna right by one another or ice bath and a cold bath uh ice ice bath and a warm bath right next to each other, go in between those for that recovery benefit because you get that sort of contraction from the cold water when you get in. Then you get in the hot bath, you get that vasoddilation. And I think alternating those can be good. And as long as you're not in the ice bath for more than a couple minutes, I don't think it's that detrimental. The problem is when you stay in there for 15 20 minutes and you're really just getting you're like kind of shutting things down. I don't think doing a plunge say getting in there for a minute or two is really going to be that detrimental. So if it feels good um and you want to do it, do that. Um but uh the contrast may be a little bit better idea if if that's something you have available. So short story there, I don't think it's as detrimental. You certainly want to stay away from it after strength training, maybe after endurance training, but um I wouldn't be as as worried about it, but it's probably not the best. >> Yeah. Well, is is there anything such like a cold adaptation that if you're uh used to training in the cold or you're used to taking ice baths, you'll get better at tolerating the cold and training in the cold? >> No, there's actually not. So, cold adaptation like really isn't a a thing. I think the the adaptation is going to be mental. It's going to just be like the psychological adaptation. I think if you >> if you kind of train yourself to maybe tolerate the cold better, then you're going to be able to maybe perform better in the cold. But in terms of the physiology, at least that I'm aware of, there's not really a you know, cold is cold. Like you can't train your body to say heat up faster when you go out and exercise in the cold. It just it takes time and to do a proper warm-up. So yeah, you don't get those cold adaptations. I just think it's going to be building that sort of resilience. Um, in terms like >> Yeah, the brown fat possibly. I think that's uh possibly a thing. That's one of the reasons actually why sometimes they say there are a few studies showing maybe doing cold after endurance training may help because it kind of enhances this mitochondrial biogenesis and brown fat. But, um, yeah, I'm not too aware. I guess it's speculative. you know, you you might be able to expect something better there if you do have brown fat and your body's sort of producing this passive heat. This that's uncoupled to energy expenditure in the cold. You could you could maybe tolerate it more, but um yeah, not too aware of of much there. And I don't think it's certainly not as strong as like what happens with heat acclamation. >> Yeah. Uh well there's also interesting research about cold exposure d like or you know cooling down the body during exercise and before that because uh as I alluded earlier you know your body temperature rising is one of the reasons you um hit the wall or your performance declines. So you overheat during exercise and cooling it down actively during the exercise has some performance enhancing benefits. Yeah, definitely. I think there's this whole idea and I posted something about this um a little while ago where you know I've heard some people say, >> you know, don't don't take the ice bath after exercise. Obviously, it's not good, but maybe you want to take it beforehand. And I guess if you're just getting in there for a few seconds to sort of wake yourself up and maybe get this spike of adrenaline. I think that makes sense. But you know the before exercise, what does everybody do to perform better and reduce injury risk? you do a warm-up because your muscles perform optimally at a certain a higher temperature. So if you're going if you're doing cold for several minutes before exercise, you're cooling down your body, but your skeletal muscles are going to be cold. It's just going to take you longer to warm up. So that doesn't really make much sense to me. But doing pre-cooling with some of these strategies where you are it's directly like targeted cooling, I think, is obviously a performance-enhancing strategy. So before a lot of these endurance events, ultramarathons, you'll see runners wearing vests with ice packs on them. You'll see them wearing ice packs on their head or putting ice in their hat. I think all those work obviously using a fan just blowing, you know, your body and cooling it down. So that would be referred to as pre-cooling and that certainly works. And then during as well, you know, there are several strategies you can do. Drinking cold water, obviously, um putting ice on your head and continuing to do that or just dumping water on your body helps as well. And I think though there's some good evidence that there are certain places on the body that actually are more beneficial to cool because they will kind of transmit that cool to the rest of the body and lower your core body temperature. And those areas appear to be the palms of your hands, um the soles of your feet, which obviously would be kind of hard to maybe do during exercise, and then like the back of your neck and your forehead. So there are all these different like four different places where if you apply cool to those places, especially like the hands, you'll sort of get this whole body reduction in not only perceived temperature but maybe actual temperature. And so obviously if you perceive temperature, if you perceive to be more comfortable, you're going to perform better. So yeah, the strategies for cooling certainly help. The problem there is implementation. Obviously it's it's a little bit hard to carry these things. if you're out exercising, you know, you have to plan ahead. But, um, yeah, they certainly work and they definitely improve performance. >> Yeah, it's it's this glamorous type of skin in the in the forehead and the palms of your feet and the >> soles of your feet that you're very heat conductive and um yeah, you can cool down your entire body or warm it up much faster by just targeting those uh areas. Yeah. Um, >> yeah, I know there was, um, somebody who was on Dr. Andrew Huberman's podcast was talking about something they were developing at Stanford. These cooling gloves, I think that they were that they were going to use. Um, and I've thought about like >> doing that during like one of my next races, maybe like putting a pair of gloves in a ice pack or something before I start and then hopping them popping them on. I don't know if it would work. I actually have this headband um, that this company sent me. It's made of graphite and so you put it around your head and during exercise you just dump water on it and it will actually the water evaporates from the headband and and it cools you down. It's it's pretty neat. A lot of triathletes use it. Um and it works pretty well. You just get this >> crazy like cooling sensation on your forehead that feels really good and it kind of reduces your >> perception of of how hot it is. >> Yeah. There's also these like migraine cups we have at home ourselves. Um, so it's just uh I guess uh you know just a cap, you know, you just put it in the fridge and it gets cold and uh it looks like a beanie kind and uh you you it's I guess the perk is that it doesn't you don't need to make it wet like a towel like your towel you would need to make wet and it's kind of you know uncomfortable but uh with this one it's just like a cool cool uh beanie that you can also probably use during exercise. >> Yeah, for sure. >> And I think it works for strength, you know, strength exercise, too. I think there's, you know, you want to your body doesn't get as hot during it. But, uh, yeah, whether it's perceived or actually lowering your body temperature seems to improve strength performance, too. >> Yeah. There's like some studies where they cool pre-cool the palms and they're able to do like more pull-ups or more bench press with the weight, which is kind of interesting. >> Yeah. Very neat. Is is there any like specific uh timing of uh with the heat acclamation? And I'm I'm referring more to um you mentioned earlier that the adaptations go away quite fast if you stop doing it. So um what is like the timing protocol of okay if someone is trying to time it for some specific event or or if just someone does it for the health benefits should they just keep doing it throughout the year without breaks? What's kind of that protocol in your opinion? >> Yeah. So, uh, for performance, there's definitely, I think you want to take timing into account. So, as I mentioned, the the adaptations kind of start to occur pretty quickly. So, if you start, you know, after your first two sessions, you're going to start to get the rise in plasma volume. You're going to get start to get those um, you know, the earlier onset of sweating. You're going to start to get the increase in, you know, red blood cells. All of that happens probably within, you know, it starts within the first couple sessions. I mean, you get this acute rise. So just one session of the sauna heat acclimation, you get kind of a rise in EPO, you get a rise in all these things that are going to help you acclimate better. But within one to two weeks, you know, you're going to really start to get those potent adaptations there. The timeline of losing it is probably about the same. And I would say even after a week of stopping doing it, you're sort of going to start to lose some of those adaptations. So, what I would recommend is that if you are somebody preparing for an event, again, even if you're if you're preparing for an event that's in cool weather or if it's in hot weather, I think the it kind of stands the same. I would say do your last heat acclamation session 3 to 5 days out from it. Maybe even two to three days out from it. I know before my marathon last year, I was doing I did a hot bath I think two or three days before the marathon. You don't want to do it the day before because that's just the added extra stress. let your body rest, but 2 to 3 days before do your last big heat acclamation session and then that should carry you over, but you certainly don't want to stop it 2 weeks out and then not do anything because you will lose out on those adaptations. So, I would time it, you know, as close to you can. Don't do it as close as you can. Don't do it the day right before the day before, but 2 to three days before just keep doing your acclamation sessions up to then and then perform. >> For the general health benefits, do it all the time. It's a chronic thing, right? you don't, you know, because they the benefits um subside so quickly. I would just say if you're doing it for health, if you just want overall to benefit your cardiovascular health and your performance and just a sustainable habit, yeah, I would just do it uh you know, not every day, but you know, do it every week, however often you do that, and just uh don't stop. Similar to kind of, you know, like taking supplements, you just you just take it all the time. >> Yeah. Yeah. And I mean the research about sonas is obviously not like definite proof that it would prevent heart disease or reduce Alzheimer's risk, but it's pretty compelling that people who do take the sauna very frequently, they have lower rates of Alzheimer's and heart disease and overall mortality. So yeah, I mean I I take the sauna just for those benefits uh quite regularly and I do notice you know from the sauna I've been notice yes better cardiovascular benefits but also better um yeah muscle growth benefits but if I take it regularly >> yeah I know there's yeah there's a lot of push back you know when when people talk about those epidemiological studies on on the sauna with dementia and Alzheimer's I mean I think the evidence is so consistent and you kind of get the dose response relationship ship and all that which sort of strengthens that evidence. But >> when we also just look at the physiology of the sauna and why it might help. I mean it is nobody's nobody's arguing that exercise isn't good for preventing dementia, preventing Alzheimer's disease, for improving cardiovascular health. >> Well, the sauna is just kind of a less intense form of exercise. You're getting improved endothelial function. You're getting, you know, you're improving several aspects of heart health. And, you know, improved heart health translates to better brain health. So I just think the mechanisms make so much sense there and it's like there's no way that the sauna is not is not beneficial in some of these ways. >> Yeah. Do you think there are any I guess benefits to like some microvascular rotation or something like that because yeah you're increasing blood flow quite substantially in the sauna and this increase in nitric oxide uh vasod dilation and endothel better endothelial function. So um because this is a bit like off topic but you know there's research about Viagra use as well being associated with lower mortality and part of the reason might be because of the enhances blood flow and u kind of vasoddilates the blood vessels. So is there any I guess similar effect from the sauna that it uh just makes your circulation work better and I guess reduces I guess like you know let's say stagnant blood flow and stagnant blood vessels. Yeah, definitely. I mean, I think, you know, I can't site a specific study, but there certainly are studies showing improved macrovascular function, microvascular function, not only acutely, so after just a single sauna session, but after regular sauna sessions, um, couple studies in, you know, people with heart disease, uh, heart failure, showing that the sauna is beneficial there. So, yeah, I mean, you're certainly getting those those adaptations from it. And that's partially due to the heat, but partially, yes, just due to that elevated blood flow. Um, definitely good for blood pressure. You know, sauna certainly reduces blood pressure when you chronically use it. Pretty dramatic reduction there. Um, so yeah, you're just getting a host of cardiovascular benefits with it. >> Yeah. What I noticed that sauna also increases HRV. Uh, would the increase in HRV have any performance benefits? Would a higher HRV have performance benefits overall? >> I think I think so. perhaps indirectly just because if you're, you know, better autonomic regulation, I think you're just going to be able to um and that perhaps explains some of the better recovery with it as well. You're just, you know, able to not only regulate kind of the sort of parasympathetic sympathetic activation with that, but just your your baseline sympathetic activity might be lower and I think overall that's just going to sort of indirectly help with that performance. So, I could certainly see that there. Yeah. And as well as like the benefits on sleep. You know, a lot of it's anecdotal, I think. But a lot of people report that if they do the sauna in the afternoon, they're going to sleep better at night. I've I've found that, you know, I sleep pretty well after as long as you don't do it too close to bedtime. I think um I certainly get better sleep. So there are, I think, a lot of ways that Sonic can indirectly um promote performance as well. >> HRV and uh you know, better sleep. >> Gotcha. Yeah. How long would it be like recommended to stay in the sauna to not overdo it but to get the benefits? >> That will that will obviously depend on the temperature, but just say, you know, the standard sauna is going to be 170 Fahrenheit to maybe 185 Fahrenheit, something like that. I would say, you know, if you go on the epidemiological studies, it's 15 minutes seems to be the sweet spot. 15 minutes like five times a week. That's kind of where you see that maximum reduction in disease risk, you know, cardiovascular health, dementia risk, things like that. I would say 20 to 30 minutes and probably no more than that. You know, you could go to 45, but at that point you're really getting, you know, a lot of a stress and I don't think that's probably necessary. So, I think 20 minutes minimum, 30 minutes maybe maximum. Do that two to three times per week. Um, I do definitely think there's a minimum, though. And and I don't know how how you do it when you take the sauna, but I don't start my timer until I start sweating. I think it's cheating if you start the timer right when you get in the sauna. So, I like to spend 20 to 30 minutes actually physically sweating. I know a lot of people don't do that, but I just think you kind of want to hit this threshold of body temperature. Um, and not, you know, there's not an exact body temperature, but somewhere, you know, once you hit that threshold, I think is when you kind of start to get those adaptations. So, if you're getting in the sauna and you start your timer and you're in there for 20 minutes, sometimes I'm in the sauna for 20 minutes, I'm or 10 minutes, I'm not even sweating yet. So, I think that once your body starts sweating, that's kind of when, oh, those, you know, this is when the adaptations are starting, and I like to stay in there for 20 to 30 minutes after that. So, that would kind of be the time frame recommended. You don't have to do it once you start sweating, but I would not immediately start it right when you get in. I think that's uh you're probably losing out on some of the gains there. >> Yeah. Yeah. I guess you know the the more heat adapted you are, the more heat you need to facilitate further adaptation. I guess yeah to maintain you can get away with the smaller doses but uh to uh keep enhancing that then yeah you would need to keep keep going I think so I I think though that I don't know if you really I mean you obviously get these heat acclamation you know adaptations when you get in the sauna but I'm not sure unlike exercise I don't really think with the sauna you maybe need to increase keep increasing the dose as much to keep getting the benefits because it's hot all the time and like your body's going to respond in a similar way eventually. Like there's just not a point where you're going to get in the sauna and it's you can stay in there for 2 hours because you're so acclimated I think. >> Um so you don't adapt to it as much as you do exercise. So if you just want to do 20 to 30 minutes, you'll you'll keep you don't get like a plateau where oh I'm not benefiting from the sauna anymore because I've been doing 30 minutes three times a week for years. you're still going to keep getting those benefits unlike exercise where >> at a certain point you're going to kind of plateau in your benefits. You need to add more exercise. I don't really think that that happens the same way with the sauna. >> Gotcha. Um what about electrolytes? So if you're you know sweating more, you're in a heat more you uh at least you know you need to pay more attention to um hydration and electrolytes. So uh during this heat acclimation phase when someone is doing the sauna more and training in the heat etc. would they need to you know I guess drink more water or drink more electrolytes add some salt to the water more water for sure and yes I think I think it's probably smart adding electrolytes in there. Um you know I'm I use electrolytes myself. I I think there are some people who maybe don't want to use them and I don't think that they're necessary, but if you are sweating more uh and sweating a lot and you're also trying to exercise, you certainly I think need to be um replacing those electrolytes. So yeah, I would say, you know, if you're starting to add the sauna, you know, drinking drinking to thirst and drinking water to thirst, but maybe adding some extra electrolytes in your water, sodium, potassium, magnesium could definitely be uh beneficial. Gotcha. Uh there's also a very interesting or you know arguably you could also think of dehydration as a form of this hormesis that um has performance benefits but you know if you're used to training with you know in the example of heat in a hotter climate then you're going to be better at a normal climate but with hydration and dehydration do you think there is any benefits to okay I'm going to train slightly dehydrated so that when I am fully hydrated my body will I guess like be uh more adapted to it. >> Yeah. And I actually, you know, I kind of do that myself. So, >> okay. >> Specifically with a sauna, I wouldn't I wouldn't say training. So, if you're going to go out on a run or something, I mean, >> you don't really want to train dehydrated, I think, because you know, you're you want to perform well during the session. And if you're dehydrated, you're not going to have your maximum output. But in the sauna, I actually think that obviously be safe when you're doing it. But I would say try to do the sauna without having any water in it because when you the the dehydration is actually one of those signals that then forces your body to sort of upregulate all of those processes like when you become dehydrated when you're sweating more that forces your body to say oh we got to uptick you know we got to uptick our um production of say EPO and we got to prod increase our plasma volume expansion. the plasma volume expansion. It happens because the dehydration is a stressor. As you mentioned, it's this hormmesis. So, if you're in the sauna and you're chugging a gallon of water and really not not letting your body reach that dehydration point, like dehydration is kind of the point of the sauna sometimes. So, I would say yeah, I think it's beneficial to sort of train that dehydration um in a way. So, I go in the sauna. I don't drink water until I get out. >> Yeah, definitely. Don't take like a plastic bottle or >> No, please don't take a plastic bottle. I was in the sauna a couple weeks ago and this there's this guy in there who had like a plastic gallon jug or something like that. I'm like it was almost melting in there. It was it was so hot. So, and you know the microplastics ingesting all that stuff. Uh you want you want to avoid that. So, >> yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Um but during the runs, so like you know a lot of people do fasted running, fasted cardio for you know usually they do it for fat loss or they think think it's going to be good for fat loss but uh what about like I guess uh water dehydrated running so that you know you go running on a on an empty stomach with no water. I think it can I think it can help, but maybe again more so from the psychological sort of perspective. I mean, you want to conditions aren't always going to be optimal. If you're in a competition or something, you may, you know, not have water stops everywhere. You might not be able to carry water along with you. So, I would say you you sort of need to train your body and train your mind to perform better, maybe slightly dehydrated. Again, I think it depends on the purpose of the session. I think fasted training has some benefits. Um, I'm not going to do it all the time because there are key sessions during the week where I want to fuel my body so that I can have a high output. But then there are some sessions where, oh, this is an easy run and it's okay. If I'm not optimally fueled, I might do that fasted. So, I think the same kind of goes with hydration where if I'm really looking to perform perfectly during this session, I'm going to adequately hydrate. But if it's one that's, you know, not a session that doesn't have much consequence, you might be okay if you're slightly dehydrated. I mean, if the 2% rule is kind of true, you know, you'll often hear said that, you know, once you lose 2% of your body weight, that's sort of when performance starts to decline. People look at 2% like it is um, you know, a very small number, but that's a lot. If you lose 2% of your body weight in water, I mean, I weigh um, you know, I weigh 68 kg, about 146 lbs. So, if I lose 2% of my body weight, that's a that's a pretty substantial amount of weight. I mean, that's 3 to four pounds of like water and uh so that's pretty substantial. And so it takes a lot to really reach that uh 2% dehydration and unless you're exercising for multiple hours in the heat, you may not even like reach that point. >> Mhm. Gotcha. Yeah. Are there any sex differences between men and women? Should uh women be more careful with this or um are there no difference >> um in terms of sort of the heat acclamation type of stuff? >> Yeah. Yeah. And you know, the dehydration maybe as well. >> Yeah. Not that I'm aware of. I mean, there doesn't seem to be, you know, a biological physiological reason why why men and women would would want to respond any differently. And so, um, you know, like not aware of of any data to suggest that. So, I think women can do heat acclamation stuff just as just as much and frequently as the same protocol sort of as men. >> Mhm. Gotcha. Um but speaking of you know general longevity there's uh you know we mentioned already these uh studies on saunas and uh health better health outcomes. Do you think that so should like this kind of um heat acclimation whether that be with regular exercise or or like this heat adapted exercise or sauna or this dehydration training does any of them do you think should be I guess part of a longevity protocol for regular people? >> Yeah, I mean I think certainly exercise should be um that's key. I don't think the sauna is a replacement then for exercise in that aspect. But certainly, you know, we just talked about how they have additive performance benefits, but also additive health benefits. I mean, there's, you know, on the first podcast that you and I did, we talked all about the association of V2 max with longevity. So, if someone is truly looking to optimize their V2 max, well, I think that combining exercise with sauna is is probably the, you know, the best way to do that. So yes, you can get an extra, you know, increasing your V2 max, which you know, theoretically could could then kind of improve your longevity, but also just the additive benefits on just some of this physiology that we talked about. So I mean, cardiovascular health, cardiovascular disease is like the number one detractor of longevity. It's what most people die of. So improving cardiovascular health by combining those modalities, I think, could be also another strategy. Um, so I think that, you know, a lot of people don't have access to the sauna, but many people do. So I think combining it with exercise is sort of this this awesome longevity protocol. Or again, if you don't have the sauna and have access to a hot bath, you could combine exercise with a hot bath sort of in a similar way. I just think overall it is it's helping you kind of get more out of the exercise routine that you have, whether that's strength or endurance training. And so yeah, it's not all about performance. For some people, they just want to live longer and live better. But I think combining the two can can help people do that. >> Yeah. Uh I guess uh what about the cold? I think I my impression of the cold research is that there's much less longevity research about the cold than for the sauna. >> Yeah, there really isn't. And anything that I've seen is kind of in these is in mouse models of cold. I we certainly don't have any data on people who regularly and just because maybe it's a new newer phenomenon but people who regularly do ice baths or cold plunges is there this association with longevity we don't have that data like we do for the sauna so it's kind of speculation I think that there's just so much mechanistic possibility that is stated with with the cold like why this should improve longevity because of uh you know the brown fat or the mitochondria and but not a lot of that. I mean, there's some mechanistic studies in mice, but overall, there's just there's really not a signal that it would improve like kind of longevity for any reason. Also, I just also think that so if we just go back to looking at the physiology again, there's a lot of ways to explain why why is the sauna going to improve longevity? Because it improves your cardiovascular health and your brain health, but the the cold doesn't do that. It doesn't affect the cardiovascular system in the same way. it just doesn't really have these tangible health benefits um in terms of your body, you know, brain and cardiovascular health that the sauna would. There's certainly the potential for some of the cellular signaling stuff, but uh yeah, I'm just really not I'm just really not as bullish about the cold for longevity. It kind of sounds good, but if we really are just looking at the evidence, there's there's not really a lot to to to support it. >> Yeah. Yeah. I agree that the cold has some like the most research is about lowering inflammation and maybe strengthening the immune system but uh yeah that that's pretty much it. you know there is uh at least you know these uh animal I guess you know if you look at the longest one of the longest living animals on world in the world and there these cold living uh sea animals like whales uh there was actually a recent study on these bow bowhead whales that uh they have this very efficient DNA repair >> through through one of the coal short proteins which uh pretty much yeah reduces their DNA mutations and uh helps with DNA repair. So that yeah, I mean there's, you know, hypothetically some benefits to lower lower living temperatures, but yeah, the human human research right now is much more um limited. >> Well, I think Well, I think a colder living temperature makes sense, but I'm not I don't think that regularly taking cold baths is going to mean that you're walking around at a lower body temperature. I think the only way to do that would probably be through chronic caloric restriction or something like that. I know Brian Johnson is, you know, he said he's like lowered his but average body temperature by like two two degrees Fahrenheit or something like that. So yeah, if you're colder throughout life, if you have a suppressed metabolism, that potentially has a longevity benefit, but again, to get there, you have to, you know, eat 500 calories a day and uh be cold all the time and have suppressed thyroid. So I'm not sure that's like the best way to to live either. >> Yeah. But what about then like living in a warmer temperature? Would that be then harmful? What do you think? Or >> Yeah. So, it's interesting you say that because there actually are, you know, I just said there was no evidence, but there is some data that people living in colder climates actually live longer than people living in warmer climates, but there's a little bit of confounding there with regards to, you know, socioeconomic kind of things. A lot of the warmer climates are closer to the equator where you don't get maybe nations that are, you know, as developed with better healthcare. So there's some confounding variables there, but um yeah, I think living in a colder place, you certainly there's an association with longevity. >> Yeah, that's kind of interesting. So maybe maybe I mean there would be benefits to just just acute fluctuations in the temperature. I guess that is a more important aspect because uh you know in the modern world we live in a very climate stable world. you can just uh regulate the temperature in your room. You're never really shivering. You're never really uh that hot unless I mean maybe in Europe, you know, there's no ACs that much. So uh there are more fluctuations in the summer and winter, but uh but in still most of let's say developed countries, the fluctuations in temperature are much more scarce and it's going to be more stable. So your you know because these yeah fluctuations are these small positive hormesis similar to you know intermittent fasting or similar to exercise. So, we just need a bit more of these positive stressors that make our body stronger. >> I agree. Yeah. And, you know, I don't mean to say that I'm I'm not against the cold by any reason, uh, for any reason. I think it's great to expose yourself to cold um, a lot. I think the benefits are overblown uh, on social media and things like that, but it's great. I mean, it makes you feel great, obviously, anybody who's used it. So, yeah, we need these we need to get the body really hot at times. We need to get it really cold at times. I think that fluctuation is is certainly important rather than this yeah like you said this just climate controlled environment that everybody lives in all the time. Um we need these swings in in temperature which is why people love to do sauna why people love to do cold baths. They make us feel good and they definitely it has some benefits as well. >> Gotcha. um what what are you let's say otherwise thinking should be done more in this area like you know let's say sauna research or heat acclamation research or something that yeah I would I'm pretty interested these days in you know we talked a little bit about the hot baths but there's just um I I I would like to see more research just on the additive effects on performance like there's some data out there but it's not very strong with regards endurance training or strength training. I would just really like to see, you know, I think combined exercise with sauna interventions for not only performance outcomes, but sort of just these health outcomes and maybe, you know, I think soon hopefully maybe some longitudinal studies on sauna, on cold um maybe just especially sauna because there's so much, you know, skepticism regarding those, you know, studies from Finland showing the association with longevity. But I would love to see maybe like longer term studies couple years long where they're using the sauna and correlating that to say maybe some of these disease outcomes or proxies for disease outcomes. You know, does do people who use it, you know, over a 8 to 10 year like like uh follow-up period, do they have less heart attacks? Do they have less strokes? I think if we have data like that to support the sauna, it would sort of, you know, it would strengthen kind of the evidence that we already have. So, I would love to see that. But for me personally, I'm I'm really interested in like can we use the sauna as sort of this add-on to strength training, to endurance exercise, um to get some of these benefits because there's a few studies out there, but I would like to see more in trained people, but also just general people training for health. Um I think I would like to see see more of that. So hopefully some of those studies are being done. >> Yeah, absolutely agree. Yeah, I'm a big big believer in the Sona, but >> some of the skeptics would like to get some more uh higher quality studies. Um well, yeah. Well, this was a very interesting conversation and um you know, where can people learn more about you and your work? >> I'm pretty active on X. Uh people can find me at B Homer, just like my last name, H O L M E R. I post on there a lot of science stuff, some personal stuff, but that's where I'm most active. And then I write a weekly newsletter on Substack. It's called Physiologically Speaking. If people go to physiologicallyspeaking.com, they can sign up for it there. I send a newsletter every Friday about a scientific study. And then I'll post a couple videos maybe during the week. I'll send, you know, I'm posting my marathon training right now because I'm prepping for a marathon. So, I'll post a bunch of stuff on there. But the main the main thing there is the weekly newsletter that people if they're listening to this, they'll certainly be interested in anything I write about on there. So, those are two places they can find me. you know, if you want to follow me, reach out, say, "Hey." I also love chatting with people, you know, if you have a question on endurance training, sauna, something like that, feel free to reach out. I I'll typically answer all those questions if I can. >> Yeah, we'll put the links in the show notes. And, uh, yeah. Uh, last time I asked, "What's this one piece of advice or habit you wish you adopted sooner?" Uh, is there something you have changed about that opinion? >> Yeah, I'm trying to remember what I said. Did I say walking? I think I might have said walking would have been the habit. Um, I feel like that's still somebody I was on a podcast yesterday and somebody asked me that question and I said the same thing. Um, and not for the fitness benefits. I think there's a lot of people saying like walking is the best form of exercise and and I'm not sure I really buy into that, but just walking from the aspect of breaking up physical uh physical inactivity during the day, walking for mental health benefits, walking for recovery. Um, it's a habit that I wish when early on in life I sort of would have adopted um and sort of not looked down upon. Um, and also cross training. Maybe that would maybe be something that I've changed my mind on since you and I last talked. I do I I run a lot still, but um I get on the bike a lot and do some cross training, which I'm finding has has a lot of benefits. I think when I was a younger runner, I just ran all the time and as much as I could, and that necessarily wasn't wasn't a good thing. So, I think what people can take from that is that, you know, you have your main activity, but try to supplement it with things that might be a little bit outside of the thing you like doing most uh to add some variety. Mhm. Yeah. What about walking in the heat? Would then be >> Yeah, it's interesting you say that because this this summer that's something that I did a lot. Instead of doing say like maybe two exercise sessions in a day, I would I would run in the morning and then in the afternoon when it was really hot, it would be 100 degrees Fahrenheit here or even above that in Austin, Texas. I would go out and do a walk. I think that's a great way of sort of active heat acclamation, but you're not exercising super hard, so it's not too much of a stress. That's great, I think. >> Gotcha. Well, yeah, it was a great to talk with you and yeah, I'll see you around. >> Yeah, thanks. This is great.