You're in this fight orflight state all the time. You're holding on to things. Your tissues are tough. Your tissues are are just ready for, you know, some sort of uh response to a threat. It doesn't allow us to rest, digest, and eliminate. And when we get locked into that sympathetic dominant state, it our body holds on to things. And that bioaccumulation is ultimately what leads to the damage that could be accumulated on a DNA level. It could lead to chronic inflammation. And that chronic inflammation could lead to immune dysregulation and all sorts of things. >> Anneil, welcome back to the show. >> Thank you, Sim. Great to see you. >> Yeah, I'm uh happy to have you back on the show. And the last time we had, you know, kind of more general overview about precision medicine and how your genes and your environment affect your health each to each individual separately. But I wanted to bring you back to talk about something that is more and more relevant in today's world which is uh toxin exposure and detoxification etc where you know living in a very let's say polluted world nowadays both in terms of the environment as well as the food supply and a lot of people appear to have struggles with these kinds of things. So yeah, we'll do like a master class on all things uh detoxification. And I want to start with maybe you giving your framework or opinion about detoxification as a phenomenon itself because I think people might have the idea that it's kind of a scam or some sort of a fraud fraudster thing that drink your detox smoothies and those kind of things that it's just you know not pseudocience that it's not an actual thing. So what is your take on it as a you know precision medicine doctor? >> That's a great question and thank you again for having me back on. I think this is a very important topic. Um because what it relates to is essentially looking at the exposome the human exposome refers to you know the entire amount of environmental factors that are coming into interface with our our own internal ecosystem. So the air we breathe, the food we eat, the water we drink, all those factors have a significant impact at exposing us to different forms of environmental uh exposures and those exposures could be uh you know found in multiple different forms from different sources. The statistics around the environmental um kind of EPA and the chemical exposures has grown significantly over the past 20 years. So we're living in a very toxic world. We have this very unique little bubble, you know, I call it our little, you know, bubble that we're constantly being inundated with different forms of exposure, whether it's PAS and these forever chemicals, you know, from Teflon products and derivatives to microlastics, organo phosphates with different pesticides and herbicides, phalates and parabens, which are found in our cosmetic products and our our different cleaning products and things of that nature. All of those things have a significant on our total environmental exposure and that burden could lead to you know inundating our detox pathways and channels. So you know and that goes back down to your genetic blueprint and it's almost like looking at it in the context of pharmaccogenetics which refers to how your DNA blueprint influences the rate of metabolism of certain drugs and and toxins. So with that being said, there's some individuals that are rapid metabolizers. There's some individuals that are slow metabolizers. And that, you know, gene environmental interface andor mismatch is where it leads to the potential for the bioaccumulation of these different compounds within our system. And that bioaccumulation is ultimately what leads to the damage the that could be accumulated on a DNA level, right? it could lead to chronic inflammation. Um, and that chronic inflammation could lead to, you know, further, you know, uh, accumulation and immune dysregulation and all sorts of things. So, we live in a very toxic world. There's multiple different exposures that we have, you know, that we're constantly being, you know, inundated with. And it's identifying and mitigating those exposures and supporting our body's natural endogenous detox pathways. M yeah yeah yeah it's like we live in an environment and uh some of us will be more affected by these environmental pollutants due to genetics and one great example of this is uh me and my wife um I lived in a molded house for two decades without any symptoms and without any change in how I feel or anything like that whereas my wife came and within a few uh weeks she already developed some symptoms related to mold exposure. So there is a lot of you know individual differences to how people react to various you know toxins uh like even microplastics or pifas and heavy metals and all those things are very you know dependent of the individual genetics. But uh yeah I guess people already know that we are living in a very polluted world with a lot of um problems in the food supply as well as the air that we breathe and the water we drink. But is detox itself um a thing that our bodies are able to do? So that can we actually excrete these uh different pollutants and toxins and um and is it just related to your liver? So like a lot of people might say that your liver is the detox organ and that's you know all you have that you don't you can't really do anything else. Like if you can detox things then it's going to be done by the liver and that's that's it. >> Yeah. So, I think that's a great question and it's one that's kind of plagued me through my academic training, uh, historically because you speak to other doctors and they're going to be like, "Oh, they're, you know, the concept of detox is kind of foreign to the alipathic language and landscape, especially from a conventional toxicology perspective. this concept of detoxing and drinking a smoothie or, you know, doing, you know, I don't know, uh, colon cleanses and all this other stuff for for detox is is kind of a foreign concept. Um, and it just depends on what literature you're looking at and what research you're choosing, and I say choose to pay attention to because when it comes down to it in the with our current understanding of N of One Medicine and basically how everybody's unique blueprint is different, our environmental exposures, like you alluded to, hey, I lived in a moldinfested home for 20 years. I didn't have those symptomatic presentations versus Inca when she was there, she's automatically started expressing signs and symptoms of mold toxicity. You know, I think that's the the what we need to be looking at is that environmental gene interface and how that influences everybody differently. So to sit here and you know and have a conversation around detox it's very important to understand the different factors that make up phase 1 2 and three detoxification because each phase is very unique and specific to the individual with arguably yes the liver being one of the primary organs of detoxification but so is the bowels the urinary systems and the kidney right and even sweating and the lymphatic system. All of those different organs and systems play an instrumental role with the bot transfer transformation and elimination of these um various metabolites because again if you understand the cytochrome P450 and again using the context of pharmaccogenetics and looking at how we're metabolizing things based on a rate of metabolism right and understanding even phase one detox which has to do with basically um the turning these fat soluble or water soluble toxins into a more neutral uh molecule after cytochrome P450 through you know you know reduction process that's a very important concept to look at because there's so many different nutritional co-actors that go into that phase 1 detox including that cetchrome P450 blueprint that everybody is different right they're either slow or rapid metabolizers or intermediate and each you know TD6 3A4 A 1 A2 whatever the heck it is you know everybody's blueprint and rate of metabolism for these different compounds are different so understanding your unique genetic um blueprint is as instrumental at identifying specifically you know hey do I have you know issues with uh mold do I have issues with organo phosphates do I have issues more issues with heavy metals right from a phase one detox perspective because after phase phase one detox and they basically hydroxilate these different compounds and they try to make these these heavy metals or you know whatever it is chemicals more water soluble. Sometimes those those post-phase 1 intermediate metabolites are more toxic than the actual toxin to begin with. And then you know after the phase one detox pathway we have to look at phase two conjugation acetylation methylation glucaronidation you know those con conjugated pathways that influence the further uh refining of that intermediate metabolite into a more uh safer elements for detoxification. And then phase three, you know, is it going to go to the urine? >> Is it going to go to the to the bells? It, you know, is it, you know, not being conjugated appropriately? And there's entopatic recirculation. And that kind of that entopatic recirculation is a big issue with mole toxicity. So what entropic recirculation refers to is that you know these these metabolites um go into the bile, the gallbladder and the bile, right? And the bile is squirted into the small intestine. And you, you know, and the bile is what gives um feces its brown color. But you know, up to 98% of bile is recirculated and reabsorbed throughout the digestive process, right? And that that process of interopatic recirculation could lead to these different toxins to be accumulated and recirculated within the system. And this is where different binders come into play to help, you know, work as a molecular sponge and go in there and soak this stuff up and help you eliminate it and poop it out, right? Um to prevent, you know, that that toxic vicious cycle of recirculation. So when it comes down to detox, I you know, to question whether or not it's a real phenomenon is is very silly. to question the role of bot transformation, detoxification, elimination, I think breeds a larger conversation about, you know, are you moving your lymph and exercising and sweating? Are you passing your bowels on a regular basis? Not once a day, once every other day, you know, but maybe multiple times a day, >> right? And what what's your urine look like? are you drinking enough water to go in there and support, you know, the the flushing effect of um some of those water- soluble toxins from the kidney system and network, right? And then even from like a German uh homotoxicological model, you know, I'm really big into Dr. Recawig's work in homotoxicology and he proposed this concept of um homotoxins that bas and he has this beautiful chart um would love to pull it up and share but you know you could Google the chart and look up Reawig's model of homotoxicology and he has these different phases of detoxification and elimination in the system and Reawig was a um homotoxicologist in the 1950s in Germany that basically proposed model. And in this model, it basically outlines whether or not you could appropriate biotransform some of these these compounds in your system. And essentially, he divided into multiple different phases. And when the first phase he described was a hummeral phase, right? And the hummeral phase referred to um basically the humors of the body, the the you know the fluids of the body. And if you can't rem you know remove the homotoxin appropriately, your body's going to inflame. And it and if the body inflames ultimately then it could you know and there's recirculation of those inflammatory uh intermediate byproducts it impregnates the tissue and once there's impregnation of that intermediate metabolite into the tissue right and this could be toxic tagalongs and different metabolites or whatever it is from um detox intermediate byproducts. it moves into the matrix phase and in the matrix phase it's actually it's stored right and it leads to architectural shifts in that extracellular matrix in the bio acccumulation of some of those products right and then ultimately it moves into a cellular phase where that accumulation of toxic compounds leads to differentiation which is essentially autoimmune and cancer right so this bioaccumulation of these different compounds >> and it's intermediate that could be more toxic than the actual you know you know element itself could lead to long-term consequences in cellular differentiation towards autoimmune and cancer. So you know it's a very important concept I think you know in German medicine and German new medicine you know they look at supporting what's called drainage right and that drainage you know has to deal with opening up the different channels you know in the system to further help eliminate allow the body to eliminate um these different kind of byproducts and that's your you know um your different kind of um German remedies you pana and and so forth drainage >> yeah it's in today's world people are you know like a greater need of u eliminating these um compounds from their body because the input is so much greater and uh I would also you know argue that the modern lifestyle is uh deficient in stimulating these detox pathways sufficiently so we are not sweating as much we're not moving as much we're not stimulating the lymph as much or at least you know the average person doesn't and u their liver isn't working optimally they might have a liver impairment to a certain degree. So there is a like a deficiency in detox for lack of a better word um that when the input of these toxins is so much greater and the output the excretion of them isn't catching up and that's why you um will also people might also develop certain of these complications related to the toxic buildup. Even if it's uh something related to as simple as fatigue or sleep problems or some rashes, some skin conditions, autoimmune minor autoimmune conditions, you know, the even these minor things can be tied to uh this toxin accumulation to a certain extent and some of them are you know directly also linked even to things like fertility issues and you know potentially cancer as well. >> You said it. So the clinical manifestations and symptomatic presentations could vary based on the alosatic load or bioaccumulation um due to the lack of biot transformation or detox and could ultimately just manifest in everybody a little bit differently right wherever those s sore spots are whatever it is skin neurological mitochondrial deficits and fatigue neuro fatigue neuroinflammation all of those are clinical manifestations signs and symptoms associated ated with, you know, that total toxic body burden due to that allic load and that environmental gene mismatch. Absolutely. >> I want to take a quick break to let you know about my favorite wellness devices, which are the Bond Charge red light therapy devices. You've probably seen many of your favorite longevity influencers using these red light therapy devices. But do they actually work? Yes, they do. Red light therapy has been shown to have many benefits on skin anti-aging, hormone optimization, pain management, and even exercise performance. I use my device every day for 15 minutes, especially during the winter months when there's not much sunlight. It increases my energy in the morning and makes my skin glow. Just check out the testimonials on the Bont Charge website for the before and after pictures of other people. Most REA therapides don't have the right wavelengths of light, which might mean you're not getting the claimed benefits. Bon Charge uses the exact wavelengths of light used in research and they also have near infrared light that's beneficial to the joints. Head over to bunchcharge.com and use the code seam sim for a 15% discount. Yeah. And you mentioned certain of these uh pathways and let's say routes of detox as well such as sweating and urination and feces and and lymph drainage. These things are actually very you know everyday things that people do. Everyone goes to the bathroom every day and everyone sweats at least to a certain extent a little bit and uh people don't really think as sweating or urination as a as a detox pathway but it is like you said very important and uh actually one of the ma one of the major pathways by which your body excretes a lot of these toxins. So what are maybe we can start with what are some maybe these everyday activities that people should work on optimizing these simpler things lowhanging fruit uh that uh would support lowering that toxic burden on a daily basis and you know we're not going to go into these more genetic details yet but some are more like simplistic things u so how how can people you know make sure that they urinate enough or stimulate the lymph or uh what's a sufficient amount of sweating for example That's a great question and I think it's it's all n of one based on you know where you live the lifestyle that you have because arguably you know going for a run in a city like New York or DC or LA where the air impact you know outdoors and the air quality is so bad that in certain areas right that it that could actually be more detrimental right so looking again you know at the actual ual kind of um spatial exposures and how that influences you know everything is very important. So you know is there a a correct recipe for the person? That's a great question and I think that um number one I think most most importantly is identifying and mitigating and removing sources of exposure to that toxin first and foremost right because >> we don't know what we're being exposed to unless you test right there's different forms of testing out there provoked test versus you know spontaneous tests um usually urinary metabolites is blood better than you know urine and and so on and so forth and I think each one could be debated and has its clinical validity and utility in addressing N of one, you know, kind of clinical management. So, number one, what what's our greatest threat threat? And obviously, we could do our best to filter our water and, you know, make sure we're hydrating on on great quality water, you know, and um whether it's filtered rever double reverse osmosis, um alkalize, and you know, there's all sorts of different, you know, is it detarium removed, you know, from it. There's all these different things with water. Then the food, right? you know, organic, inorganic, and um you know, basically hormones in the meat and antibiotics in the pro in the meat as well, you know. So, it's being mindful of of those accumula uh exposures. Not to mention, you know, our our you know, EMFs are a big part of it, right? This distorted factor, right? That is a part of our envir exposome, right? And you know, if we're bathing in EMFs in our bedroom, not good. the Austrians. There's um um a great company in Austria called Geo Vital that basically um trains individuals to identify major sources of EMF exposures in their home and in their office wherever where they spend a lot of time and they basically provide tools and resources to mitigate that electromagnetic field stress. I feel as though the Austrians are really ahead of their time when it comes down to geopathic stress and looking at how, you know, EMF plays a role. Um, you know, our cleaning products, our our cosmetic products, phalates and parabens, all those things are are really big things. Um, you know, our cookware huge, you know, with Teflon and nonstick. So, first and foremost, we need to do a an audit of what's coming into our exposome, what we're being, you know, exposed to. And actually, you know, um my me and the American Board of Precision Medicine represent a new initiative here in the US called the human exposome project, which is basically kind of picking up where the human genome project left off 25 years ago and looking at how the that environmental gene interface and how that influences things. So, you know, I think number one is identifying those exposures, mitigating and removing chronic exposure. Number two, what could you do, you know, to help facilitate detox? That's a loaded question. You know, it depends on what we we're being exposed to. you know, if you want to go to the um the whole concept of mole toxicity, and I know there's like the saying out there, kill, bind, sweat. You know, you don't really sweat out micotoxin that, you know, that's um you know, kind of, you know, something. Um so, it just really depends on what your total toxic body burden is, >> what it shows, and how to address each one of those kind of components um in a targeted fashion through targeted detox. Generally speaking though, what could you do at home right now from a lifestyle standpoint on top of, you know, mitigating exposure would be drinking enough water per day, you know, and honestly that amount and concentration could vary from person to person. What I tell people to do is just look at their urine, right? Look at look at your urine. You don't want it concentrated. You don't want to see bubbles. You don't want to see it um cloudy, right? You want to see a nice straw color journ, right? That could be vary from day to day based on physical activity, stress, exposure, and sweating. In regards to sweating, what's a magic recipe? I don't think I haven't seen any studies done specifically to identify the specific sweating concentration or amount. Go out there and move, >> right? Break a sweat, right? Have fun with it, you know? um you know whether it's uh playing a sport or doing you know martial art like jiu-jitsu or you know being in a sauna you know to help mobilize some of this stuff out of your system fantastic go and sweat you got to sweat um you know I do sauna therapy at minimum you know three to five times a week um another very important uh thing to consideration is is fiber >> are you pooping enough you know >> and um do you know how many patients I have normal thyroid function normalish ish diet and all that other stuff, but they don't poop on a regular basis, >> right? And when you start unpacking the microbiome association, they have some microbes that are associated with dispiosis that could be affecting that. They have maybe sympathetic dominances and their their veagal nerve tone, right? Or lack thereof that's influencing the migrating motor complex of their myeric plexus of their gastrointestinal system that slows down bowel motility, right? We have patients that might have some thyroid issues, but poop, man, that's that's fun stuff. You want to make sure you're pooping >> a lot enough. You don't want diarrhea. You want, you know, a normal cadence of bowel movements, you know, two to three times a day to be keeping up with, you know, your your normal digestive physiology. and the type of stool matters, you know, and that there's a whole Bristol stool chart where you could look at, you know, is it hard and rocky or is it, you know, mushy and stuff. All those things are clinical clues on what's happening in the digestive process, the microbiota, um, bowel elimination and so forth because when you start taking fiber, watch what happens. The fiber goes in there, you know, it feeds short- chain fatty acids needed for the microbiota and the mucus production on the colonocytes and supports a healthy ubiosis um gut terrain. >> Things start working better, elimination starts working better. >> Um so, you know, I can't stress pooping enough >> and appropriately. All right? And then lymphatic mobilization is critical, right? So, what do you do for that? Well, you know, you just got to run, got to exercise, you got to rebound and jump on a trampoline, you could jump rope, you know, and infuse some sort of um movement that's going to, you know, kind of, you know, movement that's going to stimulate the lymph as a whole. Right. In my office, we have a machine called Flowresso from New Zealand. FDA registered uh machine that's been shown to do whole body lymphatic sequential um compression. I love it. It is like a nice warm hug. You know, you see these folks out there that are using like just the leg stuff, you know, the legers right in their recovery. That's cute. But the bulk of our lymph nodes are actually concentrated in the abdomen, the renal region, you know, the epitroclear lymph nodes, you know, in in our arms, right? And then we have some other lymph nodes throughout, you know, axillary lymph nodes and our thoracic duct. All that lymphatic stimulation needs to be addressed appropriately. And once you start mobilizing the lymph, you need that's when you should sweat. So mobilize the lymph in some shape or form and then sweat. >> Right? If you don't sweat, you're going to just recircle some of that stuff into your system and that's not good. And then you hydrate, you know, I love hydrating, rehydrating on coconut water, you know, love it, you know? So, I think that's a part of a healthy routine. And not to mention sleep. >> Do you know how much stuff is removed into your system and sleep, right? And with the glimpmphatic system, I don't know, I know you know all about the lymphatic system. And basically it's a you know a part of our lymphatic system within the central nervous system that goes in there and actually works as a hydraulic pump within our cerebral spinal fluid to wash away any of these bioaccumulated misfolded proteins that might accumulate in the brain. >> So glimpmphatic mobilization clearance is a very big part of this entire process as well to pull away some of those bioaccumulated proteins. So sleep optim optimization is critical >> and then you know eating for detox right you know there's some evidence about cilantro having some mild chilation benefits beets you know yuka you know um having some additional you know binding effects you know so there's different foods that could help support um you know the the detox pathways and for that you know I I like to reference um one of my colleagues Deanna Minn's work you know eating across a rainbow and spectrum of different colors of phytonutrients because again those phytonutrients play a very important role at supporting some of those epigenetic eputrient signals needed for favorable gene expression supporting detox and elimination. >> So >> yeah I hope I answered your question. >> Yeah no that was a amazing uh overview super uh fascinating and specific. So uh I guess the perfect routine is that on a daily basis you do some sort of movement specifically movement that would stimulate your lymphatic system and the best form of that is something related to compression or bouncing like running, jumping, rebounding. I guess foam rolling or this dry brushing or massaging would also count as a lymphatic drainage routine. So you need to like move the lymph and um hydrate properly, eat sufficiently enough fiber that you would uh go for number two on a regular basis which I think is very underappreciated that people would say that okay fiber is useless that it's not an essential nutrient. Yeah. But uh in today's world, your toxic burden is so much higher that you probably need to go for number two a bit more often as well to you know buy into even like air pollution like you can you could live the most purest lifestyle but if you're in a close close by to some bigger city then then uh you will be exposed to more air pollution just by that. So um yeah fiber intake uh is underrated in that regard and um sleep optimization with uh with everything related to that. We're not going to go into details of that but just you know going to bed on time blocking out the artificial light and uh sleeping in darkness all those things would help with melatonin production as well which I think is also involved in these pathways related to detox. Yeah, the chronobiology of it is very, you know, interesting because, you know, arguably you based on different uh clock gene activation. There's different organ tissues a part of our detox pathways that have heightened, you know, expression, you know, with I think the liver, you know, being mostly associated around 2 3:00 in the morning from my understanding. So um you know mitigating the different uh air pollutant or light pollution you know to optimize or minimize that that um the supercosismatic nuclei reflection on those photo receptors on the eyelid to optimize the melatonin production is going to be essential at you know um uh getting some of those chronobiological um signalings orchestrated appropriately. So the chronobiome is a whole another you know very fascinating topic of um you know bio regulatory um you know kind of um support. So >> yeah fantastic. >> You mentioned the water. So mineral water contains a lot of different minerals. >> Yeah. >> That uh support your glutathione production like sulfur and uh etc. Do you I I I have seen some evidence from some smaller studies from Europe that you know bathing in mineral water like the sulfur baths and drinking mineral waters you know first of all they do help with constipation and bowel movements but they might also actually help to excrete some heavy metals. Uh have you seen any evidence like that? I have not seen evidence about mineral water specifically and you know the things that you just you know for me naturally I love you know uh spring water that's naturally mineralized right I feel as though it's incredibly hydrating alkalizing and supporting to the cells but minerals play a very important role in you know the detox process because as you're mobilizing stuff out of your system you need to replenish you know the mineral storage that's being depleted or also you know the good leaving with the bad so to speak right and doing multi-mineral complex is very important in you know heavy metal detoxes you know so if we find somebody with you know a high burden of mercury lead arsenic whatever it is and you decide to move towards a targeted detox approach with some level of you know it doesn't have to be introvenous keelation but you know whatever it is heavy metal support you know there's often times a multi mineral complex that's there to help with that ionic exchange to help your body shed and release some of these you know um trivalent cations ions that have very strong affinity to very uh specific tissue. It all it all boils down to charge again you know and um looking at certain binders you know certain binders have charge you know like for example the drug and medication colostyamine welcoll which is used in a lot of these mold detoxes um that is a you know very specifically charged particle right it's a coronary ammonium and has a specific charge that binds to the micotoxins and helps eliminate it out and it's um very well established that that is a very strong binder that targets micotoxins and prevents a muropatic microirculation. You mentioned the sulfur baths and I think about um you know there's um a resort near me here in West Virginia 4 hours away called the Greenbryer and the Greenbryer Brier is very beautiful resort. They have this whole crazy underground kind of um system that was, you know, linked to DC and used as a, you know, kind of a a place for people just in case there's like a nuclear fallout to go to and bunker down. But the Greenbryer out in West Virginia has amazing sulfur springs. And you go there and you do a sulfur baths. And then when you're actually at the Greenbryer, you see all, you know, along the the walls, very old school, all the theoretical clinical benefits of curing rheumatological issues and treating all sorts of different issues. If you if you have this disease come and soak in the bass, the sulfur bass, it's going to be a cure cure all. And again there's these natural hot pockets of sulfur springs all over the world and you know arguably have some level of therapeutic um benefits you know as a part of uh you know the the elimination process. Same thing with like an epsom salt bath you know driving magnesium into the tissue um you know for for muscle relaxction and recovery. I do think those baths, different forms of hydrogen baths, sulfur bath, um, and so forth, all have, you know, some therapeutic, um, benefit. >> Yeah. >> And if not, it feels fun. >> You know, it relaxes the autonomic nervous system and lets you release. >> Yeah. In the past, that was the uh one of the main medical interventions that people in Greece and uh medieval Europe and even during the Renaissance and the Victorian era, they just told people to go to these um spas which uh were just you know mineral baths in in nature and uh I don't know anecdotally they appear to work for some conditions and there are like some studies as well seeing that they provide some um relief especially especially even for like pain management especially like joint pains and those things um appear to be most beneficial. >> Yeah. The the certain springs in Budapest and so forth, you know, are are also a part of, you know, having those um healing properties. And look, you know, are we going to be able to, you know, tell you to go take a a spring bath and that's going to cure your cancer? No. But it could be a part of like the healing process, you know, and you know, if not, how many people actually take baths on a regular basis or showering, right? And being able to take the time to slow down, unplug, leave the phone off, light a candle, right, and sit down and calm the nervous system down in a therapeutic, tranquil environment. that effect on the autonomic nervous system and the sympathetic load I think has the ability for the body to release because that's very important concept that I don't think a lot of people pay attention to. If you're in this fight orflight state all the time, you're holding on to things. Your tissues are tough, right? your your your tissues are are just ready for you know some sort of uh you know response to a threat and it doesn't allow us to rest digest and eliminate versus you know >> and when we get locked into that par that that sympathetic dominant state our body holds on to things and I think you know part of the therapeutic benefits of these baths is shifting the autonomic nervous system towards a state of higher coherence you know with the heart rate variability and veagal nerve output and everything else. It's just such a beautiful thing and is essential for releasing in the healing process. >> Yeah, I would imagine if you are tensed up and your muscles are tight, then your lymphatic system probably isn't working. Uh probably. So, >> correct. Yeah. >> Relaxation of the muscles with like foam rolling or massage probably is an important part as well. >> Oh, yeah. I I love my massages. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Maybe we can now move on with um or actually I want to also mention um so you know taking clay in the morning or activated charcoal or something these binders uh do they actually work and uh when is the best time to take them? >> So you know I know that there are these charts out there that say hey if you have this micotoxin you know in the urine analysis to match it with you know charcoal zeolyte clay or whatever. um you know I I just question the research and evidence around that and its actual clinical utility. I'm not saying it doesn't have you know other binding properties to go in there and have the affinity towards heavy metals or some of these other kind of um compounds. But you know I just don't know if it's it's um going to have the same therapeutic benefit as a binder as it relates to u mold toxicity and chronic inflammatory response syndrome. Um, so I know that's heavily debated amongst that community when dealing with mold and its ability to inflict the immune system. And we could unpack that a little bit further if you want, but um, I do think look, it will have detoxing benefits for very specific um, indications. Um, yeah. So I do think, you know, uh, it does have benefit generally speaking. I love chlorella. you know, uh, charcoal is it's a it's a charcoal activated charcoal is what is used in the hospital if you overdose on Tylenol, right? So, if you overdose on Tylenol that you're going to come in and they're going to mix this black soup, right? They don't even give you the capsules. It's gross. And you got to drink that crap down for >> um you know Tylenol toxicity because it has the ability to go in there and prevent um you know some of the intermediate metabolites of Tylenol NAP QI specifically NAPQI um for Tylenol HPO toxicity. So it goes in there and mitigates the the stress on that system. So yes, charcoal works, chlorella, you know, binds to heavy metals. Um, you know, cilantro extract, some research on heavy metals metals. Clay more absorbent and non-specific and pulls things out. Um, generally speaking, right? So they're different, you know, agents that are out there that are used commercially for different clinical applications. >> Gotcha. And you don't want to take them with food or like other supplements or something like that. You just want to take them away from >> you got Yeah. take it away. Right. So I, you know, when it comes down to binders, I mean, I say 1 hour before or 3 hours after any drug or medication or supplement, right? Because it's going to go in there and interfere and absorb. These things work like molecular sponges and they just wait and they hang out and they absorb and eliminate things and prevent its um its uh absorption in your system. >> Gotcha. What about after a sauna? Is that a good time to take it or before? Uh, you know, that's a great question. I don't think there's any real research that I've seen on binders in relation to saunas, but I would, you know, personally do it maybe before. So, because you got to think about the transate time of digestion, in relation to, you know, the sweating and then the rehydration post sauna therapy, you want to make sure we're assimilating and absorbing the minerals, you know, after sauna. Again, I usually like to do coconut water after my sauna therapies, right? great source of magnesium and other trace minerals. And um I usually do my sauna at night time right before I shower and go to bed. Um but um yeah, so um binders I typically recommend depending on the clinical situation two to three times a day usually morning, lunch and evening, right? Or morning and evening. Um as it relates to sauna, I would probably take it before going into the sauna. again, the transient time that's needed for it to make its way into the small intestine as it relates to, you know, your exercise and recovery. Because, you know, if you're doing a true kind of rebounding and detox, if you're jumping rope and jumping on the trampoline, then jumping in the sauna to help with the bot transferation and elimination, um, I think that's that's kind of a a nice little targeted approach. >> Gotcha. Are there any other like supplements that uh could be taken on a daily basis? some NAC or glutathione, melatonin. >> Yeah, there there's all of those are very important to help support, you know, bot transformation, detox, and elimination. I really think that again, I I look at things in the context of N of one medicine. So, you know, like there's there's all sorts of things that help support detox like you alluded to, you know, NAC, even even B vitamins, right? So again going back to cytochrome P450s and looking at phase one detoxification there you know all the B vitamins are really needed to support that you know um milk thistle what's the util role of of milk thistle what's the role of dandelion you know extract as a colog and colog goss basically helps squeeze the gallbladder you know through CCK activation and and chyin and basically allows your body to mobilize that bile acid from the gallbladder into you know the digestive system and then the theory is once you squeeze the gallbladder you go in there and you have that sponge right whatever binder it might be I prefer you know well called colostyamine in a targeted you know mold situation to go in there and absorb that bile to prevent it enterpatic recirculation so there are numerous different forms of compounds you know vitamin E zinc you know different amino acids all of those things play a very important role but yes you alluded to you know the role of anicylcysteine which is very important glutathione precursor and as we know glutathione is your body's master antioxidant um you know um there's u IP6 uh from rice brand that's been shown to also help with um vital transformation you know there's the role of artichoke as well you know uh very important bero root chory bourberine all those things help stimulate kind of the phase one detox um you know phase of uh elimination. Um, so there's there's multiple different things and you know for my patients that I see here clinically I typically run a very specific testing to identify those micro micronutrient deficits right so from a therapeutic um perspective it's you know in my practice I run what's called a multiomic analysis so I get DNA on everybody I get proteomics metabolomics exposomeics microbiomics right uh it's it's it's a lot of information but you know these different molecular layers is tell us a story and tell us where our deficits and excesses are, where our threats are, and what we need to focus on. If the gut is all um not good, right? If like there's leaky gut and there's increased zulin activity and there's signs of leaky gut and I look at your blood under my microscope and you know there's you know signs of endotoxmia, we got to focus on the gut first, right? because leaky gut, leaky brain, and the next thing you know, you're going to mobilize, you know, some of these toxins into your your central nervous system if the, you know, the intestines aren't appropriately healed. So, there's a very specific therapeutic order and just going in there and saying, "Hey, I'm going to start detoxing," >> right? >> No, you know, you can't manage what you don't measure and test, don't guess. You know, get those kind of that baseline. Understand what the hell we're dealing with first. Mitigate exposure. go home and detox your house and your environment and everything else. Try to support the system naturally with the lifestyle things that we've done. And then, you know, if the gut is okay, all right, then we can move into a targeted detox phase, right? And, you know, the big thing that you would want to keep in mind is, yeah, you're going to want some things that are going to help with bot transformation and detox formulas. You're going to want to some have some natural chilators and binders. a part of it. You want to provide the micronutrients needed for phase one and phase two, you know, whether it's amino acids, B vitamins and so forth. And also, you want to make sure that you have the appropriate antioxidant signaling there. So that, you know, as we uh force the elimination that your body is not going to basically um oxidize or or get taxed based on that additional stress and that's going to be your your glutathione, your vitamins's AC, E, selenium, and zinc and vitamin C, right? you know, very important at boosting that as well. Things that boost NRF2 signaling, um, which are is our natural endogenous antioxidant pathway signaling on a genetic level, NRF2, right? You know, things like broccoli sprout extract and resveratrol, you know, all very important kind of components in a targeted detox, increasing your fiber, right? All that stuff's very important. So, as you move through a detox plan, right, you know, I think it's very important to identify what what we're going to address, how we're going to address it, test, don't guess, right? And there's other therapies out there, too. You know, I think um you know, the role of therapeutic plasma exchange, you know, which is basically pull the blood out, filter it, and you know, pull out all the plasma, exchange it with albumin, put it back in. pulling out all that stuff, not you know all the toxins in circulation has some therapeutic benefits. There's research that was recently published through the Buck Institute that looked at, you know, the role of therapeutic plasma exchange in reversing clock gene and biological aging activity, right? There's also, you know, some very interesting research around Eboo, extraaporeal blood ozenation oxygenation. This technique we use in our office, too. Um, pull the blood out, filter it, ozenate it, illuminate it, and put it back in, right? And basically that helps, you know, bas you do an oil change. Not only are you doing an oil change of the blood, right? right? And pulling out all the bad stuff, you're also uh enhancing the ozenides in the system. And those ozenides actually work on those NRF2 signaling pathways, works on AMP kynise, right? So, it's going to help with metabolic priming and sensitivity and um has multiple therapeutic benefits. So a part of any longevity stack I think is looking at you know the appropriate cadence of some of these different therapies whether it's TPE or IBU right in regards to supporting some of these biolumination um pathways and supporting NRF2 signaling. >> Does that make sense? >> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. you know, there's ways to actually just filter the blood and take out uh various um you know, microplastics, heavy metals, and even um autoimmune uh related proteins and things like that. But yeah, they tend to be more costly and u you know there's a certain barrier for them. But they there's evidence that they do work and they are being used quite a lot. But you mentioned one thing very interesting that you need to fix your gut because otherwise you're just reabsorbing those toxins that you detox. So maybe we can walk through of the importance of uh having some sort of a prioritization. So first you know yeah yeah you test and uh figure out what is the issue but let's say I would imagine most people who might struggle with symptoms related to toxin accumulation they tend to also have some intestinal permeability because you know for for to reach toxin accumulation that reaches some you know actual symptoms you need to have some sort where where does it come from in the first place and the intestinal permeability is one of the common um you know routes into the blood for the outside world to get into our blood. So um is there any specific things people need to do to fix the gut and uh you know once they are already stimulating all these detox pathways right with uh these various um lifestyle interventions and supplements etc. is there other ways to promote them um or prevent them from being reabsorbed as well? So like first how can they fix the gut? Any specific things there? And secondly to prevent them from being reabsorbed to actually make them excrete. >> Yeah, that's a great question. I think you know hypocrisy said all disease begins in the gut, right? >> And I think that has to refer to multiple different things as it relates to our immune system because 70% of our immune system resides in the gut in the form of gut associated lymphoid tissue. I also believe that our barrier systems, it's one of our key barrier systems throughout our body. So, we have different barriers, you know, um and our barrier systems most importantly are, you know, in our digestive system, our bronchial system. Arguably, that's like 90% of our barrier system that we need to pay attention to. So, what we're breathing in and what we're eating is going to have a tremendous impact on, you know, the permeability um due to that chronic inflammation. So preceding this issue with the gut has to deal with chronic inflammation leading to damage and that damage increases the permeability of that tissue allowing for transcellular or parasellular migration of things that were selectively permeable before. Now that that selective permeability is no longer there. The you know the the filter is no longer there. That safety net's no longer there. And we have larger macroolelecules absorbing and getting into the system. So when it comes down to gut health first and that's why I do a staggered multiomic approach with my patients is know the genetic predispositions know what's going on within you know the proteomic signatures look at the metabolomics what's going on on a metabolomic level what's going on on a microbiomic level because arguably some of the microbiome testing I do looks at also some of the gut physiology right and then what's going on at an environmental toxin level those five core omix signals for me clinically is the com a huge snapshot. Now, do I do transcrytoic testing? You know, looking at RNA and so forth, yes, I do epigenetic testing. All those are kind of luxury items, you know, depending on the clinical presentation. But when you look at the gut and the microbiome and you start seeing that there's dispiosis, imbalance of gut bacteria, there's exacer pancreatic insufficiency, epi, we're not digesting and emulsifying our food properly. There's um histamine issues with EPX protein. There is fecal cal protectin due to transmigration of lucasytes or white blood cells into the gut wall. Um and we start seeing these different patterns. There's very zulin leaky gut, right? There's a very specific targeted approach that we need to address those issues with depending on what the person is showing and demonstrating. So for me, um, I like to look at all those key pieces of information and determine, you know, do we have to focus on the gut first, >> right? The answer is not always yes, right? Some people have fantastic digestive systems, but they're just eating shitty food all the time and there might be, you know, um, organo phosphates or they like to golf. they live near a golf course within three miles of a golf course and the uh glyphosate is aerosolized and they're huffing it down and it's bioaccumulating in their system, right? or you know it is the phalates and parabens or the microp whatever the heck it is right so it just depends on the data points right so when it comes down to the digestive health um for me first test don't guess see what's going on if we have to focus on gut first I lead with gut first and then you know if there's malabsorption patterns and you're trying to give them oral supplementation shit's not going to be absorbed >> no pun intended right >> you know those supplements aren't going to be used and there's going to be malabsorption and and your body's not going to use and you're just going to be having expense expensive feces, right, and expensive urine because your body's assimilation of these micronutrients are not going to be there. >> So >> yeah, >> um in that case, I would personally work on the gut, the dispiosis, the malabsorption and all those factors first, whatever it is through targeted specific neutrutical supplementation or drug medications. And you know somebody needs crayon we got them crayon you know which is um you know pharmaceutical grade digestive enzymes. Um if we you know need to do a low histamine low oxalate low whatever diet we figure out the dietary components matched with your genetics. Then if we need to, you know, heal the gut, you know, there's so many different leaky gut protocols out there, whether it's incarnosine, glutamine, BPC-157, you know, um, bone broth, whatever the hell it is, you know, to go in there and try to help promote the healing of the gut, but you still have to mitigate those stressors or those inflammation to begin with. So, it's about identifying those threats to um, the cellular integrity. Um, and then you know, um, if there's malabsorption issues and they're profound, like the patient I had right before before you, um, before jumping on this podcast, fantastic guy, um, you know, did a lot of, um, the bulk of the testing and, um, you know, malabsorption through the roof and, you know, really high um, 80HDG and lipid peroxides indicating cytotoxicity and DNA and genotoxicity, DNA damage. So the therapeutic order around that is like, okay, we're going to do some IVs and then we're going to do neutrauticals to clean up the gut. So we're going to replete the profound level of micronutrient deficiencies from years of malabsorption, disbiosis, and all sorts of stuff. And again, I got these tests for him covered by Medicare, you know, covered by insurance here in the US, some of them, most of them, right? And that's that's a very fun dance to do. But so now we developed a therapeutic protocol that's going to be replenishing the micronutrients introvenously to give the body the co-actors it needs to heal. We're going to remove those ongoing exposures. We're going to pull out the toxins through what I have next door with all the different tools and technologies from lymphatic mobilization and so forth. get them ready for Eboo right ultimately and um you know do lymphatic and ozone sauna and so forth to just you know move things um did not have increased gut permeability so there's no like you know healing of the intestines needed that was that was intact barrier was intact um but just had a really high toxic body burden so you know everything is out of one in my practice right I don't like there are protocols or guidelines based on best practices on how to approach and structure a therapeutic intervention, but I adopt it for the person uniquely. Um, >> I hope that made sense. >> Yeah. >> Did that answer your question? It makes sense. >> Yeah. Yeah. Uh, one question I got was you mentioned the pesticides with being near golf course. There was this recent study >> a few weeks ago that people who were the closest to the golf course had a higher risk of Parkinson's and they think it's the glyphosate from the drinking water and things of that that they spray on the golf course. So this raises the question of you know should you buy organic food or uh if you live next to some sort of a big farm that has glyphosate sprayed or some other pesticides uh how big of a concern do you think that is and should people buy you know 100% organic and 100% even like you know let's say grass-fed versus grain-fed um you know this uh factory farmed meat versus some uh regenerative farm meat because of the antibiotic use etc. like how big of those >> how big of a concern those things are to the exoome and uh the person's health. >> That's a fantastic question and actually that you know that was a study that I was referring to as well. I've had patients that don't golf that live within 3 miles of golf course that have glyphosate through the roof. Um they eat organic. So you know is it in the water is it aerosolized is a question and its association with ner degeneration is a very important component in looking at somebody's um intrinsic capacity or longevity as a whole. So, with that being said, um you know, whether or not to eat 100% organic, my my take is, you know, there's a dirty dozen in Clean 15 by the Environmental Working Group here in the US that kind of lays out, you know, some of the different produce that have a low residue burden um that you could get away with. You know, things with a a thicker shell that you're able to peel away tend to be less of a exposure compared to something that you eat the skin for. Um you know, obviously always air on the side of precaution. try to go organic wherever you can, but you know, uh, life is life and you're going to go out to a restaurant and then you're going to have berries that are inorganic and, you know, do you wash the berries and you're you're drinking water before you eat? I don't know. I' I've been in so many interesting circles where people are doing some fascinating things that it's just like, all right, you know, just shy of bringing your own food to a dinner um well, people do that, too. Bring their own food to a dinner um thing. That's that's a little whatever. But again, it's not about fear. It's about resiliency. You know, you want to be able to go through life and have the ability to run through things, detox, eliminate, and not have it slow you down. What's that allistic burden? How do we cultivate resiliency? Is there a low level of hormetic benefit to that level of stress? Generally speaking, I think there's some level of hormmesis that could be there. But, you know, when it comes down to toxins, you know, you got to pick and choose your poison. you know, alcohol is completely different than like organo phosphates, right? And arguably both toxic, right? Um, we know that organ, you know, alcohol is associated with all sorts of bad things, but, you know, in moderation arguably might have some benefit. And I think a lot of that has to do with the socialization of it and to be able ability to de um, you know, uh, decompress and be with friends and in a positive environment and share, you know, fun stories and laugh. Some of the best conversations and laughter I've ever had was around, you know, >> at at at a at a bar with friends and colleagues, right? And those are veryable. So, >> you know, when it comes down to, you know, 100% organic, again, you could use dirty dozen clean 15 as a kind of a guiding light. When it comes down to factory versus regenerative farming practices, obviously always go regenerative. you know, I grassfish, grass u grass-fed, grass-finish, you know, here in the US is going to be one of our our target goals, you know, because not just because it's grass-fed means that it's been finished that way. So, from my understanding, fed and finished is um um you know, very important. Um, and then yeah, um, you know, filtered water, you know, what does the water look like, you know, and, um, I I try sparingly not to drink tap water from restaurants. Um, at my home, we have like a double reverse osmosis system with remmineralization, alkalization, and a couple of other features to the water. I've been gifted a bunch of these weird things where you spin the water with the stuff and I don't know it, you know, creates the structure and all that crap. I don't know if it works, but it tastes different, you know, pre and post. So, you know, I do some of that action. But, you know, if you're at a restaurant, you know, try try to, you know, be cautious with, you know, the ice cubes. If you were to look under the, you know, most ice maker machines, if you've ever been in somebody's backyard, you know, restaurant and looked at the ice maker, >> mold everywhere, >> right? >> Yeah. >> Right. That so that's a hidden exposure. So ice cubes, unfiltered water in the restaurants, you know, unfiltered water at home. Like I have some friends that are like, "Oh, we're just going to drink drink tap." And I'm like, you know, maybe that's a little bit of a hormetic stress, but generally speaking, you would want to get some nice, you know, if we're, you know, 80% water, you want some good quality water, man. Spend the money, whatever. Get the system, your home dialed in, put in the filters, you know, and and everything to get that dialed in to mitigate that exposure. Why not? You know, it's onetime investment. It's going to last you a lifetime. >> Yeah. It matters what you're most exposed to and what you're consuming the most. So, if let's say someone eats meat once a week, right, then it probably it's less of a concern if if it's grass-fed and grass-finished versus uh you know, factory far meat because they only eat it once a week. But, you know, you drink water every day and several liters. Ideally, you cook your food in it. You uh you wash yourself as well in it. If the water is dirty, then uh that exposure accumulates a lot because you're exposed to it the most. And the same with like you know what you eat the most. You know someone might eat a lot of um you know let's say olive oil or fish or something but uh if that fish is high in heavy metals and you're eating it every day then it's going to accumulate it. Whereas versus if you eat fish once a week then uh it's not going to be a big deal uh that much. >> Correct. And you know back to the water and like showering and bathing and soaking in in the water you know very important concept is um uh you know with water as it shower as you shower is a the concept of free radical halogenation right and that refers to going back to the periodic table of elements and looking down the column of um you know the hallogens and we got chlorine, florine and bromine all having you know higher electro negativity versus iodine. So you know and this relates to thyroid function. So, if we're being exposed not only through vaporized water in the shower that has chlorine, florine, and bromine, and we have thyroid issues, and our iodine's not being absorbed because it's being displaced by these stronger, bulkier, you know, cations ions or I'm sorry, annions that are displacing um you know, the iodine um in our system. That's a big thing, you know, and if you go and start measuring some of that, you'll see like low iodine in like uh 24-hour urine collection. you might see compromised zinc and selenium and then you run you know some sort of uh toxic test and you're going to see you know different um fluoride compounds and derivatives that are high broomemide derivatives that are high as well right so free radical hogenation is a part of like kind of that um regular daily exposure you know unknowingly to to our system >> yeah maybe we can go through some um more these advanced cases as well. We're not going to go through the exact, you know, protocol of how to do it, but let's say, you know, mold illness. Um, what are some steps for, you know, not all steps, but let's say, is there anything specific? Any special drugs or homosicals that are used for that? Any special uh therapeutics like Ebo or something like that? Um, and any special tests that people should look out for? Oh, sim sim sim sim. This is a very loaded question. Well, I will share with you what I historically would do for mold related illness. Now, I worked very closely I'll I'll start the conversation off with a caveat that I worked very closely with Dr. Haymon um Andrew Haymon for many years in his practice in Virginia um through George Washington University and that was very tied into the research endeavors with um Dr. shoe maker and the shoemaker protocol and I know that there's you know Campbell and shoemaker and Neil Nathan and all these different arguments about who is right when it comes down to mold um and how do you assess it how do you treat it how do you mitigate it and everything else so after exiting managing a lot of chronic inflammatory response syndrome SERS um I will start the narrative off that you know with your story and your story is very unique between Sim and Inca You were living in mold for 20 years. No issues. Inca comes in, moves in, you know, happy to be with the great Simlad and all of a sudden she's getting sick living with you. And it's not you, my friend. It's the mold, right? She was manifesting symptoms, right? That caused her to her immune system to wear down, right? So the the issue with this is 25% of the patient population carries a very specific genetic hletype with their HLA genes that predisposes them to awards immunological hypersensitivity to environmental exposures. Okay. So again 25% of the population is genetically predisposed to being sensitive to these different biotoxin threats in our environment. Now when faced with that environmental threat a part of your immune system turns on right and doesn't have the ability to turn off right and we could see that on a transcrytoic level and essentially you have then whether it was years ago in college or you know the other day or chronic exposure in your office whatever the hell it is right you have that insult to injury in the genetically predispose that creates this chronic inflammatory response and this is a multi multi multi- system multi symptom clinical manifestation of this um inflammatory immune mediated process and again what I have seen very interesting because we did the transcripttoic testing we did the data we found all these different threats of biotoxins to the jankly predisposed um and you know there's a very specific algorithm that I historically followed I no longer manage you know chronic mold in my practice this I just you know I'm I just don't have the bandwidth anymore with the you know the board of precision medicine and everything else there's a lot of handholding you know that is required with this there's a lot of I would say coaching and neuroscychiatric support that is needed for this you know um inflicted population they they need support beyond what I could offer in my private practice so I'm going to lead with um and long story short you know the the testing process for me historically was yes, we would get all your conventional biomarkers associated with that immunological expression of chronic, you know, of biotoxin as it relates to SERS. that includes HLA testing, MMP9, we would get C4A specifically from National Jewish um in Colorado because that is the the reference lab um because again, you know, if you were to go to Lab Corp, they're using a diluting agent in their test that serly dilutes out and um denatures the C4A biioarker. Um you know we look at um you know VEGF and you know um MMP9 and uh you know uh what else? Um oh god MSH melanocyt stimulating hormone and we would get that biomarker baseline. We would then look at in um our severe cases because oftent times we were the last stop on the train for a lot of these folks grappling with CERS. We've been to, you know, a bunch of different doctors, all sorts of weird diagnosis, all sorts of unique protocols, but they didn't track or trend, you know, um, the key components of of, you know, this entire protocol. We also use what's called a visual contrast sensitivity test that has been clinically validated by the DOT to measure neuroinflammation based on chronic inflammation of the brain in the optic region in the optic nerve that compromise your ability to distinguish um contrast differential within your visual kind of acuity there. >> And um essentially that is demonstrating neuroinflammation. We use that to trend and track that level of neuroinflammation. and systematic improvement with the binder. And the binder we would use is choosyamine and well call, you know, arguably. And the only other thing that has been shown to have the right charge is beets and okra extract to as a binder to go in there and help specifically bind to biotoxin. >> Then we would look at the transcriptto, you know, the RNA testing. So again, you know, if your your DNA is the instruments to your own symphony orchestra, we're going to measure the melody coming off of that instrument. Is it upregulated or downregulated in um you know vibrational frequency or gene expression and certain things like the mitochondria are always downregulated and this phenomenon is known as molecular hypom metabolism which is associated with cell danger response again you can look at the research of Dr. Robert Nahunau um and cell danger response to get a better understanding of what that insult means and the different phases of CDR um and how that relates to the healing process. So once we have that information, the VCS tests, the biomarkers in labs, um transcrytoic testing, we also want you to test your home, right? And the company that um is being endorsed now um is live biotech fungi fun test, right? It goes beyond a hurtme 2 test um or hermy test. um it has more speciations of mold comparatively and so we would get live biotech fungi 10 for mold and then there's two other tests that we found due to the prevalency of water damage building not being just mold it's polyicrobial in nature right meaning you're going to have bacteria and viruses bacteria you have bacteria and endo all sorts of different things so that's when we recommend also when you test your home to also test with um envirrobiomics for actinomyioites and endotoxin. Right now it's very interesting what we found with the bulk of these folks that are dealing with water damage building chronic inflammatory response syndrome. I think over 52% of individuals were suffering from the exposure to something called a species of bacteria called actctinomyioites. Right? Atomyioides is very unique. It's a bacteria that looks and behaves like a mold. To me, it's like the life bridge between a ukareot and a proariat. A mold and a bacteria, right? >> It's a grandpositive facultative anorobic filamentous spore forming bacteria. What the hell does that mean? It's a bacteria that behaves like a mold. Okay? What we found is most people are colonized with it on our skin just like we're colonized, you know, if you've ever worked in a hospital, you're probably colonized with MRSA, right? But the thing with this um actctinomyioetes it releases this neuroinflammatory toxin and this toxin activates compliment C4A and C4A compliment activation leads to the activation of MAC membrane attack complex. And membrane attack complex as the name implies pokes hole in your membranes causes the membranes to be leaky not good. And then that signals apoptosis. And that apoptosis could be taking place in your brain, your lung. It could be affecting your ability to climb up a flight of stairs and upregulates Hif 1A H1F um hypoxy inducible factor 1A. We would see that on transcriptto testing. It um uh signals map kinases and those map kinases are involved with you know the secondary signal transduction towards the whole MAC membrane tag complex. ultimately and um so what we found is that most of these people are colonized with this bacteria that have dwelled in a water damaged building and it's not necessarily the mold. mold was like less than 15 you know percent of you know mold related or sers you know in that water damage building scenario you know mold was was very low in the prevalence um of the the research from shoemaker um and again I I stick with the shoemaker protocol because it's the most evidence-based research published system as an MD I got to go with the research I'm not going to go with like bullit low-grade, you know, expert opinion. You know, there's a lot of opinions out there and you know what they say about opinions. They're like, >> right, >> they're like Everybody's got one and they all stink. So, we need to make sure we stick with grounded with the research and evidence to support what we're doing. And I'm not saying, you know, there's no validity to the other testing of other folks. I'm just saying, hey, this is kind of what I've been trained and trained in. I do think there's some utility of other forms of testing and other you know binders and other protocols. You know you asked the question does IU fit into this role and I do think Eboo fits into this role. I do think sauna fits into this role. I do think alternative binders have a potential role in all this. And it's not always just mold. It's like accumulation as we discussed in this entire podcast of different environmental toxins that is not just you know from a water damaged building but it could be micotoxins from your food. It could be the heavy metals and organo phosphates everything that we've we've discussed and unpacked. So we went over the the testing right of the home, the blood, the transcriptto dome. We went over kind of the protocol with a VCS test and doing a binder and that's going to be kind of the gauge. And then ultimately there's a whole therapeutic protocol where you start looking at you know different um food sensitivity testing and you know correcting glyadin antibodies hormone optimization you know looking at other kind of biomarkers you know within this protocol and then ultimately you know you start correcting you know like if TGF betas runs really high there's really solid evidence about loartin you know um a um ACE uh inhibitor uh compound angotensin receptor blocker um low certin and its ability to drop TGF beta 1 you're right transforming growth factor beta 1 right and once you start correcting those biomarkers you ultimately get on to intraasal VIP that's a shoemaker protocol and the the intraasal VIP is reportedly used to undo the nuclear atrophy in the brain and restore brain tissue neurogenesis now with the ever evolving landscape Cape and this is where you know it's I think there's so many different components that we can be looking into like plasmalogens right I don't know if you're familiar with plasmalogens but I I've found a lot of folks that have this neuroinflammatory process due to these environmental biotoxin factors have low plasmalogens and they also have really high um uh spheramide ceramides to sphingoin ratios. When we start seeing ceramides accumulating in your system and the sphingoin's going down, that's not good, right? That's excessive neuronal cellular tone, right? Brain on fire again. So there's all these different components and I think the transcripttoic testing, the plasmalogen testing, these are all iterations on the traditional shoemaker protocol. Instead of just looking at glyadin antibodies, do food sensitivity and and allergy testing. Instead of just looking at correcting the androgens, look at the hormonal balance as a whole, right? And then, you know, do you need VIP at the vasal intestinal peptide, which is intraasal peptide used to help restore the brain? >> I've seen some fantastic results from that, you know. >> Um, but I've also seen people where it, you know, we got them 90% better with without the VIP. they get went on the VIP and that the benefit was marginal because they had the greatest therapeutic benefit you know in that whole corrective therapeutic um order you know clearing the marons a big part of that's also clearing marons marons are multi- antibiotic resistant coag negative staff orius that's it's MRSA's bastard cousin right and people are colonized with marons in their sinuses and marons releases this polytoxin and This polytoxin actually works as a neuroinflammatory issue as well. So when it comes down to mold illness, right, and SERS and binders and home testing and everything else, it's very end of one >> with looking at the genetics, the transcrytoics, the envirrobiomics, the neuroinflammatory burden, and looking at all those other confounding variables that are influencing their their pathophenotype or their clinical presentation towards that disease. Um, >> I don't know if I answered your question appropriately and I'm sorry I went on my tangent there with that. I'm just like I've got a little bit of PTSD as it relates to that because it was, you know, dealing with mold illness is not easy from a clinical standpoint and that's kind of why I stepped back from managing it, you know, in my private practice. >> Yeah. No. Yeah. It's very surprising how common it is. Um you know a lot of buildings uh have some water damage especially older ones and um you know the that inevitably leads to mold as well. >> Yeah. >> Um but maybe we can also cover a little bit about heavy metals. Is there any you know differences in the protocol with heavy metal exposure? >> Oh yeah absolutely. you know, once you get to a certain point in time within the protocol, usually after marons testing and correcting the gut and balancing or trying to balance the hormones around the hormone hormone metal time testing, right? So, as you're because there's no point according to the therapeutic order to start hormones early, plus or minus a benefit on that. Um and again I think um you will get to a point where you have to do the heavy metal testing and you know there might be a need for a chelation protocol introvenous or oral right um and you know as you're getting to the gut and that's why you do the gut phase before the hormone metal phase you want to work on the gut phase first whether food sensitivity allergies leaky gut syndrome dispiosis leaky gut syndrome right to heal that process so you can move towards correcting the hormones and doing an appropriate detox. Does that make sense? >> Yeah. >> So, heavy metals is part of that equation. Again, everybody's um buckets a little bit different. Their exposome is different. So, you know, addressing it once they're at a more stable standpoint um because you don't want to go and mobilize heavy metals in somebody that's neurologically inflamed, right? That's just going to stir the pot and make things worse. and um you know especially when they have extreme environmental hyper sensitivities where light, sound, smell are all triggering events for migraines and headaches and s all sorts of stuff and you could see that actually on a transcrytoic level. So individuals that had a very unique um signaling pathway on the on of the genie test had something called upregulation this of echarose which which are some of these signaling molecules and when there was a specific pattern of the echarose uh signaling um it basically uh there was a these were my patients that unfortunately suffered from extreme hyper sensitivity light sound and smell you know even wind blowing you know they would just couldn't take it. So >> you know in those cases you know we actually would start VIP off low dose before we had actually started off earlier in the protocol right lowd dose VIP intraasal to acutely stabilize things right before moving up to and VIP is really expensive it's like you know 600 bucks a month you know just for peptide so you know again that's why you want to clear the marons because marons kind of daminates and breaks down the VIP P and all that other stuff. So there's a very specific therapeutic order and protocol associated with this. >> Gotcha. Uh but um with heavy metals, is it more specifically focused on the liver detox pathways or should you focus more on like sweating or something like that? >> Great question. I think um it's going to be a combination of both depending on it. and arguably you know whether to do EDTA with calcium versus sodium for mercury versus lead you know there's some very specific nuances so it depends on the chelation protocol but yes supporting liver kidney and sauna elimination all secondary to identifying which metal and which intervention you're going to move forward with right because um you know could we do it naturally with cilantro is it is first of all is it provoked versus unprovoked testing you know there's some folks um that only do provoked heavy metal testing based on some historical data and research. And this is where you take a little lowd dose um DMSO before um a heavy metal test to mobilize the heavy metals out of your system so it could be collected in the the morning urine. Um and that helps push it out of the tissue, get into the urine. They might also recommend a little bit of glutathione as well on top of the DMSO to do that testing to get that baseline of what heavy metals are there. And then depending on the heavy metal, you do a targeted chilation kind of protocol. But before you do that, correct the gut, remember? And then um you um support it with the the appropriate chilation and then you could do all the phase one phase 2 stuff on top of that as well. >> Mhm. Gotcha. I've also heard that uh blood testing for heavy metals might not be that accurate that you need to do a hair mineral analysis. Is that true or >> I'm not I don't subscribe to the hair mineral analysis testing. I know that's highly debated amongst the functional medicine community. >> Um I think there's um some studies that have uh questioned this clinical validity and utility. So I I I personally don't subscribe to the hair mineral analysis not because I'm bald. All right. before you start think oh you bold guy that's why you don't like to hear analysis no it's I I just don't think it has the same you know clinical utility comparatively >> gotcha and maybe last thing we can cover briefly is microplastics so these are very foreign very you know new toxins not not toxins per se but I guess compounds were exposed to and there's not that much clear evidence of you know how do you excrete them if you and excrete them etc. So what is your approach to that to lower the burden of microplastics and nanoplastics? >> Yeah, that's a great question you know because they're everywhere from >> you know um they line the wrapper of any consu you know consumer stabilized product on shelf you know they line the inside of canned aluminum cans they're on receipt paper and so on and so forth. So there's a tremendous exposure to these microplastics and it first starts with mitig mitigating exposure you know identifying those threats and pulling it out. Cutting boards plastic cutting boards release so much microplastics into the system >> right >> so number one identify and mitigate remove that ongoing exposure. Number two, you know, are there any targeted detox paths or uh protocols for microplastics specifically? I I have not seen any strong EP well, first of all, what test is valid, you know, >> um and that's that's argued, you know, that's that's heavily argued. And for me, you know, was uh had a very interesting conversation with a couple of researchers regarding the clinical utility of testing microplastics, its validity and its actionability. And for me, I'm like, hey, you guys, you PhDs, go to the lab, figure out the best test, then let me know. I'll order it because still right now getting a signal a some sort of signal is better than nothing, >> right? Whether it's measuring all the different bisphenol metabolites and so forth, or if we're looking at surrogate markers metabolomically of microplastics, that's another way of doing it. There's this unique biomarker associated with that. And then once you get that information, it it's it's cleanup. It's a biological audit of your environmental exposures to mitigate that ongoing stuff, right? And then in my experience, I like IU, right? I'm about to get a machine in the office here from Germany called Inusepheresis, which is the new modern version of TPE. And Inusepheresis is basically, you know, therapeutic plasma exchange without the exchange. It's a it's a giant filtration um that has very similar um if not identical benefits as TPE without the albumin correction. Mhm. >> So, um going to be getting that versus TPE in my office for for that uh process because the albumin correction it could be a little bit cumbersome for certain patients and that have certain sensitivities. So, um I think those blood filtration methods are going to probably be one of the better ways of of pulling out some of these microplastics in circulation. Um, but you know, I'm sure you've seen these microplastics are now being linked to a plaques in the arteries, >> right? So, they're finding it everywhere in our tissues. They're just depositing, you know, in areas of vulnerability. So, you know, it's it's just that's not good if it's in our microvascular system and it's leading to microangopathic lesions and creating that aoma and that that that process of um you know uh vessel damage. So, I think um you know again it's we can't manage what we don't measure and we should get a baseline, figure it out and then develop a targeted protocol because do you start off with some oral supplementation phase one phase two? Do you do some IV stuff? Do you do some mechanical stuff like fluoropresso and um ozone sauna and you know even you know um I was speaking with some fantastic researchers from um Germany and I'm getting in my office here any day now Celgen which is intermittent hypoxic therapy I don't know if you've seen that but IHT there's thousands of studies on this and at the core of what this does it actually works by um stimulating mphagy it's going to pull out all the bad mitochondria Right. So as you're pulling out and this should be a part of a detox protocol. you know, going in there with the intermittent hypoxic therapy and getting and you know, stimulating mphagy, getting all the bad stuff out even before you hit somebody with photobiomodulation, right? From a biohacking perspective, you wait on PBM till after you've recycled and and pulled out the bad mitochondria, you've mobilized a lymph and you've done the ozone sauna and you got all that stuff gone and then you could look into TPE or Eboo or those other kind of more advanced applications and protocols. Um, >> I have patients that come in strictly for Ibu on a quarterly cadence for longevity, >> right? Because again, it's almost like an oil change for them. they just feel better. I feel better after I do it. So, >> yeah. >> Um, yeah. Yeah. I hope I answered your question. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean there's a lot of unknowns and u I guess it comes down to uh having the ma main detox pathways working regularly and then if needed doing some um more this filtration um techniques >> and I think the with the future of the human exposome TPE and inospheresis are going to be the greatest clinical therapeutic interventions to address this that's evidence-based evidence- driven you could pre-post test it and identify a shift in the biochemistry not just metabolomically but also exposomically you know pre and post so you know with the advancements of the human exposome project I definitely think we're going to be seeing you know those those um therapies >> being our go-to right now to go in there and correct some of these um these uh burdens in our system. >> Yeah. Yeah. So um we can start wrapping up as well. We went really really deep and uh detailed with this and uh this is only like one chapter of your book that's coming out the longevity solution and uh yeah I just wanted to do a specific uh episode on this specific chapter and uh as I understand your book is coming out quite soon or it's like pretty pretty pretty like in a few weeks. Yeah, I've been saying it for years, but I'm finally got the book to a healthy place. Um, and we're pushing it to publication here in the next few weeks, and we're going to be doing a uh a marketing campaign. Would love to tap your audience. It's called the longevity equation, and um, you know, it's uh, just based on, you know, my crazy thought process in regards to years of accumulating this knowledge from some of the greatest teachers that I've had from around the world. I've made a lot of reference to European biological medicine and Austria and Germany, Switzerland and so forth, you know, not and I've also studied with some amazing folks here in the US, you know, since um a teenager from Michael Murray, you know, Andrew While, you know, Peter Diodamo, all the Institute for Functional Medicine folks, A4M folks and so forth. So this has been, you know, a a passion of mine for since I was a teenager and I tried my best to put it all into a comprehensive manuscript that kind of outlines the need for precision medicine testing with multiomics and then what do you do with that data? How do you optimize your environment? How do you mitigate this the stress to ultimately enhance your intrinsic capacity aka longevity? And the intrinsic capacity I think is very important um to assess because I I put it in the context of biological 401k. We all have this internal biological health savings account for which we're making daily deposits and withdrawals into and um there's certain things um that kind of subtract from our savings and there's certain things that we could make deposits in and I think we covered a lot of those factors here today you know with um therapies and mitigation and so forth gut health and um you know how do we basically make these meaningful deposits so that we could actually you know um cultivate our ROI and our ROI, return on investment, is going to be health span over our lifespan. And health span is essentially that intrinsic capacity. So >> yeah, >> you know, I lay all that out in the book. It's coming out soon. Hopefully we could, you know, get it to your audience when u when it goes to publication here soon. >> You you have a specific date because >> No, not yet. >> But I I I it's right there. It's right there. >> Like August. August, right? >> I'm shooting for August. Yes. >> Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It depends when people hear it. So, >> if it's out, then it's going to be in the link in the show notes. >> Oh, thank you. >> Uh, well, yeah. Well, it's been a great talking with you and yeah, we're really thorough. I enjoyed it a lot. So, where can where can people learn more about you and your work? >> Oh, thank you, Sim. Um, you know, I have my private practice. I see patients from all over the country and world. I'm licensed in 40some states. Um, I have people internationally flying into me here with the Institute for Human Optimization. My website is if.org. So, if you're on the patient side of things, um, you know, I again, I I have patients coming in from all over the place. Um, and then if you're a physician and wanting to learn more about precision medicine, I am the founder and president of the American Board of Precision Medicine. And our website is uh, abopm.org. And um essentially you we've created a training process to provide physicians MDs and DOS's only right now uh with the foundational molecular framework to start thinking along the lines of multiomics and medicine because this is the future of care. This is what I do clinically. I'm not saying it better or anything. It's just different. And I think you know it's important to connect those molecular dots. And if you look at the trend in diagnostics and research, everything's going multiomics, right? Getting those different molecular layers plays a very important role at characterizing individuals unique flavor of their disease process, pathophenotype or their longevity, you know. So um that's what I'm focused on is changing the future health of America and the world with the board of precision medicine so that we could get physicians to start thinking along the lines of genome to genome healthcare. >> Mhm. Gotcha. Yeah. We'll put the links in the show notes and uh yeah it's it was great to talk with you again and uh yeah looking forward to the book >> always. Um thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. All right, that's it for this episode. Make sure you check out my new book, The Longevity Leap, on Amazon. I'd also appreciate if you share this episode with a friend or family member. Other than that, my name is Seam. Stay tuned for the next episode. Stay in poet.