Nick Seam, nice to see you both. >> Nice to see you all. >> This is my first round table, so I'm honored to share it with you two fellow knights of the round table. And the theme of today's discussion is dietary supplements for longevity. And I thought it might be fun to begin with a few lightning round questions. If you was to imagine a situation in which resources are no issue, so you have all the time, all the money, and you get to give a body weight adjusted dose of up to two neutrauticals and or drugs to every adult aged 30 or older. And you could choose the dose and the frequency. If you want people to live longer and have as long a health span as possible, which would you pick? And I'm going to start with you, Nick, because alphabetically you come first. >> Thanks. Two molecules that I can I can give people. It's not going to help necessarily with a lifespan, but it is going to help with health span. And I would argue creatine. I guess it doesn't really necessarily have to be uh weight adjusted, but that would be one of them. The other one, again off the top of my head, would be let's say something a little more potent like rapamy, which probably at least based off of what I've seen seems to have some pretty promising results in terms of longevity and uh and health span. So those are my those are my two choices. What are you going for scene? That's given you some time to think about it. >> There's obviously a difference between like health span and lifespan. I think creatine is yeah for sure like one of the best health span supplements for uh brain performance and uh physical performance. Arguably if you extend health span you probably extend lifespan as well a little bit. Creatine is safe bet that especially older people would benefit a lot from. Number two, I would say high quality omega-3 supplement mostly for cardiovascular benefits, brain benefits, helps with inflammation and immunity and all those other related metabolic benefits and you know higher blood omega-3 levels are associated with uh longevity. So there might be something there. If I were to add like an actual let's say lifespan pharmaceutical then grapamy is quite interesting and it's I would think that it has potential you know maybe in the future we'll see in the next next few years maybe there are some clinical trials on that but you know I would for the general population I would think that actually something like a carbos or metformin would be also relatively safe bet because um it's pretty safe and you know most people just have slightly higher blood sugar and a slightly worse blood markers than uh it should be for optimal longevity. The lifespan data about metformin isn't that convincing. A carbos might be more convincing than metformin but uh for just the idea of postponing metabolic disease and reducing the risk of diabetes uh that would probably be one of the like actual pharmaceuticals that could also have some effects. I too would pick creatine monohydrate and then my second choice would probably be a GLP-1 receptor agonist. If we're speaking about the general population, which I would choose, I'm not sure. It probably wouldn't be tepatide. It would probably be simagotype because we know quite a lot about it at this point. It would be a relatively low dose. And I'm not saying that it's something that would benefit everyone. It probably wouldn't benefit any of the three of us, for instance. But if we're speaking about the gem pop, then I think it's a really strong choice, particularly when cut with creatine. And interestingly, if you do consider the cost of distributing that to everyone and you look at that relative to their potential health care savings, then right now it wouldn't make financial sense because saglletide is really expensive. And there was recently an economic analysis looking at that and Tis appetite and a couple kind of other obesity medications. But cost isn't a factor in this hypothetical scenario. >> If cost were a factor then would you modify your responses for creatine? I don't think you would. So we can disregard that and instead focus on the other choices. >> Rapid is definitely coming down in cost. There's a few companies that sell it now that have it not super super expensive, but it's definitely pricier. Metformin is much much cheaper, so I might be convinced to go that route because I really like Seam's uh thought process on especially if you're talking about the general population, you know, especially as you get older, you might be getting into that pre-diabetic uh level. So potentially Metformin would be a great benefit in that regard. So yeah, I could be swayed on that >> because GLP1s have like a double whammy effect that they also help with weight loss in addition to blood sugar. So in that sense, they're more potent than metformin. I I wouldn't know which one to choose. Depends. Yeah. If there's no cost, then perhaps some future generation GLP ones that are safer, maybe not as potent as the one that is used for obesity. Maybe there's like something that's 50% as effective as the ompic or something that maybe that would be more suitable for the general population. And just to be clear, metformin is a cheap drug. So your lowcost option can remain metformin, which might be my choice. I'm not sure it's a good candidate. Another one that I think might prove to be very interesting is to come back to that later. And on that subject, we might come back to it now. I don't know. What are a couple of the most underappreciated or underrecognized yet promising ger protectors in your opinion? >> Yeah, I think torine might be one of those examples. There's actually quite quite a lot of like research about torine's effect on metabolic health and blood pressure plus some exercise uh performance benefits compared to like the cost and uh the safety then it's pretty underappreciated. is obviously not as cheap and effective as a creatine. Even now, you could say that creatine is still underrated, but torine is pretty good one. >> I mean, torine is excellent. Yeah, I'll go a different direction. I'm kind of torn actually between two, but uh I would go >> You got two choices now. >> Oh, I get two choices. I'm never no longer torn. Um in that case, I would I would go curcumin. I've been doing a lot more research on curcumin and I've been doing uh research on blood sugar um how it helps people with pre-diabetes, diabetes, uh also it seems to have some pretty profound effects on osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. So my vote goes to curcumin. The other one is a combination supplement. So hopefully you'll allow this uh Master Greg, but luteine and zeazanthin are pretty high up. um they're not they're not ones that are discussed that much except in the ocular community which we are big fans of in terms of the studies on lutein and zeazanthin they seem to be really uh effective I mean there's plenty of clinical trials that show uh improvements in in eye health and just because of the nature of the molecules uh they also seem to affect the brain at least luteine I've seen some evidence for I'll go uh I'll go with those two slash3 uh molecules that are underappreciated >> that's I like lutein and zagazentin as well and the second one for me would be aantine which is also a carotenoid the lifespan data is quite interesting uh that it helps with uh lifespan it'solytic it has skin protective effects against UV radiation it has like some metabolic effects and has been seen to lower inflammation in clinical trials but that's not the main I guess effect it's mostly for The skin probably has some brain benefits as well as a carotenoid. >> I am a fan of all of those. My choices will probably beine and glucosamine sulfate as something that is truly underrecognized and has some real potential. >> Yeah, those are good choices. >> We'll come back to those and discuss them in more detail later. What about underrated or underrecognized medications going to restrict you to a single choice in this instance >> actually which you gave on your second second molecule. I think GLP-1 receptor agonists um some people are really into them and then other people think drug equals bad so therefore try to avoid it at all costs and I think that the data is incredible in relation to those. So I think that there for a a large group of individuals that are extremely reticent to uh jump on any sort of drug. If the label drug or pharma is associated to it, they will not touch it. I would say that's a a bad move in a lot of circumstances. Maybe not every circumstance, but in a lot of circumstances because they can help with blood sugar regulation, weight, triglycerides, LDL, everything covers so much. So, um, and it can really help people that are that are really struggling with, uh, with making sure that they're consuming the appropriate foods in the appropriate amounts. And there's actually even some research in relation to its effects on the brain that it can uh, change how people perceive, let's say, junk food. That would be my choice. Even though plenty of people know about it, I think I don't necessarily know if they appreciate the potency and the overwhelming positive effects that come with them. >> Yeah, I think the kind of negative side effects are a bit overhyped and they're quite manageable with that and uh resistance training and those just general healthy lifestyle principles. It's relatively safe my choice. So I'm thinking of okay when it comes to like general like life-saving effects uh not directly but let's say if you take the drug then um you improve certain outcomes and I would say like some sort of blood pressure medication is probably very important in the sense that high blood pressure is one of those things that very fast will decline your health compared to obesity it's going to take decades but with blood pressure the kind of immediate consequences are a bit more detrimental that you want to get your blood pressure in check quite fast and you don't want to have like high blood pressure for long periods of time. So, in that sense, the blood pressure medications are underrated, but I wouldn't never think it's a long-term solution that what most people would want to take. Yes, you want to improve your lifestyle. You want to get off the blood pressure medication as fast as possible, but as a quick fix, you know, it's it's worse to have the high blood pressure than it is to take short-term blood pressure medication. In my opinion in a general sense I would probably again maybe some sort of blood sugar medication a carbos or metformin is a bit underrated like there is yeah with metformin there's some side effects you know this increased lactic acid and might affect androgens and might lower voimax for example again the the bene the effects outweigh some of the side effects for people who do struggle with blood sugar and metabolic issues >> Nick I find it ironic that a lot of those people who are anti drugs and anti- medications are also keen caffeine consumers. >> Methylene blue. >> And then regarding the GLP-1 receptor agonists and food intake, that seems to be true of addiction in general. There are these studies ongoing now looking at things like addiction to nicotine and whether they might be useful in that context. And then seam regarding blood pressure medications. I think they're a really interesting choice and it raises an intriguing tangent which is about substances that directly target the biology of aging or things that pick people off prematurely. So in this case cardiovascular disease being a huge killer and my choice would be quite similar to yours. Initially these drugs were developed as blood pressure lowering medications but I'd probably choose PD5 inhibitors like Selenaphil and Tadalapil >> Viagra or Seialis. Selenaphil interestingly is being studied in the ITP now as a candidate gerotherrapeutic. People do seem to live longer when they take them in part due to lower rates of cardiovascular disease and they seem to have some very protective effects in the brain too which surely relates in part to vascular function but there are data associating their use with lower risk of Alzheimer's disease. It's actually one of my choice choices of thinking with age men's you know their reaction quality de declines uh blood flow declines and diabet inhibitors they support blood flow through nitric oxide and they also lower blood pressure so yeah a lot of cardiovascular benefits and you know sexual benefits effects on quality of life in general if you got a better romantic relationship then that's going to be good for you >> and have some indirect positive actions on your health. >> And then just to detour from supplements briefly, I thought it would be fun just to ask you guys a few personal questions since I put you on the line. >> One of them is, what's the most stupid thing that you've done in the name of health or fitness? Nick, it doesn't have to be the most stupid if it's something that you don't want to share, but I think we've both been interested in these subjects for a while. >> I know that I, for one, have done some pretty stupid things over the years. Most of it comes down to when I was first getting into exercise and lifting weights and whatnot, the vanity of it all, but the I think the the stupidest thing that I did was um this it's going to come off like a humble brag, which I really don't want to. When I first started lifting weights, I I lifted weights for two and a half years, and I I did these three-hour marathon workouts, and I did them every other day because I thought you had to stimulate your musculature every 48 hours. you gave yourself one rest day and then you would lift again. And uh it was just this antiquated dumb idea. And I did that for two and a half years. I worked through injuries. Didn't matter if I was injured. Didn't matter if I was sick. Um which is horrible to do. But um yeah, just two and a half years of obsession and psychological torture just so I could achieve the the body of a Greek god. By the way, did not achieve. So, so it didn't really work out for me. I also gained uh 90 pounds. Um some of it was muscle obviously if you're going to be working out for two and a half years straight, but um I gained a lot of fat for sure. So, I never never repeated that mistake, but uh yeah, I I would say that's among them for sure. I can't think of another one off the top of my head, but I'm sure I had plenty of others. I did like the polyphysics sleep experiment where I uh slept for like 4 hours throughout the 24-hour period for 100 days. Yeah, that wasn't necessarily like a health thing. I didn't I knew it wasn't like a health achievement, but u I mean I just wanted to try it out like uh see if you can function doing that. It definitely had like short-term consequences. If you had to buy AGOD, IM8 or have someone take $30 out of your pocket, which of the three would you choose? >> Okay, first of all, you did not answer the question, the previous question. >> Oh, sorry. >> You can't escape. Well, I I think I told this story on the podcast before, but I nearly crushed myself under a massive wardrobe doing pull-ups while I was locked down. And that wardrobe was really heavy and I basically got saved by a bed and escaped with a €300 fine because I was in Palmo, the capital of Sicily at the time. We were being good citizens and we were all cooped up for 5 days for fear of spreading CO. Neither of us had co so be it. Other choice would probably be and this cracks me up to think about. It's very relevant to today. When I was 15, I first took creatine and when I put in my order from some UK supplement company, I also bought some glutamine powder because it was popular at the time and some caffeine powder for pre-workout obviously. I think one of the nurses or someone at school found the powders and they were terrified of my creatine consumption and they completely disregarded the fact I had caffeine powder. >> I could readily have killed myself with a few grams of that. >> Fortunately, I was just smart enough to not take large doses of it, but looking back that could easily have gone badly wrong. M >> so to return to AG1 IM8 all being $30 down, Nick, what you go for? Bear in mind you've got to buy one of these two supplements or just have someone take $30 out of your pocket. >> So, okay, I'll give you an ethical and a non-ethical answer. If I were a non-ethical person, I would take AG1 and then I would start shilling that as the best product in the world and get somebody else to buy it. But considering I I consider myself semieical. Um >> I I I would take I would take the loss of the 30 bucks. Um just because then at least I would know that my money wasn't going to to one of those companies. >> I would take the IM8 at least because they show the ingredients and uh you see what you're getting. Plus my co-author Dr. James Dicolan is one of the adviserss. Oh, I would support him. >> Looking after your friends. I'm going to piggy back on Nick's answer and choose his first unethical answer because you're more ethical than I am. Sorry, I'm flogging it straight on eBay. >> Same question for you. Is Brian Johnson the healthiest person in the world? >> The issue is that uh based on what data? So like he shares his spreadsheet of my biomarkers. First of all, it shows only like 48 markers or something. And second of all, he added the asterisk that it's done over the course of two years. So uh so it's not even like a single test or right now like he can tell you that I have the best XYZ marker but that test is you know from two years ago. First of it's also like you know impossible to claim to make like because everyone has some different definition of health and uh even then with the blood markers it's also hard to draw like that kind of a conclusion from like a set of uh blood markers and and you know after all he doesn't actually have like okay January 2025 all of the blood markers it's you know some of the blood markers are from ages ago so it's kind of a nitpicking um some of the data >> and who winning a fight, you or Brian? >> Uh, well, I think I'm a lot heavier than him. Uh, I'm like 80 82 kilos. He's probably something 75 or >> My money's on you. >> Mine, too. >> Nick, a couple of questions for you. Baltimore or the Congo? >> The Congo. >> Nick with an H or Nick without an H? without an H. I you know, you know, every time I get coffee, I'm like, just because I'm I I like messing with people every once in a while, just whenever I get coffee, I'm like, uh, cuz they asked for your name. What's your name? I'm like, Nicholas. And I'm like, without an H. Please pronounce it without an H. >> Do you guys have one or two favorite comments that people have made on your YouTube videos? Oh, good gracious. I have >> There are some absolute gems. >> Well, for me there's always something like why do you sound like a robot? Uh and uh it's like 50% people like the my voice and then 50% are like why does he sound like a robot? I've uh I've gotten a mass amount of of different comments. Oh, right now I have kind of a sub arc going on on my channel because I have I just haven't worn a belt uh when when recording my videos and whatnot. So, every once in a while I pull up my pants. Don't ask me why I don't wear a belt. I guess it's it's just not as comfortable as just not wearing a belt. Um, and anyway, people have been begging me to just wear a belt or wear suspenders. So, I I do enjoy the the the long list of comments that I've gotten and I do plan on playing kind of a little bit of a joke on on my community just based off that. But, I mean, aside from that, uh, you get all the the creative insults and really the the lack of creativity. I do uh I do wish that some of my commenters when they insult me that they would be a bit more creative in how they insult me because I don't know, it's just not as much fun uh when you when you have a little bit of a back and forth. I would say the the third group is I've gotten some comments and some messages from people that that are truly thankful and and really appreciative of uh of the the work that I've been able to put out there. I think that we've all been able to put out there. It does mean a lot to me just because uh again trying to put out uh good information is uh is difficult to do in this, you know, the the world of of social media. >> And maybe on that subject, do you have a favorite YouTube channel or one that you pay particularly close attention to? And when I ask that question, you can't give each of your channels. >> Steam. Um, I my my vote very much goes to uh Nutrition Made Simple by Gil Carvalo. Um, I think he's an absolute rock star and I will continue to sing his praises. I >> I don't have like a special favorite YouTube channel. It kind of shifts all the time what I'm just particularly interested in. Sometimes it's like geopolitics, sometimes it's some uh entertainment um, you know, shifts a lot in that sense. But from the health space, I would say maybe Brad Stanfield is a good uh source of um information. He is good that he um tries to call out nonsense or tries to look into more details. >> Do you have one? >> Let's return. Do I have one? >> Yeah. >> James, which of us? >> James. >> James Hoffman. Coffee nerd. >> Okay. Okay. I know. I know of him. I think I might know of him because of you. >> Probably. >> Yeah, >> it's great. It's very entertaining. If you like coffee, you'll enjoy it. >> Okay. >> If you don't like coffee, you might still appreciate the production value >> and just how quirky he is. I like quirky people. >> But anyway, returning to dietary supplements. We'll get to Ger Protectors shortly, but there are some widely used supplements that target intakes of essential nutrients. So, essential fatty acids, essential amino acids, vitamins, minerals, and I don't want to go into any depth here, but I just wanted your hot takes on a couple of these. So, see, you mentioned the omega-3 fatty acids earlier. Nick, what are your thoughts on these in the context of aging? If you had to summarize those thoughts in the space of a paragraph or less. Thank you for giving me a limit. Uh uh I I love omega-3s. I think they need to be dosed appropriately, but beyond that, uh I think they're fantastic for like Seam mentioned cardiovascular health, uh but also brain health. There's some evidence. So yeah, I'm I'm all for it. >> And Seam, you feel similar. >> There was the recent study with omega-3s. Omega-3 supplementation was seen to decrease some of the biological age score. Obviously, like it's, you know, not very clear what it means or how accurate the test might be, but um, you know, I wouldn't be surprised uh that the omega-3s would have that kind of biological effect if it was uh true. The >> study you're referring to is a study by Steve Horvath and his colleagues. >> I think it was him, one of he was one of the authors. Yeah. >> Yeah. And they looked at the effects of around a gram of EPA and DHA from algae oil for a couple of years I think it was and they found reductions in both pace of aging. They used the Denedian pace measure and several second generation epigenetic clocks that >> we think measure something related to biological age. M >> and they looked at relatively old adults. So the average age was in the mid70s which is an important wrinkle because it might be that omega-3 supplements could reduce some proxy of biological age in people with quite low intakes who are quite late in life and therefore have plenty of scope to reduce their biological age whereas earlier in life that might not be the case. In that study, they also looked at vitamin D >> as well as combinations of vitamin D, >> omega-3 fatty acids, and exercise. So, what are your thoughts on vitamin D? >> I haven't done a ton of reading on vitamin D, but my impression is that well, okay, I'll say one thing. I do think that the social media landscape has gone absolutely wild with vitamin D to the point where it's just this this careening barrel down a hill that has no sense of like stopping. Um >> like adding, you know, 50,000 IUs of vitamin D, I think to me is is nonsense. I don't think that there's any need for it. I could be wrong. Maybe maybe in the future I'll read a study where they say you have to be consuming these mega doses. But I have read studies that have indicated that taking these mega doses can be harmful to to bone health over uh many years of of consumption or injection because they're also injectables. Vitamin D is a a great supplement. It's just that the dosing I think has gone really wild uh with certain people that I shall not name. the vitamin D it does it has like some evidence from clinical trials that might help with like testosterone or some other benefits. Uh it's hard to say like whether or not taking a vitamin E supplement would be equal to having you know the vitamin D from the sun is probably not like the exact same benefits. Um I mean there are some some of these clinical trials with vitamin E supplementation that it seemed to reduce all cause mortality risk uh slightly and cancer risk as well I think but not heart disease risk which is uh interesting but again yeah you ideally want to get it from the sun but you know most most people aren't spending that much time outside. I think vitamin D is interesting because it brings up many nuances that we need to consider like how it interacts with other nutrients. So if you think about cardiovascular risk then it's different taking vitamin D3 in isolation versus combining with K2 for instance how that can influence calcium deposition >> in different tissues. And then where the vitamin D is coming from. So if it was D2 versus D3 or vitamin D that you synthesize as a result of sun exposure. how the dose interacts with your lifestyle and your genetics too. So take someone who's got lots of melanin in their skin. That means they need a large amount of UVB radiation to synthesize a given amount of vitamin D. For someone like that, let's say someone of African ancestry who's living in the UK, they're probably more likely to benefit from vitamin D supplementation than I am. And then Nick, I think the point you made is really important. Safety is a real concern. and it's fat soluble. There are some things where if you take them in excess, you end up with practically fluorescent urine in the case of B vitamins or maybe they clear you out at the other side if you take big dose of magnesium oxide for instance, but your body doesn't really hold on to them. Whereas vitamin D being fat soluble can be stored in your body fat and ultimately could be toxic and there are these rare case studies of people who have achieved such high levels that they do experience that toxicity. >> So more is not necessarily better. Finally, multivitamins and multi-minerals. What are your thoughts? Beginning with you, Nick. >> I'm a fan, but I'm not crazy about them. Um there's a little bit of data from I forgot the name of the trial like the mind trial or something like that indicating that it can have a very small effect at preserving cognitive function over years. >> Um >> I think it's the cosmos >> cosmos cosmos mind I think >> the cocoa one as well. >> Yeah. Right. Um, and there's uh there's a bit more evidence in some other trials indicating that can be pretty helpful. I just think that the effect is so mild that I think that if a person just has a well-rounded diet that it's probably not necessary. But if you wanted to have some sort of low dose, I think the way I approach it is I so I take a a multivitamin, but I usually just cut it in half just because I just don't think that I need 100% daily value from this one supplement, especially when you have all the interactions between the different molecules. So yeah, to me, I'm a fan, but it's not like a, you know, the end of the world if you don't take a a multivitamin. you know, probably has some effects. You know, how much hard to say because every multivitamin is also differently formulated, different amounts of the vitamins and minerals and, you know, some exclude certain minerals, some include additional ones. So, yeah, like even with these Cosmos trials or, you know, whatever other clinical trials, you know, you're never going to find the exact same kind of formula unless unless the company's doing their own research. You know, maybe getting something like, okay, you get a 20% of your daily vitamins and minerals from this supplement. Maybe that can be helpful. Or maybe 80%, so we don't know necessarily how much is the benefit. If you get more than 100% of certain vitamins and minerals, it can also have some negative side effects. So, it's not Yeah. Like just more is better. >> They're not all created equal. And see, do you take one? I'm guessing you probably don't. >> No, I'm not. >> Do you take one when you travel? Uh no. Um I mean from my blood work I've seen that I don't have any deficiencies with the exception of like B1 is often slightly low. Like if you measure and you see that okay you have low magnesium or B1 or B12 whatever then you can kind of specifically take uh that supplement but it can like be an insurance policy right that's one of the reasons people take it. You might not need it if you already have adequate amounts of all the vitamins and minerals. Blood testing is a subject for another day just because it's not as if you having insufficient status of a given micronutrient will always show up as low levels of that in your blood. >> The regulation is much more complex than that. And moving on to >> Hold on, hold on. What do you think about multivitamins? >> I think my thoughts largely overlap with you guys. They're not all created equal. I think you probably should consider different formulations whether you're a guy or a girl. So if you think about women of reproductive age for example who are cycling on a regular basis and therefore losing blood then they're regularly offloading iron from their bodies. Whereas us guys we're not doing that unless we actively get blood and therefore our micronutrient needs are different. That's just one example, but clearly the specifics do matter. I think there are some small benefits to be had in certain circumstances, but the benefits probably just relate to the intakes of the individual micronutrients. So for instance, there are data looking at things like neural tube defects, but that's probably just a function of the fat for as folic acid in the multivitamin and the effects of the multivitamin don't seem to be greater than just taking the folic acid in isolation. I think targeted supplementation would be better, but I do think they have their place and that's more true of people with lower quality diets. And for me, if I'm traveling to a part of the world where I know I'm going to struggle to access healthy food on a regular basis, so let's say I'm in Southeast Asia for a while and I'm consuming too much fried chicken and white rice because that's all there is available. Then in those circumstances, I'll take a multivitamin and then the rest of the time I won't. I think for the general population, they're not a bad idea. >> They're not for everyone. My impression is that some people default to taking them as a kind of insurance policy when they really don't need to and they should actually just stop and think about what >> they're likely to need >> within the multivitamin and be a little bit more specific. What's that? Yeah, there's actually research that uh the people who are the most likely to take a multivitamin are the least likely to need it and the the ones who are least likely to or like most likely to benefit from it are the least likely to take it. >> That makes sense. So, moving on to these anti-aging supplements. When I say ger protector, I'm really referring to things that can potentially protect you against aging. So slow the aging process whether that's systemically or in specific tissues things that do act on the biology of aging per se. There are lots of things that we should consider before we choose to try one of these ourselves. And one of them is evidence of their actual effectiveness. Each of us will have a slightly different bar for the level of evidence that we think is necessary for us to consider taking them. Where do you guys set that bar? What kind of evidence do you want to see before you'd consider taking something yourself? >> It's hard. Uh how do you uh define biological aging and how do you define slowing down it? How do you measure it? How do you know if it's working? So that's a there's no clear answer to that. I would say that uh you would have to rely partly on like animal studies in that area of biological aging and the life extension because you know it's just very hard to do in humans partly you would you could you know rely on some of these different pathways or like the hallmarks of aging uh as well. So like okay you know at least one of the major ones like mitochondrial dysfunction or chronic inflammation or cell scinessence for example we we pretty much know from human data as well that you know chronic inflammation accelerates aging and increases the risk of all the chronic diseases and shortens lifespan. So uh something that would at le alleviate inflammation theoretically would also just slow down biological aging maybe not through acting on the process of biological aging directly but just because inflammation is in excess harmful. I guess the challenge is again like okay people who are most likely to take a anti-inflammatory supplement they're already kind of more health motivated they don't necessarily have you know very high levels of inflammation where they would see those benefits. So um maybe for you know us healthy people taking a supplement that would you know help with scinesscent cells or help with lowering inflammation it maybe not doesn't have almost any effect maybe uh we don't know that but I would say out of all the supplements out there what I think would help with quote unquote slowing down the speed of biological aging I would probably say something like AKG is quite interesting I think uh you know there's animal data they extends a lifespan. It targets multiple hallmarks of aging like stem cell exhaustion, inflammation and genomic stability and mitochondrial function and many others. But it doesn't have a lot of like clinical data. uh there is one study from 2021 where they gave AKG for 6 months with vitamin D and there this biological age score declined by something like seven years I think within uh 6 months of use now that's not very like good evidence uh at least they measured it right you know whether or not the measurement is accurate is a different story but they measured it that it worked there's animal data that it extended lifespan and there's like mechanistic data as well that it interacts with these different hallmarks of aging. That would be like one that I would add to this list. >> So, addressing some of the hallmarks of aging, having data from clinical populations as well as non-human animals. >> How about you, Nick? >> I definitely see the appeal of addressing the hallmarks of aging. I think that's an interesting way to go. I like it and I think it's a way to go. I think my way tends to be a lot uh broader in terms of the only thing I really care about is two things. One, does it affect multiple organ systems? Does it affect uh the functionality? So because so that's a layer above uh the hallmarks of aging because the hallmarks of aging are going to contribute to the functionality of these organ systems. And the second thing is the effect size. So if the effect size is teenytiny uh for many years then I just uh don't worry about it. If the effect size is relatively modest but it happens pretty quickly and then I look at the population that it's studied and it's people that are just kind of the average person then yeah that's great. Um it's you know it's it's kind of a tossup. I just tell a person this is the situation you can consider if you know based on your budget is this something that you you'd be interested in you might get a little more interested if it's in a specific population of you know athletes for example they get a a pretty sizable boost in something and their performance then obviously that would be something that they would want to seriously consider. So yeah it's really based on those two things. Does it affect your your organ systems as in the functionality? And the second thing is the effect size. And I guess you could add a tertiary of uh of the population that you're studying. >> Yeah, I agree with all of that. And see the study that you mentioned was the study by Brian Kennedy and Co. It was this retrospective analysis. The product in question is called rejuvenient supplement. So it's not like we can chalk up those results to the two grams of calcium akg in that particular product and Brian Kennedy himself is very quick to point that out. He's an excellent scientist. So kudos to him for doing that work and like you say the fact that they are actually studying it and publishing that research and pointing out the limitations of it I think is definitely a good thing. And then Nick fully agree about the need to look at different organ systems recognizing that these molecules are distributed unevenly. People often speak about targeting hallmarks of aging, but they only look at a small subset of cells. And if you look at the transcriptional profiles of different cells, they're enormously divergent across tissues and so on. And then also effect size matters. It's easy just to look at a headline or an abstract or something and assume that because something is statistically significant, which often wouldn't be if it was adjusted for multiple testing, it's meaningful, but often it's not clinically meaningful. And Nick, I think you do a really good job in the content that you produce of pointing out the importance of effect sizes and when something does actually equate to something that's likely to affect someone's long-term disease risk and when that's not the case. >> Thanks. >> And then population is key because as I alluded to, if you've got people who are quite sick at baseline, you're probably more likely to see a substantial effect size than if people are relatively healthy. You take the example of blood pressure. There are many things that lower blood pressure in people with hypertension. But because of flora effects, those same things probably would have no effect on the blood pressure of the three of us. For instance, relevant to this is biological sex as well. One of the great things about the ITP is they study mice of both sexes and they often find that a candidate ger protector has a lifespan effect in one sex but not the other. And so when we look at these multi-ingredient products I think it's advantageous to have a product that contains ingredients that have been shown to affect the lifespan or health span of each of the sexes. And then another key one is just safety. One of the frustrations of people like us who spend time looking at this research is that often people get stuck on safety or they disregard it entirely and they don't report all of the relevant outcomes which we need to know about. So it's as if the research ends up forking in one of two directions where if you look at the research on senolytics like facet and queretin and datin so much of that has just focused on safety outcomes we're still getting the safety trials getting published several years later alternatively people don't focus enough on safety or they don't publish their findings and then we're left in the dark and we don't know what really is safe so I think irrespective of what you're speaking having some information about the safety of those substances in humans is really important. And on the subject of safety, we also have sourcing, the form of the ingredients and so on. So I wonder if you could just speak to that and we can take an example. So take the example of a plant-based supplement. What are some things that you would factor in when trying to choose between different products that are available off the shelf? >> If they have third party testing, you know, that's just a good sign. And uh yeah, one pitfall with any supplement is the proprietary blend that uh that they won't disclose the specific like ratios of specific ingredients uh or the amounts of specific ingredients. Uh so they just hide it behind the proprietary blend for copyright reasons. But uh yeah, in that case it's just not uh trustworthy. >> Well, I don't know what else I would add to that. I think the only supplement that I think of that has a plant-based substitution, if you want to call it, versus what's been primarily studied is like omega-3s because a lot of it come they're looking at like DHEA and and EPA. There's less studies that have been done looking at alcohol oil versus the the fish oils. Um, so I mean that's something to consider, but I usually just look at the breakdown. I mean it's it's true that if you don't know the exact amounts that are included in the supplement, then to me that that puts up a bunch of red flags. Um, but if you do then if you do see the dosages and you see the breakdown in the molecules that are included and even if you were to go back to one of my previous examples of lutein and zezanthin, you need to know that it's not disproportionately focused on one versus the other. There needs to be a balance, a ratio between the two. And that's true of EPA and DHA because those have slightly different effects on the body. um if it comes to cardiovascular risk or when it comes to to brain health and when you go into the subcellular mechanisms, they they work slightly differently. So, to me, yeah, focusing on just just knowing uh which molecules to to look at, making sure that it's appropriately dosed. Um and to Seam's point, if uh if they're using a proprietary blend, to me, that uh that's that's a pretty big red flag. >> Yes. It's hard to, you know, for regular people to know of if the supplement they buy actually has the ingredient that they claim it does they do unless they have like yeah some independent testing or third party testing on their website. Um because you you know even like some these very popular supplements like NMN there's you know these studies analysis done by uh the Junagen where they look at the amounts of Nmen in a lot of popular supplement brands in Amazon and uh they find that you know like something like 15% actually have the the the real amount that they say on the label and most of them just are underdosed or just you know completely zero from MN. So yeah, for the average person it's almost impossible to like do they have to go start testing all these things themselves. Um so yeah, you know obviously not so it's kind of a challenging situation but just trying to find reputable brands that have like that are like with long history and they've been scrutinized enough and they've had uh you know testing done. Third party testing does matter and I think it matters for slightly different reasons than it used to matter because there was a time when contamination with performance-enhancing drugs was a real issue particularly in the bodybuilding supplement world and there were things like deaths due to consumption of certain products on the market. There's a fat burner named hydroxyut that at least one person died from back in the day if I recall correctly. I think there's less of that now, but certainly what's in the product often doesn't match what's on the label. And there have been studies looking at various different supplements. See, I know on your podcast we've spoken about melatonin previously as another example of that. But now there are reasons to have concerns about other contaminants potentially. A few days ago, I saw a paper published last year looking at micro and nanoplastic contamination dietary fiber supplements. All of the products that they looked at contained plastics, which was interesting, and the powders were more egregious than the gummy products that they looked at. So maybe the things that we need to be concerned about are shifting a bit over time. But these third party testing companies like informed sport or websites like consumer lab can be helpful. Nick, my question about plant extracts was more about supplements that are isolated from plants and then issues related to that like the standardization of those. So if you take an example like ashwagander then there are products on the market like new gander ksm66 and others that are standardized for bioactives or if you take the example of rodeiola rosa shr is standardized for rosophins and celidraide the list goes on and because those are routinely used in research we know more about their effects than other products that don't have those names and they might in those studies tell you that there is a certain concentration of the bioactive and it was tested that you don't know the specific product and therefore you can't source that product yourself necessarily. The specifics of the plant extracts often do matter a lot more so for some products than others. I think this is especially true of curcumin products because if you just take turmeric and compare it to something like long vida or I think the most bioavailable last time I checked was bio kirk. It was over 400 times more bioavailable than the curcumin from turmeric alone and clearly that has huge implications for what dose might be appropriate as well. And then regarding vitamins and minerals, sometimes the specific thing that the micronutrient question is bound to matters too. So take the example of magnesium. Magnesium oxide as I mentioned can have quite potent laxative effects which can be helpful. I'd rather you take magnesium oxide as a laxative than some of the things that you might buy from your pharmacy because at least with magnesium, you're potentially getting some small positive effects from the magnesium itself. But whereas oxide might be quite a potent laxative, other forms like magnesium citrate or glycinate aren't necessarily the same. And then what the magnesium is bound to will also influence things like its tissue distribution and so on as well. So the forms do matter. And then another interesting subject at least to me is when you take the products and we can think of this across different time scales when you take them within your day and when you take them within your lifespan. So I wonder if you could share some thoughts related to that. >> I take like most of my supplements in the morning. U there's you know a few exceptions that you want to take in the evening like melatonin or you know your glycine you can take throughout the day. Uh some other like you know ashwagandha you can also take in the evening for stress management for example. Yeah, I I personally like take most of them like uh in the morning um as a as a like just with my food or some sort of a protein shake. >> You have any opinions on like the uh over lifespan like when a person should take? >> Yeah, I mean you know like we said creatine is one of the best ones for older people. You know, I think every elderly people would benefit from um creatine and u when you're young, you're less likely to be at a risk of low creatine intake. Like if you're young, you probably eat more calories and more um you know, animal products that provide creatine. Whereas older people, they're just you know, one of the problems with the elderly people is that they just don't eat enough. they uh this called like the anorexia of aging that their appetite decreases and their ability to chew food decreases. So you know older people they're not going to chew a lot of a steak to get the creatine. Um, so that's why they're one of the, you know, best candidates for creatine supplementation, you know, besides just the health benefits overall. And I think that a few other supplements are like that that benefit more elderly people than younger people. Like anything related to like improving metabolic health and lipids and blood pressure and blood sugar, like young people probably benefit much less from. Like if you're 20 years old or 30 years old, uh then you probably don't need you know bourberine to maintain metabolic health and uh adequate insulin sensitivity unless you are you know overweight or poor lifestyle. But you know a generally average healthy 20 to 30 year old doesn't really need it or they wouldn't notice like a huge benefit. But uh you know if you're 60 70 80 then uh just by default because of the you know process of aging and um not being a able to exercise that much and etc you'll have you know worse uh glucose regulation and worse lipid metabolism. So something that bourberine might be useful as just like a way to manage the blood work with a with a pill. >> Yeah that's a that's a great point. I completely agree. I think the vast majority of to address the longevity aspect or the the over lifespan effect. I think the vast majority of supplements are probably useful for people uh at the very least in their 40s and beyond, but likely older than that. There's only, I think, a few supplements that I think are really of any use for anybody in their 20s and and 30s. Um, and the framework that I would offer people is to have the first question you should ask yourself is what is the outcome that you're hoping for? What's the uh use case for this supplement? So, if you're hoping to just, you know, guzzle a bunch of supplements just because, um, you've heard that it's good for X or Y or Z, uh, there's a lot of questions that are kind of sub questions that come under that that a person needs to ask themselves. Um, if you look at yourself and you're 28 years old and you have, let's say, infinite money to be able to buy all the supplements that you've heard of, it the answer would probably be you still probably shouldn't buy any of them because uh they they won't do anything for you. Um, but if you're maybe 68 years old and maybe you have pre-diabetes, then now you can start to really introduce a lot of these different uh supplements. Another thing talking about, we were talking about ashwagandha a little bit, rodeola rosia. um if if you're not necessarily looking at lifespan or if you're not necessarily looking at uh specific health markers, but maybe you're really stressed or you're really anxious. In those situations, those would be supplements that might be beneficial for somebody who's in their 20s. Let's say you're 22, you're finishing college, you're in your final semester, you're very stressed out because you have all these exams and whatnot. In that case, then uh supplements could be a benefit that uh so you don't have to necessarily go to a doctor um to get AI don't know Xanax prescription or whatever it might be. I mean it's it's very much going to depend on your conversation with uh with a physician. But uh and it's again it just depends on the use case. Now, in terms of the timing within the day, again, it just goes back to that same fundamental question of what's why are you taking the supplement? What's the the ultimate goal that you're trying to achieve? And if it's, for example, sleep, to Seam's point, you can take it later in the day. And uh if if uh you wanted to take it specifically for sleep, that was your main outcome, then yeah, you would take it just like a lot of studies indicate, which would be like 30 minutes, an hour before sleep. Um and you would dose it appropriately for that. Um on the other hand, if you're taking it for the potential longevity benefit, then it may not matter as much in terms of exactly when you take it. And then it's just based on convenience. So then it comes down to well what's sustainable? Do you always forget to take your supplements at night then take it in the morning where when you can easily remember you know things like that though. So it's really uh it's a lot more conservative approach to supplementation and I think uh again I just keep talking about social media because it's just it's just rampant but uh that's that's just how I think about it. So I think there's a lot of pretty helpful advice in there within the day seem you spoke about you take most things in the morning being pragmatic most people are only going to remember to take supplements once a day >> and so if that's the case then taking them all in the morning might make sense in an ideal world we'd also be thinking about whether the supplements interact with the circadian clock and clock regulator processes this is obviously the case for sleep supplements taken late in the day and supplements with stimulant effects which you typically take early in the day. But it's likely that many supplements do interact with the circadian clock and some of the more interesting ger protectors probably do as well. And there are a few that haven't reached clinical trials yet that I'm really intrigued by curious to see where the research goes in years to come. How the supplements interact with the food that you consume I think is a really important point. So take the example of someone who's trying to boost their iron status. They've got a history of insufficient iron intakes and then iron deficiency anemia. If they're taking their iron supplement in the morning with three cups of tea, then the tannins in the tea are going to interfere with the absorption of the iron. And so we need to consider that in the context of ger protectors. I think one of the more intriguing interactions might be with energy availability because some of the candidates that are out there seem to in some ways mimic calorie restriction. And so if you're on a calorie restricted diet already, my guess is that taking a calorie restriction a metic would have smaller effects in those circumstances within the lifespan. One of the subjects that I discussed recently on the podcast that I did with Stephen Ostad is antagonistic playotropy. The idea that what's good for you early in life might not be good for you late in life. And based on the biology of that, there are reasons to think that if you take some of these gerrotective supplements early in life, they could potentially interfere with your reproductive function. And there's a little bit of evidence in that direction with a few of them. So many of the more potent anti-aging supplements might be best saved for later in life as you guys spoke about too. That's probably especially true of some supplements targeting specific processes. So going back to the hallmarks of aging, there are certain hallmarks that aren't particularly relevant early in life like the accumulation of scinesscent cells. Unless you've got some sort of fibroic disease, you probably don't have a big burden of scinesscent cells essentially in any of your tissues. And so taking a senolytic, it's probably not smart in part because it seems likely that there's been an evolutionary trade-off between cellular scinessence and risk of cancer. It's probably also true of telmir attrition. So it might be that we've evolved such that we have loss of the length of those telomeres and accumulation of scinesscent cells in part because those both actually help protect us against development of cancer and if we take protective supplements that are aggressively targeting those hallmarks of aging then that could dispose us to those cancers and that hasn't been shown clinically yet but hypothetically it makes some sense. M >> so I think there is a category of ger protectors that really should be saved for late in life >> and into that category I put things like analytics I think gleac is an interesting one that will come to later just in part because there has been research suggesting that it's potentially helpful for people later in life probably in part because of chronic inflammation whereas early in life any effects are much smaller >> with the senolytics the scinesscent cells are also involved in wound healing If you take analytics, are you like impairing your wound healing in some sense that you know not not shown yet but you know another possible risk. >> Yeah. And they're even involved in growth and development I believe. >> And then regarding interactions there are lots of these. So age being one of those interactions I think how these different molecules interact with genetics is relevant in some context. So that's been quite well shown for melatonin. There's a common polymorphism in one of the genes that encodes one of the melatonin receptors. The gene is MTN1B that produces a gain of function phenotype which basically means that it amplifies the effects of melatonin on certain outcomes like blood sugar control. And so people who carry that common polymorphism will have more exaggerated blood sugar swings after taking melatonin than people who don't carry it. That's not to say those people shouldn't be taking melatonin, but it does mean that potentially they should be more cognizant of things like when they're eating relative to taking certain supplements. >> Again, this is minutia, but it it is interesting and I think it it all points in the direction of personalization. How some supplements interact with medications, I think, is is a big one for some supplements at least. Certainly, it's true of things like piperine, which affects the metabolism of lots of different drugs because it acts on one of the enzymes are involved in zenobiotic detoxification. And so basically, if you took piperine shortly before taking certain medications, then the medications concentration in your blood would have a much bigger area under the curve than had you not taken the piperine before taking them. how the supplements interact with other supplements as well. So Nick, you spoke about lutein and zeazanthin. That's an interesting one just because they probably selectively affect the health of different parts of the retina. But I've already touched on a couple of these like vitamin D3 and K2 and how those influence calcium deposition, how they interact with other aspects of lifestyle. So we spoke about vitamin D and sun exposure probably relevant to a few other things to light exposure potentially one of those being melatonin and then maybe some other lifestyle factors. So smoking is an interesting one. Oral contraception would be an interesting one too just because smoking if we take that example does seem to affect the metabolism of certain supplements. Staying on the subject of lifestyle factors, one that has received some attention is how they interact with exercise because some of the stronger candidates might hamper some of the ways in which we respond to exercise. Seam, I'll pass this one over to you first. like the antioxidants vitamin C and NAC taken after resistance training uh might yeah blunt some of the hypertrophy uh signal and benefits from exercise and I I've seen actually with melatonin as well that taking melatonin after you've resistance trained could have yeah like some also like this inhibitory because inflammation is one of the one of the signals for the muscle growth and uh if you blunt that with even like nades it's aspirin or something like that, then uh you know, I think you know, you'll still make some gains, but uh probably not some diminished effect. >> You've got anything to add? >> I'm silent because I have no idea what to add. >> Something like bourberine could also be maybe because like so bourberine would suppress mTor pathway. the mtor pathway I haven't seen any evidence in humans that it would reduce muscle hypertrophy signal or reduce gains from strength training but you know at least mechanistically so it does suppress mTor which is you know the growth pathway that gets activated during exercise some of that literature like on the uh vitamin C or antioxidants and whatnot I haven't looked into it too in depth but I remember there's this one influential paper where they had people exercise and then gave them a bunch of I guess it was vitamin C and something else. Maybe vitamin >> C I think. >> C. Yeah. And they showed reductions in I guess reactive oxygen species and then some some signaling markers and whatnot. I'm always curious though if and maybe you you guys could probably answer this better than I could, but have we seen any actual uh outcome measurements of you know reduced hypertrophy or reduced like V2 like seam mentioned with metformin uh some some negative effects which I have seen those outcome data but uh for some of these other papers it seems like we're focusing a lot on the signaling which to me makes a lot of sense but it's just kind of like that first step of like okay Maybe we shouldn't do this, but I I guess I'm not aware of studies that have actually looked at the functional outcomes. Do you guys know of any? >> Yeah, there have been a few. And this body of research actually goes back a while. I remember during my master's degree 2013 2014 reading some of Michael Risto's early work looking at vitamin C and E supplementation around the time of exercise finding some blunt adaptations and since then there has been additional work looking at relevant outcomes too so some measures of metabolic health like blood sugar control as well as some adaptations to training like changes in cardiorespiratory fitness so V2 or V2P finding some negative effects in the context of ger protectctors has probably been best shown for metformin. So far there have been several studies some of the early work showed reduced improvements in insulin sensitivity and V2 max and people took metformin alongside structured endurance training. And then other work showed blunted muscle hypertrophy but not statistically significant blunted strength gains. I might be misremembering some of the specifics but that is my vague recollection. And then I think mechanistically we could extrapolate from that that bourberine could have some negative effects because it it does seem to act quite similarly to metformin in many ways in terms of complex one inhibition and in terms ofk activation and deregulated nutrient sensing which is kind of a clunky way of putting it being one of the hallmarks of aging. many of these different things that do target that like rapamy targeting antil it'll be interesting to see whether that holds true for those as well but in the case of rapamy the jury is still out because and this is just a hypothesis but I wonder if there's going to be a discordance between what we see in people who aren't doing exercise and what we see in people who are doing exercise so if you look at the pearl trial of raphamy that was published and we can't really make too much of that because of limitations of the study and because of the things that they looked at. There was very very tentative evidence suggesting that people who took rapomy had marginally better body composition after taking it but that wasn't in conjunction with exercise training and you can imagine a situation in which someone takes metformin not doing exercise training. Metformin typically results in a very small amount of body weight loss. So they might lose a little bit of fat mass too and you might therefore assume oh metformin is improving body composition. However we know that metformin if anything seems likely to slightly impair some of those adaptations to exercise. So it could be that similarly rapamy taken by sedentary people has negligible effects on body composition or even marginally positive ones. But could it be that at the same time another group of people who are doing exercise alongside taking it have worse outcomes in terms of their fitness gains than people who aren't taking it or are taking it. >> H yeah that's interesting. Yeah, with with yeah rapamy mechanistically we think that it would result in muscle loss because of inhibition of mtor but yeah like some other research shows the opposite that it doesn't make people lose muscle but they actually maintain it like protecting against sarcopenia slightly >> that goes back to the population studied though right because a lot of the rapid I mean other than the immune modulatory studies that have been done for for transplants for rapamy has usually been studied in people that are at least in I guess their 50s and beyond. My understanding is that with rapamyosin they believe that it'll decrease mTor over activity so that you can get a bit of a sensitizing effect for for mtor um but I don't know if that would necessarily be the case for like younger individuals right that have highly sensitive mtor don't have dysregulation or anything of that nature I don't know how do you guys think about rapamy in that regard >> yeah that's interesting so MTO sensitization may be one of the mechanisms because diabetics also have mTor hyperactivity because of the high blood sugar but you know diabetics aren't jacked. So uh it's uh you know maybe something to do with yeah the hyperactivity of mTor or um desensitization similar to insulin like insulin can be a very powerful anabolic hormone you know bodybuilders injected to build muscle. Uh but at the same time you know people who with insulin resistance or hyperinsulinemia they have you know whole host of uh problems. Yeah, I think one of your points earlier too is a really good one about when uh like for for muscle growth for example that there is usually this inflammatory response that comes in and is a factor when it comes to muscle growth and I think something that often people forget about is that we get so hyperfocused on like mTor for example the activity of mTor like oh mtor's upregulate we might have greater protein synthesis and whatnot but there's so many other factors that have to come in you have to have chaperon proteins, you have to have targeting sequences, you have to have all these different aspects that lead the protein to be sent to the correct spots to be integrated correctly. And I think all of that happens through the actual exercise cascade. So to your point seam about if you're looking at like I don't know diabetic individuals like type 2 diabetics that are far along and they're injecting insulin for example insulin is a very potent hormone and it's an anabolic uh like you said but that doesn't necessarily mean that they're going to end up jacked and I think that's because we focus so much on the mechanisms and we don't focus enough on what's the overall like what is actually causing this transduction of the entire pathway to specific specifically target muscle growth or specifically target uh aerobic activity or whatever it might be. So yeah, it's just uh that that's why I was asking about the vitamin C and vitamin E because I wasn't aware of of the research actually indicating the functional uh effects. But I mean like you guys said if there are studies then there are studies and uh I'd actually I' I'm going to be super interested to read those because uh I've I've always had that question. And I've just uh I've been asked that question a few times and I just haven't had a a reasonable response >> with the antioxidants. It's interesting that even in the randomized control trials, people who take vitamin C or or was it like beta carotin or vitamin AI think was were the ones that their intake was actually also seen with higher mortality. Vitamin C I think was like nut but uh beta carotene which is an antioxidant as well and vitamin A their use was seen to increase the risk of all cause mortality. I wonder what's what's the like reason there. It's kind of interesting. I >> think that when people are taking certain things relative to exercise is going to prove really important. So from my perspective if I was taking rapamy I wouldn't be taking it on days I'm doing resistance training. Likewise, if I was in my 50s and I was thinking, uh, I'm just getting to the point where I think I might benefit from taking GLAC, I'd probably take it on days off exercise. There's a little bit of evidence suggesting that NAC, one of the components of glycetylcysteine, could also because of its antioxidant properties, blunt some of those responses. And likewise for metformin. If someone is doing exercise that's going to improve their blood sugar control on the days that they are exercising and the main reason they're taking metformin is to improve their glycemic control, then they could just take that on their non-training days at least initially and tinker with that accordingly. Probably also some considerations that are more acute than that. So whether you're taking something before exercise, you'll take it after exercise and how that interacts with when you're training during the day. It could be that if you have to take it on the same day, then you want to take it as far from exercise as possible, assuming it's not going to have some substantial effect on your sleepwake cycle. So I think it's another instance in which timing is going to prove really important. And just returning to what you discussing earlier, I think we've got to bear in mind tissue specificity. We need enough growth signaling in certain tissues to retain the mass and function of those tissues over time. It's true of the brain. It's true of skeletal muscle. And it's difficult to understand all of the complexities of that in different tissues. It might be that just because something on paper is an MTOR complex one inhibitor, we can't assume that it's having that effect in all tissues at the same time. And really what it's doing is it's improving the fidelity of the signal in that pathway in certain tissues but not in other tissues. Nick, have you got anything to add there? You look pensive. >> Yeah. any discussion of science ends up being pensive. Um, yeah, I I think uh I think it just goes back to these different molecules that have effects on on these different like let's say the brain or the musculature or the bone and whatnot. I really think that the age effect is something that people just don't highlight enough. you guys do, but I think in general we don't highlight it enough because we think about mTor uh and these signaling pathways as just doing this one thing. It just promotes growth that it's it's good or it's bad. Um, and I think that as aging occurs and what I've seen in the literature from a lot of different studies, if that's rapamyin or if that's some of the cloth research, I'm focusing on the brain right now. Um, in that literature, it seems to me that often times you want to diminish mTor activity because the overactivity of mTor is leading to the production of these aberrant proteins. you're essentially making so much of these proteins that are being misloized or or just the the the targeting of the signal just gets scrambled in some way which I don't have the granularity I haven't done enough research into it to describe exactly how but it just seems to me like uh we we focus on uh mTor in terms of like musculature or whatever and it is generally considered that if you increase mtor activity that you an increase in protein synthesis and then the hope is that you then see muscle growth, but I just don't think that it's always uh should be considered for anybody listening. Again, I'm not really talking to you guys, but just for anybody listening, it just shouldn't always be considered as well this is good or this is bad. It is very tissue specific like you said, Greg, but it also matters on the context of the person that you're talking about, their age. I think their age is just such a massive modulating factor. Also, their health if they're going through mild cognitive impairment um and they're on their way towards uh some sort of dementia or if they're perfectly healthy and they're just trying to improve their insulin sensitivity or whatever it might be. There's a a lot of different considerations that need to be taken account. And that's where this whole aspect of understanding the population that you're talking about is is extremely important before we, you know, jump on these bandwagons of, you know, a particular signaling cascade is always good or always bad. Um, it's just a it's just a nuance that I don't think gets brought up enough in general. So let's start to focus on a few specific supplements and we'll begin with popular choice which is the category of NAD precursors. There are lots of these that we could include. The most popular are NR nicotine ribbide NN nicotine monucleotide or just straight nicotinomide. What do you guys think about these? And I wonder if one of you could just begin by explaining what the basic rationale is behind taking these supplements. Why are people doing this? I guess the big reason is because NAD had been hyped up to be a very important thing for longevity and aging which you know to a certain extent it uh is you know pretty essential for life and living and there is some evidence that NAD levels decline in some tissues uh with age. The reason it got popular is because yeah just you know you take the pill that raises your NAD and then you're maintaining it for longer. I guess uh yeah there is you know the biggest evidence that they do work in raising NAD levels that that's been consistently shown that pretty much all of the precursors nasinamide NRMN they all do raise NAD levels u almost like a dose manner at least Nmen and NR do but um I guess with uh the clinical trials the results have been a bit more disappointing there haven't been such groundbreaking results from these uh studies. You know, granted, there are not that many of them, but the ones that are out there, they're not super impressive as of now. Nick, what do you think? >> Uh yeah, you described it well. I so I guess the pe the way people are thinking about it as you mentioned that you see this increase in NAD and NAD is involved in so many hundreds of different uh biochemical reactions within the cells and therefore then you're seeing this uh profound effect on like mitochondrial health and DNA methylation and all this stuff. Um, however, what's interesting is that then we get caught in this this like rock in a hard place because a lot of the clinical trials like you mentioned seem have been really disappointing. And I think one of the main reasons is because they're testing uh stuff that is not actually the proposed mechanism by which NMN and and all these other precursors are supposed to supposed to affect. So yeah, we're we're in this position of like, okay, well, we have this hypothesis that boosting NAD inside the cells is going to have this widespread effect on all these different biochemical markers and therefore that'll translate to uh some positive health and functional outcomes. Um, however, that just doesn't seem to be the thing that we're testing. Uh, what we're testing is like LDL and triglycerides and things of that nature. And I don't I don't know if we would actually see a translation to those types of markers. Um there have been a few studies that have looked at some functional markers like uh sit to stand test in people that are maybe in their 70s and whatnot. Again, relatively disappointing results in that regard. You also have people like Dr. David Sinclair who obviously is one of the the people that really made this extremely popular. Um he's been published on a study. That study, I gotta be honest with you, was just uh the statistics behind it and the the way they displayed the data was just uh funny. And they looked at, you know, a lot of the the same metrics that everybody else has looked at. I think they looked at a few functional metrics and they showed some small improvements, but the small improvements, if you look at the the way that they displayed it, um they it I I'm not going to go into too much detail with it. It's just uh it's just not the way that I would have shown the data if I wanted to show because if you compare it to the placebo ultimately you end up kind of coming to the conclusion that okay there isn't actually that much of a difference. Um so yeah it's just across like 12 13 studies that the clinical studies that I've looked at uh really disappointing results. There's been a few small signals here and there, but by and large, I think that it's uh it's just been pretty bad overall. But again, as a final point, I just need to remind everyone that, you know, a lot of the hypotheses were based around, you know, the effects that it might have on like DNA damage, for example. By the way, there is one study that looked at DNA damage and they found no effect in humans. Um, just a single metric though, single measure. So, you know, there's I I'd be open to to it having an effect, but so far the evidence strongly points, even if maybe a slightly offkilter to what it's supposed to be pointed at, seems to indicate that there's no real effect, at least in humans. >> I like the fact that you emphasize that there was a single marker of DNA damage because like many things, it's not that easy to measure proxies of DNA damage in people. I haven't read the study that you mentioned, David Sinclair's study. Can't say that I'm terribly surprised going by David's rich reputation. And I do think that these supplements mechanistically make sense. NAD is really important. It helps shuttle electrons within cells in ways that support energy production. Has some non-relux effects, too. So, it's a co-actor for loads of enzymes involved in things like DNA repair. And so on paper it's great, but as you guys are saying the clinical research just hasn't really panned out and neither is the preclinical research because there have been a few lifespan experiments and >> NR failed in the ITP to extend lifespan. >> I think there there probably lots of factors at play here. One is that they do raise NAD levels, but in some tissues and in some people people's responses are very heterogeneous. And so I wonder if that's a contributing factor. Many of the clinical trials are also quite frustrating. They tend to look at NAD concentrations in certain tissues predictably, often blood. They almost always look at some inflammatory markers in the blood and then like many supplements it seems that some of the other outcomes that we might be more interested in things like blood pressure and so on respond most positively in people with the worst measures at baseline. There's also a question of alternative ways of raising NAD and Nick, I know that you published a video which I thought was very thoughtful about the new Cheeto time product and the study that Nicola Conland and her colleagues did on that. So I wonder if you could explain to us something about how people are approaching other ways to boost NAD and whether these alternative pathways seem efficacious based on what we know so far. >> Yeah. So what they're trying to do here is they're using the salvage pathway to increase NAD, but instead of just inputting more of these NAD precursors, what they're doing is they're trying to target some of the enzymes around NAD and try to reduce the the activity of certain enzymes and increase the activity of other enzymes that ultimately would lead to an increase in the pool. I think the idea is really clever because it's possible that, you know, we've just been inputting all these precursors and they just get siphoned off um by these enzymes. Maybe the enzymes become more active and end up uh eliminating a lot of the uh the NAD. Um so they talk about like CD38 uh NMT and uh NAMT. Yeah. So these different enzymes that they end up uh I guess addressing through like parsley ext extract, rooten egcg and uh things of that nature as well as of course uh an na nicotinomide to to increase NAD. So they they did this through a randomized control trial. They looked at uh blood NAD levels and then they looked at uh these different enzymes to see if there was greater levels of these enzymes or reduced levels based off of what they wanted to see. And they showed that for example like cert one which is one of the enzymes that's supposed to be using this uh NAD was increased uh after 28 days and actually before those 28 days when uh this substance this stack I guess you can say was applied to individuals and in the placebo they didn't see that effect. They also saw that with one other enzyme that they were trying to target but they didn't find that in certain other enzymes. Um they also looked at some inflammatory markers and showed a very slight decrease in certain inflammatory markers. And then they looked at a biological age change um as well as glycated serum protein which I think fed into this uh biological age change. So overall when you look at the study the effects are really mild which of course could come down to the fact that they only did it for 28 days which is completely fair. Um, but they also didn't I hate to say it, but they also didn't use the right statistics in a lot of their uh measurements. And considering the effect was just right on the cusp every single almost every single time, it to me it raises this massive question of like well if they just done the right statistics would they like for example for for multiple measurements they use uh paired t tests um which and then for for some of the other measurements where they did they did write use the right statistics um the effect was just so tiny. Um, so going back to this question that I always have of effect size, um, it just doesn't seem that impressive. So that's that's what I took away from it. But I will say just to their credit, I really love their approach to this. And maybe if they just tweak it that they can get to some real effects, which would be really, really cool. >> And they're one of the main, you know, NAD boosters in there is the ninamide. Plus they have like other things like green tea extract I think epigenine as well. So there you know different pathways that support the same salage pathway. Epigenine inhibits the CD38 which is uh the one of the main consumers of NAD that increases with age is like inflammatory glyoprotein and then you have the green tea extract that activates which uh supports the salvage pathway enzyme NMP. So yeah, you have like different pathways uh or targets for the different uh enzymes. >> Yeah, that type of systems biology approach is really interesting. There a few things that I'll highlight. One is that going by their data and I'm not sure how much we can make of those data if I'm being frank. The size of the NAD boost was comparable to what's been reported in studies on NR and NMN so far. If anything, it was probably slightly lower than the average. Although, we need to bear in mind that if you look at those studies on NR and NMN, they often use high doses. You buy true Niogen, the standard dose that you'll get is 300 millig, although they've got another product which is 1,000 milligs. But most of the studies are around the thousand milligram mark which works out as being tremendously expensive and I'd say to the point of being exclusive for most people. The statistics point is well made. I think it's true of a lot of research across the board. It's true of research in this sector too. One of the more egregious examples was a study that I read recently which was the widely discussed highly publicized metformin study that looked at a certain type of macak. They just measured everything under the sun. Everything you could possibly think of measuring in every tissue in every cell and they didn't correct for multiple testing. just sat there reading it thinking, are you kidding? How has this been published in this prestigious journal, but actually it's symptomatic of a bigger problem with that journal. So that is something that people need to consider that unless they're scientifically trained, frankly, they're likely to miss or unless they're statistically trained, they're likely to miss. >> When you cons, let's say you run across a study um and they use the wrong statistics. So let's say they use a a t test when there's three comparisons or four comparisons or something along those lines. At what point do you dismiss the study and at what point do you say okay even though they use the t test do you maybe look at the effect size and say well it's A-50% difference so it does probably doesn't matter which test that they would have used. Um does that run across your mind or do you just dismiss the study entire entirely or how how do you think about that? I wouldn't just dismiss it entirely necessarily. I wouldn't necessarily then go and calculate an effect size. That is something that you can do with sufficient data, but I wouldn't pull out my calculator and instead I'd try and make sense of the entirety of the results and I'd be looking at those graphs to look at changes in the respective group. So hopefully there's a placebo group and an experimental group, but really that is a question of sticking your finger in the air. It's not a very scientific way to approach things. And so my confidence in my interpretation of results from those studies is very low and my confidence in that particular supplement is correspondingly low because of that publication. But once more, kudos to them for actually publishing the research and for trying to understand what the supplement is doing. And I think they're also somewhat hamstrung by some circumstantial issues. I vaguely recall the co might have thrown a spanner in the works as has been true of a lot of research over the last few years. So regardless, I think we should tip our hats to them for doing that work. I just wouldn't recommend that product as an alternative way to boost NAD over NR or NMN. This brings us to where I was going, which is alternative ways that people have tried or that people are just starting to experiment with. Early on, there was a lot of research in resveratrol, polyphenol, that's found in abundance in certain plants, famously red grapes. People spoke about it as being the source of the French paradox. The idea that French people have good health despite their high consumption of red wine and maybe it's this miracle polyphenol that's found in red grapes. And David Sinclair sure enough made a fortune based on this idea when he sold a company that was basically making spin-offs of res veratrol to GSK for hundreds of millions of dollars. that went under several years later, but I don't want to get too distracted by that. Resveratrol has continued to be studied and it gets slammed by a lot of people in this world, but do you guys think that it has any application in geroscience or in trying to help people delay aging? >> Uh, I'll I'll defer to seam on this one because I've actually not done very much research on ruseverrol at all. >> Yeah. So, the story is very interesting. that uh it started in the you late 90s already and you know very famous people were involved in the research like Matt Kberlain and Brian Kennedy and Gerald Leonardo or some >> Lenny Gente I think it's probably >> yeah Gente yeah and David Sinclair they were all working on that certuins and uh lifespan and reseratrol in 2004 was one of the studies where they first found to extend lifespan But uh yeah, I mean the subsequent follow-up studies didn't find those effects and yeah, the GSK that bought the Certris uh company that was David Sinclair's company, yeah, they stopped researching the reserrol uh after a few years after they bought it. So uh yeah, the lifespan data is definitely very uh murky and uh not really repeated with human data. you know, you have some or like there is yeah one one I guess condition where they found extension in lifespan was when they fed like these mice 60% coconut oil diet and they got super obese and reseratrol enabled them to live a bit longer. So it's not like that reseratrol has again pro lifespan effects in otherwise healthy people. It's just if you're super obese then it might mitigate some of the harm so you survive for a bit longer. Is that like the diet that mice have in the Caribbean? >> Is coconut a mainstay of the Caribbean mouse diet? >> Yeah. It's just super obisogenic. I think like you know mice aren't supposed to eat coconut oil. So and I mean there's actually in humans there is some clinical trials that in diabetics and overweight people reratrol does have some benefits on lipids and blood sugar and those things. So it may be some like parallel effect that you see from the mouse data from you know visogenic mice but otherwise you know it doesn't really have any health effects on otherwise healthy people and potentially has harm for in humans there's like androgens in older men it's been seen to decrease androgens not testosterone but androgens and possibly like vottomax and other exercise benefits as well similar to like the antioxidants >> I haven't seen that research. But my impression, similar to yours, is that it does have some modest positive effects in some populations. We see that with blood pressure, blood sugar control, and a couple of other things. and people have thrown it under the bus completely understandably given the backstory. But I'd be really curious to see someone compare equivalent doses of resveratrol and NR head-to-head >> and see how the groups do relative to placebo. >> Yeah, with the V2 max it's it blunts some of the benefits. So it does. So if you exercise, you will still see an increase in vottomax, but it's smaller than if you're not taking reseratrol. >> Yeah, it's a common theme >> blunts some of the benefits. >> What about terraelby Nick? It might be that if you haven't got to reseratrol, then you haven't got to terra still bean either. But see, have you got any thoughts? >> So there is no animal data about lifespan that I've seen and uh there's no not many clinical trials either. The only I guess uh downside to that is that uh it raises LDL LDL cholesterol. Uh unless you're combining it with grape extract. There was a study that found that the alone raised the LDL but if you took it with grape extract then it didn't. And you know there's not no other studies that I've actually seen. I think there's a single study looking at isolated terrabine supplementation so far and it's just a safety study of 100 milligrams. So we can't extrapolate much from that. Terrailine is an ingredient in one of the allesium NAD boosters and they have published a few studies on that but that's in conjunction with an NAD precursor. So you can't tell much about the effects of terrace still beanine per se based on those analyses. And then there are potentially a couple of other ways of boosting NAD. If we put aside the systems biology approach where we're trying to also reduce the activity of some of these enzymes that are chewing up NAD. One of these that I only came across relatively recently is trigonaline which is in coffee. Have you guys come across that? >> No, I' not. >> It's quite interesting just because it's in coffee in quite high quantities. It's basically methylated nasin and there has been some work now in other animals showing that it consistently boosts NAD. One of the interesting things is that it does so in skeletal muscle. >> NR and NMN don't do that. They do so in blood and they might do so in the brain which is encouraging because I think that could have some clinical relevance to certain populations in particular people experiencing some neurodeenerative conditions but they don't affect skeletal muscle NAD substantially trigonaline does seem to which is intriguing maybe combination of these different precursors could have some additive effects or maybe trigonaline in isolation will prove more efficacious than NR or NMN or nicotenomide. Another that we'll come back to later is ergoionine which is acting through a very different mechanism but does seem to substantially boost NAD and I suspect that the effects of that on different tissue compartments will be more widespread because cells in lots of different tissues seem to love ferggoine and readily and greedily take it up. Before we get there, this isn't a subject that I'm going to chime in with my thoughts on just because I've addressed it previously in a podcast that I did with Rebecca Strawbridge. So, people interested and they can tune into that. But people in the YouTube world have woken up to the potential merits of lithium in the last few months in particular. Got any brief thoughts on lithium as the ger protector? We've discussed it in the past. Um I'm a fan uh of the micro doing lithium. I've only looked at it in relation to cognitive health if I remember correctly. So looking at cognitive decline and there's some pretty impressive clinical small clinical trials that have looked at lithium um and at the very least delaying but at least over the course of the study which don't ask me how long the study was cuz although that is very important um seems to completely stop the regression or the the continuation I suppose I should say of mild cognitive impairment which uh that alone is really impressive. of um I'd like to see that kind of done over longer periods of time because mild cognitive impairment is not something that just appears and uh you know gets worse day after day. It tends to happen over you know many months, many years. But so far uh I think the evidence is is pretty good. I'd like to do some more research on that because it's definitely a fascinating uh fascinating molecule. >> Yeah, I agree. the brain. I think the biggest benefits are for the brain. The evidence suggests that there's some of these um observational studies that even like the areas where they have more lithium in the drinking water, they have uh lower suicide, lower homicide and greater life expectancy. And you know the theory is then is is it the lithium that uh has some of those effects maybe like mental health like traditionally it's used for bipolar disorder, right? and mania manic episodes uh and the micro dose lithium might have like some mental health and mental stability benefits which you know goes into homicide and suicide um area but uh yeah obviously it's not a very controlled experiment in that uh scenario but looking at the mechanistics then uh brain benefits are quite quite interesting you there's some I think some mouse study as well that uh lithium inhibits some Alzheimer's related proteins or tow tangles as well which is you know very early to say anything about that but uh you know definitely does some some to something to the brain. >> Can't think of a way to smoothly transition to the subject but AKG came up earlier and AKG is a KB cycle intermediate which is quite biologically promiscuous. It's involved in lots of different things it seems and in the last few years people have started adding it to supplements for a few reasons. I think one of them has been the publication of some studies on rodents showing potential effects on certainly health span potentially lifespan too and then also the retrospective analysis of rejuvenant that we discussed earlier. What do you think about AKG as a candidate and do you have any idea how it's acting? >> I haven't looked into it a whole lot. So, seems I think as far as I know, uh seem you've looked into it uh a little bit more than I have. But AKG, I mean, the way I think about it is if it does have an effect because it's so mitochondriacentric, it would probably to me make more sense to address any sort of mitochondrial dysfunction than it would be to specifically target AKG. But again, that's coming from a pretty naive standpoint at this point. >> Yeah, I recently actually wrote a chapter for my next book uh on AKG. So it's like a book on supplements and a is one of the ingredients. biggest reason why you see some of like the health benefits in animal studies is probably with energy production and uh the crep cycle and AKG is also involved in like other metabolic functions like protein metabolism and uh even like collagen synthesis and those things but uh you know human studies there's very little I mentioned the biological age uh study but you know that's not very practical they didn't look that functional outcomes like grip strength or you know other like health markers which another study is doing right now. So they're replicating the previous one plus they're looking at grip strength and blood pressure and other things. It's called AEL trial and it's probably going to come in a few years or next year or something. Other human clinical trials mostly are around wound healing. There's no evidence that it would help any age related diseases or chronic diseases but there is yeah like that supports wound healing maybe like bone density as well there was like some postmenopausal women who saw some increase in uh like this bone resorption markers um but they also took calcium AKG compared to regular calcium. So uh so that there might be some extra effects from uh calcium AKG than calcium alone. And uh interestingly like for skin benefits there you know helps with the the wound healing but it might also support like collagen uh production in um there's no human trials yet but most of it is like on human cells skin cells and that kind of thing helps with maybe like barrier function or collagen synthesis in the skin. So yeah, I mean you should have more human studies to come out, but uh it's kind of interesting for sure. >> It's going to be really intriguing to see that study that Brian Kennedy is doing. >> Yeah. >> Which I think is looking at 2 g of timereleased AKG calcium AKG because that's what they're using in rejuvenant. >> And it looks to be a very well planned study. I like the study design. looked at it on clinical trials at some point last year and I do think that there's smoke there. I'm just not sure if there's any fire and I find it really hard to interpret the research that's been done so far as you pointed out seem there have been a few beneficial effects reported as well as the things you mentioned. I think there's been a tiny bit of work on some proxies of physical function. But when you look at those studies, some of them have used calcium AKG, some of them have used ornithine AKG, some of them have used arginine AKG. The doses have varied massively. The ones using calcium have used timereleased AKG because normally it's got a vanishingly short halflife. It's 5 minutes or something like that. So I wouldn't necessarily expect it to do that much and therefore I just don't know what to make of any of it yet and I won't know what to make of it until we see the results from that particular study. Nice to hear that you're writing that book scene. >> I'm looking forward to reading that. I'm sure within that book one of the subjects that you've covered is what appears to be one of your favorite subjects and that is glycine. >> Yeah. >> Seen's favorite amino acid. Seam. Tell us about glycine. Yeah, I mean glycine is uh I guess the reason I like it is because it's you know appears to be very safe does a whole bunch of different things and it has uh benefits from both some human studies and animal studies. not for all of the proposed benefits but uh uh yeah in human studies it helps with sleep uh helps lowers blood sugar slightly and uh yeah like if you look at the study with the glyc you know glycine is 50% of that so it might also have some effects on inflammation markers grip strength and some other like functional outcomes way circumference what they measured in in the gynec studies but yeah the animal studies The reason why it might it's you know thought to have like some lifespan effects it did extend lifespan in ATP in the ITP study as well. Uh so one of the reasons it thought is that it's mimics methanine restriction uh which uh methane in excess has been seen to shorten lifespan but it turns out that it's not only because of the excess methanine is more so about the balance between methanine and glycine. So if the mice are on a high methane diet, if they're getting more glycine as well at the same time, then it doesn't shorten their lifespan. Whereas if they're only extra methanine and low glycine, then that seems that shortens lifespan in many animal models. So u yeah you know modern in the modern diet a lot of uh the foods have more methanine and less glycine like muscle meats whereas you get glycine from like tendons and ligaments and jello more like collagenous uh kind of substances. So that's one of my rationale is to take glycine for the kind of methanium balance because you know I'm not on like a zero methane diet or anything. So, uh, makes sense to kind of, uh, balance that. Other things that I, you know, think make lysine worthwhile is that it supports collagen synthesis. It's like one/ird of collagen and, uh, collagen supports collagen turnover. There's no human studies that it, you know, supports uh, skin anti-aging or wrinkles. there is for collagen and um you know there's different mechanisms why collagen peptides appear to help with skin wrinkles and aging but uh the glycine might be part of the reasons uh there and uh yeah the glutathione we mentioned as well so the reduction in inflammation in the gleax studies comes from the increased glutathione which a glycine supports with NC speaking of the methan glycine ratio there's also the some human studies that low glycine status is associated with higher visceral fat. Um, and we know in animal studies that methane restriction decreases visceral fat. And in humans, methane restriction also improves insulin sensitivity. So again, might be some of the ratio here that if you increase the glycine, you might see some improvements in insulin sensitivity and you might see decreases in visceral fat, which we don't have a study yet. But uh from my own personal anecdotal experience, I have seen that reducing the methanine and increasing my glycine intake uh did result in uh loss of visceral fat to actually like very low levels which might be more dangerous but uh from my own experience it did affect my visceral fat levels as well. >> You haven't got any visceral fat saying what are you talking about? Well, 50 54 g is >> 54 g. There you go. Oh dear. >> Need need a microscope to see it. >> You missed the most important thing, too, which is the glycine basically tastes like sugar. >> Yeah, it's delicious. >> You can Yeah. mix it with cottage cheese or Greek yogurt, like unflavored for the protein. You can add glycine there for some sweet flavor. >> Yeah, I'm surprised that I'm even mentioning this for fear of embarrassing myself. The strangest thing that I enjoy each day is inulin powder. Short chain inulin powder which is slightly sweet mixed with glycine powder. >> It's like candy floss. >> It's genuinely so nice. >> How How do you eat that? You just put it on a spoon or what? >> Spoon. >> Straight down the hatch. >> Roading. Methionine and amino acid balance is a really interesting subject and I think you're absolutely right about the balance between the amino acids being the thing that matters rather than methane restriction per se and if you haven't read it then prior to the publication of your book I would suggest reading a review paper that Steve Austin wrote about different forms of dietary restriction in which he discusses amino acid restriction because it is interesting. I don't agree with it all but I agree with much of it. he goes into some of the specifics of those ratios and how they relate to health outcomes. Another point that I'll flag is that there has been some work looking at glycine and lifespan and I might be misremembering this but I believe that it used fisher rats finding that glycine extended lifespan but didn't push down methane. And so clearly it's not just exerting any benefits through methane restriction mimicking. There are probably other factors that are at play too like change inflammation. And Nick, I'll turn to you in a minute just to fill in some of those gaps because I really like a video that you made about glycine, autophagy, mtor, and how those tie together. And then there does seem to be something of a glycine gap between the amount that our bodies synthesize each day and our potential metabolic needs. And there was a review paper that was written about this a few years ago. And I thought that the authors over interterpreted the data a little bit, but I suspect there is a gap. And certainly I think most people stand to benefit from increasing their glycine intake a little bit. Happily, it's also very cost effective. is cheap as well as being tasty. So, it feels like an easy win. >> But Nick, I'd love to hear a few of your thoughts, including touching on what those mechanisms might. >> Sure. So, I've I've looked at two different areas for glycine. I'm definitely not as extensively educated as seem on this, but uh I've looked at the as I alluded to earlier the sleep studies um in humans and there's definitely a mild I don't think the evidence is actually fantastic. Uh but there's definitely a mild effect it seems like across I think four studies in humans. Um, again assuming that you're taking it like an hour before sleep and I think the dose was like 3 g or something like that. But the um then I looked at the ITP study um looking at the longevity effect and in that study the researchers speculate as to some of the mechanisms. Um, so this is speculation that I'm just kind of conveying from what the researchers say. Uh, that glycine, Greg, you may have to refresh my memory if I get one of these details wrong. That glycine, well, actually, I guess I'll start with methane. That methane acts on mTor, which stimulates mTor, which can lead to the activation of mTor in a negative way. Um, and I guess over time that you have this continuous overactivation of mTor. But the way to reduce that or one of the ways to reduce that is by the methylation of glycine. That's right. I think the methylation would happen to methane making it more potent against mTor. glycine somehow interacts in that pathway to stop the methylation and it itself gets methylated which allows I believe methane to get uh removed from the cell. Again, I'm kind of squishy on the details on that. Um but something along those lines that ultimately acts as this kind of uh this this triangle effect of methionine with mTor with glycine that ultimately leads to this life uh life extension effect. Of course I mean when you're talking about the ITP that's when you're talking about doses that don't necessarily translate to to humans. Um, but even if we can get a small amount of that through the amounts that we do consume or if you're an addict like Greg, then shouldn't be a problem. You can just continuously just keep uh keep taking glycine. You'll be good to go. But um that's that's my understand. Oh, and also in the ITP, I think you guys mentioned that there was this uh life extension effect. >> I need some magletites out with my glycine addiction. >> There you go. And what about GLAC, Nick? Do you think that GLAC is going to prove to be more effective in helping to slow down the biology of aging than glycine and isolation? >> Oo, that's a really good question. It's tough to answer simply because I haven't looked at some of the So, Seam was talking about some of the effects it has like on blood sugar and visceral fat and whatnot. I haven't looked at that data. So um it seems like maybe there is like so I don't know how to parse the evidence on gleac which is glycine and an acetylcyine. There is a good amount of evidence on an acetylcysteine itself. I just haven't looked at the the glycine uh side of the equation but the glo data which I always add this stipulation that it comes out of one research lab it's well established it's out of Baylor uh university uh of school of medicine. Um, it seems like they they do pretty great work, but I still wanted to add that disclaimer out there just because I I would like to see a lot more data on Galinax specifically that comes out of some independent labs. But so far the evidence really I' I've found that evidence because I'm I'm pretty conservative when it comes to supplements. And I' I've been pretty shocked at the uh the effect sizes that they see and the the general just overall the I mean I was talking about earlier about the the functional effects the the organ effects across multiple organ systems and the effect size. Gleax seems to just crush all that. Um, it has effects on functionality like muscle function, has effects on mitochondrial function, has effects on blood sugar, has effects on literally everything except the maybe I think the only thing that they didn't see an effect in was either like cholesterol or was it blood pressure, one of those, but everything else it just and it wasn't like small differences. I mean, over 24 weeks and and longer of consumption, you see these really tremendous effects. Keep in mind this is in people in their 70s. So again, it goes back to the specific population that we're talking about. So would this apply to to people who are younger? I think that the answer is probably not. You might see some some positive effects. Um but would you see as great of effects or nearly as great of effects as you would in in these 70-year-olds? The answer is no. But I mean if if I if I were 70 or once I hit 70 and hopefully there's more data on gleac at this point um to really corroborate what we've seen so far out of this one lab I am 100% getting on on glycine and and cysteine >> you'll be placing your order >> clinic you know one of the main mechanisms I guess the gleac works in those clinical trials is the increased glutathione and reduction in inflammation So you have to be someone who, you know, has higher inflammation, which you know, elderly people generally do because of natural aging. So, and they have lower glutathione levels. So, uh, yeah, they're kind of the prime target to get those impressive results, which, you know, younger people probably wouldn't see uh, you know, anything, I think, uh, from from that mechanism. And yeah, I don't think it's going to be like some miracle drug, but uh you know, probably I would I would probably think that okay, what what supplements I'm going to give to my aging mother or a grandmother? Like I would probably give them you know creatine and probably give them like glycine and AC as well. Um personally the issue the problem so the problem actually is like the dosage. So in that study they found that the dosage was quite large there. They use something like 100 milligrams per kilogram. So that's like something like seven, eight grams of both glycine and NAC. So you have like a 16 gram serving size. And the lower doses like and most supplements are something like one one gram is like most supplements the gleac supplements one gram of NAC and one gram of glycine if that most of the NAC ones are actually even lower than that. So that I think that dosage might be also very important because in that study the higher doses did have a bigger effect for at least raising glutathione. So the lower doses something like two grams probably might not be even enough. >> And if you haven't tried NAC before, you are in for a treat. It is absolutely delicious. Nearly as good if not better than glycine is. >> Then you need to double the glycine to >> double it. I think probably 100fold. >> Yeah. Fivefold the glycine for the taste. >> Yeah. I think we need more research and more research from different labs, too. It doesn't strike me that the authors of that have vested interest, but those clinical trials have all been from the same lab. And I'd argue that there's been one strong study so far and that's it. And finally, GLAC is being studied in the ITP. So, watch the space. I'm very curious to see how it does given that glycine led to some small improvements in lifespan. I believe that was true of both males and females. So, another amino acid that I think we all have some interest and some affinity for is torine, which like lysine is arguably conditionally essential. Nick, I think one of the most popular videos that you've ever done was on touring. You took over YouTube for about 48 hours when you published a video about Torine. So, tell us about Tory, Mr. Tori. >> Well, that that that video is a breakdown of this science study that uh released I guess what now two years ago. It's crazy how time flies. Um yeah, exactly to your point, it's a it's considered a semi- essential amino acid. think because they mentioned that blood levels of torine decrease uh over time especially by the age of 60 you're at just a small percentage a fraction of what you are at what you have when you're like 10 years old or 15 years old. Um and they found that to be the case across multiple uh systems. So not just not just looking at human levels but also looking at uh monkeys and uh mice and then in this study which they looked at a whole host of different parameters. I imagine the metformin study which I haven't looked at Greg but I imagine that one probably uh did something similar. Correct me if I'm wrong. Um but they looked at just like a a ton of different things right. Take the torine paper and multiply that by about 10 and you're nearing what they did in that formula. >> Okay, that's incredible. I don't know if I want to read it now. It's too much work. Yeah, but the the torine they looked at um DNA damage. They looked at stem cells. They looked at uh satellite cells. They looked at reactive oxygen species. I mean everything under the sun they they they looked at. Apparently not though. Apparently the metformin paper is much bigger. So, so they found positive effects across let's say fish, mice, those are the big two. And then they cleverly, which I appreciated, I very much appreciate because I I imagine this took a lot of work to do just for one figure, just a part of a figure, adding uh to giving torine to monkeys and then doing a number of tests on those monkeys that they also had done in mice. and they showed similar effects across the board just in those measures, which was like something like eight to 10 measures, which is still a lot, you know, if you if you're considering the amount of work that that gets put into this kind of stuff. So, they tried to to bring it back to a little bit more of a of a uh homo sapien element, but yeah, across the board, torine seem to be uh extremely beneficial for all these different health span metrics. Also bone was a was another one that they looked at. Body weight, body fat, neuromuscular coordination, strength, I mean anxiety. I mean it's just a bunch of different things. So, uh, it the only thing that I call into question with this kind of stuff, these kinds of massive studies, is if you're looking at like mouse anxiety and you are a researcher, I always wonder how much experience you have looking at some a metric like mouse anxiety and uh, are you bringing in a researcher that does have experience on that? Because to be fair, they do have a lot of researchers on this paper. So, it is possible they brought in somebody that does know about how to assess mouse anxiety versus mouse memory versus mouse grip strength, you know, all these different aspects. But overall, the point is that the the study which was uh really influential found some really positive effects. But then you can go beyond that and look at some of the performance effects that have been uh looked at with torine and the effect that it has in uh in exercise training. and it seems to have some some positive effects there. Then I've looked at some research on metabolic syndrome. It seems to have some mild uh positive effects there as well. So overall, it's it's definitely on my near my top list in terms of supplements and amino acids to look at uh long term just over the next 5 10 years. >> Yeah, I I agree. like is hard hard to say like yeah it's a miracle molecule but um you know in humans it has been proven to help with blood pressure and uh some other like metabolic health markers and uh I think I guess it's another one of those things that uh so the larger doses like six grams have been seen to be more effective for the metabolic syndrome and exercise and you know to get six grams from food, it's going to be hard. Like uh I think the Japanese probably get six grams from that because they eat a lot of the seaweeds which is the highest dietary source of torine. Uh but you know other than that you get it from fish and meat but you do need to consume something like several kilos of uh meat to get like six grams per day. >> Just real quick on the meat aspect. I think something that people often lose sight of if is they focus in again I just I keep saying this but they focus in on one mechanism or they focus in on one molecule like torine and they say well now I need to eat mass amounts of meat. Meat is therefore good for me because it has torine in it. And I think we really need to start separating those those two concepts. Anyway, just a side note, >> but related to that, it does also imply that certain people are more likely to benefit than others, namely people who consume plant-based diets. That's true not just of torine because torine tends to be concentrated in slow twitch muscle fibers. So, you get most of it from the dark meat that you would get from turkey or chicken, say, as opposed to the lighter breast meat. But it's also true of creatine. Creatine, >> B vitamins >> can be found. Yeah, exactly. Creatine can be found in high concentrations in particular in fast twitch muscle fibers, the lighter muscle. It's true of B vitamins. It's true of glycine which you're going to find in connective tissues. And it's true of other things, too. So, just bear that in mind. If you are vegan and you're listening to this, you probably get an outsized benefit from taking some of these things relative to the three of us omnivores. I'm not sure you're an omnivore, Nick, but I believe you are. >> On Seam's uh episode where where we discuss my diet, I just said I just don't tell people because people get so mad. They just start they just start dismissing everything you have to say based off of what you eat. So, I just don't tell people. >> I just eat glycine and and then back. >> Glyc um you know actually what's the highest source of creatine is is not like meat. It's actually herring. It's got like twice as much creatine than meat. >> Huh. >> Yeah. Sardines are very rich as well. And something else to point out with torine, which is true of glycine, too. As far as we can tell, it's got an excellent safety profile and it's approved by all the different regulatory bodies like ESA. And that's not true of everything that we've discussed so far. For example, NMN was relatively recently outlawed by the FDA. Nick, I don't think where you are, you can get it so readily from supplement stores or Amazon anymore. And I believe the NAC is now in a regulatory gray zone in the States, too. Both of them are available over here in Europe. And >> I think the NAC was reducted, >> was it? >> Yeah. But the enemy is still you you can still buy it I think. Um but uh I guess the FDA is like deciding what they're going to do with it. Are they going to make it a prescription drug or not? But uh I mean it's kind of you know it's not a prescription uh drug. You can get it from it's a diet or supplement. You can get it from food of of course in very small amounts but uh you know it's not so the you know the crystalline mi6 616 is the is the molecule that David Sinclair is doing with the metrobiotech which is a form of NMN. So that's that's the reason why the FDA is investigating NN as a pharmaceutical drug because of the crystalalline MIB 616 which you know is theoretically like a you know a pharmaceutical. >> So we'll see what happens when he sells that one's GSK. >> Yeah, I think that that might be the one. Don't quote me on this, but that might be the one that uh they used in that study that he was involved in. Yeah. Beta. >> Yeah. Okay. Well, sure the FDA can have it. >> Then we have ergoionine, which is an amino acid thol technically, and it's something that we consume in particular from certain strains of mushrooms. And I've developed a very keen interest in ergoionine in recent times. I'm very optimistic about its promise. To date, there hasn't been that much clinical research. In fact, there are only really a couple of studies looking at functional or morphological outcomes so far. I'll pass this one over to you. What do you make ofine? And are you taking? >> Uh, no. Um, I wrote about it in my last book, The Longevity Leap. But I guess my conclusion was that yeah, like it's interesting. You probably want to get it from diet and there's not enough human studies yet to make any conclusions. So like, and it's, you know, like healthy foods have ergoine like mushrooms and different vegetables and stuff. So it's hard to say is it the ergo itself specifically or is it these other other things in the healthy foods? But you know it doesn't you would want to probably eat mushrooms and vegetables and those different erathy foods anyway. So yeah not not sold on like supplementation yet >> relates to that is that the doses of ergoine used in studies so far aren't that high. Some of the early work used 5 milligrams which is a quantity that you could get from a reasonable amount of certain types of mushrooms. It's quite large variation between mushrooms in the ergoionine contents. But if you consume modest quantities of things like oyster mushrooms then you'll probably at some point get there. More recently people are starting to use higher doses 25 milligrams or so which you struggle to get through diet alone. And if you scale up the quantities from pre-clinical lifespan experiments to humans then we're talking about quite high doses. Whereas one of the things I like about torine is that if you scale up the quantities that VJ Adav used in his experiments to humans then we're talking about 3 to six grams for a 70 kg person. And if people are interested in that and I interviewed VJ as well for the podcast and we had a long chat about torine. Nick what do you make ofine? I'm not going to ask you if you take it because Nick's on his top secret diet. >> I do not take ergoathione. Um it's funny. I can mention supplements. People like, "Okay, okay, fine. Perfectly fine." Moment I mentioned diet, oh my god. >> Anyway, um so I I haven't done a ton of research. The only research I've done is that one Spiegelman study um that tried to figure out the mechanism of action, which I thought was really interesting. Uh the the enzyme that it acts on. Gotta love scientists for their creativity in their names. Three mercapto pyuvate sulfur transferase or MPST uh mitochondrial enzyme and seems to to improve uh like mitochondrial respiration which is a a marker for uh mitochondrial activity. uh looked at the effect that this enzyme has on a number of different enzymes within mitochondria and u just in general seem to have some pretty profound effects. They also looked at exercise synergistic effect that it has with uh exercise as well in relation to this enzyme and again found some some pretty uh remarkable effects. So to me, I mean, Greg, you're probably far more educated on this than I am, but uh to me, if this translates to humans, I think it's uh it's incredibly promising. >> I'm excited about it for several reasons. One of them is the basic biology of ooth. It seems to have its own individual transporter OCTN1 sometimes called the ogothion transporter which is expressed more or less ubiquitously throughout the body both on cells and on some organels like mitochondria and the cells will not only take it up but actively accumulate it in themselves over time. Initially it was thought that they do so for its antioxidant properties but the line of thinking regarding that has changed. The person that's done the most research on ooth, if people want to read more about it is very highly well but various people are now contributing to this body of work. If you look at the preclinical research then it seems to be good for lots of different organ systems. Many mice models have been studied looking everything from how their lungs respond to smoke to neurodeeneration to metabolic health. If you look at the lifespan experiments on those animals then it does seem to extend lifespan as well as various markers of health span too which is a conversation for another day because how we define health span is variable between people. There's no consensus on that just yet. Then there's the epidemiology of ergoionine intake and levels. Igoine like many of the things that we mentioned including torine tends to go down with age and lower levels are found in various different chronic disease states and lower levels prospectively associated with increased full cause mortality. So risk of dying regardless of what the cause is. There have also been some unargeted unbiased metabolomics analyses where you take a sample from someone let's say it's a blood sample and then you measure all the metabolites that you can measure in that sample and quite consistently ergoine appears out of the midst of hundreds or thousands of metabolomic markers as one of the markers that's most predictive of better future health based on what's been looked at so far. And then we now have these clinical studies which initially looked at safety. Unsurprisingly, it's very safe when you give people isolated. Again, the doses aren't that dissimilar from what we're consuming just from the diet. And then there have been a couple of studies looking at cognitive function and also some biochemical markers showing that iggoine is good for cognition in older adults. So when you put all of that together, plus some of the specific things that we're seeing in those pre-clinical models, one of which is an improvement in physical function, which we don't necessarily see with some of these other candidate ger protectors, and the fact that it's going to be relatively low cost, I think, widely available. I don't really see a strong reason to have any concern about taking it. And I think there's a lot of potential upside there. >> Interesting. >> My best guess is that if you stick it head-to-head against a lot of these other neutruticals, I go is going to perform really well, >> but that might be misplaced confidence. >> How much would you need? >> You know, mouse experiments, they use parts per million in the channel normally, don't they? I don't know what it would be, but I also don't know what the optimal human dose will be. I just know that the study doses so far begin at 5 millig and at 5 milligrams people are seeing some cognitive benefits. >> So I suspect that that's the low end of the range and there will be some dose response and the optimal dose is going to vary between people depending on various factors because there are differences between people and how readily they take up ergoionine. Unfortunately, it does seem to be the case with ergoane and this is true of some other candidates that the ability of older people to take it up might be worse than younger people and we need more research on that. That's certainly a possibility. And then just add one more thought going back to the NAD discussion. There was a very interesting series of experiments done quite recently looking at the effects of ergoionine on lifespan and health span in model organisms. And their data overall suggested that many of the positive effects of ergoing were probably mediated by increases in NAD in different tissue compartments. So they looked at tissues like skeletal muscle but the mechanism is very different from something like nicotenomide which is providing a precursor to NAD for the salvage pathway and I'm a little bit hazy on the details but Ianine seems to be increasing NAD by initially increasing hydrogen sulfide production and then that hydrogen sulfide per sulfidates proteins so it sticks a sulfide group on proteins as a form of post-transational modification that then influences the activity of those proteins and that includes a protein that's involved in producing NAD and then that in turn boosted NAD levels and they did various different experiments to show that this rise in NAD seem to directly contribute to many of the positive effects. >> So I think that at some point it will be compared head-to-head with things like NR and NN for its effects on NAD and we might find that some combination of them is best. That wouldn't surprise me at all. Maybe for instance ergoionine and trigonoline are particularly good at increasing muscle NAD whereas NMN and NR are more efficacious and raising levels in the brain. I think we need to do those types of experiments. >> Yeah, I think with NAD you need a combination of ingredients to target a different because there's different reasons why the NAD goes down. Some ideas is because of the CD38. Others are like the PARPS from DNA damage. >> Yeah. DNA damage and inflammation I think are the the two big drivers most likely. Right. >> Yeah. You said uh that older individuals don't take up is it uh don't have as much transporter of ergoine ergoing transporter. >> I couldn't tell you the specifics there. I don't know if it's to do with expression of the transporter. Something else to consider and this is true of the NAD precursors too is that the gut microbiota substantially influence what ends up getting into the bloodstream. >> So within the gut the different NAD precursors that you provide like the NR and the NMN will be metabolized by some bacteria. So it's not like you put NR in your mouth and then you get a commensurate rise in blood NR. It just crosses the intestinal lining unconverted. That's not the way it works. And it's probably somewhat similar in the case of ergoion. It's probably being metabolized by some of those microorganisms. >> But again, do we have clinical research showing that? Not just yet. >> That speakman paper does indicate uh pretty substantial increases in that in the erthine transporter from exercise. Obviously, it's in animals. Um but I wonder if if one way around it, one way to maybe increase its bioavailability in the tissues would be through exercise. >> Take the example of glucose that it's going to be true of many different things that active tissues need for optimal function. And it points the importance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle because that way in the case of some of these substances, you're going to get better responses still due to the interaction between them. I don't want to go into creatine because I suspect that each of us has spoken about creatine adnauseia at some point. I also have one eye on the clock. We've been going for nearly 3 hours so far. So with that in mind, are there one or two supplements that you think that we should discuss before we round things out today that will be of special interest to people listening? >> Something I've noticed that people are really interested in is collagen peptides. I don't know if you guys have strong opinions on collagen peptides. >> I wouldn't choose collagen peptides just because I don't think of collagen peptides as being a true ger protector. >> I see them as being something that supports connective tissue health primarily and therefore might have some bearing on your physical appearance and the resilience of some of your tissues. So in particular your tendons and your ligaments. Yeah, I don't think that they're targeting the biology of aging per se. >> Yeah. Okay, I agree. >> I guess asanthin is one thing we mentioned. We didn't go into too much detail, but yeah, there's the ITP study extended lifespan by 12%. And um there's some neimat study as well that found life extension plus in the human studies you have that it helps with inflammation markers and I think cholesterol markers as well was was one of the things and yeah like the skin benefits like it protects the skin against Uridation but yeah that's more the aesthetic side. I I do like Asexantin quite a lot and I've become more more like amazed or interested in it. >> I think it's a great choice. That would have been my choice too. If I think about these supplements, the ones I'm probably most excited about are aanthin and ergoine for quite different reasons. I recognize that there are very different levels of evidence so far. Aazanthin's been much better studied, but as you said, it does seem to have positive effects on lots of different outcomes. To add a couple into the mix, another one would be physical performance. And yet another will be reproductive function. And while it extends lifespan, it does seem to target most of these different hallmarks of aging as well. Read into that as much as you will. I don't read too much into that personally, but when you put all that together, plus the fact that it's a natural part of the human diet, it's the pigment that give salmon its pink color for listeners. It's got an excellent safety profile and it's not particularly expensive. It's a no-brainer for a lot of people. And also it's an category of supplements that I'm drawn to which I see is benefiting adults of all ages from 18 to the grade. I wouldn't put some things into that category. I wouldn't put bourberine into that category for instance but I would put torine and creatine and ergoine and estazanthin and luteine and zeazanthin. And the magnitude of those benefits is going to fluctuate. according to how old you are. But I think that there's evidence for all of those different things for people of different ages. Maybe there's the least evidence for ergoionine, but it's presence in the diet and the mechanisms shown so far and the potential positive effects on body composition adaptations to exercise training suggest to me that it's going to be something that benefits young people, too. >> What do you think, Nick? >> I agree. I don't really have anything top of mind that jumps out to me. Um, I think the list that we have is is quite good. We covered a lot. Oh, maybe uh omega-3s is something that I would throw in there as well, but um we covered that as well. So, yeah. >> Have you got anything to add there, Nick? >> Uh to omega-3s, you mean? Um, I would say just because if you are taking it, yeah, I guess I I'll say um omega-3s are probably most beneficial for the brain later on in life. Um, I don't think that there's any harm in taking it when you're younger, but I think that the greatest benefit is going to be later on in life. However, if you're taking it for cardiovascular disease risk, um I think that it would probably be better to take it earlier in life than it would later. I'm not saying that you shouldn't take it later in life. You should just continuously take it um with a little bit of a greater focus on EPA um simply because that one seems to have slightly stronger um benefit in relation to cardiovascular disease. and considering the cardiovascular disease, at least the way that we're talking about or at least the way I'm talking about it is in relation to cholesterol deposition and atherosclerosis and whatnot. Um, as well as some morphological changes in some of the uh the heart cells. Um, that should be addressed earlier than later because once you already have it, it's really difficult to get then remove that that atherosclerosis. So, um, yeah, I would, uh, I would throw that in there. But, um, yeah, aside from the ones that we already covered, that I think the list, uh, list looks really good. See many others? >> Nothing that comes to mind immediately. Yeah. >> One final question related to supplements. Are there any that haven't been studied in clinical populations yet that you have your eye on? as holding special promise. >> I have a a a cheeky response and I guess I have a real response. I don't >> give me cheeky. >> The cheeky response is uh C15 fats. >> They're essential, right? We already know that. >> Yeah, they're essential. All right. Essential for >> essential for someone's bottom line. >> I was just about to say that. >> Yeah. Aside from that, I I think that something I don't I wouldn't say I have my eye on it. Um because I'm not that bullish on it, but a lot of other people are and I I think that there's at least a potential that it could have an effect as yearn. Um I've seen a lot of people discuss it. I've covered some of the studies on it. I'm not that impressed by it. >> Um but maybe in the maybe in the future we'll see some some better studies. >> That's that's interesting. Like I've I've I've looked at the studies as well and you know it's it's done by this the company that owns the patent. >> Yeah. >> Timeline nutrition and from that study the only thing I saw was u hamstring torque increase was the only like significant effect. Uh it didn't increase grip strength and upper body strength. And I think the endurance thing that was the kind of funny part that they uh measured the endurance in the middle of the study right in the middle and in the end and in the middle of the study I think it was something like 3 months or something um the urine group did see endurance increase compared to placebo but by the six month it decreased and it was like no difference between placebo. So I I say like yeah if you wanted to take increase your endurance by taking uriththna you just have to wait six months until the end of the study. Uh uh but yeah, maybe it it helps with like the lower body strength maybe, but upper body strength. Even their own studies, the two of them, they found no effect on that uh specific. >> Yeah, I've read those studies as well and been entirely underwhelmed by the data that have been published so far. I think a really important point to emphasize here is the disparity between the cost of uroliththna >> as mitoure and the results reported in those studies so far. >> It's 100 month >> it's $125 for a month supply. However, the month supply is a 15-day supply. >> If you look at that second study, there were two different experimental groups. One had 500 milligrams, one had 1,000 milligs. two pills is 500 milligrams. You got to take four pills to get the 1,00 milligram dose, which tended to statistical significance in a couple of the outcomes they looked at, as well as the effect on hamstring torque. That means $125 for a 15-day supply for something that's having negligible effects. And I think the mechanisms are interesting. So, people are interested in it primarily as something that's influencing mphagy, the removal of dysfunctional mitochondria. And clearly people aren't necessarily that good at making urolithan a themselves. It's a so-called postbiotic. It's something that your gut bacteria can produce if you consume the laser tannins from certain foods like pomegranates. But a lot of people don't make that conversion very effectively. >> Clearly supplementing urolithin a can increase blood levels and therefore bypass that issue. But I'm just really unimpressed by the data. I'm not sure there's a single ingredient supplement that has clinical research published on it that at that price point has been so unremarkable in the clinical effects. Not to throw your suggestion under the bus, Nick. I no >> I don't mean to do that. I'm not ruling out entirely, but it's not one that I'm personally gravitating to. >> Yeah. I think they haven't you know studied like you know metabolic syndrome or like these chronic diseases maybe there might be effects but for the exercise unless yeah you're want to increase hamstring torque >> and they did find change in some proxies of inflammation and mitochondrial function based on the biochemical analyses they included in those studies. So I'm not saying that it's not having effects. It clearly is. I just think that the cost to benefit ratio makes no sense for anybody apart from millionaires or >> billionaires. I think I think the price is so high because they own the patent and and they bar against anyone who tries to make their own urethane >> with sounds right just to add one suggestion there's a flavonoid called nobilityin that I think is really interesting have you guys come across that >> no >> it's found in citrus peel the first time it came on my radar was a paper that Joe Takahashi who's a scientist I've got a huge amount of respect for published There was some work where they used an unbiased chemical screen to look at different natural products that might affect the circadian clock, the molecular clock that ticks in all of our cells and programs the daily schedule of events in those cells. And noin appeared as top hit. And then they looked at its effects on the clock and its effects on mice during aging. They basically found that it has a bunch of positive effects on metabolic health in particular that are mediated by the clock because they found that if they genetically tampered with the clock and its function then they abolished the effects of the nabilitin and then other studies have also found positive effects on things like gut function and immune function and neurop protection. And so given that I've got my bias that clock dysfunction is one of the hallmarks of aging. It's just that people aren't recognizing that yet and that's something that we need to target as well >> which we can do a little bit. I think a few of these different substances that we've discussed today are affecting the skating clock. There's evidence for that with ergoionine. There's very strong evidence for that with lithium. Lithium is one of the more potent chronobiotics at trace doses. That's unlikely the case though and we were speaking about trace doses earlier. But when you put all that together and the effects of nobilityin on the clock, I think it's really interesting in part because unlike many of the things that we've discussed, the effects of nobilityin on the clock seem to increase as animals get older, as their clocks function worse and worse. And so it could be that it's becoming more and more beneficial later in life when animals need it the most. M >> so just got one eye on that because I also suspect that it's going to be something that we find to be safe because it's just in citrus peel >> intuitively it makes sense that provided the dose is reasonable it's probably going to be benign >> like the NAD boosters also act on the circadian clock right the circad >> they do through the satuins they should do and nam one of the enzymes that you mentioned which is the rate limiting enzyme in that particular pathway is clock controlled and ties into one of the feedback at loops within the molecular clock they surely will and and that brings up the point that we need to look at the optimal time at which to take these. It might just be that you need to take them at a consistent time of day if you want to maintain a healthy clock but it could be that there is a particular phase within the circadian cycle which is best to take it >> watch this space. So it's been an absolute pleasure guys. Thank you for your time. In closing, >> where would you like to point people? I know that you each have lots of different projects that you're involved in. All very exciting. >> Yeah, I'm I'm Seamlands on YouTube and uh Instagram as well, Twitter, everywhere. Seamand. >> Yeah, thanks for uh thanks for having us. This is a blast. Anytime. It's not often that you get to have uh three science-based people that that get to uh sit here and nerd out and discuss all the science at length. So, it's a it's a rarity and it's a lot of fun. So, thanks. Um, you can find me on Physionic. Just type in physio and then NIC, you'll find me. >> I think the first time that I was like physic or is it physionic or how am I pronouncing that one? Because I see what you did there. There's no H. >> Yeah. No, there's no H.