 lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian, lian have their cognitive biases and uninformed opinions on this, so I wanted to make this video to look into what does the research actually say about these two different lifestyles. I'm going to look at what do the Mediterranean centenarians actually do, how do they live, and what else can we learn from their longevity. And I'm also going to look at if there is any evidence about living a 100% perfect lifestyle. Let's start with investigating the Italian grandpa who lives to 100 while eating pasta, drinking wine, and smoking cigis. He doesn't exercise, just walks everywhere, hangs out with his friends, and is unemployed. The Italian life expectancy is 84.18 years, 86.13 for women, and 82.12 for men, which is number 11th in the whole world. Other Mediterranean countries have a similar range for life expectancy. Italian longevity is driven by the Mediterranean diet, active lifestyles, strong social connections, and a relaxed work-life balance. However, they also have healthcare, which is one of the most important things for life expectancy. One of the biggest 100-year-old Italian grandpa stereotypes is that they smoke every day. This makes it seem that the centenarians, they all just smoke, and that is the reason why they live so long. But the truth is the complete opposite. This study among 157 centenarians in Rome found that 83.8% had never smoked, 13.5% were former smokers, and 2.7% were active smokers. Smokers were mostly males, and they had more chronic diseases after the age of 65. Keep in mind that the likelihood of reaching the age of 100 is already extremely low to begin with. In 2004, there were 2.5 million people in Rome, out of whom 157 were centenarians. That's 0.0062% of the population in Rome. So out of all people in Rome, 0.00017% were 100-year-old smokers. But that's Rome. Everyone in Sardinia smokes, right? Someone replied to me on Twitter. It's seen that in Sardinia, 48% of the elders aged 89 to 101 had been smokers in the past, while only 1% of them were active smokers. Which means that most of the Sardinian elderly people never smoked, and the ones who did weren't actively smoking. Having smoked in the past could mean anything. Is it 1 month or 10 years? What's key is that most of them never smoked, and only 1% were active smokers. In the Greek island Icaria, which is another longevity hotspot, 50% were past smokers, and most stopped at age 60. Only 7% were active smokers. So the amount of people who actively smoke and reach the age of 100 is extremely small. I'm talking about 0.0001% of the population. They're extreme outliers, and 99.99% of people who smoke will die before the age of 100. The simple explanation to this is that some people get lucky, they don't get cancer, but the underlying reason is genetics. Genetics is far more powerful than people realize when it comes to maximal lifespan. You've probably heard that longevity is 80% lifestyle and 20% genetics. That claim was based on some Danish twin studies, but a recent re-analysis of these studies saw that longevity is actually about 50% genetics, when addressing some confounders. It means that genetics is far more powerful than people thought. Genetics matters a lot more, especially for people who smoke and drink alcohol and live to the age of 100. It's not the smoking or the alcohol that cause this, it's their genetics in most cases. Another problem with these so-called blue zones is that a lot of them aren't actually 100 years old. A lot of centenarians live in regions with poor birth certificates, which means their data is false. In the US, the introduction of state-specific birth certificates is linked to a 69 to 82% decrease in supercentenarians. This reminds me of these Facebook or Instagram posts you see sometimes. There's this 300 or 200-year-old Tibetan monk or some sort of Persian grandpa that has a passport. It says they're 300 years old. And because it's a passport, you need to believe it. When it comes to Sardinia specifically, then the leading researchers there, Poulain and colleagues, did confirm the ages of all the centenarians in the central eastern part of Sardinia, which makes it a true blue zone. Sardinia is also a region where men live nearly as long as women, which is not the case everywhere else. In the US, the female-to-male ratio among centenarians is 9 to 1, but in Sardinia, it's 2.4 to 1. So what are the Sardinian men doing that enables them to live so long? Is it the smoking grandpa? Well, looking at the smoking statistics, that is not the case. Only 1% of the Sardinian elderly are active smokers. The first and foremost answer is genetics again. Sardinia is an island, it's isolated from the mainland, and it's been isolated from immigration and the mainland for centuries. What about the other 50% of lifestyle? There's a 2021 study by Poulain and colleagues that looked at the dietary patterns of the Sardinian oldest old. They eat olive oil, potatoes, cheese, milk, fruit, and cereals every day. Here's a percentage frequency of consumption of 16 foods among the Sardinians. Daily foods include potatoes, cheese, bread, and cereals, fruit, milk, olive oil, coffee. Weekly and monthly foods are legumes, pasta, vegetables, meat. Another 2020 study looked at Sardinians and Ecosian longevity hotspots and found that they consume every day milk, cereals, legumes, coffee, and fruits. The Sardinians and Ecosians, they're not plant-based, they're not meat-based, they're actually dairy-based and bread-based. The reason is that these communities are pastoralists. They have goats that they herd on these mountainous regions. You're not going to be able to have massive cows and massive fields in these mountainous regions. This might be a big contributor to the longevity of Sardinians in particular. They live in a mountainous terrain with lots of slopes and hills. They're walking up and down these hills all day, and that's very good cardio, which would reduce the risk of heart disease. If you lived in the mountains or even had stairs in your house, you'll notice that over the course of the day, you're getting pretty good exercise. So although Sardinians aren't doing exercise in a traditional sense, they're not going to the gym, they're not doing cardio, they are getting very good cardiovascular exercise by walking up and down the hills. So what's the reason this Italian grandpa is supposedly thought to live so long? Well, first of all, the Italian life expectancy is in the low 80s, which is one of the highest in the world, but it's obviously not 100 years old. Not everyone lives to the age of 100. Only a very small select of people do. The smoking centenarian is an extreme outlier in of itself. It's a single-digit percentage who makes it to 100 while smoking. Second of all, genetics is very powerful. 50% of longevity is genetic, which enables some people to live to 100 even with a completely unhealthy lifestyle and being carefree about it. And because the likelihood of reaching 100 is already so low to begin with, everyone who does reach the age of 100 has some beneficial genetics to begin with. So it's a selection bias. People who reach the age of 100 would have reached the age of 100 with almost any lifestyle thanks to their genetics. Third, the amount of people living to 100 isn't that much higher in these blue zones if you look at the data. It's much lower than people think. It sounds like literally every old person in Sardinia is 100 years old. But the truth is that Sardinia has about 66% more centenarians than mainland Europe. In Sardinia, there are 16.6 people over the age of 100 out of 100,000 people. Whereas in mainland Europe, it's 10. So it is 66% more, but it's not as high as you've been led to believe. Overall, I feel like the Italian grandpa approach to longevity is a coin toss. It's 50-50. People who live like that can't live very long mostly because of genetics, or they live to their expected life expectancy, which is around their 80s. Now, of course, there are a lot of things that they do right and things that we can learn from them. Number one, have good social relationships. Number two, don't be stressed out and try to live a less stressed lifestyle. Don't be so busy. Don't try to overwork yourself. And number three, eat a minimally processed food diet. But it doesn't look like you need to have some sort of 100% perfect diet. Now let's talk about the polar opposite approach. The focused biohacker approach that Brian Johnson represents. Following a super strict diet, not just in terms of avoiding processed foods, but also in terms of testing it for heavy metals, never eating anything that doesn't fit the meal plan, following a strict bedtime routine, measuring hundreds of biomarkers, and taking hundreds of supplements. Needless to say that there are no studies proving that this approach would be optimal for longevity. It doesn't mean that it wouldn't have benefits for extending your lifespan, at least to a certain extent. But aging is very complex. And it doesn't appear to be as linear as just be healthy as much as possible, and therefore you'll live longer. Even healthy people can get cancer. Even healthy people can die in their 60s and 70s. Intuitively, you could say that Brian will probably live longer than the average person, who you know isn't obese, but they're also not with a six-pack. They eat a normal diet, but they're not optimizing their macros, and they might take a few supplements. Brian is the extreme example of a health optimization fanatic. Most people watching this probably follow a different degree of this approach. You probably take a few supplements, you probably follow a clean diet, but you're not 100% strict, and you definitely don't test it for heavy metals. You probably take a few blood tests once a year, but you're not measuring every possible thing. So it's obviously a spectrum of health fanaticism or carefreeness. First of all, I want to say that the more effort you put into your health, the more strict you are with your health routines, doesn't mean that you will actually be healthier, or you will live longer. For example, Brian's biomarkers are good, but they're not all optimal, and they're not better than everyone else in the world, as he likes to claim. I've made a video comparing my biomarkers to his, and out of the 65 we have both data for, 44 of them I have better results. 9 of them Brian has better, and 12 of them are equal. I'm not saying I have the best biomarkers in the world, but I'm highlighting the point that being 100% committed to the health routines doesn't mean you'll get linearly better results, and Brian is the perfect example of that. In the Longevity World Cup, which measures biological age from 10 common blood markers, Brian wouldn't even make it to the top 100 people in terms of reduced biological age based on this test. He would only have around 9 years lower biological age, whereas the top contenders have over 20 years lower than their chronological age. This is something I want everyone watching this to realize. You could be spending 8 hours a day obsessing about your health and longevity, but not even live longer. Or at the best case scenario, you might live only 2, 3, 4 years longer. Now, unless you enjoy this, then it's a waste of time. So there must be a sweet spot of effort, of how much effort is needed, and how much effort gets you the best results. We don't know where that sweet spot is, but it's clearly the case that obsessing about your health doesn't appear to be more optimal, and doesn't appear to get you better results. What is true is that people who are stressed out and anxious or afraid about aging actually age faster? In this study, people who are more worried and anxious about aging tended to have faster biological speed of aging score. Now, this test isn't perfect, but it does highlight that being anxious and worried about your health may be worse for your health than the other thing you're anxious about. If you look at me, for example, I have significantly better biomarkers than Brian. Of course, I'm younger, but I'm not spending thousands of dollars on supplements. I'm not spending thousands of dollars on blood testing, and I'm not completely obsessed with my diet and overall routines. I would say I follow the 80-20 rule in most areas of my life. That includes the diet, that includes the testing, that includes the exercise and the sleep. What I do think is that Brian's biomarkers are good. They're not bad compared to the general population. They're better. They're not just all 100% optimal, which you would expect to be, given his strict lifestyle. What he's effectively doing is reducing his risk of heart disease, Alzheimer's, diabetes, kidney disease, and cancer. Avoiding obesity, alcohol, and smoking are big risk factors for these diseases, and by having a perfect lifestyle, he can reduce his risk of these common chronic diseases. However, the risk of smoking and alcohol on your health is minuscule compared to biological aging. Aging is the biggest risk factor for cancer, heart disease, and Alzheimer's. A 70-year-old person has tens of times higher risk of these diseases compared to a 30-year-old. That's because of aging. What Brian is trying to do is slow down his speed of biological aging, but there's no evidence that he's being effective at it. As I said, these tests are not 100% perfect. Now, it's reasonable to say that he is aging slower than his peers, but there's no evidence that he's reversing his age or that he would actually live significantly longer. There's currently nothing that Brian Johnson is doing that will make him live over 120 because he's just focusing on the basics of diet, exercise, sleep, and supplements. The experimental therapies he's doing, like plasma exchange, hyperbaric oxygen therapy, blood filtering, etc., these aren't going to move the needle that much. There's no evidence that these therapies would work in any significant manner. The gene therapies might do so, but they're currently in their infancy stage, and there's no evidence that they actually work. Does this mean that Brian Johnson will actually live shorter than the Italian grandpa? I personally think that it will depend a lot on genetics. The Italian grandpa in Sardinia with good genetics will outlive Brian Johnson, but Brian Johnson will outlive the average Italian grandpa who doesn't have extremely good genetics. Longevity is extremely genetic and it runs in families. A 2004 study on 295 centenarian offspring found they had a 62% lower risk of all-cause mortality, a 71% lower risk of cancer-specific mortality, and an 85% lower risk of coronary heart disease-specific mortality. Being the sibling of a male 19-year-old increases your likelihood of living to 90 by 1.73 times, while having both a male and female sibling who survived until the age of 105 increases your chance of living to 105 by 35.6 times compared to the general population. That's a massive genetic advantage. It means that if you have parents or grandparents who live to the age of 100, you have a significantly higher likelihood of also living to 100. Now, of course, both lifestyle and genes matter. As you said, lifespan appears to be 50% genetic. The other 50% is your lifestyle and your health. Having a longer health span, staying healthier for longer, predicts longer lifespan in supercentenarians. The healthier centenarians live longer than the unhealthier centenarians, and healthier average people live longer than unhealthy average people. I do think that Brian Johnson will live longer than the average mediocre Italian grandpa. The life expectancy in Italy is around 82-84, so Brian will probably live longer than that. Brian easily has 85-90 years as his current life expectancy, because his biomarkers, are good. His risk of heart disease and Alzheimer's is pretty low, based on standard risk factors. He's proactively tracking his health, so he'll be able to see early if he ever gets cancer, Alzheimer's, or any other disease, and he can intervene sooner. His greatest risk of dying is some accident, like a traffic accident, or complications with some experimental interventions, such as new gene therapies, or something like that. One major difference between the Italian grandpa and Brian Johnson is sun avoidance. The Italian grandpa spends hours at the sun, whereas Brian Johnson is actively trying to avoid the sun. In this 2014 study from Sweden, sun avoidance was associated with nearly a two times higher rate of all-cause mortality compared to the most active sun exposure habits. They did find increased risk of malignant melanoma from high sun exposure, but it didn't outweigh the overall all-cause mortality risk reduction. So it might be that Brian is reducing his risk of skin cancer, but he might be increasing his total mortality risk by avoiding the sun. Again, I don't think that roasting in the sun is the best thing for health. Moderate sun exposure is probably better than being in the sun all the time, and it's also better than avoiding the sun all the time. So my conclusion to the question, who lives longer? The 100% perfect optimized biohacker, or the Italian grandpa who lives a carefree lifestyle? The answer to that depends a lot on genetics. If you were to follow the stereotypical Italian grandpa lifestyle, sit in the sun, eat pasta, smoke ciggis, drink wine, then you're probably not going to live to 100, because smoking increases the risk of cancer by over 10,000%. It's a complete stereotype, as I showed, because only 1-2% of the smokers live to the age of 100. It almost feels like it's propaganda by the tobacco industry. It's a complete myth. You might have good genetics and you can live to 100, even while smoking, but most people don't have exceptional longevity genetics, so they need to follow a healthier lifestyle and a slightly more optimized lifestyle. But there's no evidence that following a 100% perfect lifestyle, 100% strict lifestyle would be better, or that it would get you better results with your health. The answer then is somewhere between the average person and the health fanatic. Being a health fanatic is probably a net negative, because being worried and anxious about your health makes you unhealthier. But if you're more health conscious, then you take care of your health, but you don't obsess about it. You're more likely to live longer than the person who's just randomly winging it, unless that person has good genetics. If you want to learn more about how to improve your biological age and overall health span without spending hours at the gym, without spending thousands on supplements, and get yourself to top 1% of health without obsessing about it, then check out my online community, Youth Man Society. It's where you can learn more detailed programs and protocols from me. Link in the description.