Torine has had a rough few weeks. This week, you had a new study in the journal Science showing that contrary to popular belief, torine levels don't decline with age, but they appear to actually increase. And a few weeks ago, there was a study that implicated torine in leukemia. Does this mean that everyone was wrong about torine? In this video, I'm going to break down all the new studies about torine, and I'll update my stance of whether or not someone should supplement it. All right. So, this new study in science was looking at torine levels across aging in humans, non-human primates, and mice to see if they decline with age. It was previously shown that torine levels decline with age, and that low levels of torine would be harmful to health and longevity. What they found was that circulating torine levels weren't seen to decline with age in humans nor primates. There was actually a lot of individual variability in circulating torine levels, with some people seeing an increase in torine with age, whereas others didn't. For some reason, this has made a lot of people concerned about whether or not torine supplementation is a good idea for healthy aging, thinking that because torine levels were seen to increase with age, it would mean that torine would accelerate biological aging. However, these circulating torine levels had inconsistent health outcomes, which means that there's no consistent relationship between higher torine levels being beneficial nor harmful to health. There are many reasons why torine levels might rise with age and also why you see a big individual variation between torine levels. Torine supports antioxidant defense and mitochondrial function. Aging increases oxidative stress, inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction, which could mean the rise in torine is a compensatory physiological response to getting older. Aging also worsens kidney function, and it means the kidneys are less able to excrete torine. Thus, torine accumulates in the blood and tissues. So, elevated torine levels might be a sign of poor kidney function and not causing aging. Women were seen to have higher torine concentrations than men, which might mean there's some sex or weight effects on torine metabolism. Women typically have lower body weight and higher fat to muscle ratio than men. So, it might be that torine levels rise in individuals with higher body fat. It also means that higher torine might not be harmful to aging because women typically live longer than men up to 5 to 10 years. All of these factors can influence an individual's torine levels and it will also explain the inconsistencies between people's torine levels. And after all, there was no relationship between torine levels and health outcomes. Which means that circulating torine had weak or inconsistent effects on muscle strength, body weight, organ health, or overall aging biomarkers. This doesn't mean that supplementing torine wouldn't have health benefits. There are dozens of randomized control trials showing that torine supplementation improves metabolic syndrome, lowers inflammation, lowers blood pressure, and lowers blood sugar. There's even evidence that torine supports exercise performance such as aerobic endurance, strength, and exercise recovery. All of these studies are still valid and they support the idea that torine supplementation has various health benefits in humans, especially among people with poor metabolic health. It's also true that torine supplementation has been seen to extend lifespan in mice. In 2023, it was shown to do so by 15% and health span by 25%. The mice getting torine had better organ function and lower prevalence of various hallmarks of aging. What was refuted was the idea that torine levels decline with age. And these low levels of torine are what drive aging and disease. Whereas the new study showed this to not to be the case. There is apparently a clinical trial looking at the effects of torine supplementation on markers of biological aging in middle-aged humans. But this study isn't published yet. So we don't know if there are any effects on humans. But based on the current literature, torine supplementation is good for metabolic health, inflammation, and exercise performance. Let's also talk about the other recent study that implicated torine in leukemia, which is a type of blood cancer that originates in the blood marrow. They saw that the torine transporter might promote cancer development because bone marrow cells are able to produce torine. They injected leukemic cells to genetically modified mice with the torine transporter and mice without it. basically to see if the mice with the torine transporter experience accelerated leukemia development. The mice with the torine transporter died significantly faster than the ones without it. This does support a role of the torine transporter in leukemia progression and fatality. They also saw in leukemia patients that individuals with a higher expression of the torine transporter had lower survival than the ones with lower expression. However, you also see that normal people without cancer don't have elevated expression of the torine transporter. Whereas in leukemia, there's a significantly higher expression of the torine transporter. What it looks like is that leukemia increases the expression of the torine transporter to use for its own survival and replication. The cancer basically hijacks the torine transporter. You see that also in many other pathways that are thought to be beneficial for longevity such as autophagy. Autophagy in a normal state maintains cell turnover and cleans the cells from debris. This can even have cancer protective effects. However, in cancer and malignancies, the cancer cells can hijack autoavagi and use it to create energy for themselves. Autoavagi doesn't cause cancer, but it gets hijacked during cancer. Another example is the process of growing new blood vessels, also called angioenesis. You obviously need angioenesis for health and survival to supply blood vessels throughout your body. However, cancer can also supply itself with blood vessels to get nutrients via the same process of angioenesis. So, it's clearly not black and white with blood vessels causing cancer or not. And the same applies to torine. It's more so that if you already have cancer, then these processes get hijacked by cancer and used for cancer's own survival. In a healthy normal state, there's no evidence they would cause cancer. What does it mean for torine? There's no evidence that torine would cause cancer. But if you already have cancer, the torine transporter might be involved in leukemia progression. So, it might be better not to take torine if you do have leukemia or other types of cancer. They also didn't look that if torine supplementation would increase the torine transporter expression. Instead, torine transporter appears to be upregulated specifically during a disease such as cancer. What's the final takeaway? Torine doesn't promote biological aging, but there's no evidence it would be a biomarker of aging either. However, torine has been seen to extend lifespan in animals. Torine appears to have benefits in clinical trials on metabolic health and inflammation. But studies on its effects on biological aging in humans are yet to be published. Torine doesn't cause or promote cancer. Cancer cells upregulate torine transporters for their own benefit. There's no evidence that torine supplementation would cause cancer. So, what's my final verdict and update on torine? I still think that torine is one of the best supplements out there, and these studies don't refute it. Check out my video about the top 15 supplements with human evidence you could