And on that subject, we might come back to it now. I don't know. What are the most underappreciated or underrecognized yet promising ger protectors in your opinion? Yeah, I think torine might be one of those examples. There's actually quite quite a lot of research about torine's effect on metabolic health and blood pressure plus some exercise uh performance benefits. Compared to like the cost and uh the safety, then it's pretty underappreciated. I mean, touring is excellent. Yeah, I'll go a different direction. I'm kind of torn actually between two. I would go You get two choices, Nick. Oh, I get two choices. I'm never no longer torn. Um, in that case, I would I would go curcumin. I've been doing a lot more research on curcumin, and I've been doing uh research on blood sugar, how it helps people with pre-diabetes, diabetes. Uh, also, it seems to have some pretty profound effects on osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. My vote goes to curcumin. The other one is a combination supplement, so hopefully you'll allow this, uh, Master Greg, but luteine and zeazanthin are pretty high up. Um, they're not ones that are discussed that much except in the ocular community, which we are big fans of. In terms of the studies on lutein and zeazanthin, they seem to be really effective. I mean there's plenty of clinical trials that show improvements in in eye health and just because of the nature of the molecules uh they also seem to affect the brain. At least luteine I've seen some evidence for. I'll go uh I'll go with those two/3 uh molecules that are underappreciated. That's AI like lutein and zagin as well. And the second one for me would be aantine which is also a carotenoid. The lifespan data is quite interesting. It has skin protective effects against UV radiation. It has like some metabolic effects and has been seen to lower inflammation in clinical trials, but that's not the main, I guess, effect. It's mostly for the skin. Probably has some brain benefits as well as a carotenoid. I am a fan of all of those. My choices will probably be ooine and glucosamine sulfate. What about underrated or underrecognized medications? I think GLP-1 receptor agonists. um some people are really into them and then other people think drug equals bad so therefore try to avoid it at all costs and I think that the data is incredible in relation to those so I think that there for a a large group of individuals that are extremely reticent to uh jump on any sort of drug if the label drug or pharma is associated to it they will not touch it I would say that's a a bad move in a lot of circumstances. Maybe not every circumstance, but in a lot of circumstances because they can help with blood sugar regulation, weight, triglycerides, LDL, everything covers so much. So, and it can really help people that are that are really struggling with uh with making sure that they're consuming the appropriate foods in the appropriate amounts. And there's actually even some research in relation to its effects on the brain that it can uh change how people perceive let's say junk food. That would be my choice even though plenty of people know about it. I think I don't necessarily know if they appreciate the potency and the overwhelming positive effects that come with them. Yeah, I think the kind of negative side effects are a bit overhyped and they're like quite manageable with like diet and uh resistance training and those just general healthy lifestyle principles. It's relatively safe. Nick, I find it ironic that a lot of those people who are anti-drugs and anti- medications are also keen caffeine consumers. Methylene blue. And then regarding the GLP-1 receptor agonists and food intake that seems to be true of addiction in general, there are these studies ongoing now looking at things like addiction to nicotine and whether they might be useful in that context. And then seam regarding blood pressure medications. I think they're a really interesting choice. And it raises an intriguing tangent which is about substances that directly target the biology of aging or things that pick people off prematurely. So in this case cardiovascular disease being a huge killer and my choice would be quite similar to yours. Initially these drugs were developed as blood pressure lowering medications but I'd probably choose PD5 inhibitors like selenaphil and tadalapil viagra or seialis selenapil interestingly is being studied in the ITP now as a candidate gerotherrapeutic. People do seem to live longer when they take them in part due to lower rates of cardiovascular disease and they seem to have some very protective effects in the brain too which surely relates in part to vascular function but there are data associating their use with lower risk of Alzheimer's disease. It's actually one of my choice choices of thinking Viagra and Seialis because yeah like with age men's you know their reaction quality de declines uh blood flow declines and diabetes they support blood flow through nitric oxide and they also lower blood pressure. So yeah a lot of cardiovascular benefits and sexual benefits effects on quality of life in general. If you got a better romantic relationship, then that's going to be good for you and have some indirect positive actions on your