 fin fin finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit finit fin with this idea. Cortisol is the hormone that is released in your body when there is a perceived stress. So your body has to think that there is a stressor that is going to kill it. We call it running from a tiger. So that stressor can come in many different forms. So you can be stressed because of a thought. You're just sitting and a thought comes to you and all of a sudden you're like, ooh, that's so stressful. And then your body releases cortisol. You can be stressed from an interaction with a human. You can be stressed because you're overloaded with work. You can be stressed because of challenges in your life and things you're going through. There's a lot of stressors that increase cortisol. But what I want you to realize is that as long as cortisol is in your system, your body thinks it's running from a tiger and it will not burn fat. So you have two sides of the weight loss coin with cortisol. On one side, it stops weight loss. On the other side, if you are constantly secreting cortisol, that cortisol has to go somewhere. And so your body stores it as fat specifically as belly fat. So it's really important that we see this intertwined process of cortisol and weight gain. And I also want to, before I dive into these three supplements, I want to remind you that cortisol is the hormone that is the stress hormone that is meant to make you move. It wants you to get up and go. So every time cortisol comes into your body, whether you're on a phone call, you're at your computer, you're at your desk, if you stay seated, all of that cortisol goes to belly fat much quicker than if you're like, oop, I just had a stressful moment. I'm going to go walk. Just get up, walk, move around. You don't have to go far. It helps you use cortisol. Now with that in mind, three supplements I want to talk a bit about fall under one category. And that category is adaptogens. Adaptogens are exactly what they sound like. They help you adapt to stress. So just like I've been teaching you all metabolic switching, where you go from sugar burner to fat burner. When it comes to stress, we need to go from rest and digest into fight or flight. We need to be able to do both. But when our whole cortisol system, our stress hormone system, our HPA axis is constantly under fire. We don't switch in and out of these two states. We stay locked in fight or flight. So what an adaptogen does is it helps you learn how to switch into a restful time and switch back into a more stressful time and then back into rest and then back into stress. So it gives you that ability to switch in and out. That is helpful. So the first one I want to bring to your attention is ashwagandha. This is one of my favorite. I actually really like ashwagandha. I get ashwagandha in some of the mocktails that are out there right now. A lot of people are moving into adaptogens that are in drinks that you can replace alcohol with. And a lot of those have ashwagandha in it. You'll start to see that if you start to look at the ingredient label. And what's interesting about ashwagandha is that it is a native shrub to India and parts of Africa. Its roots, the root of ashwagandha has been used in Indian traditional medicine for years. And it's rich in a bioactive compound that is called withanolides. Now withanolides, they act as a natural sedative. So, you know, you take a prescription to relax you. Ashwagandha works very similarly because of this natural sedative component. But these withanolides are really interesting because studies are showing that they normalize the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal access. So what is that? The HPA access is that when your brain perceives a stress, whether you're looking at a stress or you're thinking about a stress, your hypothalamus sends a message to the pituitary and says, hey, pituitary, we got a tiger. Tigers, we're running from a tiger. So we need to call on the adrenals to make cortisol. And so that all of a sudden you start getting cortisol pumping through your system. What these withanolides do is they will bring balance back to this HPA access because what is happening to a lot of us is that we get in these stressful states, but then the stress is gone, but our HPA access is still running itself. So if you're somebody who feels like you've been under a lot of stress for a long period of time, I really want to encourage you that it might be that something like ashwagandha can really help to reset and normalize this HPA access. We also have some scientific evidence that show that with allendinides decrease your cortisol within your blood. They can lower stress and anxiety, but they really bring down the cortisol in your blood. So they don't just normalize the HPA access, but they're actually having an effect on lowering cortisol. Now, a couple of things to note is that ashwagandha doesn't taste very good. It actually doesn't smell very good, which is why it doesn't taste very good. So you want it to be in a capsule form. Although I will tell you, I've been getting ashwagandha in a lot of drinks and they've been tasting fine. So I don't know what they're doing in those drinks, but if you get it as a powder, it does have, ashwagandha is actually Sanskrit for horse smell. So you might, if you don't want it to smell like barnyard animals, you may want to get it in capsule and avoid the raw version. So that's ashwagandha, one of my favorites. Okay. Number two, another personal favorite and one that I've used often is kava root. Kava root is native to the South Pacific Islands in Hawaii. It is high in a compound called kava lactones. Now kava lactones activate GABA. So if you guys have been following me, I've been teaching you about how progesterone activates GABA. I've talked to you about how ketones activate GABA. Those of you who've been in a longer fast and you started to feel that like calm that kicks in, that's GABA. Well, kava root can activate GABA. It actually specifically activates a receptor site called the GABA-A receptor and it's in your brain. And it's the same receptor site, by the way, that is activated with anti-anxiety medications. So this is not, again, we have got to come back to what the earth has provided for us and give it some credit. And kava root deserves a tremendous amount of credit. So there is also some really interesting studies on GABA. One that was done in the Journal of Human Psychopharmacology. Researchers gave kava to people with insomnia and due to chronic stress. So put in the comments if you're one of those people. I know I can be one of those people that if I've had a lot of stress in my life, that my brain starts running all the problems and the solutions. So this group, what they did is they gave them kava before bed to stop that running brain. And what they found is that the kava decreased serum cortisol, brought cortisol down. And they also, the person self-reported that stress levels went down. And when those two things happened, so stress went down and serum cortisol went down, the quality of their sleep went up. So we also know that kava has been really, this is a new one that for me that I've been really thinking about when it comes to just overall health. And that is that kava can also increase liver detoxification. And so when you look at your liver and the functionality of your liver, what we know is that the liver burns fat. We know that the liver breaks down hormones. And it also is a massive detoxifier. It is pushing toxins out of our system. And so we need our good liver health and kava can help that. So this is again, really cool thing when you, those of you that are trying to give up alcohol at night, what about getting a kava drink? And you can, not only is it going to upregulate GABA, not only is it going to bring down cortisol, but it's going to help support your liver. So now you've got an alternative to something where the liver was being destroyed by alcohol. Now the liver is being supported by kava. So something to really think about. Now I do want to give you like a special note about kava. I think it's kind of the fun part about kava, but you might not like it. So I just want to say this is that it can make your tongue go numb. And so if that happens, don't panic because it'll go away in a couple of minutes. And there's a lot of different places you can order kava. I know you all are going to ask me, just, you know, just find some kava root online, make it or make sure it's organic. And there's kava powder. You can just put it in, um, in water and you'd be shocked how, uh, quickly it dissolves in water and can act like a hot tea. Um, and there's even kava bars now that have opened up where people can go and drink kava in a, in a bar like setting. It's really cool. It's a really cool root if you haven't tried it. Okay. Number three for helping you with chronic stress and bringing that cortisol down so you can start to lose weight. And this one's really exciting. It's ginseng. Now ginseng is interesting because it's an adaptogenic root. It's native to Korea, China, and North America. It is rich in something called ginseng. Ginseng is an adaptogenic root. Ginseng is an adaptogenic root. Ginseng is an incredibly important for increasing your body's resilience to stress. Let's talk about this for a moment. Your body's, when it perceives it needs to run from the tiger, cortisol isn't just making you fat and, and being stored in your belly. Cortisol is not just winding up the brain, but I like to equate cortisol to like sludge. It is like slowing down blood flow. It is moving into areas and D and, and completely, uh, destroying healthy tissue. Like if there was waste, like sewage that was being poured into the system, it destroys every single cell in your body and every organ system. So with ginseng, because it's high in these ginseng, it can increase your body's resilience to that. So remember, I've done some videos on antioxidants and why antioxidants are so important is because they block oxidative stress. The reason adaptogens like ginseng are so important is because they protect healthy tissue from the damages of cortisol. Now, really interesting 2010 review in current vascular pharmacology found ginseng have multiple benefits. So let me read to you what they are. They are powerful vasodilators. Um, so they relax your arteries and your blood vessels to improve blood flow. They bring inflammation down. They are an antioxidant. So they protect you from that oxidative stress that we've been talking about. They lower cortisol and they can regulate your fight or flight response. So remember, a lot of us are stuck in this fight or flight response. And so we need something to help us move us back in and something like ginseng can do that. There was a really interesting 2023 study in ginseng research, journal specific to ginseng research, where they gave adults either ginseng or a placebo for eight weeks and they measured their cortisol and neurotransmitters levels. And here's what they found. The placebo group showed no significant changes. The ginseng group saw a significantly lower cortisol level, but they also saw that it lowered epinephrine. Epinephrine is the neurotransmitter that ignites and activates your fight or flight system. Cortisol is the hormone that like keeps you in that fight or flight. Epinephrine is the one that activates it and moves you into fight or flight. And finally, this is the best part of the ginseng story is that they found that ginseng had, the group that took ginseng had a higher level of serotonin, which improves mood. Okay. This is pretty cool because what we know is that when we're in a state of stress, not only is cortisol going up, not only are we activating epinephrine, but our moods are low. And so if we can upregulate serotonin and we're happier, it technically takes, it can take us quickly out of the fight or flight stress state. So ginseng, ginseng, good old fashioned ginseng. So, and the last thing that I just want to point out is that cortisol and stress in this day and age is, is almost like our default mode. This is happening to us so quickly. We don't even realize it. It's the classic frog in the boiling water that if you take a frog and you put it in boiling water, it will jump out. But if you take a frog and you put it in water and then gently heat that water up until a boiling point, it doesn't realize that it's in boiling water and it will die. We are doing the same thing with stress. We do not understand that we are in this chronic stress state that is killing us. I see it all the time in my fasting community where people don't, they'll get stuck with a result because they're cortisol saturated. So the reason I want to do a video like this is for some of us, it's easier to take an adaptogen. We can find ginseng. We can go get kava. We can pop into ashwagandha. These things in the past used to be considered frivolous or, or woo woo or some kind of shamanic tool. No, these things have hard science to them. How are you incorporating them into your daily life to be able to balance your cortisol system so that you stop killing yourself? I mean, literally. So think about that when you're, when you're going through this video and maybe send this video to somebody, you know, who's completely cortisol saturated. If you liked this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.