 So there are three daily habits that you may be missing that may be sabotaging your fat loss and I want this video to help you understand why you want to bring these three back in and how simple they are. I can tell you that for over 25 years in my clinic, I started to see that there were small little daily steps that prevented somebody from losing. weight. Women would come in, women would come in, they would say, oh my gosh, I'm doing everything you told me to do and I'm still not dropping weight and what I found is these three things were missing. So let's get right to it and talk about these three things. Okay, number one, fiber. I've done a ton of videos on fiber. Fiber, fiber, fiber, fiber. And here's the information that I want you to understand because fiber is so easy to bring back in. So there was a 2016 study in the American Journal of Lifestyle Medicine that found that only 5% of American adults meet their fiber intake. This means 19 out of 20 adults don't get enough fiber. Let's make sure we all understand what fiber is. And there was a large 2019 review in the Journal of Nutrition that found that fiber was the single best predictor of long term fat loss and diet adherence. And here's what happens when you eat lots of fiber. First, you're less hungry. So fiber fills you up. Second, remember we've talked about this, that when you put fiber with a meal, you sort of get enough fiber. That muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle muscle uptake. So if you don't have fiber, you're going to have this huge sugar spike. If you have a big sugar spike, you're going to get a lot of insulin. And when you get more insulin and more sugar going in the system, your poor little body doesn't know what to do with it. So it stores it as fat. But if you eat fiber with even your highest carb meal, or I mean, even with your dessert, have some fiber, what you're going to start to see is that the glucose spike is going to be a lot less. This is why it's such an important nutrient. And the other thing that we know based off of research, and I will tell you, I know this based off a clinical experience, that long-term consistent weight loss, meaning over six months or more, requires you to eat daily doses of fiber. So what's the goal? What's the daily dose? It's 25 grams of fiber for women and 32 grams a day of fiber for men. And it's really easy to get fiber into your diet. I can say that like here, I've got micro greens and they're really simple. I put them in a bowl next to some animal meat. I do eat animal meat. So next to, you know, chicken or fish or a grass fed steak. And it's, they're just micro greens. They came out of a bag and I literally put them next to my meat. Couldn't be any easier. Other great way to get fiber in is blueberries. So we know that blueberries will start to, they're rich in fiber. They're great for your brain and you can add them to some yogurt and you'll start to get more fiber into your diet through a very sweet way. So you can also look at those of you that are plant-based, things like beans. So two cups of beans has 15 grams of fiber. Or if you're like, I don't, I don't have time to eat all of that. You could go towards psyllium husks and psyllium husks. Um, you know, two tablespoons of psyllium husk will give you 12 to 14 grams of fiber. So there's a lot of different ways to bring fiber in. Okay. Second thing you're doing, or hopefully you're not doing that you're doing that could be preventing fat loss. And it's so simple. Drinking water. I am not joking. Let me tell you the research on it. There was a study that was published in physiology and behavior that found drinking water before or with meals led to significantly greater weight loss over 12 weeks. The participants in the study had reduced hunger and they had fewer food cravings just by drinking water with their meals. And there was a 23 review in current obesity reports that explained why this happens. When your body is properly hydrated, your cells produce more energy, which of course, then if you have more energy, you're going to feel like walking more, your metabolic rate increases. How many of you are like, Oh my God, I want my metabolism to speed up drink water. It's that easy. Or the last thing that it did, I should say, and is your body burns more fat throughout the day when you are well hydrated. So water is also incredibly important because it not just hydrates you, but it fills your stomach. And that fullness tends to lead people to eating a lot less. So if you don't know how to drink water, I mean, I know you know how, but if you, if you are lacking a routine, here's a couple of things to think about. Have a glass of water when you first wake up in the morning, have it before you even drink your coffee before anything else. Have one glass of water with every meal that you eat, like a big glass, like this size. I'm not talking a little bit, a little one and have a glass of water before you go to bed. Now, if you're like me and you wake up in the middle of night, don't wait a couple of hours before bed, have that last glass of water because you might find that your bladder wakes you up at night, but put it into a routine. First thing when you get up, every meal and two hours before you go to bed. So maybe after dinner, you have another, maybe you have water for dessert. So, but it's simple. It's just forgotten, right? And we don't give it enough credit for losing weight. Okay. Third way that you can start to burn more fat by using your daily habits and things you might not be doing. I'm suspecting this one you may not be doing, and it's getting a daily dose of fermented foods. Now I've brought you a lot here on fermented foods. I think it's massively important that we bring fermented foods in. I've done some really cool videos on how just a cup of sauerkraut every single day can improve your mental state. I'll leave the links to those videos there. But when it comes to weight loss, one of the things we know about fermented foods is that they change the bacterial profile in your gut. And the more healthy bacteria you have, the healthier your metabolism will be, the better you will be at burning fat. So here's the interesting thing on the research on that. There's a 21 study in Cell, which is a very prestigious publication that found that people who increased fermented food intake had a greater microbiome diversity and significantly lower inflammatory levels. There was another study published in British Journal of Nutrition that found people who regularly consumed fermented dairy, so it can be yummy, and we'll talk about how you get it here in a moment, had lower body fat and improved metabolic markers. So what does this look like for you? Fermented foods are really unique in the sense that when you ferment them, you create this huge new set of bacteria. So when it comes to fermented foods, what I want you to do is do as many different fermented foods as possible. So here's an example of a glass of raw kefir. I got it at my store. It is raw. You want kefir to be raw because, if you can, because you don't kill the probiotic bacteria. When you pasteurize something, you will kill it. So this is one with turmeric in it. It's super yummy. It has some cinnamon in it. And kefir, unlike any other fermented food, it has trillions of good bacteria in it. It packs a serious probiotic punch. You can do yogurt, so daily yogurt. Now we want to make sure that it has a good probiotic count, so you might look at the side label and just see if it tells you what kind of probiotic is in there and how much. Sauerkraut is a must. You can put sauerkraut into your salads. You don't have to just eat it straight if you don't like the taste of it. Put it into a salad so the taste isn't as sour and it spreads it out. And when you're doing the fermented vegetables, remember that each vegetable gives off a different set of bacteria. So you might do fermented cabbage. What I've got right here is fermented beets. I've talked a lot about the power of kimchi and how fermented scallions can help improve immunity. So make sure you diversify your fermented foods. When you're eating fermented foods on a daily basis, what you're going to start to see is you're going to bring back the health of your gut bacteria. And when you bring back your health of your gut bacteria, there are several things that happen. You're going to improve insulin sensitivity. You're going to decrease your cravings. You're going to help regulate your appetite hormones so you're not as hungry long-term. So you can have a cup of sauerkraut with your dinner and it may kill your hunger for a day or two. And you're going to improve the production of short chain fatty acids, which are necessary for fat metabolism. So easy to bring in, easy to make. If you're finding fermented foods out there are difficult to or expensive to buy, remember you can make them yourself. I've got several recipes in Eat Like a Girl that you can follow. So it doesn't have to be expensive. But I will tell you the major outlier of all health is in that daily dose of fermented foods. And I've brought hundreds of incredible experts onto my podcast. And the one nutritional concept that everybody agrees upon is fermented foods are the key to living in a body you love that's healthy and vibrant and drops weight. So what I want you to keep remembering when you get stuck with your weight loss, it's not complicated. Complicated. We've made it sound complicated. We just got to go back. Remember your metabolic switch. You're a sugar burner metabolism and you're a fat burner metabolism. You want to keep moving in between these two. This is what I taught you in Fast Like a Girl. Then we want to start looking at the foods we eat. If we eat more protein, that can be really helpful for holding onto muscle, which will improve your metabolism. I've done a ton of videos on that. But then on this video, I really wanted to point out it's simple. It's fiber. It's water. It's fermented foods. Let's not forget them, especially if you're trying to drop weight. So put in the comments if you have found these three things to be helpful, because what I'm trying to encourage you all to do is to get out of shiny object syndrome. Stop trying to follow the latest fad or stop putting your money into the trendy supplement. Many of you are doing the weight loss drugs and you're trying to financially get off of those. And these are the principles of healthy eating that are often forgotten and will sabotage the way that you lose fat. So let's bring these back. And as always, put in the comments what your experience has been with these hacks and know that I'm cheering you on. Hope that helps. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video.