 Okay, dr. Mindy, okay, dr. Mindy, okay, dr. Mindy here, on this video, let's talk about your liver, and I wanna talk about it through the lens of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, because that's becoming a silent epidemic, especially here in America, but let's talk about the liver in general, because those of you who are trying to get more into ketosis, those of you who are trying to burn more fat, you need your liver working right, so I really wanna give you a whole picture on this, and really talk about how do you clean your liver in 30 days, okay? Ready? Let's dive in. So, first, I find this statistic, this one just, like, literally, it wakes me up at night, I'm like, how is this even possible? But I think it comes from our poor food quality here in America, but a 2022 study found that 39% of American adults had non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, and that was expected to be 50% by 2030. So, this study also included that 75% of overweight people and 90% of obese people have fatty liver disease. So, let's just talk about what that is before we dive into how do you clean it up. You have to remember that your liver is a fat-burning organ. It is your major fat-burning organ. So, if you keep giving it excess, remember how I taught you all that all fat is, is it's just excess? It's excess glucose, toxins, hormones. When your body doesn't know what to do with something that's going through it that it has too much of, it sends it on to the liver to either detox it or break it down. Now, what the liver will do when it gets too much excess glucose, that might be you had a box of pizza and a tub and a big liter of Coke, and you've been doing that for years and years and years, and your liver has been like, I don't really know how to detox all this glucose. I don't know what to do with it. I've been sending it around your belly. I've put it in other places of fat around your body, and I have no choice but to now build a fatty layer around me, the liver. So, it's from that repetitive, high-glucose living that's coming from ultra-processed foods like cakes and cookies and pizzas and even some pastas and alcohol. All those things are causing excess glucose and the liver can't handle it. It doesn't know what to do with it. So, it sends it on to more fat in your body and eventually will just send it on to fat around itself. So, you get to control this. And one of the major problems is that there are no symptoms when you have non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. But the good news is this is totally reversible. Like, there are really, I'm going to give you three tips to cut out for 30 days, and I really want you to try it and report back. I read your comments. I want to give you hope that you are in control. So, and a lot of you I hear and put in the comments, if this is you, a lot of you I've heard you say, well, I went to the doctor. He told me I had non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and I needed to lose weight. Okay, what do you do with that advice? That's not really advice. So, I'm going to give you three things you can do if you got that prognosis. Okay, first, definitely cut out alcohol. So, and the reason that this is important for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is that your liver prioritizes the toxins that is going to filter. So, if it doesn't have to deal with alcohol, if it doesn't have to deal with a lot of toxins, then what it will do is it'll prioritize burning fat. Yay! We love that. It'll prioritize burning or breaking down hormones. Yay! For my menopausal women, that makes a lot of sense. I need estrogen to be broken down so I can use estrogen the way it's supposed to be used. But when we start to see that alcohol comes into the picture, so what the liver does is that it will say, okay, alcohol is on the scene, so stop burning fat and stop breaking down hormones. For the menopausal woman, this is the most disastrous combination because now she's getting even lower and lower in hormones because her liver is not breaking it down and making those hormones usable. And she's getting heavier and heavier because the liver isn't burning fat because it's trying to deal with the alcohol. And I know this is kind of a depressing topic, but understand that if you have fatty liver disease, even one or two glasses of alcohol a night can be difficult. If you don't have fatty liver disease, then one to two glasses a night might be okay. You just are going to have to watch to make sure that you're not building fat around the liver, you're not seeing changes to your blood work. So there was a 2020 study that looked at people with fatty liver disease who drank a small amount of alcohol on a regular basis. And that study found any alcohol consumption worsened fatty liver disease. Then we found a 22 meta-analysis in the BMJ Open and said the same thing. Any level of alcohol intake with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease may be harmful for liver health. So try 30 days without alcohol. See if you lose weight. You know, your liver also helps you detoxify. So let's see if your brain function improves. Let's see if your energy improves. Like just give it a test. See what happens. Because the combination of a non-alcoholic fatty liver disease diagnosis and drinking alcohol is, is just because it says non-alcoholic fatty liver doesn't mean that drink, you're safe to drink alcohol. So that is a combination that could really be deadly. Okay. Tip number two is you want to avoid fructose. Now I want to talk about fructose because I got this comment many years ago here on my YouTube. There are different types of fructose. There is fructose, high fructose corn syrup and where corn has been highly refined and ultra processed to turn into a sweetener. That kind of refining of fructose is very dangerous. And then there's fructose. That's hard to say. Fruit fructose that actually comes with fiber. And when fructose in the form of fruit comes with fiber, it's even harder to say, then you, it's not the same response in your body. So let's break this down. Um, most extra fructose is going to be stored in your liver. Remember? So the liver is the storage for all this extra sugar. So in small amounts, that'll be fine. But there was a 22 study in nutrients that found eating excess fructose is one of the major drivers of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. And you know, this, this study goes on, um, to say that the most damaging form of fructose is high fructose corn syrup. They're not saying it didn't say eating fruit causes non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. It said eating excess fructose and the amount of fructose that's in high fructose corn syrup is through the roof. And I don't know the exact amount, but it would be like you eating a box of apples, you know, that there's so much fructose in this highly refined, high fructose corn syrup. Uh, a 2014 review concluded that high fructose corn syrup, which is about 42% fructose is one of the most damaging foods you can eat for your liver. So when we're looking for, how do we go into a 30 day cleanse? We're going to take alcohol out and we're going to take fructose out. So that means no agave, no corn syrup and stick with the minimal sweet fruits. These are your berries and your green apples. So get off the, even the tropical fruits. Let's try to keep you on, uh, some kind of, uh, lower fruit diet because lower glycemic fruit is going to have a lower fructose response. So we cut out alcohol and we cut out synthetic fructose and we stick to low sugared fruits like berries and green apples. Okay. Third thing exercise for two and a half hours a week. Now this is really interesting because there was a 23 review that found that exercise is one of the best things you can do to burn liver fat, which is what we're here talking about. So even low to moderate intensity exercise, like walking led to a huge improvement in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. And, and the cool thing is that the improvements were made and, and they weren't necessarily linked to weight loss. So you don't have to lose weight to reverse non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. What they found is exercise was anti-inflammatory. So it helped bring down the inflammation in the liver. It also turned on exercise, turned on fat burning the liver, which specifically led to liver fat loss in a matter of two weeks. And the authors of this study were really interesting because they said some kind of physical activity for two and a half hours a week is better than nothing. So it doesn't, it could be walking, it could be weightlifting, it could be surfing, it could be whatever, just two and a half hours of low to moderate exercise is going to bring down the inflammation in your liver. So I'm really curious, because when I do these videos, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a very popular video here on my channel. And maybe it's because by 2030, 50% of Americans are going to have non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. But it's really important that we create a lifestyle that reverses this. And I think the lifestyle I just mapped out isn't necessarily a difficult one. Could, could we just try it for 30 days? No alcohol, no fructose coming from a synthetic source like agave or corn syrup or high fructose corn syrup. You can have your low glycemic fruits and exercise two and a half hours a week, low to moderate. Can we as a community try those things and see what kind of result we get? And put it in the comments if you're going to try it. Like I challenge you and I'm reading these comments and I'm cheering you on. And I know you can reverse this if you're given the right information. And it's not like you have to go home and start counting calories and trying to lose weight. We just need to get some inflammation down. We need to give the liver a break from the alcohol and the fructose and let the liver do what it's best at doing, which is detoxing you and burning fat. And it's interesting. I've even, in my clinic, I spent a lot of time working with patients that had cancer and we spent a lot on diet and a lot, I did a lot with women who had metastatic breast cancer. And one of the things I learned is it's very common for metastatic breast cancer for people to, for it to, to metastasize to the liver. And you only need about 20% of your liver to function normally for you to stay alive because the liver is, is that powerful. It knows how to regenerate itself. It knows how to survive with only 20% of itself working. So these three steps that I'm giving you are simple and incredibly effective. And then your liver can take it from there and your liver can start to heal itself because it knows how to do that. So put in the comments, if you've tried this before, um, let me know if you're up for the 30 day challenge and let's all get healthy together. This is a really simple approach to a really deadly disease. So as always, I hope this helps. If this helps, don't stop here, click on the next video and let's see what you find there. Thank you.