 zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignign, zignignignign, zignignignign, zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignignign zignignign Let's talk about inflammation and the connection between inflammation and fructose. Now, I want to say right off the bat, you might be like, well, that's not going to sound very interesting. Let me rephrase that and say, let's talk about pain and loss of energy and brain fog and trouble sleeping and chronic disease. That all is tied into inflammation and how it relates to what you eat. One of the most dangerous things you can eat that will accelerate all those symptoms and accelerate inflammation in your body is fructose. I think we have a lot of confusion on fructose. I really want to break it down in this video. What's the difference between fructose and glucose? How do you know if you're eating fructose? What are the different patterns in your body? I want to really unpack a new study that was just put out in September of 2025 that really shows that, yeah, we thought high fructose corn syrup was bad, but it's worse than we even thought. And I want to explain why. In fact, I just want to point out, if you haven't heard me say this, that they identified that high fructose corn syrup was so bad that it needed to be taken out of our food system. And this discovery was over 10 years ago. And they gave the food industry close to 20 years, 20 years, who needs to take 20 years to take this harmful ingredient out because they started to see that high fructose corn syrup was a major, if not the most significant contributor to cardiovascular disease. So let's dive into this. And then I really want, I'm excited to break down fructose and glucose for you. So if you've ever wondered what that was, let's talk about it. So here's what the new study said. It was a study done out of the University of Vienna, and they wanted to find out how high fructose affected immune cells. Okay, this is important. I'm going to tie this into a lot of pieces of your health here. So what they found is they wanted to look and see if high fructose corn syrup affected the immune cells specifically that fight off bacteria, viruses, and other foreign invaders. And the study was design was really clever because the researchers split two healthy groups or two, a group of healthy people into two groups. And one group drank a fructose sweetened beverage. This is important. We're going to come back to this. And the other drank a glucose sweetened beverage. So this would be like one group had soda pop and the other group had orange juice. Both of them not great, but they wanted to see what the quality difference was. And afterwards, the researchers measured the participants immune response to normal everyday bacterial toxins, the kind of things that your body would be fighting off on a regular basis. So that was really cool. Basically, one group drinks orange juice, one group drinks soda pop, and then they measure, then they give them an exposure to a bacteria or a virus, and then they see how the immune system reacts. And here's what they found. The orange juice group. Now remember, they didn't give them exactly orange juice. I'm just trying to make it simple for you. The glucose drinking group, there was literally no change to the immune response. But the soda group, after drinking fructose, people had a much more intense inflammatory response to bacteria once it came in. It was like a hyperactive, over agitated, highly sensitive immune system once they drank that soda pop. Now, I want to bring this into something that we all went through together, which is the pandemic. And my YouTube channel, I had already had a really strong, robust channel, I think we had already hit a million followers, something like that when we had gotten to the pandemic. And then we all were sequestered at home. And my husband and I actually went into trying to understand what made people more susceptible to the COVID virus than other people. And the one thing we saw over and over and over again, was poor metabolic health meant poor COVID reaction. But this study takes us even one step deeper and says, when you're drinking soda, when you're having this highly fructose sweetened drink, you are making your immune system more hypersensitive, which means it's going to have an exaggerated immune response, which didn't we see that in COVID, we saw the cytokine storm. And we saw people who went into these massive, like hyperactive type immune responses where they were like, the symptoms were so bad and came on so quickly. And this explains partly why. Because what we should have been saying is get off the soda, get off the soda, and your immune outcomes if you get exposed to the virus will be so much greater. So this study went on to say that basically fructose that is found in soda pop causes your immune system to overreact. It drives up inflammation. And part of that is it's trying to keep itself safe as it's processing this chemical. We also see this kind of immune hypersensitivity in autoimmune diseases. So let's look at that for a second because autoimmune diseases affect over 80% of autoimmune conditions happen to women. So if we have a hyperactive immune system going on and you've got Hashimoto's or you've got lupus or you've got something like that, then we've got to look at getting you off fructose, off this high fructose sugar type drinks. Hopefully you're not doing soda because it's agitating your autoimmune situation. But the researchers didn't stop there. They also found that fructose actually increased the number of inflammatory receptors on your immune system. So after you had exposure to fructose, the immune cells literally grew new receptors that triggered for inflammation. Okay, I want to put this into context of what I've taught you all about fasting. So we talked about the 48 hour fast. In fact, I wrote about it in Fast Like a Girl. And I talked about how when you go without food for 48 hours, your brilliant body starts to create new dopamine receptor sites. So you are craving, you increase the motivation to go find food. So increasing receptor sites became a real, dopamine receptor sites became a really cool tool for me to be able to teach my patients and my following that a 48 hour fast is going to help you lead to more happiness down the road because your whole dopamine immune or dopamine system gets rebooted and you get these new receptor sites. Okay, what this study is saying is the opposite. It's saying that this is giving you more inflammatory receptor sites. You don't want more inflammatory receptor sites. And those are permanent. Those are staying there literally forever. Once you have a receptor site, it doesn't like shrivel up. So you, every time you're drinking fructose in a, in a sugary drink, you are conditioning and re-patterning and building a body that is going to have more chronic inflammation and forever. That's how dangerous this stuff was. And the studies lead, literally the lead of the study, Dr. Ina Bergham said that this indicates that even short-term, short-term, high fructose consumption in healthy people can influence the immune system and increase inflammation for years. Okay. So how much is too much fructose? What do you need to know about fructose? So again, I just want to point out, she said high fructose consumption. So in the study, they gave people a drink that was sweetened with a lot of fructose, like a soda. So it's a lot. A soda's a lot. And they were given nothing else to eat. So there's no fiber to slow down that, that fructose. But what about moderate fructose consumption? Because some of you might be listening to this and you might be thinking like, okay, well, I don't drink sodas. So phew, that's not me. Well, we do know that moderate fructose consumption, meaning not just soda, but maybe we're eating it in actually fruit. That fruit, because it has fiber, because it has antioxidants, because it's not highly processed, is actually really good for us. So there has been an argument that's gone around here on my YouTube channel. It's gone around on social media, which is, oh, well, so fructose is bad for me, so therefore should I not eat sugar? No, that's not what we're saying. We're saying high fructose consumption, repeatedly drinking sodas over and over and over again has this strong immune response that is leading you to a life of inflammation. But moderate fructose consumption primarily coming from fruit is showing to be highly beneficial. We call them both fructose, but come from different sources, really, really matters. So let me give you an example. What's moderate fructose consumption? A 2024 study in the Frontiers in Nutrition found that people who eat fruit three to four times a week are significantly less likely to die from heart disease. That's natural fructose done in moderation. A 2018 review in Nutrients found that eating more whole fruits is linked to better gut and metabolic health, and lower body fat, lower cancer risk, longer life, and healthy aging. That again, moderate fruit consumption. So we have to make sure that we don't get too obsessed with this word fructose because it keeps messing us up. Now, what are the worst sources of fructose? Like what do you need to avoid right now in this moment? And here it is. The first, I've already said it. I mean, I want, I just, if I could, if I could jump through your, whatever your phone or your TV or however you're listening to this right now and like really sit next to you and be like, come on, you could save your life if you just avoid this one ingredient. Just don't ever go to it again. And everything in your life will change. It's high fructose corn syrup and it's extremely rich in fructose. And it's in all of our processed fruits, our sweet drinks, our packaged desserts, our ice creams, it's even in some of our commercial breads. So start reading your labels and check for high fructose corn syrup. Okay. Second high fructose type food that you're going to want to avoid, and you're not going to like this one because a lot of you think it's healthy. I fell prey to this and it's agave syrup. So agave is a tricky one. A lot of people think agave is a healthy sweetener, but the problem with it is that agave might be lower on the glycemic index. So it doesn't raise glucose, but the reason it doesn't raise glucose is because it's mostly fructose. And fructose doesn't spike your blood sugar. So keto heads everywhere were like, this is amazing. We should do more agave because it doesn't spike my glucose. But if we do too much agave, where the extra excess of agave goes is around your liver. These sweeteners that I'm talking about right now, because they're harder for your body to ingest, what it does is it stores it around the liver and is the number one driver of fatty liver disease. So we want to keep agave at a low level, at a minor level. Okay, what about fruit juices and smoothies? Whole fruit is really great for you because it's got so much fiber in it and that fiber slows down the glucose response. So even though this study proved that a glass of orange juice that was just purely glucose isn't going to create this inflammatory immune response, what we do know is that it's probably in one glass of orange juice is about 10 different oranges, which is a lot. If I asked you to sit down and eat 10 oranges, you probably couldn't, but you could drink 10 oranges. So the fact that it's in a liquid, it makes it a little bit more suspect and it might actually start to over time, if you're having a glass of orange juice every day, they didn't say how long these people had this, you might find that it gets harder and it creates more and more of these adverse immune response. So just be aware that one of the problems with these flavored, you know, with fruit juices is there's too much glucose, too much in there would be a high glucose. Smoothies are the same way. I used to be a huge smoothie fan and I've become really, really against smoothies because we start putting too many things in smoothies and the glucose levels go up. I can tell you when I had Chef Leslie who did Eat Like a Girl, when I had her do some smoothies for Eat Like a Girl, I was like, we have to keep the sugar low and so we really work to keep that low. So if you're looking for a lower glucose smoothie, go check that book out. Now the fourth one I want you to stay away from, this is my nemesis, flavored yogurts. Now let me know, put in the comments if you have kids because I can tell you I worked really hard. I have a 25 year old girl and a 23 year old, their boy, man, woman, grown up children and when they were in preschool, in elementary school, I was so careful to make sure that all the food that they ate was clean and then one day one of their friends gave them a go-gurt. Remember go-gurts? And they like slurp, you like slurp through this plastic like container, this bright blue and bright, bright pink drink and then I would pick them up from school and their lips were all pink and blue and their tongue was blue. That's what's in these flavored yogurts. It's chemicals mixed with high fructose corn syrup. So we have this like thought like orange juice is healthy, we have this belief in our culture that yogurt is healthy, but when you actually start to look at those different products we start or different food sources, we start to see like oh how you eat them is and although yogurt is great for you, flavored yogurt's not because it's mostly packed with fructose and colorings and things that will damage your health. So it's better to stick with a non-colored one with a Greek yogurt that's full of fat, but try to get a yogurt that doesn't have flavoring in it. Okay number five, this is a big one. It's sauces and condiments. So this is your ketchup, your jams, your jellies, even some of your peanut butters and your pasta sauces. So you've got to read the ingredients and check for high fructose corn syrup because they're in salad dressings. I'll give you a really quick recipe. One of my favorite salad dressings that I make all the time is a high quality olive oil, a little bit of Meyer lemon and sometimes I'll just do a teaspoon of honey like raw honey and mix it together in a bowl and put it into a salad. Super simple and then you don't have to worry about all the mysterious ingredients including high fructose corn syrup that's in your salad dressing. So we're back at Ultra Process Foods and what I just wanted to bring to you all here is that how you're feeling, if you're feeling stiff, if you're feeling brain fog, if you're feeling chronic pain, if you're frustrated that your your menopause symptoms are through the roof or you have you have a relative that has dementia, we have to come back to some basic food principles that we know are not serving us and this junk that they are putting in our foods is causing a chronic inflammatory situation and is changing those receptor sites and giving us an experience with our body where we have more pain, we have more weight gain, we have more brain fog. So just stay off those foods and get on to healthy foods and mix it with a good fasting window and I promise it's the solution to like everything. It's that simple. So if you've gotten off those foods and you've had a great response, put it in the comments so we can all be inspired by you and most of all what I want you all to understand is if you're not feeling well in your body you have the control through the types of foods you eat to make your body perform differently and studies keep coming out showing us high fructose is a bummer. So let's get off the junk and let's go back to what nature's provided us, lots of healthy glucose with lots of fiber and fruits and vegetables and we'll all be healthy together. Deal? Okay as always I hope that helped. People