 При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При При And it's a faster's dream. Absolutely. Because you can often drink it in your eating window. It gets through my fast. Absolutely. But not all bone broths are made alike. So let's start off with when I say bone broth, I'm looking at box bone broth and I'm looking at the recipe that Chef Jeff did in here. I'm looking at that bone broth. What's the difference? Okay. This is the part where I talk smack about people. Go for it. Yeah, it's okay. First of all, shout out to, there's a chef named Marco Canora who in New York, he started with the bone broth movement. And really in terms of from a chef's perspective and utilizing it for that, he did a lot of work with that. I'm also a big fan. He's a fantastic chef. So the box stuff, it's really simple. If it sits on a shelf and you shake it and it's liquid, it's not necessarily going to have the same qualities as the stuff that's refrigerated and looks like jello. Right. You're talking about collagen and gelatin and all the good things that we actually want out of the product. Right. And the one that looks like jello. And the one that wasn't, it's made in a process, a pressurized process. And I think it either destroys those things from the heat or they just don't get the extraction. I'm not an expert, but I think it's one or the other because clearly one is jello, one is not. Yeah, it's almost like a different fit. I don't see a point in buying stuff that is not jello. Right. When I want something that's the best quality of that product is what's extracted when you get it to a point that's gelatinous. Right. And in the jello is collagen probably. And then omega is like omega-3 fatty acids, which is important. So you miss out on that. A hundred percent. In the liquid version. I mean, it's, listen, the term bone broth, there's some marketing behind that. Yeah. And when they put that on a box, they can charge $2 more. Right. And whether or not you're actually getting the benefits of something like this is questionable. Right. And so that's my talking smack portion of the show. Okay, good. That was well done. It was really well done. Very diplomatic. We didn't throw any brands under them. Okay. So now when you're going to make bone broths, what are some of the key things we need to think about? Bones. You need some bones. Okay, but what type of bones? Good question. Because I've seen some with like chicken feet. Mm-hmm. Like you can put any bone in. I love making broth from chicken feet. Okay. I love making broth from, obviously, are we talking about, there's, you know, you have beef broth, you can do chicken broth. You can even do fish broth. Oh, yeah, yeah. Which is delicious when done right. And there's also, you know, in the Italian diaspora, there's something called mixed, they call it Easter broth or mixed meat broth. Okay. And it's, you know, you'll have a ham bone in there. You'll have, whether it's some pork or some beef, and you know, in Japanese cooking, a lot of the ramen stocks, which are bone broths, will have mixed meats as well. Interesting. And, you know, each type of meat brings something different to the party. Right. You know, you're heavy, you're beef bones, or if you're even using like a foot, cow's foot, chicken feet, these have a lot of gelatin. They take a long time to break down. Okay. You do not want to boil it. You want to let it go nice and slow and even overnight. Interesting. So these are the sorts of things that, you know, depends on the type of bone. Yeah. Anything, you know, pretty much anything can be used to make broth from an animal. Right. Anything that is either bone or skin, which has a lot of collagen. Right. These are all fair game, and they work really well. You know, I was thinking as you were talking, I'm like, what's really cool is like broth unites us throughout the world in all the different styles, kind of like spices. I think historically everyone recognized, you know, going back, we're talking about the, you know, the legacy and the knowledge that has been passed down through generations. Yeah. Broth is healing. Yeah. This goes back to caveman times. Yeah. Yeah. Which is why we don't, we want to highlight it, not like push it aside or bite out of a box. Absolutely. Okay. So you can use any bone is what I heard. Or I would say use as many different bones as possible. Absolutely. So you get different features that, nutrient features. Absolutely. I mean, that's one of the reasons that, you know, especially when I cooked in Spain, you know, the traditions of saying, well, you know, if we're going to utilize an animal and, you know, harvest it and work, you use everything. Right. There is nothing, the skin, everything, you know, you're going to use it, whether it's making broth, and there's a whole litany of broth recipes in Spain, France, you name it. And so that's what historically it was used for. Interesting. Interesting. Okay. So once I put my bones in there and then, you know, obviously it's like in a big, bigger container, then the next ingredient I would think would be water. Correct. So actually it depends if your bones have a lot of impurities in them, if they look kind of pink because there's still some blood. What traditionally you would do is you would have your bones, you fill the thing up with cold water, you put it on the stove and you heat it up just till it's simmering. You're starting to see a little kind of scum. Mm-hmm. Dump it out. Mm-hmm. And people are like, well, I'm missing out. You're not missing out on it. All you're missing out on is you've done what's called you purge the bones. That's right. And by purging the bones, you're getting all the things that would make it cloudy or just not the best it can be. Okay. That's the first trick that most folks don't realize and most folks get wrong and most folks don't do. Right. Is if you, especially using beef, pork, sometimes chicken but not so much. Okay. Is you need to do a purge step. Yeah. If you do that and then you rinse off the bones, dump that water out and then you put new water in. Again, cold water's fine. Yeah. Keep that. Then now you're starting broth. So you know what's interesting is that we did a lot of heavy metal detoxing in my clinic and lead is a very common, in fact, everybody we tested had lead in it, had lead in them and lead lives in the bones. Interesting. And so now lead is in the water too. So you have an animal that's drinking the water, the lead gets into their system and then it gets into their bones. So we actually started testing bone broth protein powders to see what the lead content was. And there was a, there was a variable amount. So do you feel that if you do the purge step, that it's going to leach out some of that lead? Because I had never heard of the purge step. A five. Yes. And I was like, that makes sense because that's the only thing wrong that I can find with bone broth is what if we're leaching out the lead. But that purge step is powerful. Yeah. How, how, how long is that purge step? It depends. I mean, you know, a little pot, a big pot. It's just basically you heat, you slowly heat the bones. You can even just do it on high really until it starts to simmer and you see some kind of scum on the top. Yep. Dump it. Dump it. Dump it. Rinse them. Dump that again and then fill it up with water and now you're good to go. And in the, in Eat Like a Girl, the bone broth recipe in there, you, you map that out. We do a purge step. You do a purge step. I love that. Awesome. You just solved that for my, for my brain. That was on the fly. I love it. Yeah. Okay. So now we have bones. Now we have water. Then we, we heat that up and we let that go until, um, it's just kind of the, it's called Tremere. It's basically, it's a Frenchie Frenchie word that just means it's trembling. Okay. And where, you know, if, if you want to be real cute about it and real nerdy, um, a couple, like a bubble every couple seconds, it's not a boil. Okay. And obviously we're talking about beef bones, pork bones. You let that ride anywhere from eight to 12 to hours or so. In restaurants, typically we leave it on overnight. Okay. And just let that ride. Just let it go. Now the mistake that a lot of folks make that, and this is a personal preference for me, but it makes a lot of sense is a lot of times in restaurants, um, you know, we'll, we'll put the water in whatever flavorings. For example, whether it's, we roasted the bones with tomato paste, like it depends on the recipe and like how they do it, but they put all it, then they'll put the vegetables in overnight. And I, I hate that personally. I, to me, bras that have vegetables have been simmered longer than a couple of hours. Okay. You've seen it where the vegetables just like falling apart and disintegrating. It's given all it has to give, but it has an overcooked kind of vegetable taste. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's so gross. Yeah. And now the vegetables, especially like celery and things like that have a weird texture. It has a weird flavor. Yeah. So what I like to do is I like to go my overnight with the water, the flavoring, whether, whether it was, I roasted the bones or whatever I did to them. Okay. And I let that ride. And then the next day I come in and I look at it and especially if the, you don't quite want it where the bones are disintegrating. Okay. Because then obviously they've given a little too much, but when I'm in my last hour, hour and a half of where I know I'm pretty much going to be done, that's when the veggies, I cut them in such a way that, you know, whether they're littler, but they're going to give everything they have to give in that last hour and I'm done. And then you're done. Okay. Then all you got to do is once you drain it, you can decide, well, I want to reduce this down and you make it more, more, um, thicker, more, more concentrated. And there you go. Okay. And then what about spices? Like we, we just, uh, and if you haven't seen the video on spices, make sure you go look at how he uses different spices. So what kind of spices work well with the breath? Again, it depends on, you know, what diaspora we're cooking from because there are different flavorings, whether it's miso paste for, or whatnot that we're going to be doing, um, or just simple black pepper or bay leaf thyme. Those again, I like the black pepper. You could get away with leaving it in overnight. I don't, for me, sometimes it can get a little over extracted. Okay. This is a dried spice. It rehydrates. It adds flavor. I typically add my spices and things, either the last thing before I'm going to leave it for the night. Right. Or first thing in the morning, I'll throw them in and let them do their thing. Okay. So I came up with this idea of how do we use our community and come together to support organizations that are lifting women up. I will be profiling some of these incredible nonprofits that are raising up women that really need some extra support. Give like a girl. We are more powerful together. And I'm so excited to announce this project to you. So, and so you're not, do you believe in like the longer it sits and everything marinates together, the richer the flavors will be? Not necessarily. Yeah, that's what I'm hearing. I want something really interesting is there's something called, it's in the Chinese heritage and it's basically, it's a broth that never leaves the stove. Oh, yeah. It's forever broth. It's like a mother broth. It's a mother broth that they boil forever. I mean, as long as it boils and boils, nothing can live in there. So it's fine. And it has, over time, it develops these flavors that, you know, similar to mole and there's some restaurants in Mexico that the mole has been growing forever and ever and ever and ever. Wow. And it develops these flavors. Wow. Okay. Okay. What do you like? Do you like chicken? Do you like beef? This actually is buffalo, which is really cool. My absolute all-time favorite broth that I make once a year, right after Thanksgiving, because that's when all the bones of everything go on sale. They're in, you know, that's when you can get really good deals and make like a lot of stock. Okay. Little trick. I love the Easter broth, what's called Easter broth in the Italian diaspora, which typically it's chicken, beef, sometimes turkey. Right. Ham bone. Oh, yeah. And it just is the most delicious, developed, rich, perfect stock for using for a lot of different things. If you're going to make chicken soup, especially Italian wedding soup with little meatballs, it's the best. So it's a mixture of bones. Mm-hmm. That's really cool. Yeah. I mean, you never see ham bone broth. Like, I can't go to the store and necessarily get pork broth. Yeah. No, you, not, it depends, but typically no. And again, this comes from when I was cooking in Spain and, you know, what's on every countertop in Spain is a big old ham. Right. So when you're done with cutting the ham, you have this bone, what are you going to do with it? Very often, we would use it to make one of the many broths that we serve for family meal or whatnot. And it's just filling, delicious. It has that sort of hammy split pea soup. There's nothing better. Oh, split pea soup. There's nothing better on the planet than split pea soup that's been made with a ham broth. Yeah. Amazing. Amazing. Okay. Anything else you want to say about broth? I think that helped me to start to want to make it. It is. The kind of thing also, I think the most important thing to realize is you can make a lot at once, freeze it, and then you'll have it for a half hour. It stays in your freezer. It's fine. Yeah. And so that's something to bear in mind, because it can be an involved process, but once you got it, you got it. Yeah. On a scale of one to ten, ten being really hard things to make in the kitchen and one being easy, where do you think bone broth fits? This is under five or maybe even under four. We're not talking about something that, it really is paint by numbers. It's like, okay, purge the bone, let it sit, don't let it boil, let it ride, don't let your dog jump on the counter. That's about it. I have a friend who's always like, I can't believe you buy bone broth. I don't buy the box, but it's because I haven't really sat down with a recipe like the one that you put in here to really understand how I want to do it. It's formulaic. It's one of the few things in kitchens, obviously baking is formulaic, but there's a lot that can go wrong if you don't understand technique and have made it three or four times. But making broth, it really is as simple as how it's written. Yeah. Amazing. Amazing. So there you go. There's bone broth. It's all over eat like a girl. And if you have any good tips for bone broth, because that's the other thing about bone broth. People always want to give their tips. It's like when you ferment things, people are like, hey, did you try this? Try this. Try that. So if you have any good tips on how to make a great bone broth, put it in the comments. Love it. And as always, we hope you enjoy this book because there are a lot. And this was like, you know, what's really cool about this book is you came in with your specialty and did it so well. And then Chef Leslie came in with hers. And then I came in with the front matter. And it was just this beautiful synergy. So we're excited for you all to get a copy of it. So there you go. There's bone broth. Guess what? In my next video, I'm going to show you the amazing benefits of honey. So make sure you stick through and watch that video. What is interesting is honey, even though it's a sweetener, there's some really cool qualities to it that you want to know about and make you change your mind if you've kept it out of your diet.