 And how many fuel sources does the brain have? It has multiple fuel sources, but its favorite fuel sources are very small molecules, primarily glucose, ketones, and to a lesser extent lactic acid or lactate, which we don't need to talk about today, because it'll get too complicated. But glucose is one of the brain's favorite fuels, but it really, the brain has been described as a hybrid. It works best on a mixture of glucose and ketones. Because glucose is a fast fuel, so there are certain operations in the brain that need that fast energy. Ketones are a slower fuel, slower burning fuel, but they're cleaner, and they're smoother, and they're more efficient, and they cause less inflammation and oxidative stress when you're burning them. So it's really a combination of the two that works best. And what, like, if I have a hybrid car, and the, I'm not doing anything to facilitate the electrical, the, you know, the electric part of it, I'm only working on the gas, it seems like I wouldn't be using the car to its full capability. So as I'm hearing you talk, I'm thinking about the millions of people that never have really experienced the power of a ketone. What, what would happen to the brain if it never got exposed to ketones, and it was only exposed to glucose? Does that cause any inflammation because it doesn't have that second fuel source or any challenges to the brain? One hundred percent. One hundred percent. So if your, if your brain tries to run entirely on glucose, first of all, it would be very, very difficult for that to, for that to occur. Because you would have to be, glucose doesn't last very long. You have to keep, you have to keep putting it in. You have to keep it. Right. So, so like, for example, overnight, when you're not eating carbohydrate, if, unless you're fat adapted on a ketogenic diet, overnight, your body will say, we're running out of glucose, we're running out of glucose. Mm-hmm . And your body, your body and your brain will try to then switch over to ketones to, to bridge that energy gap. But that takes a little bit of time. Yeah. And so what's happening is that there's a stressful transition period overnight where cortisol levels can go up and, and people can actually wake up or they can, their, their sleep can be disrupted because they've got this surge of stress hormones that are trying to, they're looking for energy. Where's the, where's the energy for the brain as the glucose is dropping overnight. So, so having a smooth, having your body be metabolically healthy means that you can switch easily and efficiently between the two. Right. And most of us are not metabolically flexible anymore. Right. Yeah. And it's hard to regain that. You can regain it, but it's hard to do. And, and it takes some time to, to rebuild that flexibility. But most people are trying to, to fuel their brains almost entirely with glucose. Right. And that's, so a couple of problems with that. One is that your energy level is going to be unstable. Right. Right. And, and the other is that, um, a glucose, it does burn faster, but it burns, it doesn't burn as cleanly and, or efficiently. And so what you get is you can get more inflammation and more of something called oxidative stress. And these are, these are damaging forces in the brain. So if you're running on glucose all the time, it's like, you've got your foot on the gas pedal and, and you're really damaging the engine. Yeah. What you want to do is you want to occasionally take your foot off that gas pedal and, and, and give your brain some, some downtime, some healing time, some, some time in a lower glucose state, not a zero glucose state. You always need some glucose. Of course. But you want to, but if you're trying to run a hundred percent on glucose, you're really going to have to keep that foot on the gas pedal to get enough energy. Um, whereas you can let up and let, let the ketones do some of that work for you. Um, and that way, when you're in ketosis, the brain can enter a healing mode where you can recycle, you can regenerate, you can, you can, you can build and repair and clean up. Mm-hmm . If you're running on glucose all the time, your cells are too busy processing that glucose for them to actually, um, do maintenance and repair and healing work. And so I'm thinking in, in application of, of what you just said, would it be to my brain's benefit to maybe eat an earlier dinner? Um, maybe even a dinner that's more stable for my blood sugar, knowing that I'm hoping to go into a mild state of what we, what I refer to as nutritional ketosis. Yes. When, when I'm sleeping, like, would that be the goal of brain repair is to have everybody be in a metabolic state where they can flip into ketosis when they're asleep? That is the way I think about it. Uh, I believe that everybody, whether they have a mental health condition right now or not, or whether they have metabolic problems right now or not, even people who are robustly mentally and physically healthy, which are very few of us, unfortunately. Very few, I know. I know. You know, but, but even, even if you are in the, you, if you're right now, the picture of health, it's still, this is my opinion based on, you know, what I've studied. I think it's still ideal for humans who want to maintain their good health to get into ketosis on a regular basis, especially overnight. It doesn't mean you have to be in ketosis all the time. It doesn't mean you have to even eat a ketogenic diet. It's just about making sure you're using those pathways and keeping the, keeping those pathways well oiled and well used so that you can flip back and forth easily. Back and forth. Yeah. And, and so that, so that everything stays in working order so that you enter this healing mode every night. Overnight is the perfect time to do it. Right. And so overnight go into that healing mode. And then the next day, eating in a way that doesn't spike your glucose into unhealthy ranges. And again, that doesn't necessarily mean a ketogenic diet. It depends on who you are. Mm-hmm . Yeah. I've been really, you know, when I started to really understand melatonin, I saw that there's an inverse relationship between melatonin and insulin. And so, you know, for, from a weight loss standpoint, I really started teaching people that they shouldn't eat right before they go to sleep because especially if it's dark out, you've got, you know, you've got a lot of melatonin going in you, which makes you a little more insulin resistant. Yes. It's really, and then I just recently saw another study that was showing improved heart rate variability. And that's not really what we got to talk about within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within within that you're going to become more insulin resistant. And so that's when you're going to tend to store more of your calories as fat. And it's just not going to be as healthy for you. And you're going to lose out on that precious overnight healing phase that I think one of the holy grails of good health. So, so amazing. And, you know, we're over here telling people that sleep is so important, but we're forgetting the nuance of like, sleep is really important. And here's some factors to get you the most out of your sleep, which food timing would be a big one. In your in this new expert consensus, there was a couple of things that were really interesting to me. So one was that you all decided what the amount of ketones that was best for depression, schizophrenia and dementia. Is that correct? Those were the three conditions you looked at? So this paper, the expert consensus was eight of us who have many years of experience studying and using ketogenic diets and mental health. We, we were asked this question. Yeah, and tried to come up with an answer. And, and we focused on what we call what are often called serious mental illnesses, which are major depression, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. So those three major mental illnesses were the ones that we focused on in this expert consensus. And so now we don't know for sure what is going to be the right range of, or, or level of ketosis for every person with, with, with one of these conditions. Right. But what we said in this, in this paper was that based on our clinical experience and the research that we have available so far, it appears, there appears to be a trend where with these serious mental illnesses, most people seem to do better when their degree of ketosis, their range of ketosis is somewhere between 1.0 millimole per liter and 3.0 millimole per liter. Most of the time doesn't have to be all the time. Ketones fluctuate. They naturally fluctuate quite a bit, but, and you know, we've all seen all of us on this panel had seen people respond to lower levels and seeds and seen some people need higher levels, but most, most of what we tend to see, people tend to do better when they're in that range. And so we ask people to aim for that range at first, and then they can find out for themselves what their personal optimal range is after they've, after they've gotten into good consistent ketosis for a while, see whether they can loosen it up a little bit or whether they have to actually tighten it up. But between one and three is a nice window to aim for. Which is so beautiful because I get asked all the time from fasters, you know, when people start fasting, they're like, Oh my God, my ketones were 4.0, 5.0. And I'm always like, look, I've sat with so many ketogenic experts. None of them are going for the more is better. In fact, I've sat in so many conferences where people say 1.5 is my sweet spot. It's where I feel my best. So I think it's really interesting that you gave that range because there is what I've seen on my end is this desire to get more. But do we know if more is better? We don't know that. I can say that if ketones are too high for too long, you're kind of edging into starvation range and nutrient deficiencies and so forth. But most people are not using fasting in that way. Most people are not using ketogenic diet in that way. So those are kind of more extreme situations. But with intermittent fasting and with a properly formulated ketogenic diet, getting into that range is considered ideal by a lot of people. But there are some people who do feel better when they're even higher. Some people feel better when they're 3.5 or 4. But I have many patients who feel quite uncomfortable when their ketones are running too high for too long. They just feel anxious, can't sleep, they're hungry all the time, can't concentrate. And usually that's because they're not getting enough of something they need. And so it depends on the devils and the details. But I've also seen people who respond to a low-carbohydrate diet and maybe a little intermittent fasting where they're never really in great ketosis, but they're just so much better anyway because they've gotten their glucose levels under nice and low and stable, right? So sometimes that's all you have to do. And sometimes all you have to do is just give yourself a break from food processing. Yes. Yes. Well said. On the body and brain. Yeah. Yeah.