 J-y Україcane, Inspections, J-yannina, Inspections, J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J-yannina J- help you figure out how to avoid it and make smart choices for you. So first, let's talk about what glyphosate is. Glyphosate is the most wildly used herbicide in the world with more than 2 billion pounds of it sprayed worldwide every year. And what's so dangerous about glyphosate is not only does it create damage to what it's sprayed on, but it can get in the air and it can actually, we start to breathe it, it can move to the organic farmer next to us. It doesn't just stay contained on the farm that it is sprayed. And it is a dangerous herbicide for both people and the environment. The International Agency of Research on Cancer found that glyphosate exposure likely causes cancer, specifically non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a cancer of the lymph nodes. And Bayer, who owns Monsanto, so Monsanto is the company that started spraying glyphosate on everything. Glyphosate is also, by the way, known as Roundup, which you spray on your weeds out in your garden, or in your, hopefully you don't, but in your garden to kill weeds. So Bayer bought Monsanto years ago. And over the last several years, they have paid nearly $20 billion in cancer lawsuits to over 40,000 people, all who developed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma after exposure to glyphosate. In fact, the most recent settlement was $7.25 billion to Bayer that was reached last week on February 17. And since the start to these massive cancer lawsuits, Bayer has been spending millions of dollars lobbying politicians, specifically our president, and trying to get them to stop the lawsuits coming at them, as opposed to trying to spend that money on making it less carcinogenic. So Trump's new executive orders gives Bayer partial federal protection against these lawsuits from U.S. citizens in all 50 states. So why is glyphosate getting legal protection? So Trump claims that glyphosate production is a national defense issue. And I want to point this out because many of you are going to be horrified when you first hear this, and then there's going to be a handful of you that is going to start to buy what they're telling you. And it is erroneous, and I'm going to explain why. So Trump claims that glyphosate production is a national defense issue. His logic is that if we don't have enough glyphosate and we don't protect Bayer, why would we need to protect Bayer? Like, why are we concerned about protecting Bayer, not the people, from lawsuits, we won't be able to grow enough food to feed our military, which will weaken our country. So that is why it is a national defense issue, because how will our military eat? Many lawyers are saying that this approach is ridiculous. I hope it sounds ridiculous to you that herbicides have nothing to do with military activity. So he just found a loophole in this national defense issue. So, but by claiming that the pesticide production is a matter of national security, Trump has the legal power to protect agrochemical corporations from cancer lawsuits while increasing their use on USA food. Okay, where's Maha in this? Where's RFK Jr. in this? And this goes directly against the platform of Maha and RFK Jr. And if you don't know who, what Maha is or RFK Jr., Maha is Make America Healthy Again. And they joined forces with Trump in the last election saying that we needed to really focus on getting food dyes out of our food system because it was making our children obese. And Maha released a government report last year titled Making Our Children Healthy Again. And it specifically called out glyphosate as a highly toxic pesticide and noted that when it's used on food, it damages the health of American children. So one of the things that we are watching right now is a fracturing of the Maha movement, as we should see. We are seeing many of the people who supported RFK in his quest to overturn childhood obesity and help make America healthy again. We see many of those people pointing fingers at RFK Jr. as we should be asking why are we going to these great lengths to get food dyes out while we are spraying chemicals that are carcinogenic on our food. There is a disconnect there. You'll see another part of the Maha movement that is buying this national defense issue. But glyphosate manufacturing has legal problems against this lawsuit and it can now because it is protected. Not only can't we sue them if something happens, but they are going to use more of the pesticide, not less. And this is blatant hypocrisy. And it continues in the trend of make America healthy again. And I just want to say one thing. This is why we can never vote on one issue. When we go to elect our politicians, we need to look at all the things they stand for. And Trump was very clear that he was anti-environment. And things like air pollution that now is environmental laws that are being overturned so there's more mercury in the air. Things like protecting Bayer so it can spray more. That has always been something that we have seen Trump do. But many people in the Maha movement went so in on RFK Jr. who was looking for power perhaps more than affecting people's health. And a lot of what Maha says sounds great on paper, but it doesn't actually apply. So yes, we need to eat more whole foods. Yes, we need to eliminate pesticide use. Yes, we need to clean up the environment. But when it comes to the actual policy, the Department of Health and Human Services uses vague languaging. Be careful of the vague languaging. That's hard to enforce legally. So basically Maha has been over here making promises. It cannot keep and it was one of the biggest corruptions that we are seeing right now where so many people voted for Trump thinking they were going to make America healthy again because that is what Robert Kennedy Jr. promised them. And what we're seeing is the exact opposite. Research shows what do we need to know about glyphosate. Research suggests that glyphosate causes cancer, but it also does other damage. There are several studies that have been found that glyphosate exposure damages fertility, especially in women. A 2001 study found that female farmhands exposed glyphosate before pregnancy had a significantly higher risk of miscarriage, especially late term miscarriage. If you've miscarried before, you're having trouble getting pregnant, look at eating organic, getting off of glyphosate. We'll talk about that in a moment. A 2018 study measured the glyphosate levels in the urine of pregnant women and tracked their pregnancies. Women with higher glyphosate exposure were significantly more likely to have premature births. So we know that it not only can cause non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, we also know that it can cause challenges with fertility. I've also seen quite a few. I did so much thyroid work in my office and one of the first things we did is get all of our thyroid patients off sprayed foods and on to organic foods because it was destroying the thyroid. We also know that glyphosate drives heavy metals even deeper into the brain. So we're looking at more dementia and more Alzheimer's and more cognitive decline. And I think a question we have to ask ourselves is how do we avoid it and does it really increase food production? Let me start with the latter one. So the problem is that glyphosate damages soil which produces a lower quality food and causes problems for future farming. This is done in a farming technique called mono cropping and what they do is they spray the food, they harvest the food, they till it and make it clean again and then spray it again. When you do this, what happens is you start to pull out all the minerals and nutrients in that soil. You also pull out healthy microbes that feed your microbiome and give you a diverse set of bacteria in your gut. Bacteria that makes you serotonin and dopamine and helps you sleep and boost your immune system. This is no joke. You do not want to be eating food with glyphosate killing these bacteria. But you also are, if you're eating conventional food that comes from conventional farms, that food is being grown in depleted soils. So you are not getting the nutrients out of the food that you might think you are. A 2019 study showed that although the use of agrochemicals increases crop productivity, which is what Trump is saying, in many cases it leads to soil deterioration. I'll tell you where we saw that a lot in our community when we first started fasting everybody. We started seeing hair falling out, we started seeing heart palpitations and then I started playing with having people add minerals in. And when people added minerals in, like my favorite mineral is bean minerals, we'll leave links in here. When they started to add minerals into their diet, what we started to see is the heart palpitations went away. And so I looked into why is everybody mineral depleted? I feel like I'm watching a culture of mineral depleted humans and this is what I found. This was years ago. What I found is the soil that is growing the food, the conventional food that you are eating is nutrient and mineral depleted and probiotic depleted. We also, back to the probiotics, a 2019 review showed that glyphosate interferes with soil bacteria. It binds to micronutrients. So those micronutrients are no longer available for the crop. So think about that broccoli that you're like, oh, I'm going to eat it because it's going to make me feel better. And my grandma said I can eat it. If it's grown in a conventional crop sprayed with glyphosate, there's no nutrients in it. Don't even worry about eating it. So we have to start to address, there was a huge movement prior to Trump to get light glyphosate out of our food system. I can tell you here in California where I live, you cannot spray glyphosate on products. You can't sell Roundup. There are laws that are protecting it. France is protecting glyphosate. Mexico has outlying glyphosate. So many people are outlying glyphosate. And one of the worst things is that glyphosate persists for a very long time, continuing to damage soil. It doesn't go away quickly and it spreads to other ecosystems like groundwater. So it can go into other farms, maybe even the organic farmer. I remember having a conversation with Todd White, who started a company called Dry Farm Wines, where he wanted to bring to the world wines that didn't have chemicals in it. And this is before we changed our glyphosate laws here in California. I asked him, you know, what about Napa wines? What about Sonoma wines? And he goes, if you have a vineyard where there is one being sprayed and the one next to it is not being sprayed, it doesn't matter because it seeps in through the groundwater. This is a serious deal. So it destroys soil quality and then our soil is less nutritious. And what you might be asking is, well, is there another way to get more food? And a 2026 study, so this year, found that thanks to recent advancements in organic farm management, we can actually make nearly as much food with organic farming. So do not fall prey to this messaging that our military will not have enough food. We are proving with organic farming techniques, it's called regenerative farming, we are proving that you can make nearly as much food and food with nutrients, food with probiotics in them. So maybe instead of doubling down on the agrochemicals, we should be investing in organic farming and producing better food and plenty of it without toxic, environmentally destructive herbicides. Now, how do you make sure that you're not affected? Okay, I'm going to give you a checklist because right now it's a, here in America, it's a save yourself moment. So first is go to organic. So make sure that you are always buying organic, non-GMO foods. Yes, it costs more. So that's one of the challenges that our president is going to have to square with the American public. One of the other things you can do that might even be help with the cost is go to your local farmers market. This is where we get our food, we talk to the farmers, you're looking for farms that have small crops. So support your regenerative local farmer with smaller crops. They, let's make them the heroes right now. Let's infuse our money into them. So go local, go to these farmers markets. Okay. The third thing that you can start to do is if you are struggling with the finances of this, let me explain one really powerful comment to you. When we eat food that is high in fiber, like fruits and vegetables, it cleans our intestinal tract. It gives our microbes, the healthy microbes life. It's fuel for life. So maybe you make a decision that your lettuces are going to be the things you make with salad, maybe the more most fibery, the vegetables. So maybe the fruits you'll buy, you know, that are sprayed with glyphosate and maybe you just go to the vegetables because they can feed these microbes who can start to clean your gut and help you get rid of glyphosate. So that might be one option you do. You also, we can start to look at some detoxing techniques and I'm happy to bring you some of those here because there's a lot of them like lean into more Corella. You can find that at your local health food store. Like I said, eating more vegetables, bean minerals. One of my favorite mineral products has a product called micro boost and take it at night and it's a fulvic and humic acids that will start to detox your brain. Prioritize sleep. Sleep is a great way to detox your brain. Sweat every day, move every day. So you're increasing your circulation. So as this, this starts to get infiltrated into our food system more and more, we are going to need more detox tools. And those are some of the ones that I know that are free and they're easy to you. I used to always say we live in the most toxic time in human history and unfortunately I'm going to tell you we live in an even more toxic time. And it's really important that we avoid anything sprayed with glyphosate and you can vote with your dollars. We're proving this here in America. Vote for your dollars. Go to the local farmer. Stay away from the corporate big commercial farms and let's start showing them what we want by voting with our dollars. But don't fall prey to this idea that glyphosate production is a national defense issue. And shame on you, Maha. Shame on you, RFK Jr. I mean, we have to look at a holistic point of health. You can't just take food dyes out and start to say that our children are going to be healthy again. Our children are living in an environment that is allowed to be polluted at greater levels than ever before. That is more toxic. We are living in a world where women are being suppressed and children are being harmed. That is more toxic. I don't care about food dyes. I care more about these particular activities that that the Maha movement has been turning its head away from. It is time for Maha to face the reality that they have been duped. And this administration does not care about people. It cares about corporations and it cares about profits. And it is time for us on an individual level to start educating ourselves with videos like this. Send this out to people who are confused about the topic and start to make smarter choices for the foods you eat. I used to say organic was optional. I do not say that anymore. Organic will save your life at this moment in history. As always, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.