 So we got to talk about exercise, cause I know, especially for weight loss, because I know so many of you, once you start fasting, you're like, psh, exercise, schm, exercise, like, I found a tool to lose weight, I don't need to exercise, you need to exercise. So, there's so many reasons why I want you to exercise, but on this video, I really want to talk about weight loss and exercise, because I want to make sure, for those of you that are really working hard to really drop some weight, I want to make sure you're doing it in a smart way, not in the old-fashioned way, where we used to be like, more restriction and more discipline, you don't have to do that anymore, you actually can lean into science and look at what science has taught us when it comes to weight loss and exercise, and if you pair what I'm about to say with a fasting lifestyle, you've got yourself some gold, some weight loss gold. So, here we go, ready? Okay, so, what the science says, and I'm going to give you sort of two avenues to look at this, and then in the end, I'm going to kind of bring them together and how it would look in a week, but what the science says is that the best way to lose weight is through high-intensity training. So, you can dive into that, to the most current research that I'm looking at, and I've seen this in our Reset Academy, we do a workout every Saturday morning, and I mix up HIIT training with the next workout I'm going to tell you about, but whenever we do, every couple of months, we do something called a fat burner Reset, where we just come together as a worldwide community, and we practice different principles of fasting and exercise and food to be able to lose weight. And during those weeks, I always do HIIT training, and I lead the exercises most of the time, which is really fun. So, come join us. We'll put a link for the academy in here. But what I want to emphasize to you is that when you are HIIT training, you are bringing your heart rate and your respiration rate up, and then you're giving it a rest. And then you're bringing it back up, and then you're giving it a rest. And what that does is it signals to your body to start to release a hormone called growth hormone. And growth hormone burns fat. Once growth hormone is on the scene, it starts to melt fat away. So, if you are getting stuck with weight loss, more of this up and down with your respiration rate and your heart rate. So, it could look like a lot of different things. The original study that was done, we have a lot more up-to-date study, was done from a Japanese scientist whose last name was Tabata. And some of you may know the Tabata training. But in Tabata training, what he did is he did 30 seconds on, like all-out exercises, hard as you can go, and 90 seconds off where you're just resting. And he saw that when people did that style of exercise, that they didn't just burn calories in the moment, but they fired up their metabolism because they released growth hormone, and that metabolism stayed fired up for at least 24 hours afterwards. That was the original study. Now, there's some new science that's saying that actually the best way to do HIIT training is to go all-in for three minutes. Like, as much as you can get that extreme workout for three minutes, that that is even accentuating fat burning even more. And I would say we're seeing this in my academy. I'm experiencing this in my own workouts, that if I can push myself for three minutes cardiovascularly, getting myself to about 80% of VO2 max, which means I'm bent over like sucking in air, that I can start to see the shift in the menopausal belly weight. I can feel the shift just in, I call it paddedness, that happens sometimes as you go through menopause of just that extra padding you feel on your body. So it's in this hormonal reaction of HIIT training that the magic actually works. So you get to choose your amount. You might decide it's 45 seconds on, 30 seconds off of an exercise. You might try the three minutes. The way we do it in my academy is we actually do it where it's like 30 seconds of a jumping jack and then 30 seconds of a high knee sprint and then 30 seconds of a burpee. And we have all different levels in there doing it together. And when you mix it up in 30 minute chunks, the three minutes goes by very quickly. So HIIT training, it is your go-to when you hit that point where you're like, nothing's making sense in the weight loss world. I can't move the needle on weight loss. I want you to start to ask yourself, am I HIIT training? Am I doing enough HIIT training? So that would be a huge part of exercise. Second part of exercise, and I feel like this is very topical right now. Everybody's talking about more weights, more weights, more strength training. And I'm not saying, just because I'm over here saying HIIT training for weight loss doesn't mean I'm not saying more weights. In fact, I'm a 54-year-old woman. I am leaning into weights like you cannot believe. I'm like, how do I get more weight training? And the reason that weight training works is that you have a whole set of insulin receptor sites that get birthed as you build muscle. And the more insulin receptor sites you have, think of them as little gates that you have for glucose to go into your body to be used for energy. So when we start to see that there's a bigger muscle mass in a person, whether it's a man or a woman, we start to see that they are more insulin sensitive. So there are two different ways of coming at weight loss. They both work really well, but the first and the quickest, like if it's Wednesday and you got a hot date on Friday and you're like, not feeling it in my body, I'd like to drop off some pounds, do some HIIT training. That's going to be your quickest way. But if you're a 45-year-old menopausal woman, you're like, oh, menopause has just killed me. I have so much extra weight. I really want to make sure that you don't just go all in on HIIT training and that you are doing some heavy weights because the more muscle you have, the more insulin receptors you will have, which over time will make you more insulin sensitive. They are both really important. Now I can tell you, I'm going to share like full transparency, the mistakes I made during my forties that I am now trying to recover from. So when I first found fasting, well, back up one step, I was a competitive tennis player in college. I've been an athlete my whole life. I love working out. And when I found fasting in my forties, I was like, I had so much energy, so much mental clarity. It kept my weight where I wanted it to be that I started doing a lot of HIIT training because it was time efficient. You don't have to do a long HIIT training workout. And I sort of skipped the weights. And when I moved into my post-mental pausal time, which has been in the last couple of years, I started to feel like my muscle was really breaking down. So I went back to weight training and going back to weight training is not a lot of fun when you've been off of weight training for like a decade. So I really am now a strong advocate for women over 40. Let's start picking up the weights. Let's pick them up and let's get strong. It's really important. But it's not the only thing you should do. You also need to be thinking about HIIT training because it has that growth hormone. And the thing about growth hormone is that once growth hormone is stimulated, so it also brings along all the other hormones with it. It starts to raise all the sex hormones. So both are needed. And for me, in a weekly workout now, I'm doing three to four days of heavy weight lifting. I'm doing two to three days of HIIT training or sprints. I like to sprint and just like so that I'm so out of breath. And then I'm doing one day of yoga or like walking or repair. And I kind of use those three. It's like yoga, walking, hiking, HIIT training, and muscle building, strength training. I'm sort of moving through a week looking at, am I doing all of those? But if I find myself only weight muscle building, I remind myself more HIIT training. And when I find myself more HIIT training, I'm like, hey, we got to remember muscle building and I've got to make sure that I lean into the other things. So that would be the one thing that I feel like at 54, if I could go back and give you some advice, those of you that are in your 40s listening to this, please don't forget the importance of building muscle because I mean, and all my, all the post-menopausal women here put, put in the comments, like the muscle breaks down fast. So stay ahead of it. So there you go. Those are my thoughts on exercise and, uh, and, uh, weight loss. Um, again, there's no absolute. I really want to point this out in, in the new book I'm writing. I'm talking a lot about the N of one and of one, you be your own example, take all this information, apply it and find what works for you based off of your body type, your health situation, your lifestyle. So don't fall into the world of absolutes in, in, um, here on YouTube, uh, in the social media, we love to be like, you have to do this. I like to take all that information. Think about it. How the, how does it work in the, in the female body? And then I like to apply it and decide how it works for me. And that's what we all should be doing with this information. So put in the comments, what do you, what are your thoughts on hit training? How's it worked for you? Um, and, uh, maybe even if you have a fun exercise routine, share it because we are a community here on YouTube, but as always do not give up on yourself. You're a miracle. If you don't feel like one, hang with me. I promise I'm, I'm working as hard as I can to teach you how your body works so that you know, these strategies and that you start to believe in yourself again, because you're ridiculously powerful. We're going back into weight loss. We're going back into autophagy and I'm going to make this very, very simple for you to understand. So, so many of you are asking questions about when should I eat? When should I fast? Where does autophagy fit into weight loss specifically? So I want to cover three key things here. I want to talk. One is about how do we use fasting to stimulate autophagy and how that affects weight loss. The second thing is I want to talk about your eating window. Where do you put your eating window so that you can maximize both autophagy and weight loss. And then the third I want to talk about is really apoptosis and where that fits in to your weight loss journey. So if you haven't heard me talk about apoptosis before, this is really critical. So the first that we're going to look at is the length of your fast. If you've been following me for a while, hopefully you know that when you metabolically switch over into a fat burning state, you need to hit about 17 hours to stimulate autophagy. Now, this is a really important nuance because a lot of you guys have been asking me this question is that when we're fasting 13 to 15 hours, we're stimulating ketosis. You may not be stimulating autophagy at 13, 15 hours. You're stimulating ketosis. All ketosis is, is the indication that your body is now burning fat and making ketones as a byproduct. That's beautiful. So those of you that want to lose weight, that 13 to 15 hours is your first ledge to stimulate ketosis so that you burn fat in that moment. But here, think about this for a moment. That doesn't mean that you are going to kick yourself out of insulin resistance. So the name of the game, when we're looking at using fasting as a really cool tool for weight loss is how do we not only burn fat, but how do we stop you from becoming insulin resistant? And that's where we've got to get you into this place of autophagy. So the second thing that we've got to think about is the longer you fast, the deeper the autophagy. And the deeper the autophagy, the more your body gets rid of insulin resistant cells. So that's 17 hours or longer. Now you're in massive cellular repair. 13 to 15 hours, you're just getting energy by burning fat, but you're not in cellular repair as deep. So make sure if you want to lose weight, you're going in longer than 17 hours. That's the first thing I want you to know. The next part of this equation is what do we do with your eating window? And so when we look at your eating window, the greatest place to line yourself up with weight loss is only eat in the daylight. So in the summer, this is a little bit easier because you can have dinner a little bit earlier, but as long as you're eating in the dark, you are promoting insulin resistance. So that dinner you have at nine o'clock at night, when it's dark out, your cells are going to be more insulin resistant to that because melatonin has come in. So if we want to kick you out of insulin resistance, so you never have to worry about weight again, we're going to take a fasting lifestyle that starts to put you in longer than 17 hours. And we're going to start to make sure that you are only eating in the daylight. And now, okay, we've taken two major concepts and you're turning your body into not only a fat burning machine, but you're overturning insulin resistance. The other part of this conversation that I want to make sure that we're really clear on is that there are many ways to stimulate autophagy, not just through fasting, like exercise, for example. Did you know that HIIT training is massively important for making sure that you stimulate autophagy and you get out of insulin resistance? So for example, I've talked about this on my podcast. I've talked about this on Instagram. If you guys follow me on Instagram, I love the Carol bike. The Carol bike is the only AI bike out there that is going to help you get autophagy out of your workouts. But what's so unique about an AI bike like Carol bike is that what it will do is it'll put your body not only in a state of fat burning, but it will stimulate autophagy by getting your heart rate up and down so that you get yourself out of insulin resistance. It's the coolest hack ever. We also know that things like sleep, sleep are massively important. So those of you that are trying to lose weight, but you're skimping on sleep, you're actually skimping on autophagy. So you stimulate autophagy when you sleep. So make sure that you're using sleep as a fat burning tool. Now, what would it look like to put all of these things together? Let me give you a formula. I want to give you a protocol and this is what it would look like. And I'm going to give you a protocol that's like within like, you know, a daily, well, I'll talk about a daily protocol for weight loss. And then I want to talk about a weekly one. And I know I always talk about monthly for, for women, but I want to give you something very specific that you can take away from this video. So in a daily protocol, you get up in the morning, the sun is rising, you're not eating. You're going to make sure you go at least 17 hours without food in that day. So you can stimulate autophagy in your fasting window. You're going to use something like a Carol bike, which is a HIIT training where you're getting your heart rate up and down. So now you're stimulating autophagy through your workout. That's what we call a double stack. So we have gotten you into a place where you're using fasting to stimulate autophagy and you're using your workouts together at the same time so that you can kick yourself out of insulin resistance. Now, when you go in and open up your eating window, what you're going to do is you're going to make sure that that eating window stays within the light hours. An example would be maybe you don't eat until noon and you eat from noon until six when it's light out. And then once the sun starts to go down, you shut down that eating window. If you do that, you've now gone into not only you're working within your hormonal balance, but you've also got your autophagy stimulated through fasting and through working out. So now we've got like two really cool major cellular principles that are going to put you in this weight loss lifestyle that will have you losing weight even when you start to eat. Now, one last thing you can incorporate that for those of you that want to lose weight is when we look at all the different ways to stimulate autophagy. One of them is on the autophagy building days, you keep protein under 20 grams. Now, I know I've talked about protein and insulin resistance. This is in the context of autophagy. If we go under 20 grams of protein, now we have a full 24 hours of autophagy. You've used fasting, you've used working out, and you used food to find three different ways to create an autophagy state for 24 hours. And then if you make sure when you're eating, you're in the daylight, the daylight hours, you're now in balance with, with your hormones. That is a beautiful 24 hour routine that you can do on the days you really want to accelerate weight loss. Now, within a week, you've heard me talk a lot about 5-1-1, maybe five days a week, you're stimulating, doing exactly what I said. You're stimulating autophagy, maybe one day a week, you really just elongate that fast to like 24 hours and you're just eating one meal. You're even deeper into autophagy. And one day a week, you would actually do like a protein cycling where you're doing one gram of protein for every pound of body weight that you are. And I've done a lot of videos on that. So now we're using all of these tools, cycling in and out of a lot of cool tools to create this, this weight loss effect in your body. So, and, and, and I want to, I want to pause for one moment. And because I know a lot of you will be like, say like, well, you told me to eat protein so that I can increase my, my insulin receptors. Yeah. That's a principle for, of weight loss. That's a principle that we have many principles. And then we also have the principle of autophagy for weight loss. And then we also have the hormonal principle of melatonin for weight loss. So this is why we don't eat the same way. We don't do the same activities every single day. The variation matters. So what I'm doing is showing you many doors in to using autophagy to be able to accelerate weight loss. So let me know. I know if you have questions, put it in the comments. This is deep. This is nuanced. But what I want to make sure is that you're very clear that you have a lot of options for weight loss and autophagy is at the front. We got to learn how to get more into this autophagy place so that you can get better weight loss results. And those of you that are interested in learning more about the Carol bike, there's discounts codes and everything you need to know in the comments or in the notes. So go check those out. But as always, I please, please, please, please don't give up on yourself. I know that there is always a door into weight loss for every single one of you. And this video is going to be that door in for many of you. I know belly fat is like the favorite thing everybody wants to talk about here on this channel. So I'm coming at it from as many angles as I can to give you as many tools because a lot of you are going to look at some of the other videos that I did on belly fat and you're going to be like, oh my God, those worked for me. Some of you are going to be like, those didn't work for me. And then some of you are going to come to a video like this and you're going to be like, these, this was the trick. So what I'm trying to do is give you lots of different ways to approach something that's not only really annoying, this growing a belly fat, but as, as you know, it has been well stated that that belly fat is actually an indicator of what chronic diseases are building inside your body. So being able to handle the belly fat is really important. So let's talk about foods and, and what we can lean into eat to help the belly fat. You ready? So the first thing for those of you who maybe are not familiar with my teachings, let me tell you what belly fat is. You know, we look at fat and we tend to think that all fat is equal, but it's not. All fat throughout our bodies, what it is, is your body needed a place to store excess. And sometimes it stores excess glucose because it doesn't know what to do with it. You're insulin resistant. Sometimes it stores excess toxins because the liver is working really hard to break these toxins down. It doesn't really understand what, how, how to efficiently do it. So it stores it in fat. Sometimes you're storing excess cortisol because your life is really stressful and you're making cortisol all the time. So your body put it in your belly. And sometimes it's storing extra estrogen, especially those of you that are on any kind of estrogen patches or bioidenticals or, you know, any of you going through the perimenopausal experience where you're really having these big swings in estrogen. So we have to look at the storage of fat and especially belly fat much differently. We can't just put it into one category. So with that in mind, belly fat is mostly cortisol and it's mostly estrogen. This is the place that your body's going to store those two extra hormones. So with cortisol, that's a whole nother video on how do you work with your mind and your stress levels to help belly fat. That might actually be a good one to do. I don't think I've done that video yet. But for estrogen, I really want to approach three different food groups and how we can look at this to be able to get your body to get rid of this estrogen so it doesn't store it around the belly. So here we go. First is the first food to lean into is fatty fish. Now, I've been doing more and more on the power of fatty fish. And to me, fatty fish is everything from salmon to anchovies to mackerels. When you're going in, by the way, to do some of the more of the fattier fish, especially like the mackerels and the sardines that have a tendency to accumulate some of the toxins in our ocean, it's really good to get the baby ones because they haven't been in the ocean as long. This is a really great one put out by Patagonia that actually has a lower level of mercury. So you can start reading the ingredients and you'd be interested to see that when you get a baby version of these fatty fish, they tend to have less toxins in them. Same thing with salmon is you really want to increase your fatty acids, have the most amount of omega-3 fatty acids in it. And if you're going, and I'll explain why here in a second, when you're looking at increasing fatty acids, we need to have that salmon be from the wild, not farm-raised. So again, the nuance matters when we're trying to use tools like fatty fish to be able to help with belly fat. Now, a couple of things that I want to say about omega-3s and fatty fish and why they work so well. So they're high in omega-3s. And there was a really interesting study that I want to quote because, and I want to quote it accurately, because I think it'll help you grasp the importance of adding something in for this belly fat. So this was a 2022 study. And what they did is they, the researchers split groups into two, overweight people into two groups. And one group, they fed them the same diet, by the way, but one group got the omega-3 rich fish oil every single day. So they didn't do the fish, but they did fish oil. And they got it every single day for 12 weeks. And what they found was the group that got the, had the added in fish oil had a greater loss of fat specifically around their belly weight. They also noticed improvement in cognitive function for that group. So the reason I want to point this out, because I think this is really interesting, is that you don't necessarily have to have fish every day. You could have fish oil. I will put links to my favorites here in the notes. But when we add in omega-3s, we're not only supporting better brain health, but we are helping with the breakdown of estrogen to be able to move estrogen out of the system so it doesn't turn into that belly fat. So it's like a chemistry. Think of your body like a chemistry experiment. And you're adding in the omega-3s to be able to balance estrogen better so that you can be able to get these, that estrogen out of your system, not stored around your belly. Okay? Okay. Number two. Speaking of estrogen, number two is soy. So I'm on a mission to bring soy back because we have all the tools for menopausal women have become more narrow and more narrow. And when we go through perimenopause and menopause, it's really important that we have more food tools to be able to help that, the ever-changing symptoms that are coming and going. And one of the symptoms of menopause is belly weight. So what's interesting is that when we look at soy, it's a phytoestrogen. So what does that mean? A phytoestrogen means that it acts like an estrogen. It just came from plants. So a couple of interesting studies. It's really important that soy is rich in the phytoestrogen called isoflavonoids. And these will actually mimic your body's natural estrogen, not in a bad way, in a good way, and will bring up your natural estrogen levels. Now, remember, when you go through menopause, if your estrogen levels go down, you become more insulin resistant. So the reason that soy as a phytoestrogen works so well is because it can help bring up your estrogen levels so you don't hit that insulin resistant place. But several studies went on to show that by increasing estrogen, you decrease belly fat. By eating more soy isoflavonoids, you increase estrogen. More phytoestrogens reduce menopausal symptoms. And that soy isoflavonoids speed up metabolism. So these were all studies that were done. I will link them in there for those of you that are science hounds so you can see. But soy has a multi-pronged approach that can be really beneficial, especially to my perimenopause and menopausal friends. Now, how should you eat soy? So for me, I love edamame. So you want to make sure it's always organic. So as much edamame as you possibly can eat would be fine. And you put a little salt on this sucker, I'm pretty happy. Other forms of soy is tofu. Big fan of tofu because the high protein amount, which go watch the videos I've done on how protein can speed up weight loss. I am, tempeh is a great form of soy. Miso is a great, like a miso soup is great for soy. What I'm not a fan of is soy milk, just so we're clear. Because soy milk tends to be so highly processed that it spikes your glucose. So that would be the one soy that I typically shy away from. But number two is let's add more soy back in. Okay, number three thing you can do for belly fat, and I've been talking about this a lot on this channel, which is increase your green veggies. Now, green veggies do a couple things. I'm going to share with you what I, is like my tried and true, what I love about green vegetables. And then I want to share some science with you. That's really interesting. When you heal a woman, you heal the world. So let's help support Val by liberating these women, by supporting women, by giving the education that is needed to end the injustice of child marriage. So thank you, Val, for what you're doing. So think of these green vegetables as fuel for the microbes in your gut that break down estrogen. We call this the estrobolome. There are literally bacteria in your gut that break down estrogen. And they need food. And what they want you to feed them is green leafy vegetables. So when you eat more green leafy vegetables from a variety of sources, what you're doing is you're feeding these microbes that will break estrogen down. What's interesting is if you don't break estrogen down, you store estrogen. So this goes for the menstruating woman. This goes for the menopausal woman. This even goes for the man who's got the pot belly and a little bit of the man boobs and has been exposed to a lot of estrogen mimickers in his environment and the body stored it there. So one of the best doors out of all the storage of estrogen are green leafy vegetables. Now, a couple of interesting studies that I found was that by increasing, this one was a pretty good size study. It had over 1,100 people. And they found that increasing fiber intake, so this would be fiber intake, decreased belly fat by nearly 4% of overall body weight over five years. Okay? So for context, just to give you an idea, this would be if you weighed 150 pounds, that's six pounds of belly fat that you could lose over a five-year period. Now, I know what you're thinking. You're like, five years? What? Like, that seems forever. But when we look at the trends that happen to most people, each year they're gaining a little bit more and a little bit more and a little bit more. So one of the things I love about fiber is not only is it feeding this microbes, but it helps to regulate your blood sugar. So just by having a salad with every meal, you're affecting, you're lowering the influx of glucose, which lowers the amount of insulin your pancreas has to make. You're feeding your microbes that are gonna be able to get rid of estrogen. And if you do that repetitively over time, you will see a reduction in belly fat. I think it's a brilliant way to approach something that's very annoying. A couple of my favorite types of greens, I like all different kinds, but I love bok choy. I love chard. I love Brussels sprouts. I love dandelion greens. They're great for liver support. I love parsley. I'm trying to think, oh, any mint, I put a lot of mint in my salad. Any green leafy vegetable I can get my hands on. Myself, personally, I don't love spinach. It's just me. But if you love spinach, you can keep eating it. I would say something like an iceberg head lettuce isn't gonna have as much of that fiber in it and it's not gonna be as nutritious as some of the ones I've mentioned here. Now, you can look at green juices. So green juices are interesting because they don't have as much fiber. It's just the nutrients that have been pulled out. But if you're looking, like me, constantly to be adding more green leafy vegetables in, sometimes juices can be good. You just wanna make sure that you're not adding in the green juice with like a whole apple or pineapple, which is a very, very common way to drink green juice because it doesn't taste so good. So being able to, you know, drink the juice that doesn't have the apple can be supportive of the microbiome, can give you the nutrients you need, doesn't have as much fiber, but can also support that long vision that I'm talking about here for losing menopausal belly weight. So I hope that helps. I really am trying to make this simple for you. I know many of you that are losing weight using the principles of metabolic switching that I'm teaching here. You lose it when you go into the fasting window, but I wanna make sure that we're having deeper conversations about the eating window and what we can do to lose weight with the foods that we choose to eat in there. And when it comes to belly fat, we have to bring back the fatty fish, the soy and the green leafy vegetables. They absolutely are the hero and the antidote to that extra weight you're carrying around your midsection. So as always, I hope that helps. If you've used up to your fiber and had really good success with it, put it in the notes, in the comments, let me know. Again, we're a community here. So the more we share tips and tricks with each other, it makes everybody have the potential of winning at the game of health. So as always, keep believing in yourself and I hope that helps. I know a lot of you guys are looking to target certain areas. So you can check out the next video where I go through the five things you can do to get rid of flabby arms, doing pushups and tricep dips, do as many as you can until you're like, oh, no more. Now we've released all that sugar. Go in the kitchen and eat some protein. Maybe you eat some eggs.