 I wanna tell you about a member of my Reset Academy, N-acetyl caira, N-acetyl caira, who tried everything to lose weight. She was eating right, she was meal prepping, she was fasting, she was working out, and she could not lose weight. And she was missing one key thing that many of you are missing and not prioritizing. So in this video I want to show you exactly how to start to prioritize this and what the research is saying on this really key part of losing weight that we are not talking about. that we are not talking enough about. Let's dive in. So, many times we are solving the wrong problem when it comes to trying to lose weight. We sit there and we think, oh my god, I must not be disciplined enough. Oh, it must be in my genetics. I keep forgetting, I keep not going on diet after diet and I can't lose weight. And what we are not talking about and addressing is that why does the body hold on to weight? And it is a protective mechanism because it is in stress. And one of the things we know about a stressed body is it needs rest and recovery. And it needs to be trained to know that it needs to come out of stress. So the thing that Sarah was not addressing and prioritizing was sleep. And there is an incredible study out of the University of Chicago that I am completely geeking out on. It's a 2010 study and they took two groups of people. They gave them the same amount of calories. They had the same amount of output of calories. The only difference was one group got eight and a half hours of sleep. And the other group got five and a half hours of sleep. And here was what they found. It blows my mind. It should blow yours. Which is that the sleep deprived group lost 55% less weight. And 60% more weight loss from lean mass. So they didn't lose as much. And what they did lose was mostly muscle, which is not great. So let's talk about why not getting enough sleep is as bad as eating too many calories or eating the wrong foods. So there are three major problems with not getting enough sleep that contribute to your inability to lose weight. So the first is your hunger hormones go haywire. So ghrelin is the hormone that is the signal that you're hungry and leptin is the signal that you are full. And according to a 2016 study in the Journal of Obesity, sleep restriction increases ghrelin telling your brain that it is more hungry. And it decreases leptin and disrupts leptin so leptin doesn't know that it's full. So you can wake up hungrier. You often will eat more because of this change in hunger hormones. Number two is not sleeping enough flips the switch on fat storage. So sleep deprivation equals cortisol rising. When cortisol goes up, whether it's through lack of sleep or stress, you will start to store more visceral fat. Visceral fat is going to show up around your organs. It's also going to show it's that hard fat around your belly. And in that chronically stressed state, what's going to happen is your body is going to break down muscle so it can grab some amino acids to bring up to the brain so that the brain can function normally. So Sarah, for example, it was in a deficit of calories, but cortisol was still really high, which was causing her body to prioritize fat storage and muscle breakdown. The third thing that the lack of sleep does is it disrupts your growth hormone. And this is a big one because you stop getting as much growth hormone after the age of 30. You can bring growth hormone back through things like intermittent fasting. I taught you all that in Fast Like a Girl. But what's interesting is that growth hormone is released in pulses. And the largest burst of growth hormone happens when you are asleep and in deep sleep brain waves. So deep sleep is where the brain shrinks so that the cerebral spinal fluid can go up and wash the brain, brain free of all the toxins from the day. And it is in that deep sleep that your growth hormone actually goes up. So if you have fragmented sleep where you're not sleeping through the night, it will disrupt these hormonal patterns. So your recovery window becomes less efficient. It's harder to maintain lean mass while you're dieting. So five mistakes that people do to not get a good night's sleep. Because I don't know about you, but I've done a lot of sleep videos and I hear over and over again like, I want to sleep. I want to sleep. Tell me, put it in the comments. I just can't get a good night's sleep. So here are the five things that you want to really focus on. So one, stop scrolling on your phone before you go to bed. That's putting the brain in more of a sympathetic nervous system state. It's not, that is fight or flight. That's not rest and digest. Number two, a biggie is a large meal close to bedtime. That increases insulin spikes, which suppresses growth hormone. And we just already talked about how important growth hormone is. And it raises your core temperature, which may pull you out of sleep at two and three in the morning. Number three is using alcohol at night to relax. That fragments your REM sleep, elevates your cortisol levels, and it can put you in a sleep deficit. It can also raise your core temperature. So it's a biggie that will spike that core temperature and wake you up at two in the morning. The fourth one is inconsistent sleep schedules. So we're rhythmic humans, especially as women. If you're a woman, like, we need a rhythm. So it can make you more insulin resistant. It can affect fat metabolism. It can affect appetite. So we want a consistent sleep schedule. And the last mistake a lot of people make is having a warm room. You really need to get your body temperature down for your brain to go into that rested, deep sleep. So it's not sleep. You got to work at getting yourself prepared for sleep, especially right now. During sleep, let's keep in mind that growth hormone is rising. insulin sensitivity is being restored. Cortisol is being cleared. Hunger hormones are being reset. Muscle protein synthesis is happening. We want to sleep. Don't miss out on sleep. And we know from this study, people who don't sleep lose 55% less weight. And most of that weight comes from muscle. So here are seven steps that you can start to do. I'm going to go through them really fast for you. One, let's lock in a sleep schedule. So let's get that rhythm so that your brain understands. There's a 2018 scientific report that says irregular sleep timing is linked to obesity and worse metabolic markers. So pick a consistent time to go to bed and a consistent time to wake up. Number two, start a 30-minute wind-down ritual. That wasn't wind-down ritual. That was wind-down ritual. So if you have had a very stressed day, you are in a fight-or-flight mode. It is going to take about 30 minutes for your body to realize that it can rest now. I personally, in my house, I have one room. I got a red light. I bought it. It's cheap. I bought it online. And I just put it in. So there's in a regular light bulb, a regular lamp. I have it just sitting in one room. And it is my wind-down room. I listen to chanting music. I read in there. I do yoga in there. I draw. I do anything that is different than what I did in my sympathetic fight-or-flight part of my day. So you might need a 30-minute wind-down ritual. I highly, highly recommend it. Okay, step number three. You need a cold room. So what the research says, this is a 2012 review, is that ambient temperature is one of the top environmental factors for sleep architecture. And what they recommend is that you want to be in a room that's 65 to 68 degrees Fahrenheit or 18 to 20 degrees Celsius. That's the temperature the room needs to be. So put on the air con, open up the window in the winter time. But coldness really matters. Step number four. This is my favorite new hack. And it's try glycine before you go to bed. Glycine is a powerful neurotransmitter. It is an inhibitory neurotransmitter. So it quiets the neuronal firing and slows the brain chatter. I don't know about you, but sometimes I'm just like, stop talking up there. Like, you don't need to talk to me now. And what glycine will do is it will slow the chatter that's going on. A 2012 study showed that three grams of glycine before bed improves sleep quality and it reduces next day fatigue. So it's not a fat loss supplement. It supports sleep, which we now know is a fat loss activity. Start thinking of it like that. Just like you think of exercise as a fat loss activity. Three grams in water, 30 to 60 minutes before you go to bed. Step number five you can do, which is stop eating two to three hours before you go to bed. When insulin goes up, growth hormone goes down. I've talked to you a lot about how when insulin, when melatonin goes up, insulin goes down and you become much more insulin resistant. Well, guess what? When insulin spikes, growth hormone goes down and it will start to impact your sleep. There was a 2017 study that showed that the closer you eat to sleep, the higher your body fat percentage is. So we really want to make sure that the larger meals, I'm not talking about the little snacky meals, but the larger meal, you wouldn't want to eat the large meal and go straight to sleep. You want to give it a couple hours of a window in between those. Okay, number six, this one's fun. Morning sunlight. Within 30 minutes of waking up, natural light hits the retinohypothelmotic tract, which anchors your circadian rhythm. So you get up, maybe it's still dark out. Once it starts to get light, make sure your eyes are seeing light. So you're telling your body today is right now is the start of the day. There was a 2013 study that showed that morning light advances circadian rhythm and improves sleep on the other end, when you go to bed at night. So if you fix your morning light, you often fix your sleep challenge without changing much. And number seven, this one's really interesting, especially for my menopausal women, because during menopause, many of us struggle to start to break down caffeine. So cut your caffeine back and don't have it after 12 PM. So what caffeine does is it blocks the adenosine receptors and it masks sleep pressure and sleep debt will still accumulate. So what's interesting is that coffee has a half-life of five to seven hours. So if you had a cup of coffee at 3 PM in the afternoon, at nine to 10 in the evening, you would still have 50% of that caffeine going through your body. So let's keep caffeine in the morning. And we also know that if you go to bed with some caffeine in you, it slows down those deep brainwave states, which what do we know about the sleep brainwave states? That's where we're getting more growth hormone. So this is an interesting one. A 2013 journal showed that caffeine six hours before bed reduced total sleep by one hour. So highly recommend you keep your caffeine earlier in the day. You might even set the mark of not after 10, but if you can start to keep caffeine as far away from sleep, you're going to get not only be able to go to sleep easier, but you're going to have better sleep quality. And this is exactly what Sarah did. So Sarah kept fasting. She, because that was working, you know, that was a good tool. She was kept changing up the different foods she was eating, trying different diets. She kept her exercise, but what she did is she decided to start prioritizing her sleep. And very quickly within a week, she started to see weight drop that she couldn't make happen without prioritizing sleep. And what's really interesting with Sarah's changes is here are some of the things that she started to notice. Was that week number one, her hunger went down. So we know that ghrelin started to go down, especially her monk, her morning hunger and her sugar cravings started to change. Week two, cortisol started to drop and she started to have more energy and better mental clarity. She noted her, noticed her belly was a little flatter. And then by week four, she started to see the difference on the scale. So I wanted to point that out because it took several weeks before the number on the scale changed, but she started to see this change. So I know so many of you are really working so hard to lose weight and, and you get frustrated and you turn on yourself. And I want you to see what the science is saying is that sleep needs to be a priority if you want to drop weight, especially if you want to drop weight and preserve muscle. So let me know if you've had great results with sleep. And as always, if this was helpful, but don't give up on yourself. It's not your genetics. It's not because you're undisciplined. It's because you didn't get information like this. And once you understand the strategy to weight loss, it becomes so much easier. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video. ,