 seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller seller break down what's working and what's not working. What is the Portfolio Diet? So it was created by a British physician, David Jenkins. He's a medical doctor with a specialty in hormones and metabolism. Now, what's interesting about this, tells me this has been around for a while, is that Dr. David Jenkins is also the doctor who created the concept of the glycemic index. Okay, that's pretty cool. He did some major things, which the glycemic index is our way of measuring how foods, what kind of blood sugar spike they're going to create when we eat them. So Dr. Jenkins designed something called the Portfolio Diet, and it was all built around improving heart health. And its main goal was to lower LDLs, so the bad cholesterol. Now, I just want to stop for one moment and talk about LDLs, because LDLs can come from a poor diet, especially a ultra-processed diet. But my menopausal women out there, sometimes we can have LDLs go down because estrogen goes down. We can also have LDLs go up. Like, we can see a lot of changes in cholesterol. I had this in my own blood work that is affected by just the loss of estrogen, even though we are eating perfectly. So this makes this diet very intriguing. And there is some research I have in here on what the research is saying about this diet for menopausal women. So stick with me. Don't go anywhere. So it's pretty much the diet, what is it? Are you dying to know? I mean, when I read this, I was like, tell me what this thing is. So it's pretty much a standard diet with a few interesting modifications, and it's based off of five principles. So the first, 30% of your calories should come from fat. Anybody panicking yet? So that's a pretty moderate fat diet. 30% of your calories should come from fat. I'm sure some of you are like, wait a second, I thought this was a heart health, healthy diet. But what we know is that, you know, it's certainly better than a super low diet. So a super low nonfat diet was very popular. And what we know about nonfat diets is we know that they, it actually caused more heart problems because it spiked our blood sugar. We also know we have examples of a high fat diet like the Atkins diet. Now a lot of people lost weight on those diets, but their cardio metabolic markers like LDL went through the roof. So 30% is not bad. It's a fairly moderate fat diet. And I would agree. I think it's a good to aim for 30%. Now some of you might be like, well, how do I know if 30% of my food is, is, is from fat? There are apps that can measure it. We used to use one in my community all the time called carb manager. And you just plugged in your, your, what you ate that day. And it gave you a pie graph and it showed you what, what, how, the percentage of carbs, protein, and carbohydrates, I mean fats. So you could use something like that. Second principle of the, of the portfolio diet is 7% of calories from saturated fat. Uh-oh, the saturated fat word. This is where every video goes bad. Everybody has such a strong opinion about saturated fat. Well, according to the research, um, 7% of calories from saturated fat is actually quite low and it's a little bit difficult to manage if you're eating meat. Now I want to remind you that here in America, we just came out with a food pyramid that said meat is like our, the, what we should be eating the most of. So again, we're back at, at, you're going to have to manage this for yourself because the portfolio diet is mostly plant-based. So even though they're saying, keep your saturated fat down, um, in order to do that, you might have to go plant-based. And then the question becomes, where do you get your protein? Let's continue on. So the third principle of this diet is that less than 200 milligrams of cholesterol a daily, this ties into the saturated fat, fat, again, tough to, to manage if you're eating meat. So you'll start to see like, if I tell you 30% of your calories from fat, 7% of the calories from saturated fat, 200 milligrams, less than 200 milligrams of cholesterol rich foods. If you're plant-based, you're like, check, check, check, check, totally got this. Then we get to the fourth principle, which is 15% of your calories from protein. Also very low, but if you're plant-based, that makes sense. And then 20 to three grams of fiber per day. Um, now that's great. We should be all doing a lot of fiber where there were plant-based or not. Um, but the, it's kind of a middle of the road, plant forward eating style. They didn't say don't eat meat. They just said only 15% of calories from, from, uh, for, for protein. Don't go over that. It's all, you know, depending on how much you eat, you might even still stimulate autophagy, but that's another video. Um, but, and then you're, they're talking about saturated fats. Well, you know, most saturated fats come from meat. So keeping it under 7% should be fine. But, um, there really isn't anything completely spectacular that I see yet. I'm going to go through pros and cons. I just see some guidelines is what I see. I see some, yes, we should be eating 20 to three, um, grams of fiber per day. I would say of these five, that's what I agree with. Uh, the, I would say the second principle that I agree with is we should be doing 30% of our calories from fat. I like that because it stops the blood sugar spikes. Just make sure it's a good, healthy fat. There are some ideas here that I'm going to give you on how you would eat in order to be able to hit all of these markers. So this would be 42 grams of nuts a day. Uh, this could be 50 grams of a plant-based protein, preferably from soy. Um, 20 grams of soluble fiber. So this is like your low glycemic fruits and your psyllium husks, uh, two grams of plants, phytosterols, which is your soybeans that we've talked so much about. And then there was also a modification that they said you should replace 13% of your carbohydrates with healthy fats, like an avocado or an oil, uh, or some kind of healthy oil. Okay. Anybody confused yet? Um, I want to say there's nuggets in here. There's good, interesting things in here because here's what the research showed after I just went through all of that with you. Here's what they showed was that people with a hot, a hot, high heart disease risk one month on this portfolio diet lowered their LDL cholesterol by 28 to 35%. Okay. That's significant. I probably should have said that at the beginning of the video so you can hear that because that's significant one month on that. So another study found that a month on the portfolio diet was as, as effective as going on a statin. Again, 30% reduction in LDLs. So it's interesting because the portfolio diet was more effective at lowering LDLs than the standard low fat diet, which suggests that these things I added in at the end of making sure that you are getting fiber, and you're getting fiber, making sure you're getting enough plant protein, um, preferably from soy, um, making sure that your carbohydrates are coming not from the ultra processed foods, but more from, um, healthy fats and, and, um, avocados and olive oil, things like that. So definitely we're getting into the nuance here that this is a plant-based diet. Um, and yet we're, we're getting guidelines on how to get some of the protein up, which I'm a fan of. Um, and nuts are, are phenomenal. It said 42 grams of nuts. I would make sure your nuts are sprouted, organic, not dry roasted, dry roasted, or with oil on them are, are not going to get you that same kind of, um, uh, result as what we're seeing here. So here are my pro, here's how I'm going to sum this up for you all. Um, the original portfolio diet, um, was lower in fat. They started to add more fat in as fat has become, uh, definitely necessary. So I love seeing that. Um, I love the focus on soy and nuts. Um, please. Yes, yes, yes. More soy, more nuts, raw nuts, um, sprouted nuts, organic nuts. Um, so I love that. Um, and I love the, the high fiber intake. And so, you know, these are kind of these studies where we have to really wrestle inside of ourselves. Okay. I was, you know, Dr. Mindy just did a video telling me that carnivore was amazing. And now she's quoting some portfolio diet that has very little animal meat in it. And I think what we tend to do with diets is we just go, Oh, that one's not for me, but let's take pieces out of it to create your own diet. So yes, fiber is good. Nuts and soy is great. More good fat. All of that is incredible. Protein is great. Um, but maybe we need to be getting some of our protein from meat and maybe we need to be getting some of our protein from things like legumes. So, and so you can do a mixture of it. You don't have to accept the whole diet. Now, if you're interested, you could also try duplicate this study that was done, do the exact portfolio diet for 30 days and see if your LDLs go down and then see if it works for you. Or you could take pieces and tie it into the diet you're already doing. Now, a couple of cons I do want to point out. Okay. Quick pause in the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself. So you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. This diet clearly works to lower your heart disease. And it could be a great choice for you. But con number one is it might not be enough protein. Possible. You know, we do love protein. And the science is showing us that protein is great. So the portfolio diet says you get about 15% of your calories, which works great. That's fine if you're not very active. But if you are more active, you're going to want more protein than that. I prescribe to the one gram of protein for every pound of ideal body weight you want to be. I love the 30 grams of protein at every meal. I think those are good guidelines. So you might decide to follow those. You know, there is great research showing that one gram of protein per pound of body weight is what we're all searching for. Do we need to really like overcomplicate this? And so if you weigh 140 pounds, you're eating 140 grams of protein every single day. But with that level of protein, you should be exercising, you should be lifting heavy weights, you should be using the nutrients that come from those protein. Okay, the second one that critics of the portfolio diet are concerned about is the dietary cholesterol. You know, it's supposed to lower cholesterol. But you know, some of these saturated fats less than 7% saturated fat. Hmm. You know, some cardiologists will say no saturated fat. So again, test it on yourself. And then this is going to sound funny. But con number three is that there's not enough good fat. So the portfolio diet suggests 30% of your calories from good fat, which is fairly moderate. But as you know, high fat diets are incredible. High fat diets, low carb diets are great for cognitive health. So and they really help to support the hunger hormone from not kicking in. And here's where menopause kicks in. A 2020 review found that as women entering menopause, our brains naturally switch towards ketones. What have I been saying? If you haven't heard that get age like a girl, ketones, menopausal women's brain want ketones. And so when we're looking at how do we get you to metabolically switch, if you're doing more of the legumes, if you're doing less fat, you're not doing a higher fat, it might be harder to switch over. And so what this study this 2020 study found was that our insulin sensitivity changes as we age, making it harder for us to handle carbohydrates, they go either to belly fat, or they go up into the brain. And so we just want to make sure if you try this portfolio diet, that you make sure you might have to go over the 30% fat, make sure it's good fat, you might have to eat a little more protein, and make sure that you're measuring your LDLs. Do a test, do LDLs before and LDLs afterwards, and see how it works. So in summary, who should try the portfolio diet? Those of you that are bored with your diet, and you're like, hey, I want to try something new, try the portfolio diet. And then you might also like if you have a heart condition, try it. But let's do pre and post blood work. So you can see if it worked for you. It's very keto biotic, which I brought you keto biotic in these two books. So if you're not knowing, if you don't know what I'm talking about, I wrote all about the keto biotic diet. And it's really can be a game changer for your brain, this diet, this portfolio brain, if you bring that fat up. Okay. Woo! Hopefully you understood that. And let me know if you've tried it. I guess this is trending. We can take a trending diet like this, try it for a month and then go back to our other pieces, our other diet. And you could figure out what parts of this you loved and you could figure out what parts you don't. But I love experimenting with new diets. I love trying new things in my body and seeing how my body responds. So give it a whirl. See what happens and come back and report back. Let me know how it goes. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.