 s as much as I want, let me just be the first to tell you that you are setting yourself up for cardiovascular disease. Let's talk about the new food pyramid. Anybody else excited about that? Anybody else confused why we're all talking about it? But most importantly, how do we even like take information like a new food pyramid and apply it to our own lives? So on this video, I want to show you exactly how to do that. So let's dive in. Okay, well, so the new pyramid, I'm looking at it right here. We'll flash it up on the screen. I like a visual. I think there's a lot of really good things about it. There's probably one, a couple of mixed things about it and maybe one thing that I'm surprised they left off. So it's basically they took the pyramid that used to be and they flipped it upside down, which is really, really important because remember, we used to say whole grains, like you should have whole grains and dairy like way back in the 90s, 80s and 70s. Like that was the thing you were supposed to eat the most of. This was also a time, by the way, that we were very focused on going low fat. So I think the first thing we need to know is the pyramid has been flipped and we are now looking at whole grains at being at the tip on the bottom, meaning you eat that the least amount. And at the top, if this gets flipped at the top, you've got to contend with protein and vegetables and in the middle is a little bit of fruit. We also have some regulations around healthy fats. So remember that one of the major challenges that we have with chronic disease, obesity and challenges to people's health is processed foods. And one of the major, major parts of this new food pyramid is this like really getting clear on what a processed food is, how much somebody can have that's acceptable, and where we need to go with limiting it as a culture. So there's federal research that years ago found that 95% of Americans over consume processed carbohydrates, which was linking it to chronic weight gain and chronic disease. And the government's approach on this was everything in moderation, as long as you are meeting your daily nutrient goals, which I laugh because do any of us look at our food throughout a day, put it in the comments if you do and go, Oh, yep, I got my nutrient goal for the day. Do we even know what our nutrient goal is? So the old messaging was just, you know, don't over consume these and just make sure you hit your nutrient goal, which didn't really help anybody. But the interesting thing about these food pyramids, when we redefine them, it actually starts to inform the federal programs that feed children in schools. And this one, I really, really agree with, because under the new guidelines of this new food pyramid, federal food providers can no longer just serve as many processed foods as possible. So they definitely are honing in on the fact that we need to limit processed foods, especially for our children. This is an amazing one. I am a huge fan of it. I just wish they had been a little more specific, like, and maybe even avoid processed foods. But we're getting closer there. Okay, another mix change that's interesting is eat more whole foods. So this is great. And the new guidelines suggest replacing these processed foods with whole foods, like meat, vegetables, fruit, and whole grains. And on paper, this looks good. And I talk about this all the time. But whole foods lack a definition. Again, we get excited about these new changes. And then we're like, how much processed food? All processed foods? What is moderation? That's sort of the challenge with the whole foods. Okay, what are whole foods? In my book, whole foods are foods that come from the earth. This is like your fruits and your vegetables. Yes, when you look at this pyramid, they've got fruits and vegetables at the top. Yes, I've done a ton of videos on how we should be having 25 grams of fiber, and fiber comes from whole foods. And so I'm a huge fan of this. But we needed to do a better explanation of what a whole food is. Because a lot of people look at whole foods and they think whole grains. Well, whole grains can end up being a processed food. So it's just the statements a little bit mixed. So I want you to understand that when they're talking whole foods, that means fruits and vegetables. And when we're talking whole grains, in my book, that isn't a refined grain like you'd find in bread. That is more like a fermented grain that you might find in sourdough. And I've done some videos on sourdough. So you can go see why I'm a fan of sourdough. Okay, a good change. A good change said limit added sugars and sugar sweetened drinks. So the new guidelines suggest avoiding sugar sweetened beverages. Yay, we love that. Well, we know our taste buds might not love it. But this is so good. Like don't drink your way to chronic disease. And these new guidelines are saying that no more than 10 added sugar grams per meal for adults and that children should eat no added sugars from birth to 10 years. Yes, that means don't give your seven year old a Coke to drink. So this is amazing. 10 grams, added sugar per meal. Go look at your soda. How many grams are in there? Go look at your orange juice that you have with your oatmeal in the morning. How many grams are in there? No more than 10 grams of added sugar per meal. And children from 0 to 10, no added sugar. Please. Okay, got that off my chest. On the top of some of the changes here is that it suggests limiting refined carbohydrates. Your cakes, your cookies, your pastas, your breads, your highly refined carbohydrates. I've hopefully you all have been here on my channel understand these. And in before the guidelines amazingly never said anything about refined carbohydrates and these say limited. Now what does limited mean, right? We're back at this sort of diffuse language that hopefully we're going to vet out as that pyramid gets infiltrated into food programs and we all get to play with it. Okay, good change. Eat more protein. Okay, the research is showing this and the new guidelines suggest that Americans should eat 50 to 100 percent more protein than we're eating right now. The previous suggestion was 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight or 50, that would be like 54 grams of protein for 150 pound person. And the new guidelines say eat 1.2 kilograms to 1.6 kilograms of protein which is about 81 to 108 grams for 150 pound person. So you can see the increase is significant. Now, I'm a huge fan of eating more protein. I also have seen a lot of people eat protein that is a lot of protein that is a lot of protein that is a lot of protein that is a lot of protein. So you can see that the increase is significant. So I really like this as a focus, but I would say that even though this is a great change, we need to think about the quality of protein that we're eating. And we need to think about our activity level because a sedentary person might need less protein than an active person. So take that guideline of what did we say? It was 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein for every pound of ideal body weight. Maybe you go more towards one. We were at 0.8. Maybe, you know, you play with those grams. This is where you're going to have to figure out if you start eating more protein because of the food pyramid and you start gaining weight, you might be eating too much protein for your body type. Okay, another change that's kind of mixed is to focus on healthy fats. So the new guidelines say eating more healthy fats from foods like meat, full fat dairy, fish, avocado, olive oil, and nuts. Okay, I want to go in here and I want to say grass-fed meat, grass-fed dairy, wild-caught fish, avocado-yay, virgin olive oil, and raw nuts. And the reason I'm rephrasing this is these types of healthy fats matter. So let's use olive oil as an example. Olive oil is a phenomenal healthy fat. The Mediterranean diet has said this for years that's a good thing. And we all agree, but if you really want the true benefits of olive oil, you want to get extra virgin organic olive oil, small batched, that's where you're going to get the highest polyphenol count. So just going and grabbing olive oil off the shelf may not give you the health benefit that this food pyramid is suggesting. So I call it a contradiction because we haven't, they didn't, they didn't say the type. And this is where it gets really confusing because if I'm, you know, the average person, I'm not as educated as all of you who come to my YouTube channel, and I see this, I'm like, Oh my God, I can eat meat again. I can start going back to dairy. I can go back to all the full fat that I was told I didn't, it was going to kill me. And we didn't talk about the quality. We didn't talk about these buzzwords that tell you if it's a good fat or bad fat. Somebody who's eating a full fat pasteurized dairy diet with conventional meat that I think we're all still agreeing that is setting you up for a heart attack. Eating a steak every night is not what this food pyramid hopefully is promoting. But a grass fed steak, just so we're clear, a grass fed steak has a high omega threes. Omega threes are anti-inflammatory. That's grass fed dairy, high omega threes. So when we look at certain proteins like dairy and red meat, great, just make sure it's grass fed, but the pyramid didn't say that. And we need to be really realistic and understand that grass fed is way more expensive. My concern with this being a state policy or a government policy is that we haven't really addressed the quality of that. So if you got a hold of the new food pyramid and you're like, Woohoo, I can have steak and I can have milk and I can have butter as much as I want. Let me just be the first to tell you that you are setting yourself up for cardiovascular disease if that is not packed with a grass fed version. What's interesting is conventional red meat, pasteurized conventional dairy, even if it's organic, is high in omega sixes and omega sixes are inflammatory. Same product, different quality. Now the other thing we have to consider when we look at this food pyramid is the vegetables and fruits that are also at the top. So unfortunately this food pyramid came out here in America, well a month before the food pyramid came out the administration overturned a whole bunch of pesticides laws. And I am mad about this because one of the pesticides, they are allowing to be sprayed on our fruits and vegetables right now are forever chemicals. And forever chemicals are damaging to your thyroid. And we have already have so many women with thyroid problems and they can, forever chemicals have been known to contribute to cancer. We also have rolled back glyphosate laws and glyphosate drives heavy metals and plastics deeper into our brain. So when we look at the the what we're supposed to eat the most, meats, dairy, vegetables, fruit, of some nature's carbs like sweet potatoes and potatoes, you have to make sure that the quality you are getting is spot on. Otherwise the danger of this is that you're going to start actually building cardiovascular disease. Are you guys following me on this? Like the nuance in this is really, really important. So please eat organic right now if you live in America, those of you who live outside of America, a lot of you have better laws around pesticides than we do. I absolutely think food in general should be hormone free. So when you eat meat, make sure they're not pumping it full of hormones and antibiotics that destroy your microbes. And if you're eating dairy, pasteurized dairy is pretty much dead. They heat it up. So all the probiotics and the enzymes are gone. So I like raw dairy, but not everybody's comfortable with that. Raw cheeses are phenomenal so that we're getting those probiotics and those enzymes. The way in which they work with this food matters. And here in America, you definitely need to eat organic or you are signing yourself up for potentially thyroid challenges. It's gotten that bad. And I hate to be the one to mention it, but it seems to be a piece of news that got sloughed under all the other news. So it's like on one hand, we're redefining the amount and the type of food that and the quality of food people should be eating. And on the other hand, we're still spraying it and highly refining it and damaging our food with chemicals. I don't know how you square that. That's where my heart sits. So let me know if that's helpful. I know a lot of people are like, do I? Yeah, I don't really care about the food pyramid. But I think we're moving in the right conversation with the types of foods you should be eating. Now let's get the chemicals out of our food because those are destroying our health equally as bad as eating processed foods. Okay, as always, I hope that helps. we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we're missing out once we get we get we're missing out once we get we get we're missing out once we get we get we're missing out once we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get we get