 thIRESIR, is because their hunger stops. That's what happens when you feel the fasting lifestyle. That's what happens when you start to see this metabolic switch. ozempic and fasting equals a better result. Okay, this is the study I have been waiting to bring you for years since the trend on weight loss drugs hit. And I really wanna tell you that I have been in the trenches helping specifically women, but both men and women lose weight for close to 30 years. And I have watched the trends of drugs come and go. I have watched the diet trends. I've watched the fitness trends. And what typically happens is that there's this real bright moment where we all get so excited, like maybe this is the one, maybe this is the thing that's gonna help everybody lose weight. And then there's a dark side that appears. And so when the weight loss drugs came out, I had the same sort of cynical attitude of like, I'm not sure these are gonna work. There hasn't been a magic pill yet. And then you started to watch people lose weight, people who couldn't lose weight. And you started to hear the stories of how the food noise went away. And then you started to see that there were things around, the microbiome changing for the better. And then I got into collective conversations with a lot of different doctors of all kinds of backgrounds where everybody was scratching their head. And they're like, there is a lot promising. There's a lot of promising upside to these drugs. Then we started to see they cost a lot. Then we started to see that they were causing problems. And yet people were still losing weight, where people were still changing their behaviors with food. So I kept digging and digging and trying to understand why these were working. And was this a viable long-term option for people? And many of the patients that I work with told me that the number one reason that these weight loss drugs work for them is because their hunger stopped. And I sat there and scratched my head because I was like, well, that's what happens with fasting. That's what happens when you build a fasting lifestyle. That's what happens when you start to see this metabolic switch kick in is that most people, patients, you tell me, put it in the comments here. Most people I have taught fasting to will tell me that their hunger goes away. And so it felt like the drugs were doing what a fasting lifestyle was doing. And so I kept thinking, what if we pair the drugs with a fasting lifestyle? Somebody do a study on that and they did it. And that is what I'm bringing you today is a 2025 study pairing intermittent fasting with ozempic specifically. What were the results when you paired those two things together? And here is what we have found. Are you ready? Okay, first, before I give you and I'm not, I'm not trying to string you along. I just wanted to help you think this through is that I did a video explaining that what the current research is showing is that these weight loss drugs, once you go off of them, you gain one pound a month and back. And on average, if you do ozempic and Wegove, they're finding you're gaining two pounds per month back. So there is no evidence that this is consistent weight loss unless you pair it with intermittent fasting. And that is what this new study showed is that ozempic and fasting equals a better result. So it was a 2025 review published in Biomedicines. And it concluded here's from the authors that intermittent fasting can help improve outcomes for people on ozempic and other GLP-1 agonists. And what they noticed is that people did not gain the weight back. And here's what the study said is that GLP-1 agonists slow down your digestion to a crawl. You stop getting hungry. And if you have more than a very small meal, you feel nauseous. You want to throw up and so on. So your digestive system starts to shut down. This is, by the way, not a good thing because you make neurotransmitters in your gut. You need your digestive system to stimulate your vagus nerve, which relaxes you. Like there's a lot of interesting things. Shutting digestion down is not great. But ozempic specifically forces you to under-eat, which is what gives you weight loss. And so this, the authors of this study said, but if we paired ozempic with intermittent fasting, here is what we found. And there were three major things. First is that fasting provides a structure. This is straight from the study. We will put the pages up here. We will put the links in there for you science hounds. That the quote from the paper is that, that fasting engages behavioral mechanisms of self-control and dietary regularity. Now, I can tell you from teaching millions of people how to fast, this is absolutely a side effect of fasting, is you will butt up against moments where you are hungry and you will find a new thought pattern that will emerge. And hang with me here because I'm going to give you an exact protocol on how to use fasting with your weight loss drugs. But this idea that fasting teaches you to regulate your mealtimes and to develop self-control. And you can develop this while you're on the drug. So those of you who have been struggling with fasting, this might be a door into fasting where you're taking the weight loss drugs. I'm going to give you the protocol. And it's a way to get you over that hump and into a fasting lifestyle. The review also found that it enhances stress tolerance and reduces hunger once you've adapted to the fasting schedule. So if you are consistently fasting, you are creating a structure that is going to kill hunger. And it's all built around putting mealtimes at a place that is the best spot for you and creating self-control in other areas. They also found, and this is what I kept saying is, if we pair a fasting lifestyle with these weight loss drugs, we are going to see that we are going to overturn obesity and people are not going to have to pay $800 to $1,000 a month. And what this study said is that with GLP-1 agonists, you can practice intermittent fasting without the hunger or cravings. It is the express path into a fasting lifestyle for those of you who haven't been able to really get into that group. Okay. Second major principle that this review said is that fasting builds confidence and motivation. The authors described fasting as a way to increase lifestyle empowerment. So I don't know if you all saw me on Stephen Bartlett's Diary of the CEO. I went on twice. The second time I went on, the first question he asked me was, what do I think of the weight loss drugs? And one of my major complaints at that moment was that when you take a weight loss drug, there's no empowerment. In fact, it's becoming like people are kind of like shy about it. Whereas if I teach someone how to drop a hundred pounds using a fasting lifestyle, which we have seen over and over and over again here on this channel, people walk around and they're like, I lost weight by fasting. I mean, the amount of, of go, go read the reviews on fast, like a girl of people who have lost so much weight because they finally learned how to work with this metabolic switch and click over into the fat burning way. And they were empowered. And the authors of this study said noted that when people combine the weight loss drugs with a healthy lifestyle change, that like fasting regular exercise would be so much, they're not only less likely to gain the weight back after stopping the drugs, but the self satisfaction, the self empowerment, the pride, the, the, the control over your body is much greater. The report said people had greater self-esteem. They were more interested in their own wellbeing and more motivation to stick to other healthy habits. They also reported feeling less dependent on the drugs to lose weight, which gave them hope. Okay. Third thing, when you're looking at pairing fasting with this, with a weight loss drug, is that fasting doesn't require you to eat. Now, remember that the relationship you had with food was part of the reason you gained weight. So when we took that hunger away, it wasn't like you just improved that relationship. It's like you put the relationship with food in another room and shut the door. But when you get off of those weight loss drugs, now you got to open that door and deal with this relationship that you have with food. But what's really cool is if we pair fasting with this, with the weight loss drugs, is that we don't have to deal with the relationship with food. Now I'm coming back to it. Don't worry. But fasting is very unusual because it involves your relationship with food in a different way. And you don't actually have to eat in order to get a result. So I was just on my reset academy this morning doing, we had just finished our fat burner reset. And I was asking them, tell me some of your pain points. And one woman just said, I can't stop eating. I just want to eat. Well, when we take ozempic and we pair it with fasting, we quiet the hunger noise. And now we can teach eating windows and fasting windows. Now don't misquote me. Don't say, oh, Dr. Mindy is now advocating for ozempic. I'm just excited that we're moving beyond take a shot and your life will change. We're moving into some accountability when it comes to lifestyle. And it's really difficult because we have a food industry that has sprayed chemicals on these foods that have destroyed our microbes and have made us addicted to them. But if we can actually start to master this fasting window while the food noise shuts from the weight loss drugs, now we can see some lifelong change. And one of the challenges with ozempic is it's specifically fiber that's an issue. It's one fiber is one of those things that is going to actually cause the nausea and the bloating and the vomiting and all of that. Your body can't take in a lot of fiber. But fasting is perfect because you can practice structure. You can practice eating window and fasting window. You can practice discipline of healthy eating without worrying about expanding your stomach too much. So when you open up your eating window and you're on these weight loss drugs, you can eat just a little bit of fiber and avoid the nausea. So GLP-1, the authors basically concluded that GLP-1 facilitates an entry, an entry, an entry. It's an entry into better metabolic health. It is not the solution. It is not changing your metabolic health. But fasting provides a long-term sustainability. So let's pair them together. This is what this is showing. So here are the rules of combining fasting and ozempic. Are you ready? Rule number one, if you're going to combine them. Every time you eat, you're going to put protein. Protein is absolutely the hero. Let's put protein in. I would even say a little bit of fiber would be good. If you've been on ozempic for a while, you probably know how much fiber you can do. But protein fiber, I would even sprinkle a little bit of oil on top of your meal. And that really, really should help. But protein needs to be the most important nutrient. If you have one meal is all you can eat. Let's protein make it protein rich. Okay. Number two, take a multivitamin or a mineral formulation. You are not, if you're only eating one meal a day, if you're eating very limited calories, eventually you're going to see some mineral deficiency like hair falling out, heart rate racing, thyroid storms, things like that are going to start to show up because we're not getting enough nutrients in. So please make sure that you're getting a fiber, a nutrient, a mineral supplement, maybe even a multivitamin. So, but we've got to backfill in with the nutrients that you're not getting because you have been eating only perhaps one meal a day. Okay. Quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. I'm so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself. So you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. Okay. Third thing you're going to do if you're going to combine these two, and it's you're going to stick to a consistent fasting schedule. So the authors emphasize that the point here is to create a healthy routine and stick to it. Now, I know some of you are like, but wait, what about Fast Like a Girl? You taught us variation. In this video, we're talking about Zempic and fasting together. So in the beginning, don't be fasting. In fact, you got to eat the week before your period if you still have a period for the women out there. But you've got to create some kind of structure around your eating and your fasting windows. So maybe you skip breakfast. Maybe you skip breakfast and lunch, and you do that every day and you're just eating dinner. Maybe you're a person that only wants to eat lunch. I had a lot of people in my clinic who just wanted to skip breakfast and dinner and they ate lunch. So maybe lunch is your mid-meal. But we want you to create some kind of structure if you're on a Zempic with your fasting schedule, so that you get, because we're trying to change health habits, so that we can get some understanding of this is my eating window. This is my fasting window. It's a routine you're going to learn while your hunger is killed. Now, the authors of the study actually came up with a protocol for you, and here it is. Zero to six months, just the drugs, no fasting. So if you're new to fasting, you might just jump in with the approval of your doctor and do zero to six months, no fasting. Okay. Six to 12 months, you begin introducing fasting and gradually build up to a consistent intermittent fasting schedule. This is where I would encourage you to do 13 to 15 hours, sometimes 12 works, 12 to 15 hours. If you're a woman who's cycling and you're going to do the six to 12 month phase, please cycle fasting to your menstrual cycle. I have a whole book on it called Fast Like a Girl. Okay. Then the 12th month, 12 months and beyond, you're gradually tapering off the GLP-1 drugs while maintaining your intermittent fasting routine and high protein meals. At this stage, the authors also suggest incorporating weightlifting and rebuilding muscle that you lost during your GLP-1 experience. So here we go. And I'm going to put web visuals. I'm going to put up here. If your doctor doesn't know about this new study, please send him or her to this video so that they can see that this is science. This isn't just some crazy lady on YouTube that's just spouting off. I'm actually looking at this research here and they can look at that research too. Zero to six months, no fasting with the weight loss drugs. Six to 12 months, fasting with the weight loss drugs with a routine. So pick your length fast. Maybe it's 15 hours. Twelve months and beyond, now we're going to get off of these drugs. So that is a year on and now the exit ramp becomes a lot more successful. So we have to get to the point where we understand these weight loss drugs are not a magic pill. What has happened with these weight loss drugs is they've been giving people a second chance with their health habits. But that became so easy to just inject yourself and to start to get a drug that people forgot the second part of the conversation, which was fix your health habits. But it's hard to fix your health habits when your brain is addicted to the dopamine of ultra processed foods. And it's hard to fix your health habits when you're exhausted and you're carrying extra weights and you don't want to go to the gym. But these drugs can give you a door in and a do over with your fasting lifestyle. But let's be strategic about it. So in summary, you want to follow these three rules. And with the eating, you want to make sure that you're eating protein with every meal. You're taking a multivitamin and that you have a consistent routine for six months. We're not doing any. We're doing just the drugs. Second, six months. We're actually starting to incorporate fasting and these three rules. And then after a year, we work to get off of them. What do you think? Let me know if I was on a live with you all recently. And I asked on Tuesday afternoons, I go live here on YouTube and I asked some of you how your experience has been. And it's exactly that. People who didn't change their health habits gained weight back and people who did change their habits specifically using fasting as a tool were able to get off of it. So here's your exit ramp. Let me know if that's helpful. I am absolutely cheering you on. I don't want you to feel shameful because you took the drugs. I don't want you to feel frustrated because you can't figure out how to find your fasting rhythm. So if you're sitting in those two places, let's come together and let's start to combine the weight loss drugs with fasting. That's our door out of being attached and addicted to the drugs. So we can actually start to make a long term result. So as always, tell your story in here. Let me know how that how this is setting with you, sitting with you. And but don't give up on yourself. And guess what? You can live a healthy life at very low cost, very low cost. And that is what I'm here to teach you how to do. So as always, I hope that helped. If this helped, don't stop here. Click on the next video and let's see what you find there. You can find that.