 d одndeadathini, ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda ayuda similar diets and very similar rules, but one group lost twice as much weight as the other group. Both groups ate whatever they wanted. They didn't count calories, so this is good. But the group that lost two times the weight loss, had two times the weight loss, followed one simple rule. One rule, okay? This is one. All you've got to do. I am not joking, and then we will put fasting with it, and you will just watch the weight drop off. The one rule they followed was no ultra-processed foods. Now, before you click off, I want to break this down because some of you might be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, I know that. There are four categories of processed foods. So I really want you to know that processed foods are permeating our culture. It doesn't matter if you're here in America where it's the worst, or in other parts of the world. We have to dive into what is happening with this ultra-processed foods that's causing so many people to gain weight. So what are ultra-processed foods? And there's really four categories, like I mentioned. So the first is minimally processed foods. So a food that is the most natural would be like an apple off a tree. You pick an apple, you're like, came from the tree, came right from earth. Or those of you of the garden, you pick a carrot out of your garden, like no processed. Nature provided you a food, you didn't change it at all, and you eat it in its most natural state. So a minimally processed food means that that food you're eating is as close to its original state as possible. So these can be your meat. This can be fruit, vegetables, milk, nuts. Now each one of those have a little different category. So because I want you to lose weight, I really want you to let's break down a little piece of this. So pasteurized milk actually could be considered a processed food. So you could go raw milk, which has all the probiotics and enzymes to help you break that food down. Or you could go pasteurized milk. And pasteurized milk has been heated up. So all those yummy enzymes and probiotics are dead. And because it's a dead food, and because it's been highly heated, it actually has a higher glycemic index, which means it's going to spike your blood sugar higher than the raw milk. For whatever reason, raw milk is controversial. If you don't have access to it, or if you don't love raw milk, then don't. If we're going no processed, ultra processed foods, then we would want to get rid of something like pasteurized milk. Meat. Meat's another interesting one. Meat that has been pumped full of antibiotics and pumped full of growth hormone. All that, all those antibiotics and hormones go into you, and your human body doesn't know what to do with it. And so it stores it as fat. So when we look at meat, then we want to say that a minimally processed food would be one that is as close to its original state. You didn't pump it full of a bunch of antibiotics or hormones. This would be your wild game. This would be your grass-fed game. And then our fruits and vegetables, when we look at those, anything that's organic is going to be as close to the original food, whereas something that's been sprayed with non-organic, that's pesticides, actually now has a chemical on it that could be making you fat. Actually, it is making you fat. So we want to start to get into the nuance of some of this language. Nuts, last thing, and then I'm going to go to the next one. Nuts is another issue because with nuts, we have dry roasted. Dry roasted means it was heated up, and so everything in there is dead. There's no enzymes. There's nothing. And there's great enzymes in nuts. So if you get, you want to get a raw sprouted nuts, those are going to be the best. Okay? So category number one is minimally processed. Category number two is processed cooking ingredients. And these are made from these minimally processed foods, and they're good for cooking. So this is going to be your olive oil, your butter, your yogurt, your salt, your pepper. And you might be sitting there, and this is why I'm breaking it down, because I want you to lose weight, and I want you to get the results of this. So stick with me here. You might even take some notes, is when we look at olive oil, everybody's like, olive oil, it's amazing, until you highly process it. So you're looking for extra virgin. Extra virgin means it was in its original state. So make sure that you don't just get olive oil. You want organic extra virgin olive oil. That makes it not a processed food. Butter. Butter, pasteurized butter, it's already been altered. So anytime you alter these foods, we start to cause a chemical change in them that make you hold on to weight. So you want to go to organic, grass-fed butter. Yogurt, same thing. You want to try to go raw if you can. You could go goats. Goats is much easier for the human body to digest. You could go Greek yogurt. It has more protein. But again, we want it. If you can get it unprocessed, I just have a ... You can make it your own. I just had a beautiful friend deliver me a big thing of yogurt for my birthday, and it was freshly made in her house. I thought that was the greatest gift that somebody could give me. So you might want to make it yourself. Salt, same thing. There is a big difference between the salt on the table at drostanolone that has been milled and chlorinated, and all the iodine has been taken out in that process. So they have to iodize it. So they put iodine back in. That's like fortifying something. Never as good as the real thing. As opposed to like Redmond sea salt, which is one we love, which is fresh from the ground. They didn't change it at all. They just pulled it from the ground. So when we look at these lower categories, like minimally processed and processed cooking ingredients, literally the most simple thing you can ask yourself is, was this food changed from its original state? Keep asking yourself that with every ingredient. Was this like its original state? So grains are a great one. Like ultra refined grains? Yeah, they pulled the wheat out and they milled it and milled it and milled it until it was so altered from its original state. That's where the toxic issue is. That's what's allowing you to gain weight. Whereas ancient grains, heritage grains, these aren't even gluten free. These are grains that have not been changed. Just keep thinking about that. Is the food I'm eating been changed from its original source? Okay. Third level of ultra processed foods is what they call processed foods. And it's your ready to eat foods that you could make at home without an industrial machine or preservatives. Think about like the bakery. So this is bread. This might be fruit jam, dried pasta, you know, most cheeses. These things you wouldn't, you couldn't just have in the backyard. It would take you, you know, a cheese. You're going to be able to like pull the cheese out. You know, you're going to milk the cow, get the cheese. I mean that nobody, few people are doing that. I'm not doing that. I don't know about you, but again, the more processed. So once we get into our breads, it gets tricky. We start seeing more and more of the processed. And then the ultra processed are that you're ready to eat foods that you couldn't make at home. This is really important. Let's go back to processed versus ultra processed. Processed foods is you could make it at home. You could make a, you could bake bread if you wanted to. Whereas ultra processed food is you could not make that at home. So let me give you an example. And I'm just going to throw out some names. Dorito chips. Certain chips at like, you just can't make those at home. Those, those are like made in a lab and, and manipulated all kinds of ingredients to come up with this dopamine, dopamine burst you get when you eat a Dorito chip. So the actual definition of ultra processed foods is they usually contain industrial ingredients. This means that just read, read the ingredient label. If you read the ingredient label, you will see that there's about a long list of ingredients, but there's probably half of those ingredients you can't pronounce. If you look at an ingredient list and you can't recognize any of those, you don't know how you were going to go to the store and buy those ingredients, then you are eating ultra processed foods. So think your sodas, your candies, your pizza, most of your potato chips. These are, you know, these are the foods that you couldn't, if you look at that ingredient list, you couldn't reproduce. Okay. Now that we have that down, thank you for hanging here with me because a lot of you will, will watch this video and you'll be like, okay, yeah, yeah, I think I've got it. But then you're eating the ultra processed foods and then you're not getting the weight loss you want. And then you're frustrated. And I don't want you to be frustrated because you can lose weight if you know the gain. If you understand the principles, you can lose weight, I promise. So here's the study. What they did is they took, they recruited 55 overrated overweight adults who regularly ate over 50% of their diet or their calories came from ultra processed foods. Now each participant for eight weeks followed, they split them into two groups. One group had the minimally processed foods. So they switched them out of the 50% of ultra processed. And they just said minimally, they didn't even just say like totally primal pale lithic. They just said, let's just go to the minimal processed foods. And they said, you can eat anything you want in this minimally processed food category. You don't have to count calories. You don't have to stop yourself from eating, eat whatever and however much you want. It just, the only rule was that it was minimally processed. The other group got an ultra processed diet. So stick with your ultra processed diet, eat whatever you want, no restrictions. So people went into this study, eight weeks, processed food, processed food, minimally processed foods. So this is what we had. There were one, two, three, four major changes that happened between these two groups. I hope you're understanding this wasn't a big change at all. This was not a big change. This was get off the cakes, get off the desserts, get off the soda, get off the candy, get off the chips, get off the refined flours and sugars and the fast foods, get out of the, stop driving through the fast foods. Like they put that down and eat some fruits and vegetables and meats. Not even organic. These, the minimally processed group didn't just, I mean, they were just get off of this ingredients that was made in a lab. And the group that got off these ingredients that were made in a lab, the group that got off of the ultra processed foods had four major changes that were in up to their weight loss benefit in comparison to the other group. Here's change number one. The minimally processed food group, they had two times the greater weight loss. So they lost the the ultra processed food group, surprisingly, they lost one percent of their body weight in eight weeks, whereas the minimally processed group lost 2.1, double the amount. The minimally processed group, they had half as many food cravings because you know what they do to these foods over here? They spray them with chemicals to give you a dopamine hit. Have you ever noticed when you open up a bag of potato chips, you can't stop? Yeah. Yeah. Guess what? The potato chip companies, they, they did that on purpose. They literally put a spray that gives you a dopamine hit. And what is dopamine? I've taught you all about dopamine here. Dopamine is the molecule of more. It is not the molecule of enough. So when we say that the minimally processed group had half as many food cravings, that makes sense because they're not eating food sprayed with chemicals that give you a dopamine hit that is going to keep you coming back. This is why I get so frustrated when people are like, I can't lose weight. I can't lose weight. This ultra processed food over here, they, they want to keep you addicted. They're doing everything with those foods to make them so enjoyable that you just keep coming back. So if you just say no and you get off of them, then you come, you're going to find that you are going to eat less food. Your cravings are going to be significantly less because they're not hitting you with all that dopamine. Okay. The third thing that happened in this group is exactly what I just said, that half as much hunger with the minimally processed foods. So hunger decreased dramatically on these people and the people reported being full for hours after meals while the ultra processed food group was hungry within 15 to 30 minutes. So you tell me, would you like to eat really good nutritious food that will fill you up and give you energy and allow you to lose weight and you won't keep being hungry over and over again? Or do you want to eat the yummy stuff that you've been addicted to and you can't stop and you just want to keep eating it and you never feel satisfied and, and you just eat and eat. And how do you feel after you've been going binging on these foods? You're tired and you start gaining weight, you're more hungry, you have more food cravings. It's not a worthy exchange. Like I promise you just do a two week, no ultra processed foods just for two weeks and see how this all goes and just switch over. Just try it, report back. Okay. And then the last part that's really interesting to me is that the ultra processed food group reported significantly worse quality of life. They had more fatigue, they had more sleep problems, they had acid reflux, they had sick days. Like come on somebody tell me why this is still permeating our food system and why we keep going to it. It's because we're not aware of the damage. We think that if it's in a store that it's safe and it's not, and it's just keeping you in this vicious cycle. Now, a lot of you are going to ask me, what about counting calories? Do they count calories? So in the group it said, no, they didn't count calories. Um, and basically the researchers came out and said, if you don't want to count calories or you don't want to count carbs, by the way, in my new book, age like a girl, I got rid of the macros. So that women who are going through menopause, I give you just a solid primal menopausal diet that fits over here. I have a whole diet in there for women over 40. That is simple. It's simple. It's based off this stuff that we're showing. You can do it. You won't feel deprived. I promise you. So that, so what you weren't, you don't count calories, you don't count carbs or anything else. All you have to do is stop that stuff. Stop it. Stop eating that. Anything unpackaged, anything unnatural, lists of ingredients you don't understand, push it away. So what can you do if you want to amplify this result? So you're going to make a shift over to the minimally processed. We're going back to the incredible food that the earth has provided us. We don't want it to be changed. We want it to stay as pure as it possibly can. Stop spraying chemicals on everything. Don't put the pesticides on. Like we just want that to stop. So this is like apples and oranges and meat and potatoes and sweet potatoes. And I mean, there's so much here. And so you're going to just eat this. If you want to take it one step more and get an even better result, tack on a 15 hour fasting window. I am not joking. I have watched so many people lose weight over the, over the last decade, since I've been doing my YouTube channel over the last decade, like massive amounts of weight. And what are these people doing? They're doing exactly what I just said. We are getting them off the ultra processed foods and we're getting them onto healthy foods and we're tacking on a very simple fasting window of something like 15 hours. And if you don't know, if that sounds daunting, stick on my channel here. Keep reading, keep watching more videos, or you could get my book Fast Like a Girl. This one is out already and it talks about six different levels of fasting and how you can use fasting to tack to that minimally processed food. I think it's really important for you to understand the changes are very simple. So what you need to do is you need to just get off the chemicals, get onto nature and tack on a fasting window and you will start to lose weight. I promise you. Put it in the comments if that's been you. But you know, the weight challenge we have right now, it's not your fault. It's the food industry keeping you addicted and in keeping you addicted, they've caused you to gain weight. And now Big Pharma wants to put you on some kind of medication to lose all of that. You don't need to spend all the money on the medication. It's simple. You just start to eat these minimally processed foods and tack on a fasting window and you will lose weight. Put in the comments if that's been you. So there you go. I'm cheering you all on. Let me know where you get stuck because my team will bring me those. Let me know where you get stuck with weight loss. I want to keep doing videos until we get you loving the body you're living in. So as always, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.