 I think this might be the most extensive video I've ever done on what you can drink. I want you all to join me because it's such a powerful experience. People discover so much about their bodies and we can start to really prime your metabolic health by using a three-day water fast to reset you for the new year. It's such a potent tool. So if you want to join me or you are joining me, just put it in the comments. We'll make sure you get all the links and you can, it's free. It's so much more fun to do a three-day water fast with 100,000 people with every day you can click in and I'll be there to lead you through it. Okay, so it is day one of a three-day water fast for me. And right now as I'm doing this video, it's January 1st and the first week of January every year, we do a three-day water fast in conjunction with my publisher Hay House and we have close to 100,000 people worldwide that join us and it's a super cool experience. I lead you through each day. I get on a call and you all can ask me questions and I'll give you motivation and it's just a really awesome way to do a three-day water fast. If that is moving you, please join me. One of the things I like to do before a three-day, I lead all of you through a three-day water fast is go through the experience myself. Because every fast, no matter what the length, but especially these longer lengths, really offer you a different perspective. Sometimes you'll understand how your relationship to food, what that looks like. Sometimes you get to know, well, what does hunger mean when you start to feel hungry? I can tell you the first time I did a three-day water fast, I really started to see how I used food for a state changer and how I used food to make me feel better. It was like an emotional release. So it's really this incredible physical reset, but it's also an incredible mental and, for many people, spiritual reset. So I'm going ahead of you all and I hope you all join me next week. On this video, I really wanted to go through what do you drink while you are fasting, especially if you're not eating food for three days. And so I literally have pulled everything I possibly could find out of my shelves to show you what is good and what is not good. Because for the last, I don't know, like close to a decade, I've been answering the question of, can I drink coffee? Can I drink tea? What can I do? So let's clear it up right here and right now. And I want to teach you how to think this through. I don't want to just show you this is good and this is bad. I want you to see why I'm saying some of these things are good and some of them are bad so that you can make those choices for yourself. Some of the products I'm going to show you today, you don't have access to. But I want you to understand how to read a label so you pick the right thing for you and you make the right decision for you. So here we go. First thing I want you to know is, the question I get is, can I drink something while I'm fasting? Or is it just water? Now, the answer to that is, if you are trying to maximize autophagy, which is your body's ability to detox itself and heal itself. Or you're trying to maximize stem cells, which is when we go deeper into these longer fasts, we start to get stem cells that go in and repair our body. And when we're looking at things that I quoted, like in Fast Like a Girl, how I put out the six different length fasts in chapter two, I talk about all of the different science behind it. When we look at science and then we say, well, science says at hour 16, this is happening. And science says that at hour 72, this is happening. And science says that if you want to mimic the best result, then water is your best bet. Nothing else I'm going to say here matters. Because if you are trying to maximize stem cell production, autophagy, and you want to get the same exact results that many of these studies have brought, then let's just drink water. That's the easiest, most simple answer. Now, in Fast Like a Girl, I brought forward something that I call a fasting lifestyle. And in a fasting lifestyle, we use fasting as a tool to heal ourselves. And we don't just do it one year. We do it multiple times a year. So this three-day water fast that I'm leading you through, I have been doing this the first week of January for many, many years. It's a great reset from the holidays. And then I do it again in September because it's a great reset for summer here in the Northern Hemisphere. And so I want to make sure that I can easily slip in and out of a three-day water fast, which means the very first question that many people ask me is, what about coffee? Do I have to give up coffee for three days? So let's start with coffee. So I have had family here over the holidays. And I didn't get a chance to slowly taper off on my coffee habit. So today's January 1. I'm going into this water fast. And I realized this morning I didn't taper off coffee. So I'm going to go ahead and have coffee on this fast. Now, what I'm having is organic, mold-free, clean, local, grown-on-a-regenerative-farm coffee. I didn't go down to Starbucks and just grab a cup of coffee and go, well, I'm still water fasting. I took care to make sure that the coffee was a clean coffee. I also didn't put any creamers, sugars, or anything in it. So if you are going to use coffee during your three-day water fast, make sure it is clean and make sure that you are not using sweeteners of any kind and that you're not putting any cream of any kind. Now, I like cream in my coffee, so this is a little bit of a different experience. But I'm on a three-day water fast, so I just don't want the caffeine headache. So you can drink a cup of coffee each day through your fast if you don't want to go through that hurdle. A lot of people have done it. And I also want to point out that a very clean, potent coffee, the research shows that coffee actually can stimulate autophagy. So the case could be made that coffee can accelerate the autophagy. Apoptosis is where the old cells go away. Caffeine and coffee in general can actually stimulate that. So we could say some of it is good, but it needs to be clean coffee. So hopefully that helps you if you're like, but what if I put oat milk in it? No. What if I put almond milk in it? No. Clean, black coffee is okay. One cup so you don't get a headache. You're now playing with a good set of rules that isn't going to destroy your fast too much. So that's the first one is coffee. Okay, the second question I get a lot is about water. What type of water? How much water? Can I drink too much water? Now ideally I'd want you drinking clean water, but a lot of times I will drink sparkling water. So I didn't have an extra bottle of Goldsteiner. That's what usually you find in our house is Goldsteiner comes in a glass bottle and it has the highest mineral content. So we'll put in the notes of this video the name Goldsteiner if you want to go find it. You can find it worldwide. And I like it because it has more minerals. So, but, you know, if you want to do LaCroix, yeah, you can do LaCroix. I think that would work. And it's just something to drink and has a little bit of minerals, has a little bit of bubble in it. I'll tell you something really fun that I do, especially at the end of the day when I really want to have something yummy. I'll put it in a fun glass. This is the champagne glass we toasted with last night for the new year. I'll put it in a champagne glass and just drink it out of there because it makes it feel fancier and more fun. So sparkling water, fine, just no sweeteners. This one is LaCroix. I don't have any brand other than Goldsteiner. I'm just telling you I like Goldsteiner because it has no sweetener. It has a lot of minerals in it. But this one is Limoncello. It is an essence in there. It's not a flavor essence. There's no sweetener. So this is a good, this could be a good fit for some of you if you need something with a little bit of flavor. So water, clean water, reverse osmosis would be great if you can make sure it's clean. Sparkling water is a yes. Okay. What about something like tea? Tea. So a lot of people will ask me, well, can I just have a cup of tea? Well, let's talk about tea. Tea has lots of plastics in them. So you are trying to go into a three-day water fast where you are trying to get rid of a toxic load. So, you know, I didn't have to show you some loose leaf would be good and then you put it in some kind of strainer. I just pulled out tea bags. And some of these are actually in a cloth, a cloth sleeve. So, like this would be one that would be more plastic free. And some of these, and you can read the labels as well. I like peppermint sometimes. Peppermint's really refreshing. It can give you a nice uplift. You can see that it's organic. So all your tea needs to be organic. Otherwise, you're drinking pesticides. If you can do it loose leaf, great. Otherwise, make sure they're in a cloth bag. Another tea that I found here, and I did this video on YouTube that was so popular for all of you, so I wanted to bring it back into this, is ashwagandha. As you go longer into the fast, what's going to happen is you're going to, the cortisol levels can go up. So if you're getting any kind of heart palpitations, I highly recommend trying some ashwagandha tea. This one has turmeric in it. It's organic. And I found this at my local health food store. So that's my thing on tea. Again, no sweeteners. And let's make sure it's organic and that it's clean. Now, what about things like, here is, you know, shout out to Laird Superfoods. Superfoods, Gabby interviewed me on her podcast for Age Like a Girl, and I sat and chatted with them about their products, and I'm pretty excited about some of them. And this one is an organic coffee with functional mushrooms. So if you are going to do, like, coffee with some mushroom without any sweetener, you might try something that has a little performance, like this has lion's mane in it. It might give you a little bit of an extra kick for your brain function. Whereas, I like green tea. Personally, I can't do matcha or green tea on an empty stomach, so they don't work for me in a three-day water fast. But this is Laird Superfood, too. I love this green tea. I drink it often throughout a day. But for this kind of fast, it doesn't work because it has coconut milk powder, coconut sugar, matcha powder. So you want to read the labels. I brought it out not to, you know, say anything bad about Laird Superfood because I think this is a good product. But for a three-day water fast, if it has coconut milk or coconut sugar in it, I really read your labels and make sure. Whereas this coffee itself doesn't have that labeling on it. It's just mushrooms and coffee. So I would put it over here in the coffee category as something that I could add for one cup a day. Other things for energy lift before I move on to some really cool drinking hacks that will help the symptoms. There is incredible research done on Yerba Mata. It blows my mind because what Yerba Mata can do unsweetened. So this one, I have a couple of brands that I like. And these, you know, you might have to go. These are not. I'm not brand loyal to these, but this is one I can get easily at my store, but it doesn't have a sweetener in it. I purposely bought it in a water bottle or in a glass bottle so that I don't get any metals or plastics. But what Yerba Mata does is it kills hunger, and it gives you brain clarity, and it gives you energy. And the research on it is amazing. If you want me to do a whole video on Yerba Mata and fasting, let me know. Put it in the comments because it's kind of exciting. It's an exciting tool, especially for a three-day water fast. And because it will give you that energy and kill your hunger, I mean, the next three days as I'm doing this fast, it's really downtime. But if you were doing a fast and working and you're like, okay, I'm going to do one cup of coffee, but maybe I'll have a Yerba Mata tea. You can heat it up, or you can keep it cold. Just make sure there's no sweetener in it. That's the only thing. And sometimes there's just loose-leaf tea you can find at your local store. But I really like it when we're having that kind of exhaustion that can sometimes come with three-day water fast. Other things that we've been asked before I move into the helpful, really things you're going to want to think about adding in. A lot of people are moving more towards mocktails and these adaptogen drinks. They're really interesting. This one has magnesium adaptogen in it. It doesn't have any sweetener. Again, I'm not brand loyal. It's called Recess. I just bought it at my local store. When you start to branch into things that are a little more obscure, you might want to take your glucose monitor and actually test it and see how it works on your glucose monitor. So sometimes these things work for one and it doesn't work for another. How would you know if it works? Put a glucose monitor on, drink it, and then see if it spikes your blood sugar. And it can be as simple as that. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's fast like a girl, eat like a girl, and age like a girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer-reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. Okay, an absolute must and why I'm a huge fan of Element T is minerals. So throughout a three-day water fast, a lot of people will notice that they get heart palpitations or they get a lot of brain fog or some people will get rashes. Not everybody notices this. But if that's you, I want you to think about minerals. A lot of times what happens is we are mineral deficient going into the three-day water fast because our soils are so mineral depleted that we're not even getting the same nutrients out of our foods anymore. I have a whole video coming to you all on this where I'm showing you, we'll put the link down in here, where I'm showing you what the consequence of poor soil nutrients are right now on our mineral load in our body. So if we're not going to eat for three days and we go into this fast, if we're already mineral depleted, a lot of times taking something like Element T now has a sparkling electrolyte water. There is no sweetener in it, although sometimes they put stevia in. So I want to talk about stevia in a moment. But they have magnesium, potassium, and sodium that can help with any leg cramping. I absolutely use Element T on every single fast. Sometimes I'll take the sachets here. I'll tell you one of my favorite is to take, this is chocolate raspberry, and the chocolate raspberry one I'll put in warm water because it's really common to get cold during a three-day water fast. So sometimes just taking the Element T and putting it in warm water feels like a yummy treat. And my patients taught me this years ago. You can even set your watch for like, this is a sweet one, it's chocolate raspberry. So I might have this at 7 o'clock tonight as like, oh, I'm having dessert. And it's a little trick for your brain. Stevia, Element T has stevia in it. And stevia works for some people. It doesn't work for others. And how you would know it works for you, stevia doesn't spike your glucose. It spikes your insulin. So you wouldn't see it on a glucose monitor, but you might notice that after you have some Element T, if you are hungry, it may be spiking insulin. And it might be messing with your glucose insulin system. So there's no blood sugar test. There's more a hunger test. Are you more hungry after using Element T? And I just want to point out, there are a lot of great products out there. Here's one by Bloom called Superbelly. And here's one somebody sent me called Cure. And I mean, there's tons. I know Redmond Sea Salt has some of these. So just make sure they're clean ingredients. But minerals can be really helpful. We often recommend beam minerals. There's one that you can use every single morning. And there's one that's great for detoxing at night. And I find that if I keep my mineral load up, my symptoms will be significantly less. So in order to navigate this moment of these three days, these are the kind of things, when you hear some people go into a fast and they're like, ah, that was easy, they know some of these hacks. So just be aware that you might be, these tools might be really, you don't have to white knuckle this experience. Now, the last thing I want to point out is bone broth. So a lot of people will ask me about bone broth. And here's how I have used bone broth in three-day water fasts. If you're hitting a wall where all of a sudden you're like, I don't know if I can do this anymore. My heart is palpating. I'm exhausted. I'm on day one. At the end of day one, sometimes that's a hard moment. At the end of day one or the end of day two. A little bit of bone broth is not the end of the world if you do bone broth. It is a fat. It has amino acids in it. And it can be just a small cup of it, or any cup of it, can be the thing that can really help you navigate a tough moment. It won't pull you out of ketosis. If you drink too much of it, it would pull you out of autophagy, which is why I want you to make sure you have a cup or less. Ultimately, you're looking to keep your protein level under 20 grams throughout this fast to make sure you keep autophagy at its highest. And then the last thing, so bone broth can be good if you especially don't abort the fast. If you're like two days in and you're like, I don't know if I can do it anymore. Try some bone broth if you've tried all the other tricks. That'll at least keep you longer in the fast. And the last thing I just want to point out is you can do all of these things. Like, okay, so you don't have food for three days. Let's play with drinks. You're just on a drinking diet. Let's play with the different things. Play with different pretty glasses. You don't have to put martini in here. You can just make it festive. And it doesn't have to be this white knuckle moment. It really, there is a lot of tools at your disposal. So I think this might be the most extensive video I've ever done on what you can drink. But I want you all to join me because it's such a powerful experience. People discover so much about their bodies. And I don't want you to think that it's just, you know, you're sitting at home, hungry, agitated, brain fog, and, you know, not biting everybody's head off because you're so miserable. You don't have to be miserable when you know the tools. And we can start to really prime your metabolic health by using a three-day water fast to reset you for the new year. It's such a potent tool. So if you want to join me or you are joining me, just put it in the comments. Just say joining you. If you want to join me, say I want to join. We'll make sure you get all the links. And you can, it's free. And I will be guiding you. The fast starts on January 5th. And we take that whole week. So I do an intro video. You're going to get a companion guide. You're going to get videos I've done on it. And then as the week goes on, we have daily videos that are daily calls where you can join me and ask questions. But most importantly, where you can join me and get motivation. It's so much more fun to do a three-day water fast with 100,000 people with every day you can click in and I'll be there to lead you through it. So I'd love to let me know if you're joining me. But most of all, I really want you this year to discover how powerful your body is. And I've evolved my 30 years in practice. I never, there's no more, there's not a more powerful tool for you resetting your health and discovering what your limitations are, discovering what your messaging around food has been. I just love doing this this time of year. It is so powerful on so many ways. So I can't wait for you to join us. So let me know if you're joining us. And as always, I hope this helps. You want to dive into autophagy more? I have a great video called The Best Way to Extend a Fast and Boost Autophagy. So go check out that video. Once you click into this fasted state, somewhere in between eight to 12 hours, now the trick is, how do we stay there longer?