 DRIiyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyoriyor Okay, couple key things that I want you to take away from this video. First, I want you to understand what dry fasting is. And right off the bat, I'm going to tell you it's exactly what it sounds like. Not only are you avoiding food, but you're also avoiding water. I also want to talk about if you did this fast, how long would you do it? I can tell you that in most of my videos, I have been an advocate for no longer than 24 hours. I usually say somewhere between 12 and 24 hours. I definitely do not recommend longer than that, but we'll talk about what the science says. The other thing that we are going to unpack in this video is the science. And some of the studies I'm going to give you are smaller studies. Some of them are nuanced. We don't have a lot of science on this. The majority of the science that comes to us about dry fasting comes from people who practice Ramadan, where they don't eat or drink from sunup to sundown. That's usually about a 12-hour period. This is why I'm a huge fan of you not going too long with dry fasting. So let's dive into the nuance. Dry fasting. Dry fasting is basically no water and no food. I can tell you that this became a very popular fast around 10 years ago here on this channel when I brought you fasting. And here's why it was really popular. Is that a lot of people noticed two major things. They noticed they lost weight quicker and they noticed that they got into ketosis quicker. But again, if that's your benchmark, we got to talk about how you do it safely. One of the reasons that dry fasting works so well for weight loss is that when you put yourself into a state of dehydration, your body will go and find water. Where did it store water? And one of the places it stores water is in fat. It's very much like what I taught you all around why fasting works so well. Because when you have no glucose coming in, the intelligence in the body goes, well, maybe I stored some glucose somewhere else and it figures out that it stored it in fat. So even though I don't have a ton of research on this, I'll show you what I have, we have noticed in my own community that it can be an incredible facilitator of weight loss. We'll come back to that in a moment. So what does the current research say? Well, most of this research is done on people who practice Ramadan. So let's go through. There are three major upsides to dry fasting. The first one I already mentioned, which was weight loss. And there was a 23 meta-analysis on Ramadan intermittent fasting that found reductions in body weight, BMI. How many of you were told by your doctor your BMI is too high? High waist circumference. How many of you are excited about the belly fat that you would like to go away? And fat mass that during Ramadan, which by the way is 12 hours of dry fasting every day for 30 days. So consistency really mattered. And what this meta-analysis found was that dry fasting may create short-term metabolic changes, like the ones I just mentioned, but it doesn't prove to have a lasting advantage over other fasting methods. Now, an application of that would look like maybe you use dry fasting for a couple of days as a tool to jumpstart your weight loss. And so maybe you do 12 hours of dry fasting, just like Ramadan, for a week, and then you move into the other fasts. I wrote six of them in Fast Like a Girl. So maybe you move into the other fasting lanes. Okay, second benefit to dry fasting is it's anti-inflammatory. Okay, this is really exciting. It brings inflammation down. If you've tried dry fasting before, put in the comments. You may notice that your joints just feel like they're more lubricated. The brain fog may go away because of this anti-inflammatory effect. And a 2024 perspective study in adults with higher BMI found that dry fasting decreases several inflammatory cytokines, especially when you're doing the dawn-to-dusk fasting like Ramadan. And it also pointed out, this study pointed out, that there were other modest reductions in weight and BMI. Okay, now I'm kind of intrigued. 12 hours, no food, no water for a repeated series of days. I'm seeing that I could lose some weight. I can get that belly fat to go away. I can bring the inflammation down. This is intriguing. Are you not intrigued? I even, like, I look at that, I'm like, that's pretty good science. Okay, third thing that's a pro is the cardiometabolic upside. And this is a proteomics study from 2022. And it suggests that there are favorable shifts in metabolic markers. The study did not say which metabolic markers. But our traditional metabolic markers are going to be blood pressure, cholesterol, even, you know, liver enzymes, all the whole cholesterol panel. But what this particular study said is that even though the data on improving metabolic markers was promising, they still came out of that study and said it's not proven. So this is one of those findings that I would ask you to notice on your own. If you're going to go and do a 12-hour dry fast every single day for a shorter period of time, if you have a blood pressure cuff at home, which people with high blood pressure often do, or you have an aura ring or a whoop band, some kind of measurement of sleep and HRV, you might look and see what changes you personally experience. Okay, what are the cons? And yes, I know a lot of you are like, this is crazy. Because the first time I saw dry fasting, I was like, excuse me, no water? In fact, I had to ask myself, how long can we go without water? And, you know, the typical, like, parting line is it's days. You can only last days without water, which is why I like the 12- to 24-hour mark. We don't want to go three to five days without water. That would not be good. I really want to point that out. So, in fact, you know, the old theory was you could only go three days without water. So, if you're going to do this, I'd rather you stick more to the 12 hours. But we'll talk in a moment about who should do it and who shouldn't. So, you know, there's a lot of risks. So, the first is dehydration. That's the first one. This is where it's both sides of the coin. Because dehydration is going to help you with weight loss. It's going to help you bring down inflammation. But dehydration over time can be very difficult, especially on your kidneys. Second con is the kidneys. So, anybody who has kidney disease, this is an absolute no. There's a 24-study in nephrology consensus on Ramadan fasting that emphasizes individualized assessments of people with kidney disease should happen before they go into any short or long-term dry fasting. So, I'll leave a link for that if you have kidney disease. But again, I really want to encourage you to bring your doctor into this discussion because it is hard on the kidneys. Okay. Third thing to consider is it's not great for people on diabetes medications. And it can be downright dangerous if you have diabetes. So, the guidelines for diabetes and Ramadan warn that the risks are hypoglycemia. That's where you feel like you're going to pass out, right? Like your blood sugar drops. That's hyperglycemia. That's where you can actually go into a diabetic coma because there's too much glucose going around. Ketoacidosis, which is those of you who have been fasting experts here. This is where you get those ketone numbers into something like 7.0. No, it's probably higher than that. It's more like 9.0 millimoles. Dehydration, we talked about thrombosis. So, anybody who's worried about a stroke or has any deep vein thrombosis issues, especially those of you who have swelling around the ankle, this might not be great for you. And especially if you're using insulin or other glucose-lowering medications. Now, the one thing I couldn't find that we need to talk about is one of the glucose-lowering medications are the GLP-1s. So, I don't have any evidence, but my intuitive sense says that if you are on a GLP-1, I would not dry fast. We don't know the research behind that. The fourth thing is that con to dry fasting is that the evidence is thin. It's not, even though we have a lot of research on Ramadan, and like there's some incredible research I've seen on Ramadan. My favorite is BDNF, that no food, no water for 12 hours can increase brain-derived neurotropic factor, which helps with cognition and your cognitive abilities. But for the most part, even the studies I just gave you are smaller sample sizes. So, they're not big, vast studies. So, with that all in mind, who should dry fast? You probably are hearing both. You're like, yes, it's good. Oh, no, it's not. So, who should do it? It is definitely an option for experienced fasters. So, if you've been playing with all six that I wrote about in here, fabulous. You might be ready for this. You need, it'll break up the boredom that can come with doing the same fasts. The second person this is really good for is anybody who wants to wear a continuous glucose monitor or monitor their glucose throughout a fast. I can tell you in my clinic and in my Reset Academy, we don't allow people to do this fast without a monitor on. There needs to be some sense of where's the glucose, is it getting too low, so the monitors are really helpful. This is a great fast for people who want to lose weight. I think I, you know, throw a couple dry fast days in. We did this a lot in my clinic. I've seen great benefits with my Reset Academy members as a tool, not as a consistent fast. A day or two, maybe five days at the most, keeping 12 hours without food or water. It's a quicker entry into ketosis. So this is a great one for those of you that keep practicing all these fasts and you feel like you're not getting into ketosis. Try a couple days of dry fasting for 12 hours and see how it goes. But I wouldn't start at dry fasting. So if you're new to my channel and you just came upon this video, welcome. But also I just want to remind you all that dry fasting is an extreme fast. And you want to make sure that you aren't just using this as an entry level fast for yourself. Somebody who's a healthy adult that is metabolically stable, that's already experienced with fasting, is used to, doesn't have problems exercising in heat, is not on any medications that raise dehydration or a hypoglycemia risk. This could be, this could be a short-term interesting adventure for you. Let's just call it that. Now who should not absolutely 1000% this is a no for dry fasting. So here's my no go list. Pregnant and breastfeeding women, anybody with kidney disease, anybody with a history of reoccurring kidney stones or dehydration problems. If you have type 1 diabetes, if you are on insulin and require a lot of it, definitely want to work with that. People who are taking SGLT2 inhibitors, unless you've been medically cleared, older and frail adults and anyone who's sick. So my key takeaway is this is a, this is a tool. This is what I've really been teaching you all. These are tools. When do you pull out the dry fast tool is when you are wanting that deeper ketogenic experience. And when you are looking, you're like trying for everything and you've been trying all the fasts and it's not working and you just need something to get you metabolically over the hump so you can lose weight. This one would be a phenomenal place to go. So let me know if you've dry fasted, put it in the comments. And as always, I hope that helps. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video.