 Sieperate, for menopausal symptoms. But we got to break this down and this is new science for us to unpack. So ready? You might want to take notes on this one. It's so good. Here we go. Okay. First, poor little carbs. They've just gotten such a bad rap and they are so misunderstood. And those of you that have been following me for a while, you probably are like, wait a second, and I thought you were anti-carbs. I'm not anti-carbs. And on this study, you're going to understand why. And you're going to understand how to use carbs strategically. So the major question that I wanted to answer for you all on this video is, should I eat carbs during menopause? I'm very confused. And put in the comments if that's you, because I know so many of you are confused because we're seeing your comments. And so I wanted to clear this up. In my new book, by the way, ALAG, we call it ALAG. See, A-L-A-G. It's ALAG. So in Age Like a Girl, what I mapped out is a whole chapter on food for the menopausal brain. And in that, I talk a lot about carbs and the healthy kind of carbs that you might need in order to make your brain work right after 40. So if you need more information other than this video, please go and look at that, dive into this book. There's a ton in here. And I'll just tell you, it's chapter seven. It's called Fueling Your Brain for Better Performance. Okay. With that out of the way, let's talk about carbs and why they're so controversial in menopause. So the first thing I want you to understand is that after 40, if you are a woman, you do not process glucose the same way. Another way I could say this is after 40, most women become more insulin resistant. And you've heard me say this over and over again on this channel, which is the same diet you ate at 35, you might not thrive with at 45 and 55. And the outlier in that diet is a carbohydrate. Now, just like we did with fat and we talked about how there's good fats and bad fats. You also hear me talk a lot about how there's clean protein and dirty protein. There are helpful carbs and there are harmful carbs. So just because we put them all under the label of carbohydrate doesn't mean that they are all healthy. And I saw this study actually come out in May of 2025. And I saw it go through social media and everybody was like, menopausal women need to eat carbs. And all of a sudden, there was a carb frenzy. But when you dive into the study, what it highlights is the quality of the carb matters. And that's what I want to bring you today. So in this study, basically, they looked at the quality, they looked at the type of carb as you age, how it's really important. And what are the best carbohydrates for menopause? And I'm going to answer all three of these here on this video. So the study was published in BMC Women's Health in May of 2025. And the researchers recruited over 604 menopausal women, which is, you know, honestly, a very healthy, robust sample size. And they tracked for two major things. They tracked for the severity of menopausal symptoms and the quality of carbohydrate intake. And they actually called it, they had an index that they call CBI or carbohydrate quality index. So they had an actual measurement of the type of carbohydrate. The other thing this study did that was incredibly beneficial is they made sure that they accounted for four other factors when they were looking at the carb intake. They looked at the glycemic index, they looked at fiber intake, they looked at the ratio of solid carbohydrates to total carbohydrates, meaning how much liquid sugar these people drank. And they looked at whole grain consumption. So they really took this carbohydrate and they broke it down and made sure that they were looking at every aspect of a carbohydrate that you could find. And what they found, the real overall thing is there is a strong link between the quality of a carbohydrate that women ingest and menopausal symptoms. So this is good news because those of you who have been using some of the techniques I taught you in Eat Like a Girl or Fast Like a Girl where I talk about nature's carbs and I talk about keto biotic and hormone feasting foods, there is a way to eat carbs where you can lose weight, you can keep your glucose balanced, and you can use a carbohydrate to be able to improve your menopause symptoms. The name of the menopause game isn't to avoid carbohydrates, it's to understand carbohydrates and understand which ones work best for you. Because you can literally eat carbohydrates and lose weight, I promise you. So in this study they found, this was their big conclusion, was that women who ate higher quality carbohydrates had fewer menopausal symptoms. Now this is what I saw go through social media and I was like, wait a second, now we're going to unleash all these women on to just carbohydrates, they're going to start gaining weight, their symptoms are going to be worse, this is not good news. We have to go in and explain to women what we're talking about when we mean carbohydrates. Because the other part of the findings of the study is that as carbohydrate quality decreased, this is a really important one, women's menopausal symptoms got worse. So those with a lower carbohydrate index, meaning, this is what they mean, it didn't mean they were on a keto diet, it meant that their quality of their carbohydrate was so poor, meaning lots of refined carbohydrates and sugar and not very much fiber, they had the worst severity and frequency of menopausal symptoms. So when we are talking about a carb quality decrease, we're talking about ultra processed foods, we are not talking about nature's carbs. And what this study is saying is that women that increase nature's carbs, fruits and vegetables and foods, and I'm going to list them all here in a moment, and sweet potatoes, which we know I wrote all about tubers and age like a girl. And anything that comes from the earth, even fermented sourdough bread, there's so much benefit to fermented breads. Those are good quality. And according to this study, that would give them a high CBI score. But I want to go back to the second thing this study found, which is as carbohydrate quality decreased, the quality decreased, not the intake decreased, meaning the more women ate these ultra processed foods, the worse their symptoms became. If there was one food advice I could give you if you're going through menopause or you're over 40, it's to watch the quality of your carb and get off these ultra processed foods. They are making your menopausal symptoms worse. And so the study also went on, it's such a good study, they went on and they controlled for factors like BMI and socioeconomic status and education and menopause status, meaning were they in perimenopause or active menopause or postmenopause? They looked at age. It was a very well thought out study. And they still say they came out that there is the better the quality of the carbohydrate you eat, the less severe your menopausal symptoms. So if you are struggling with brain fog, you are struggling with weight gain, you're struggling with hot flashes and irritability and insomnia and depression and anxiety and all the things we've talked about here. Let's return back to carbohydrates, but let's change our relationship to the type of carbohydrate that we eat. Now, I want to take one step backwards before I go into all the carbohydrates. Please understand that there is over and over and over again, research is showing us that women become more insulin resistant when we go into menopause. There's a 2021 review which found that estrogen protects against insulin resistance. So the minute estrogen goes away, the minute she's like, peace out, I'm into retirement. You're living in a body that is more insulin resistant. Basically, as your estrogen drops, the carbs you eat are going to spike your blood sugar. And the worse the carb, these ultra processed carbs are packed with chemicals. They're packed with highly refined flours and sugars and oils that spike your blood sugar. And your poor little body doesn't even know what to do with it because it's so dense with chemicals and the body doesn't know what to do with chemicals. So it takes longer to clear them. Whereas if I eat a carbohydrate that's a fruit or a vegetable or a sweet potato, my body knows how to process that because it's natural. So that insulin resistance that menopause creates, it becomes a mute point. There was a 2025 review in endocrine research that found that menopause actually increases your risk of type 2 diabetes. And this is largely because women at 40 were not given, I always feel like I want to go and tap every 40 year old woman on the shoulder and say, here's what you need to know now. You need to know that everything is going to get worse if you stay committed to your ultra processed refined carbohydrates. If you just get off of those, just get off of those. And I'm not saying carb free and go to the fruits and vegetables and fermented breads. You can still have your carb and get all the benefits of carbohydrates without having the adverse menopause symptoms. So what are the best high quality carbs? Here's where you might want to take a screenshot of this. My team will list them out here or you might want to write them down because these are the most important ones. And it's awesome because my plant based friends out there, those of you that are on a vegetarian or vegan diet, there's a lot of cool bean stuff in here. So here we go. Ready? Okay. Sweet potatoes. Yay! I love sweet potatoes. I wrote so much about sweet potatoes in Age Like a Girl. Sweet potatoes, squash, pumpkin, those are tubers. Remember the story on tubers? Beans. All kinds of beans, but specifically lentils, chickpeas and soybeans. Quinoa. Quinoa is amazing because it's packed with protein. In fact, those of you who are looking for delicious recipes with this, check out Eat Like a Girl. I hired two professional chefs that have incredible recipes that take all these foods into consideration. And quinoa was a big one because I actually, when I go out to eat, I'll order quinoa over any kind of rice because it has more protein in it. Carrots, beets, fresh berries, apples of all kinds, and other low sugar, high fiber fruits, which basically means that you want to stay away from tropical fruits. Tropical fruits like bananas, papaya, and pineapple, those are going to be a little bit higher on the carbohydrate load. So eat those in moderation. But everything else, if you are moving into those post-menopausal years, go to town. Let's get those carbs that I just mentioned. Let's get them into you because it's really important for making things like serotonin. It's super important for making sure that you're fueling the mitochondria in the right way. There's a lot of benefit from carbs. And what I want you to do is take these out. Sugar, sweetened drinks, bread, especially white bread, but fermented, any kind of sourdough is really good. Take out your pastas. I know. Potato chips, cakes, cookies, pastries, desserts, all of those. Think of those when you hear those. You might be like, oh, well, those are my favorite things. Well, at some point we have a decision to make. Do I keep eating my favorite things and having all these menopausal symptoms? Or do I part ways with my favorite things in order to have a new experience with my aging body? And I personally think there is nothing you can put in my mouth that would taste better than how my body feels, a healthy body feels. There's a quote that went around for years that was like, nothing tastes as good as healthy feels. And I swear by that. So if you're dubious, here's what I'm going to recommend is that you try and just avoid this sugary stuff. Get off the cakes, the breads, the pastas. Try it for a week and just see how your body feels. Usually the first three days will be horrible. I've done videos just on what happens when you get off sugar. So you can, I'm sure my team will put some links in here for you. But let's try it. Just give it, what do you have to lose? Try it. The first three days will be hard. You'll be like swearing at me. That's okay. You can come back to this video and curse at me if you want. But after about three days, you'll start to experience a new body. And when you fall in love with how good your body feels when you're eating the right carbohydrate, you will never go back. Remember those sugary treats are addictive. They just pull you into more, more, more. They stimulate dopamine. And dopamine is the molecule of more. It's not the molecule of enough. So every time you're drinking a soda, every time you're eating a cookie, what I want you to look at and ask yourself is, can I just eat one? Can I have one sip? Can I have one cookie? And what you're going to probably find, can I have one potato chip? What you're probably going to find is the answer is no. And that's because they're so dopamine rich that the minute we go in and eat them, our brains like, give me that more. I want more. I want more. But when we go to nature's carbs, when we go to sweet potatoes, and we go to beans and we go to berries, your brain is like, this tastes good. It creates serotonin. And serotonin is the molecule of enough. Serotonin is the happiness neurochemical that's like, hey, I'm feeling good today. And serotonin doesn't keep having you seek for more. So you can do a dopamine rich carbohydrate that keeps you coming back and you're like beating yourself up. You're like, why can't I stop eating carbs? Because the industry created a dopamine response and you will never be satisfied. Whereas when you go to the carbs that give you serotonin, you'll eat them and you'll be like, I'm so happy. I'm so happy. This tastes so good. And there'll be a point at which you can put it down. And you're like, I'm full and I feel good. So it's a very different experience when you're eating these carbohydrates. And according to this research, if you want your menopausal symptoms, all of them, they looked at all the symptoms. If you want them to go away, let's make a carb swap. Let's get out of the toxic ultra processed carbs and into what nature provided us. Okay. Quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl is out? It's a trilogy. Now it's fast like a girl, eat like a girl and age like a girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself. So you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. So if you've already made that change, put it in the comments. If you want to hear more on this, let me know. Let me know if you ordered my new book, Age Like a Girl. I'm really proud of it. And I'm really, really, really proud of the chapter on fueling your brain because I've been watching women navigate menopause and nutrition for over a decade now. And I'm very clear on what foods are going to support the menopausal brain and what foods aren't. And I write all about it in Age Like a Girl. So, but most importantly, you control your destiny. And the greatest thing that will control your experience with menopause is your food choice. So as always, I hope that helps. So if you love this video, you're going to want to check out this video. It's kind of a sucky part of menopause is that we get a toxic dump. So when we look at unwinding the menopausal weight, we've got to look at making you insulin sensitive and look at detox.