 ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph ph and I'm here to give you the owner's manual to you. So let's dive in. Okay, first, remember belly fat. Hello, everybody keeps asking about belly fat, but remember, I don't know about, it depends on how old you are. Do you guys, those of you that were around the 1970s and 80s, do you remember how there used to be this infomercial where you would watch the belly of this person grow because of cortisol? And I don't know if it was my age at that time, but that infomercial always stuck in my head as a kid of like, oh, stress makes you fat. Well, that was back in the 70s and the 80s. So yes, stress makes you fat, and we absolutely know this right now. Back then, we just had some hypotheses, but now science is showing us. So a 94 study in obesity research found that high cholesterol, high cortisol caused weight gain in women, particularly around the belly. That sucks. A 2019 meta-analysis found that cortisol stimulated the release of ghrelin, the hunger hormone, and it inhibited leptin, the fat burning hormone. So when people were stressed, they got more food cravings, and they were more likely to overeat. And there's another study, a 21 study, that found that high stress increased food cravings, and the cravings for fast food and high carb snacks and candy were particularly high. We have three really powerful studies that I will link here that is showing that stress is a root cause of many of you that your weight loss challenges. And it's not just you're gaining weight there, but your cravings are going up, your hunger is going up. So I want you to make, so you can see the totality of this. Now here are my three favorite foods, with science and a drink, with science to back them. Are you ready? Okay, go through this with me. We need to get into the nuance. So number one, a glass of wine. What? Okay, a glass, I said. So I first want to start off there, because the research, I'm going to read it to you, and I'm going to tell you, if you're not drinking wine, this isn't like you start drinking wine, and all of a sudden you're going to lose weight. But the evidence for a glass of wine to reduce cortisol is really compelling. So here it is, and then you tell me if it works for you. So a 2016 study in the Journal of Alcohol gave stressed people either a single alcoholic or non-alcoholic drink, and then they measured their blood cortisol. So the people either got a glass of alcohol, or they got no alcohol. And here's what they found. The no alcohol group showed no change in cortisol levels, where the alcohol group showed an immediate and significant drop in cortisol, and their cortisol stayed low for hours. Now, some of you have heard, you've got to give up alcohol to lose weight. And I do think we have to talk through the nuance of this, because when alcohol is in your system, large amounts of it, your liver will shut off fat burning. But we're talking about fat that's created from cortisol surging through your body. So if I'm over here white knuckling exercise and fasting and eating, and trying to keep do all the right things, that activity, even though those, even though the fasting is great, and even though the eating is great, and the movement is great, if you're just so disciplined to it without any pleasure or joy with it, it's spiking your cortisol, and it's not helping you. Whereas sometimes a glass of wine, what we're seeing, can lower cortisol. And if you've heard that it helps you lose weight, I want to just show you this study. It's a 2004 study, and it found that people who drank white wine daily lost significant amounts of weight, as long as their overall diet was healthy. So it's a moderate drinking that brings those cortisol levels down. A 2016 review in the Journal of Alzheimer's Disease found that one to two drinks a night significantly improved cognitive health as people aged, with lower risk for dementia and Alzheimer's. Now, I know some of you don't click off. I get it. Some of you might be looking at this and being like, I call bullshit. I want us to start to look at each one of these studies and decide if it's right for us. So some of you have maybe grown up in alcoholic households, and this is information you don't want to dance with. I understand that. But some of you are ridiculing yourself because you're having a glass of wine, maybe once a night or every couple of nights. And I want to just show there may be some benefit to this bringing cortisol down. I am not giving you a free pass to just drink a bottle every night. So a 2020 review in the Journal of Age and Aging found that people who had one to two drinks a night also lived longer and had a lower incidence of disease. Okay, you have to take that information just like I have to take that information and decide what is right for me. I also have to take that information and map it to some of the science that I see that shows that women are better off with less alcohol than men. And that's because of cancer reasons. Well, one of the things that we know shuts down your immune system is cortisol. Do you see where I'm going with this? It's balance. Everything is with balance. So when we get in these silos of this is right, this is wrong, that's where our health starts to perish. But when we understand that something like a glass of wine could be a tool to start to bring cortisol down, maybe we're sitting in a social setting, eating a nice meal, having a great time with friends. And that is a weight loss activity. Now, I also know some of you are going to tell me, well, meditation and exercise in nature lowers cortisol too. Yeah, but I just wanted to give you a toolbox that you can decide which tool is right for you. Okay, second food that you can do to bring cortisol down, which is also a yummy thing, a treat is dark chocolate. So dark chocolate is not only pleasurable to eat, but it is extremely high in flavonoids. And flavonoids are a powerful antioxidant that can lower cortisol within minutes. So, I don't know, I'm seeing a picture here, maybe a small glass of red wine, biodynamic, make sure that it is chemical free and natural, and a little thing of dark chocolate. Now we're tapping into a ritual that might be helpful for lowering cortisol. So, a 2019 study in the Swiss Journal of Antioxidants gave older adults two squares of dark chocolate every day for a month, and then they measured their cortisol levels throughout. Now, here's part of the twist. Half the participants got a normal dark chocolate, and the other half got a controlled version of dark chocolate that had all the antioxidants removed. So, you had, both of them were getting chocolate. One of them got chocolate with antioxidants, with these flavonoids that reduce cortisol, and the other one extracted those flavonoids. This is important because I'm not telling you to just go buy a candy bar. What the type of chocolate that you eat is important. And during the whole experiment, those with the normal dark chocolate showed significantly lower cortisol levels throughout the day, while the antioxidant-free chocolate group showed no difference in cortisol. Okay, I don't want to like call out names of companies because I don't know the integrity of these companies, but when I'm looking at chocolate, I'm looking at something that's over 70%. I'm looking at organic. I'm always looking for local. When I see chocolate like at a convenience store or a more traditional supermarket, some of those chocolates that are mass-produced are going to be the ones that have less antioxidants in it. So, make sure it's a high-quality chocolate. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer-reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book, and I can't wait for you to get it. Okay, third thing I want you to focus on to bring this cortisol levels, the third food group is magnesium-rich foods. Now, these are also yummy because magnesium mitigates this nervous system. So, I go into a stressful place. All of a sudden, cortisol starts surging through me, and it's the magnesium-rich foods that starts to go, Hey, maybe we need to come back more into a relaxed state. And there was a 2020 study in nutrients that found increasing magnesium intake lowers cortisol and stress levels. But it also notes that the opposite is true, that stress depletes magnesium. We're back at that vicious cycle. Please go watch the video I did on nervous system dysregulation. A lot of people, when the stress is coming, they get locked in fight or flight. But what magnesium can do is start to lubricate the autonomic nervous system and put you back into parasympathetic. If you stay in a dysregulated fight or flight place, magnesium foods will help, but you also need more of them because it's a vicious cycle, because you're depleting your magnesium stores. Some of you might even find a magnesium IV. Well, here's what's interesting is that a 2016 report from the National Institute, the NIH of Health, found that 48% of American adults are magnesium deficient, probably because of chronic stress. And the good news is magnesium-rich foods are very easy to pop in your mouth throughout the day. And some of the best magnesium-rich foods are nuts. I have bowls of nuts all over my house, just pop them in my mouth throughout the day. So Brazil nuts, cashew nuts, soy nuts, even seeds, flax seeds are great. Avocados are rich in magnesium. And then some of our green leafy vegetables like kale, Swiss chard, and spinach. So we want to get these into our diet on a daily basis. But what I really wanted to bring forward to you is I understand that a lot of us are under a tremendous amount of stress. The news of the world is just overwhelming and we're gaining weight. And so we need to start looking at some hacks or some strategies that we can start to add in. If you drink alcohol, you know, maybe a glass of wine with some dark chocolate at night is going to be the thing that flips you out of the chronic stress straight. Some of you may not want to go down that path and you might double down on your magnesium rich foods. But most importantly, what I want you to know is you have more control than you've been taught. You are not a victim of this moment. And it's simple, simple strategies like this that will get your weight, you losing weight and get your health back on track. And if they've worked for you, put it in the comments. And those of you who have lost weight using the strategies here on my videos, please put how much weight you've lost. As we want to cheer you on and we're tallying up all the weight loss that's happened here on my YouTube channel. Excited to bring you a big grand total number. It's pretty exciting because I've been at this for over 10 years on YouTube. And if you ever want to know any of the products I use that I support that work well for me and you want discount codes, please look in the notes because I will list all my favorite that pertain to this video there. But most importantly, don't give up on yourself. You are more powerful than you've been taught. Your body is just waiting for your mind to catch up with that concept. Hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one. Next one.