 incorporate incorporate incorporate incorporate incorporate incorporate incorporate incorporate incorporate Yep, can help you lose weight. Chocolate is packed with fiber. Chocolate helps you break down carbohydrates. White chocolate, no cacao. Is that the white chocolate and the low cacao milk chocolate didn't have any effect? And make sure that it's clean, organic, 70% and greater chocolate. Okay, chocolate. How many fans of chocolate do we have out there? Now, what I gotta tell you is that on this video, I'm literally gonna show you how chocolate, yep, can help you lose weight. I'm not joking. I'm gonna bring you the science and I'm gonna show you why it can help you with weight loss, with stress relief, anti-aging and with gut health. There's some pretty powerful things in this little square of chocolate. But on this video, I'm gonna show you exactly why. Let's dive in. Okay, dark chocolate for weight loss. Let's start with a huge 2019 meta-analysis. Now I wanna start off by just reminding you that a meta-analysis means that they have revisited and looked at other studies that were done years ago and they looked for similarities. They looked for new patterns. So it's always fun. I quote a lot of meta-analysis here on my channel. And it's really interesting because this one, it was a 2019 meta-analysis in the clinical, critical reviews in food science and nutrition found that some results around dark chocolate and weight loss that were incredibly surprising. The authors looked at 35 randomized controlled trials and overall, they found people who eat chocolate didn't lose any weight. I'm sure you're like, yep, that's what I'm waiting to hear. You tell me something different. Check this out because this is the power of a meta-analysis. Is that several of those studies that they looked at in this meta-analysis treated chocolate as a supplement and only gave the participants a tiny amount. And often that was only a few grams. So basically a single square, like what I just ate. I didn't give them enough chocolate. Okay, so when the authors looked at studies where people ate at least 30 grams of dark chocolate a day for four weeks. Okay, have I got you interested now? They found there was clear evidence dark chocolate led to significant weight loss. And here's what they are hypothesizing. That there are a few possibilities of why this is. So the first you've heard me talk about a lot here on this channel, chocolate is packed with fiber. So it's not only really high in fiber, but it actually can stabilize blood sugar and it will physically fill your stomach up. Just like the high fiber foods will making you trigger the satiety piece of your brain. So let me explain a little deeper. Okay, I go and I eat 30 grams of chocolate. And before you wait, you got to see all the way through the video before you go pull your chocolate out of your pantry, because we're going to talk about the type of chocolate. But you go to eat all the chocolate and 30 grams of it. It's fibrous and you're eventually it'll hit a spot in your stomach that triggers. Hey, I'm full. That goes up into the brain and the brain turns off the hunger hormone. So foods like chocolate that are high in fiber tend to turn off the hunger hormone quicker. Vegetables do the same. But just saying that this is unlike a lollipop or like some sucker in your mouth that you're that you're sucking on like chocolate actually can trigger the your brain's ability to stop eating more. It's fascinating. Okay, second thing is they think that chocolate the meta analysis said that chocolate is nutrient dense and that the foods that are really hot foods that have a lot of nutrients fill you up. Okay, make sure you see the videos I did on how do you buy nutrient dense food because this is a powerful thing to talk about, which is we need to be eating foods that have lots of nutrients have lots of fiber. Yes, have lots of protein chocolates not crazy high in protein, but that way we don't eat as much of these bad foods. And when you have a lot of nutrients the body goes. Thank you. You gave me some nutrients. I don't need to keep giving you hunger signals. So those of you that are like, why am I still hungry? I keep eating. Am I still hungry? The first question to ask yourself is did I eat something that was high in fiber packed with nutrients and then I'm going to add in protein? Because when you do those three things, the brain goes, woof, we're full and chocolate could fit into this category. But what's really interesting about the research on chocolate is there was a 2021 study in nutrients that where they gave chocolate to mice and the antioxidants in this chocolate boosted mitochondrial function. Now, the mitochondria are like little batteries to your cells. So let's say like you're a mouse in this study and you're like feeling fatigued and all of a sudden they come in and they give you a little bite of chocolate and all of a sudden it stimulates mitochondria and the mitochondria are going to make the unit of energy known as ATP. So it can energize your mitochondria. It speeds up carbohydrate metabolism, which basically means chocolate helps you break down carbohydrates and it increased the total calories that those mice burned every day. So this study, 2021 study, I'll leave it here in the in the notes, is really profound because when we are eating things that are high in nutrients, we can fuel that we can power up the mitochondria. We can break down carbohydrates and we and all of that can start to raise your metabolism, which helps you burn more calories. Okay. Are you convinced? Let's keep going. Let's keep going. I know I've got some skeptics out there. So, really the study came out that last study, the 2021 study said that let's just be clear that these results were with moderate dark chocolate consumption. And dark is key because that means we're going to start talking here in a moment about which chocolates you pick, but you don't want to pick a milk chocolate. These studies were done on dark chocolate, like 70 or 80% chocolate, like the little bit more bitter ones. So, just please keep that in mind while you're eating your chocolate listening to my video. Okay. Second thing that dark chocolate can do is it can help with stress relief. And this is largely because it's packed with magnesium. So, there was a 2014 study that found chocolate can ease stress. And what they did in this study is there were 60 stressed out medical students and they were split into three groups and each group received a different type of chocolate. One group got white chocolate, one got milk and one got dark and each student had 40 grams of chocolate per day for two weeks. And so, and they also did a daily stress inventory to measure their level of psychological stress. And here's what they found. The white chocolate group saw no change. Okay. No cacao. White chocolate, no cacao. I've done some videos on cacao. We did some Instagram posts on cacao. Y'all have been really loved that. So, no cacao in white chocolate. So, the, but the dark chocolate and milk chocolate groups saw a significant decrease in stress scores as the study went on. 40 grams a day for two weeks. Sounds like something we could all try together. And then another study found that a single serving of dark chocolate can ease stress. This was a 2020 study. And the researchers measured things like blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac workload, bio, you know, these are all good biomarkers of stress response. And this study was done in healthy young women. Yay, a women's study. So exciting. So, what the researchers took is they took measurements twice. One when the women were at rest and the, and the once during a stressful timed mental math test they gave them. And in between the tests, the women ate either 85% dark chocolate or low cacao milk chocolate, low cacao, that's the trick here, or nothing. And during the test, the milk chocolate and the control groups showed significant stress response. So, they showed that if you were doing the milk chocolate or the one with the least amount of cacao that you were given on, when you were given the math test, basically your heart rate went up, your blood pressure went up, and your cardio, cardiac workload went up. But the dark chocolate group, 70 to 80% dark chocolate showed much less reactivity to stress physiologically. Maybe because they were happy because they were eating chocolate. So, that makes sense. So, that makes sense. But dark chocolate. So, and clearly what the study came out and said, clearly chocolate can help ease stress. We saw this in the study. But what's interesting is that the white chocolate and the low cacao milk chocolate didn't have any effect. So, we now know amount matters. And we know, oh, we've got chocolate in my mouth. Amount matters and we know that the, how much cacao is in there. It's really important. How much of it. So, we really want to make sure that we don't use a video like this to unleash ourselves on chocolate. We want to be very mindful of the type of chocolate. Okay. Third thing they found with chocolate is it's anti-aging. Hello? Who doesn't want to eat chocolate, lose weight, balance stress, and slow down aging? That, I mean, put in the comments if that's you. So, this is a 2025 study and they found that chocolate may help you age better. Thanks to an anti-aging compound. And we've known that high antioxidant diets are good for aging. And chocolate is essentially, is very, very dense in antioxidants. So, antioxidants stop all the cellular damage from the physical, emotional, and chemical stressors you're exposed to every day. So, they're like a little protective shield for your cells. And any diet that's high in antioxidants tends to be a good protective diet to the stressors of the modern world. But what was interesting with this particular study is that the researchers wanted to narrow things down even further. They wanted to find out the specific compounds that were causing this anti-aging piece. And they had a theory. And they knew chocolate had a main source of a stimulant, a mild stimulant, an alkaloid, a little bit similar to caffeine. Just a little, you know, this is important because you don't want to have your chocolate before you go to bed. But a little bit like caffeine. And it's called theobromine. And theobromine is what they believe is why chocolate has this health benefit. So, what they did after they got their original round of information is they actually wanted to collect two more pieces of information. And there were 1,600 participants in this study. So, they wanted to look at circulating blood levels of theobromine and other alkaloids. And they wanted to measure this to DNA mutations and see if there was a correlation between this theobromine and telomeres. And if you're not familiar with telomeres, telomeres will tell you your age, basically. There are these little components in the genes and the nucleus of the cells that will tell you how quickly you're aging. And so, they wanted to use this theobromine to see if it would create any telomere change. And here is what they did. They compared two data points across participants looking for these trends. And they found that the higher people had of this theobromine in their blood, the better they aged. And the younger their telomeres were, indicating that biologically, they were younger. And it's really worth mentioning. I know it can seem, believe it or not, I'm strangely skeptical. I don't know if you all see that in my attitude here. But when I see a new craze come through, I'm like, mm, okay, let me do the research. So, of course, when I dove into looking at chocolate, I'm like, mm, weight loss, mm, stress levels, I don't know. Tell me, tell me PubMed how you're going to prove this to me. But this part about anti-aging is really interesting because there are several studies that are linking this theobromine to a longevity component. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer-reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book, and I can't wait for you to get it. And there was a 2016 study that found that dark chocolate consumption is not only slowing down the aging process, but it's also preventing cognitive decline. And then there was another 22 study that found eating dark chocolate on a regular basis lowered cardiovascular disease and cancer and metabolic syndrome. I mean, I'm telling you, I was not at a loss for these studies. So, we want to look at studies like this in a holistic point of view. So, I want to just make sure I'm not here to tell you that you can completely stress out. You don't have to work out. You can skimp and unsleep. You can smoke. You can drink. All the things we know that are destructive to your health. But if you eat chocolate, you're going to be just fine. That's not what I'm saying. I'm really here trying to educate you on how to use research like this to maybe integrate some of the things that you could either do more healthfully, and we'll talk about that in a moment, but also some of these things that we might have guilted ourselves to be a little more like, oh, I shouldn't have any chocolate. I will tell you that in my cupboard, in my house, there are many bars of chocolate. I am a huge fan of a little square of chocolate at the end of the night to just get a little sweet if I have a little sweet tooth. Do I feel guilty? No. Because I do it with intention. I know that there's a positive upside, and I make sure that it's clean, organic, 70% and greater chocolate. So I'm doing the real bitter chocolate. Now, the other thing I want to put out here is that chocolate's really, it's great for the gut, which is great for your mood. Anything great for the gut is great for the mood, your mood. So it's not just the fiber that's helping, but there is a prebiotic fiber in chocolate. So remember, we have microbes in our gut, and these microbes make serotonin, they make dopamine, they make melatonin. Like, they're working hard for you, and they need you to feed them. And if you don't feed them, they won't make serotonin. If they don't make serotonin, then you might not be happy. So let's feed them. And you want to feed them a prebiotic. So I've talked a lot on here about prebiotics, but a prebiotic means if I feed a microbe this food, it will make more healthy microbes. It will replicate. So, like, one of my favorite prebiotics is jicama. I did a bunch on jicama for you all. And it's an incredible prebiotic, and it feeds all those good bacteria. Well, so does chocolate. Big taste difference. Not as much crunch in chocolate. But it is a prebiotic fiber that will help to replenish your microbiome. So, like, after, you know, you've been on birth control for two decades, after you've maybe had a round of antibiotics that's killed 90% of the bacteria in your gut. Maybe you've gone on vacation, and you just totally ate horribly. Well, now let's think about how we can bring in some prebiotic fiber, like chocolate. So, okay. Other interesting things is for mood and gut is a 22 study gave 30 grams of chocolate. So you can see that we're talking higher doses. And this was, they gave 85%, 70%, or no chocolate every day for three weeks. And here's what they found. They found that they tracked the participants' moods and changes in the diversity of their gut bacteria. And here's what they found. The 85% dark chocolate group increased gut diversity higher, and they had higher levels of healthy gut bacteria. And their mood improved. So don't go into the milk chocolate. Are you getting the answer? Are you getting the message loud and clear? So here's what I'm going to tell you. How do you choose high quality chocolate? One, it has to be at least 70% dark chocolate. Okay? So aim for 70%. Two, my friends in Europe, your food laws are way better than us here in America. We are only focused, the food system here is focused on profits. They're not focused on your health, whereas in America or in Europe, you all seem to do a better job with that. So choose European in chocolate. We just don't have good regulation and our farms are not all regenerative. I can't say enough about making sure that you're getting an organic chocolate, high dark chocolate percentage and get one from Europe. But get like a really good one. I'm not talking like Toblerone. Like I'm talking like a really artisan chocolate. This is a time to really appreciate food in its highest quality so you can get the highest experience with it. And make sure the third thing is at least, make sure, I know this is going to be a tough one for you. Make sure you only eat third, that you get at least 30 grams of chocolate every day. Because all the studies showed that the biggest benefits of chocolate had participants doing a meaningful amount. Don't just have one square. That's why I've had three since I've been here. But you want to make sure that you have enough, you eat it often and it's high quality. Pretty cool, huh? I think it's kind of funny that we've been here on YouTube talking about 30 grams of protein at every meal and everybody's like, Oh my God, how do I do that? I just want you to put in the comments, anybody worried about getting 30 grams of chocolate in? Not me. Okay. Let me know your thoughts. Really excited to bring you that research. Enjoy. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video.