 bageage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage, saitage saitage, saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage saitage goals. When I would work with people, I started to realize that it wasn't just the food, it wasn't just the supplements or the detox or the whatever, you know, the latest and greatest biohack that was going to get well. I had to figure out how to help them navigate the gap. And now I want to have a discussion with Victoria and why I brought Victoria in is because she's a behavior analyst. She deals with behaviors. Yeah, and Mindy, you're bringing up such a good point because you're talking about when we are in any kind of transformation, we are forced to reckon with sitting in the unknown. And the unknown is very scary for us. The unknown can be really uncomfortable to sit with. But when we change our bodies, you're always changing your sense of self. I mean, I know that in the Reset Academy, you guys are being educated on the microbiome and how the microbiome is so deeply related to your personality. Yeah, right. Yeah, that's a whole nother, that's a whole nother lesson that is just would blow your mind. I mean, people have said, I take antibiotics and I feel so different. Yeah, because your gut is completely wiped out, right? It's changed. And your personality changes when that happens. Anytime we're changing the body, you're having an opportunity to update your sense of self. Think about how old you were when you learned how to eat. And who taught you? And who taught you? We were in a very young brain. And we were being modeled by our parents and the people around us, our caregivers. And oftentimes, it's a lot of their belief systems and their behaviors behaviors. And things that you adopted as a toddler that have grown with you for all of these years. And so when you're changing those behaviors, most of the time, some young pains are going to come to the surface. And we want to make sure we're working with those pains and not just compartmentalizing them and putting them in a box. There's such a powerful opportunity that we have to really feel into, I get to update this, not just for me, but for my mother and for my grandmother and for my great grandmother. And then I don't feel like I'm turning against them. I feel like I'm bringing them with me. And I think that's a really important part of an integration process. It's not, I understand this, so I want to make it go away. I understand this, so how do I update it? But some of this is getting to take the time together. This is very difficult to do on your own. That's why we have a course. That's why we're doing it together. That's why we have simple exercises in the course to give us a sense of reflecting on certain parts a little at a time, because otherwise we overwhelm ourselves with the process. And that's not what we're here to do. So here's a, here's a really good integration thing, because I was taught from the moment I could read how to go into a grocery store by my mom and actually understand the ingredients. And I've written about this in a couple of my books, but we had a grocery game and the grocery game was when we went into the store, mom would entertain any food that we wanted as long as sugar wasn't in the first four ingredients. So if sugar was in the first four ingredients, don't bring it to mom. She really taught us, taught me the importance of reading labels. She also, the same brilliant woman, when I was having a bad day would say to me, sit down, let's eat together. And so I started to have a relationship with food that was like food was mother's love. I had to realize that when I wasn't feeling good, I wasn't going to get mother's love from food. Like I was going to have to find that love from something else. And that's actually the only way that I could tell that I was an emotional eater, is I had to like catch myself and go, Oh my God, I eat to feel mother's love. And it was only in fasting that I could grab that concept. So I just want to point this out, as we're still in the middle of a fat burner here, that that that's the gift of fasting when the discomfort comes up. Yeah. And and that was the only way I could see it. I couldn't see it before that. That's such a good point, Mindy, because oftentimes when discomfort comes up, what we typically do is try to make it go away. The discomfort is an important sense mechanism. Catalyst. What I think we should all do today, and I'm going to do this throughout the entire day. When we go to put something in our mouths, I want you to ask yourself the question, how do I feel in this moment? Yeah. How do I feel in this moment? Is there an emotion that I can name, that I can give myself time to become aware of? As I'm putting something in my mouth, we may see that we're putting something in our mouths, because we're lonely. We wish we had someone to talk to. There's a very interesting relationship between social behavior and eating one because eating is a social endeavor, oftentimes, right? And so when we're alone, sometimes we go to eat because we want some kind of connection. Sometimes we go to eat because we're looking for distraction. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm guilty. Absolutely. I'm like, sometimes I'm like, I don't like what I'm doing right now. I don't like what's going on in the news. And then I'm like, let me go eat. Oftentimes when we're putting something in the body, we're looking for a state change, a brain state change. I had to like literally visualize the little girl who sat with her mother at the kitchen table complaining about the sadness of her day while mom was sitting there, you know, loving on me as I was eating. I had to like literally pretend that little girl was in the room with me and I had to give her a different story. And for me, the story looked like, I love you so much that I want you to have a different experience with food. It was like the adult me mothered, took over the mothering of this little girl. I could feel her pain and I could feel what she wanted. And, and, and I've sat with her next to me metaphorically and been like, I know, and we're going to do it different now because there's a new way we can do this. And it's like, I've invited her into my transformation. And that has been so helpful. And I've never thought of like when I wrote the, like a girl series that I would be, you know, going back to my little girl and really healing her in order to heal my 56 year old self. Like she needed to be brought into the equation. If the question comes in, we are integrating the emotion with the thinking brain. And anytime we're eliciting multiple parts of the brain at the same time, we start to feel more balanced. An integrated brain is a balanced brain. And we want to try and get multiple brain parts working together at the same time so that there's lots of communication happening and the brain is lighting up instead of this one track that it just keeps going down. And that's when we don't feel so good. Right. And so if we are pausing, asking the question, what does this feel like? Oh, I'm eliciting my sensory systems. What emotion is coming up? Oh, I'm eliciting my limbic system. Huh? Well, where did that come from? How old do I feel? We're going into memory, thalamus, hypothalamus, right? We're bringing in all of these different brain parts. And we're also bringing in different stages of development. So the first phase of the course is all about understanding how we lost our voice. And some of that might be a little confusing to people who feel very confident in this moment in time. Even the most confident of us have had parts of ourselves that had to over-index on that confidence because we lost the quiet voice. Or maybe you really shut down and it's very difficult to access your truth and speak it out loud with certain people. And when we go through menopause, just like when we go through adolescence, when people become mothers, I didn't have that opportunity, but when people become mothers, there's these moments where the brain is pruning itself, which means that like when we prune in the garden, it clip, clip, clip, clip, clip. And the brain literally disintegrates parts of itself. I'm sorry, that's a really good analogy. Like think about that. When you prune, you prune, you prune, you deadhead something to get rid of the old. But why do we do that? We do it so that the plant can grow bigger. Exactly. Right? So it's not, oh, I'm losing myself. No, it's a refresh, right? It's a restart. And in that refresh, whenever we have the brain and the body working hard to refresh us, we have a tendency to think this is just happening to me. No, we actually have the power to direct the refresh. We have the power to choose where we are updating into. And like someone had put feeling, I want to feel more of myself. I want to come back to feeling like myself again. What I often hear from people that I work with is I didn't, I feel more of myself right now, but I didn't even know that I could feel like this. Yeah. Newness comes in. Fullness comes in. Full expression. So the first phase is understanding, well, how did this shut down? When did this shut down? Why did this shut down? And then we go into the second phase, which is reclaiming. There's a reclamation phase of how do I turn it all back on? And I promise there are these little exercises that we will walk you through so that it actually feels feasible to do so. Right? And that, I just want to say one of Victoria's superpowers is integrating exercises into. So what's really cool about this course is she teaches and then there's an exercise to help you integrate the teaching, which make sure you do it. She leads you through a couple of meditations. Make sure you do them because remember, otherwise you're just shoving information in your brain, but you're not retaining or integrating it. So it's really built out so that you, it's like a workshop for yourself. Yes. And the course is Mindy and I in conversation talking about these topics and every single module has an exercise that is both spoken about in, at the end of each module. And there's a companion journal that you will have so that it's written out and you could move through also at your pace. And what you just said is very important. Whenever we are integrating, we have to practice. It's a little at a time, but it's practice, right? The repetition is really important. And the acknowledgement that we're practicing is really important, right? So we want to be aware of that as we're moving through the course. So phase one is how did I lose myself? Phase two is what does it feel like to reclaim myself? And phase three is integrating with what was lost and what has been found. Really the goal of health is to fall in love with living in your body. That is it. And if that happens and you look in the mirror and you love the reflection back and you love how it feels to move around in this beautiful body that you were given, that's health. There it is. That's it. We want to make sure that it's sustainable. Yeah. We want to make sure that this body that you're building right now is sustainable and it's only going to be sustainable if we change the way we think and feel about who we are. We don't heal in isolation. We heal in community. We heal in relationship. You're needed. You're needed. We're building a new world. You're needed. This is true. This is true. We are building a new world. A world that is functions from power together, not power over. And power within. And power within. So we need you to find your power within and then we do health and life together and that's how we create a different outcome for the world right now. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.