 www.myestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestintestint I want to help empower you. So what I've done is I've taken the questions and my answer, and I have synthesized it for you here in this series so that you can get exactly what you are looking for and help you build your own fasting lifestyle. But most importantly, I hope you understand that what I am teaching here on YouTube is how for you to personalize your health journey. You were born to be so powerful. Your body is a miracle, and I just want to help you discover that. So enjoy. Andrea Turner, thank you for all you do. Speaking of toxic load, I feel like the detox aspect of fasting is part of what causes my headaches. Yeah, I'm going to try the electrolytes you might recommend. Yeah, you know, I think this is what I love about fasting is it is a detox. I mean, it's a form of detoxing. And I really love, I mean, I feel like the body is miraculous, but when it doesn't feel miraculous, it's because something interfered with its intelligence. So it's either a physical interference like you've been working out too much or maybe you haven't been moving enough or it's a chemical interference, like you've got too many toxins and the body doesn't know what to do with all of that. Or it's, you know, it's an emotional interference like trauma. And we talked about this last week here on this Q&A. Trauma can be stored in the cells themselves. So when we detox or when we fast, remember, think of it this way. When you're fasting, it's like you're having a conversation with your cells and you're saying, I need you to get become better. I need you to clean yourself up. And if there's a weak link in the 72 trillion cells, I need you to kill that cell and get it out of the system. That's what you're asking your body to do. So if the intelligence looks around and is like, that one has heavy metals. That one has childhood trauma. That one's been eating polyunsaturated fats, now that you know what it is. That intelligence goes, we're going to kill that one. We're going to kill that cell. We're going to kill that cell. And all those cells will go into the bloodstream. And some of them, you know, dump into the gut, which is why we want to make sure we're having bowel movements. A lot of times I recommend taking some activated charcoal when you fast so you can get a hold of those toxins to get them out of your system. Some people will notice that they get rashes because the system's like, I got to get all these toxins out of me. So it pushes it out through your skin. So, you know, a lot of people have the emotional. I've shared this story many times when I started fasting. Whew, anger came out of me. So much anger. And I was like, why am I feeling so angry? And I realized it was unresolved anger that lives in the liver that started to come out. So this is why I love fasting because it takes all the bullshit out of you and leaves you with the perfection that you were meant to be. And so the more we fast, the more we just get that junk out and we start to see the true you, which is really cool. So, yeah, I think that the electrolytes help because sometimes when a cell dies, there's a mineral content in there that the body needs so that the electrolyte balance will go off, which is why we recommend minerals and electrolytes during fasts. So report back how it works. But, yes, fasting is a form of detox, no doubt. Okay, Christine says, what happens to the heavy metals and forever chemicals in our systems during our three-day water fast? How are they removed from the body? Yeah, so it's such a great question because the way my evolution with this went was I was doing all this heavy metal detox in my office and then I discovered fasting. And when I understood autophagy, I was like, wait, wait, I can save myself and the patient a lot of heartache if I just start to train them to go in these three-day water fasts and their body will naturally get rid of these toxins. So, okay, what if I just do that? And what I found was two things. When you stimulate autophagy inside a cell, the intelligence makes the decision if the cell needs to be killed. The cell being killed is apoptosis. Now, in that moment, if apoptosis occurs in a cell that's packed with heavy metals, and this is the hard part. I'm going to try to think of an optimistic way to tell you this. Heavy metals are heavy. And this is why they're the one of the worst toxins on the planet for us because they're heavy. So our body's ability to push it out and get it out is it's it struggles. They're not like plastics is a lighter. It's a lighter toxin. So the body knows how to get rid of it. So when a cell goes into apoptosis and that cell dies, the heavy metals get redistributed. So we started combining three day water fast with what we called our brain phase of heavy metal toxicity. So that people we had there was actually a natural component called a zeolite and a zeolite magnetized to metals. And so I would have to watch people very closely in my clinic if we had an understanding that you have a high heavy metal load and you're going into a three day water fast. What are we going to do when the cells kill themselves off and the heavy metals redistribute? And so we had these zeolites. We had activated charcoal. I had an oxygen chamber in my office. We had a sauna. So we were doing all kinds of things to make sure we are getting that completely out. Heavy metal toxicity is it's a very you have to be very intentional with how you get rid of it. If you're an Academy member, we have a whole course on it that Paige, my health coach put in there. It's phenomenal. She was the one that was detoxing patients with me. So if you want to dive more into that, you can find all that in the Academy. I've experienced a significant amount of hair loss fasting among other positive changes. How can I combat this? Okay, I'm going to try to answer hair loss for a second. So if you guys are losing hair while you're fasting, I just want to kind of give you a checklist. And the reason I'm giving you a checklist is because what works for one person might not work with another. First thing, first thing, do you have enough minerals? And my favorite is beam minerals because it comes from the ground. I would be doing beam minerals every single day. So that's the first one. And somebody had put in a comment that they've been trying that for two weeks and it's not working. Is it beam? I don't know if it's beam minerals, but I'm not like, it's not like I, you know, am invested in this company. Being minerals, it's just the best product I have found. And it's comes from the earth, which I love. So you might be incredibly mineral deficient and you need to just keep going. So that's the first thing. Okay. Second thing is that you might be nutrient deficient. So you might need a really good multivitamin. You might need to go get a really good IV drip. You might be nutrient outside of minerals. You might be just missing vitamin A and vitamin E. A lot of the vitamins that help with healthy hair. So find a really good supplement, mineral supplement or go get an IV because you might be nutrient deficient. Okay. Third thing and something we saw often in our clinic is you might have a high toxic load. And one of the things we know is that when we fast, we tend to off gas or get rid of toxins in our body. So autophagy gets stimulated at 17 hours and it goes and it peaks at 72. And with autophagy fasting, you sometimes trigger the intelligence and the intelligence starts to realize that the cell is really packed with toxins and it needs to get rid of that cell and kill that cell. It's a process called apoptosis. And if that cell dies, oftentimes it starts to mobilize heavy metals through your system. So sometimes fasters will start to lose hair because these heavy metals are coming out of the cell as the cell starts to detoxify it or starts to kill itself. And when those toxins come out of the cell, they'll be reabsorbed and they bind to the minerals again and the hair starts falling out. So you might look at your toxic load level. And we're going to have more in our Reset Academy. We have a whole bunch we're teaching about toxins. So if you feel like you need more toxic detox information, you can join our Academy. I just started a really cool alliance with a franchise called Next Health that has clinics, integrative health centers all over the United States. And they have some detox protocols. So detox is a big topic. So the person who said that they tried two weeks ago to add in minerals and they're not losing, they're not, they're still losing hair. I would say, give it more time, give it more minerals and let's start thinking about your toxic load. So those three things. The last thing I want to say is a lot of fasters don't get enough calories in. And I rarely talk about calories, but in this situation, I think it can be important because your thyroid needs at least 1200 calories a day. So if you're fasting a lot and you're only doing one meal a day, you may not be getting enough calories. And if you're not getting enough calories, you're actually hurting the thyroid. And when you hurt the thyroid, your hair will fall out. So something to consider, but there's the checklist that I would recommend. You know, it's not fasting. It's what's happening. You know, fasting is like a mirror. It just shows you underneath what needs to be worked on. And what it's reflecting back to you is more minerals, possible toxicity issue, more calories. And then I will throw out the one last thing is that some people fast too much. And so you might need to back off on all the fasting and go to more of like a 5-1-1, where you do intermittent fasting five days a week, a longer fast one day a week, and you don't fast another. You might need to do a protocol like that. Okay. Next question is from Lucy Ann. For the past few years, I've adopted a fasting lifestyle, both short and long. During the three-day water fast, after 37 and a half hours, I was still not in ketosis. This is such a good one because this happens. Lucy Ann, you're not alone. And last night my ketones were 0.5 and this morning an hour after waking they were 0.3. Why is it taking so long to get into ketosis? Okay. So there's a couple things that I'm going to try to address here. So the first is the more you fast, the quicker your body will use ketones. So again, I'm going to use me as an example. When I first started doing three-day water fasts, I would get ketone readings like day two and day three that were like 5.0. And I thought I was like killing it. I was like conquering the game. And then I would keep doing these three-day water fasts. I kept building a fasting lifestyle. And in that three-day water fast, all of a sudden now I was only getting 2.5 or 3.0. And then as I kept going with more water fasts, longer water fasts, I would get maybe one. And my range in three days would be a sweet spot of about 1.5 to 2.5. Now you have to remember that what you're seeing on your meter is what is accessible in the blood. But the brain is a fuel hog. So the, and for many of us, we haven't trained our brain to receive ketones. So the more you learn to metabolically switch, the more you're going to end up with a body that's producing ketones. And the more the brain goes, oh, there's my preferred fuel source. And it's going to grab it out of your blood and use it for fuel. So now you're reading your reader and the number looks low and you're like, oh my God, I used to get 5.0 on the second day of a water fast. And now I'm getting 1.0. Yeah, because your brain, you've trained your brain to gobble those up. So you're just not seeing it in the blood. So that would be an important thing to take note. So the second thing it can be, and this is going to sound like a complete contradiction, but it's important to understand the nuance. That's why we do an experience like this, is that some people have a rusty metabolic switch. And there are reasons for having a rusty metabolic switch. So first could be that you had mismanaged glucose and insulin. So if I was sitting across from you, Lucy-Ann, I would ask you, what's your hemoglobin A1c? If you tend to be a little more towards the pre-diabetic, you might be that you're just having your metabolic flexibility isn't there yet. And you haven't, your body hasn't quite gotten the art of getting over into that space. Now, something tells me this isn't you, because you said you went to bed and then you went walking and the ketones went down. That tells me your brain used them. So you just didn't see them in your meter. But I want it just in case you're like, hey, I never get high numbers. I want to leave this. And a lot of people are in this position. So sometimes when we haven't been practicing sugar burner, fat burner, and building a fasting lifestyle, like that is, we just have a rusty switch. Okay, second thing that I've seen cause a rusty switch where you can't get deeper into ketosis are mineral deficiency. It's very, very common these days to have a mineral deficiency. Depending on where you're buying food from, and we talked about that yesterday, about where do you get high quality food. Depending on where you're buying food from, if it's from a conventional farm that you're getting your fruits and vegetables, you're not getting enough minerals. So one thing you could do, Lucy Ann, is the next time you go into a longer fast, like double dose bean minerals. And see if you can get, or go get an IV of minerals and see if you can get your mineral content up. And then see if that helps. Okay, third thing that it could be is toxicity. And we haven't really talked about toxicity cause it's such a big topic. But I spent the last 15 years of my practice detoxing people extensively, intimately. It was quite an experience. And I will tell you when we brought people's detox, toxic load down, they started to be able to metabolically switch so much easier. So you might look at like, what's your plastic load? I recommend always that people take one day where they go into their kitchen and just get rid of all the plastic and replace it with glass. So you can look, that would be an easy one. The second easy one would be go look at all your beauty products. There's a great app called Think Dirty or Skin Deep. And you can take your phone and you can just scan your beauty products and it'll rate it for you. And tell you if it's toxic or not. So you might spend a day doing that as well. And then the third piece that can really affect a rusty switch is trauma. Unprocessed trauma. High stress. Like anything that's cortisol rich. And I think it's really interesting because the way trauma gets stored in the body is that it just allows cortisol to keep dripping in and it never turns off the cortisol faucet. And as long as cortisol is dripping into the system, then that switch becomes harder. The body is like, I'm not sure it's completely safe to go over here into this fat burning because we still have a lot of cortisol and cortisol is a messenger to the system that we are under stress. So should we be burning fat when cortisol is around? So learning how to, you know, one way, my principles for taking care of cortisol, one of the, is learn how to work with cortisol. And cortisol is a hormone that's meant to make you move. So anytime you're stressed, go for a walk or get up and do air squats or do jumping jacks. Like get, like get that cortisol out of you. Otherwise it's going to be stored. And usually where it'll be stored is in your belly. We've heard people who talk about cortisol face where the face is puffy. That can be cortisol, too much cortisol as, as well. Another key principle of cortisol is that you get the biggest spike naturally in the morning. So do your hardest workout in the morning. frontload your day and do most of your hard work in the morning and the back half of your day be more relaxed. So it could be cortisol that's affecting those ketones. So, so there you go. I, and I, and I've seen, I've really seen people have to, and this is a little more of a rare situation, um, where they're doing everything. They're not, they can't get into ketosis as deeply as they want. They can't drop weight, but they're, but I'm watching before my, before my eyes. I can see that they're doing everything right. Those were usually the cases where there's some unresolved trauma from childhood, some, in a horrific event. Um, but, and, and, and usually, you know, sometimes it can be like rape situations, um, because it's something that's stored in the body. Um, so that's a harder one, but you might have to just sort of look back at your history and be like, uh, I've got some unresolved issues here that my body needs to know how to release. And you might go do some somatic work, EMDR, um, and learn how to get, and release that. Okay. Next one is from me, 19, 18. Should I take magnesium during a water fast? If so, how much? So the place I would take magnesium in a, in a long water fast, um, is if you are constipated, or if you have a lot of, uh, achy legs. So we saw this a lot, or restless legs. We saw this a lot when we first started teaching the world how to fast, is that, um, a lot of people started having pain in interesting areas. Um, I'll give you a, a really interesting, something that blew me away, was how many women have pelvic pain when they go into longer fasts. And our hypothesis at the time was that it was scar tissue from pregnancy. Because the pelvic pain was worse in women who had birthed, you know, had vaginal deliveries. So, your body is healing itself. These stem cells are healing, and when stem cells heal, they don't always feel so good. And sometimes that can create some musculoskeletal achiness. And that's where magnesium can help. Now, the type of magnesium, I don't have an answer for you with the amount. But I do have an idea about the different type. My favorite magnesium is a complex, a magnesium complex, where it brings together many different types of magnesium. Um, Bio-Optimizers is a company that we've used. Um, I'm sure my team can maybe put a link in here if you want to find it. Um, but there's another way that you can use magnesium in a water fast that I actually really love. And that's by going and buying Epsom salts. It's got magnesium in. Dump the whole bag in a warm bath and get in the bath. Magnesium will be absorbed through your skin. And one of the things we noticed with Fasters is this seems to be a better way, because your gut's going through all this repair. It gets in more systemically. And it's a really beautiful way to get magnesium into the system. You can also go to a float tank. And those of you who have a float tank placed near you. Um, so it doesn't always have to be oral, but it's not the amount. It's the complex that like the, the diversity of that magnesium, which is why I use bio-Optimizers. Um, and I do love the, the soaking in magnesium to get it into. And if anybody's tried that, put it, put it in the comments. And the last one that somebody said was cold. When we eat, you know, that old theory of like eating speeds up your metabolism. Well, another word for metabolism is thermogenesis. And thermogenesis is where your body has to create heat in order to do an activity. So when we eat our metabolism, when we, when we look at that statement typically goes up, but that doesn't mean you burn more calories and that you're just burning out the thing you just ate. That's how it's supposed to happen. So you initiated thermogenesis when you eat, it raised your body temperature. So every, so that you could have enough heat to be able to burn that food, but you're not eating food now. So the thermogenesis isn't needed. So you're colder because you're not initiating through that sugar burner metabolism. You're not initiating that anymore. Is that helpful for the cold? I'm cold a lot. I put caps on and put scarves up. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one. Check out the next one.