 supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement supplement can you best implement it? Here we go. So the study just came out a couple weeks ago, depending on when you're watching this video. And here's the title of it. Sleep aligned extended overnight fasting improves nighttime and daytime cardiometabolic function. So if you want to improve your cardiovascular system and your metabolic health, you want to try fasting before bed. So listen to me for a moment. The study was published a few weeks ago in the Journal of Atherosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular Biology. And it found that intermittent fasting is great for boosting cardiovascular health, especially in older adults. And it had one very specific fasting window that was particularly good. What they did in the study is they used two groups of people. And they had them daily intermittent fast for seven weeks. This is really important because consistency really matters. So one was the control group, and the control group did a standard 13 hour intermittent fast. And they ate, they didn't really have a strong eating window, they ate within three hours of their bedtime. This is the key. The second group, they extended their fast to 16 hours, and they fasted for at least three hours before bedtime. So all of you nighttime eaters, hang with me as we start to talk on how do you unwind that nighttime eating. Because it seems like a very small difference, but that three hour window where they did not eat the three hours before they went to bed was critical, not only for the cardiovascular system, but also for the metabolic system, which ultimately means more weight loss. It also means better heart health, better blood pressure, all the things we talked about. Here's what they found, is that the group that did the 16 hour fast, and did not eat three hours before they went to bed. Here were the benefits that the control group did not get. They had better insulin sensitivity. They had lower cortisol, which this is really important. Those of you that are waking up at two and three in the morning, a lot of times that's because of cortisol spikes. So lower cortisol, better insulin sensitivity, increased carb tolerance. Those of you that look at a carb and you feel like you gain weight, this is really important. That nighttime eating is critical to avoid, because what they found is if you didn't eat three hours before you went to bed, you were, during the day, the next day, you were better able to tolerate carbohydrates. Really, this is a really important one. And you were better able to digest them all throughout the day. So what I love about this study is we did one action, and we saw the results of it even the days afterwards. They also had greater heart rate variability. So heart rate variability is the measurement between your parasympathetic and your sympathetic nervous system. It is basically the measurement of can your nervous system relax. People that are stuck in fight or flight, they don't have great heart rate variability because their heart is never relaxing. So what the study showed is that three hours before you go to bed, 16 hours during that day, you are going to raise, which is important, raise your heart rate variability. A lot of you are tracking heart rate variability on your rings and your measurements, and this is an important one. We see it all the time, by the way, in the three-day water fast we do. The most common thing people in our Reset Academy talk about is they say, oh my god, my HRV, heart rate variability, went through the roof. So there's something about eating and stress on your heart when you go to sleep that's not good. Eating right up to sleep, that extra stress, can be impactful on your cardiovascular health. They also, the people who didn't eat before bed and fasted 16 hours, had better blood pressure. So those of you who are trying to bring your blood pressure down, they had better sleep quality. They had more stable circadian rhythm. Those of you who are trying to figure out how to go to sleep and stay asleep, especially my menopausal women, this is what you want to know, is that it's that eating time before you go to bed. And they had greater increases in overall metabolic health. So what was the big difference? And, you know, it's three hours of fasting and a change to the eating window. So here's what the lead researcher said about the study. She said that timing our fasting window to work with the body's natural wake-sleep rhythms can improve the coordination between the heart, metabolism, and sleep, all of which work together to protect cardiovascular health. So we always have to remember that we are rhythmic humans. And there is a rhythm. Circadian rhythm is your night, wake cycle. Your nervous system rhythm is your rhythm and ability to move from fight or flight into rest or digest. Your menstrual cycle rhythm was a rhythm in which you brought progesterone, estrogen, and testosterone in, many other hormones within a monthly cycle. Menopause is another rhythm. It's where we're seeing a different rhythm happening in hormones as our ovaries go into retirement. Andropause, that men experience, can be another rhythm where testosterone levels go down. So one of the things I've been really trying to emphasize to you all here is that in the health world, we love absolutes. Just tell me what to do and I'll do it. But the human body doesn't work like that. It works inside of a rhythm. And the goal of all of your health habits, whether it's what you eat or when you eat, needs to be how do I match that to the rhythms that need improvement. And what this article is showing us is when we map our food timing to our circadian timing, basically, because you're not eating three hours before you go to bed, we are seeing incredible benefits in your cardiovascular metabolic health. So again, the goal is you're going to fast at least 16 hours a day and there's going to be no food three hours before you go to bed. So what would this look like? This would look like 16 hours would be maybe you stop eating at 8 o'clock. That might be a little late, but let's go for the late time dinner people. You stop eating at 8, which means you would then go to bed at 11. And then the next day you wouldn't eat until noon. That would be 16 hours. And then you would still, again, that three hours, you need a little window there before you go to bed. So super easy. Now, what do you do if you're a nighttime snacker? And I want to also point out that this may also be challenging if you like to drink wine or beer because the goal is not eating and also not drinking. You can drink water. You can have tea. But anything that spikes your blood sugar, we want to avoid three hours before you go to bed. So you would set your time of dinner and then you're not snacking after dinner. So is it you eat from 5 to 5.30 and then you're done at 5.30? Count 16 hours that way. If you're done eating at 8, then you count 16 hours that way. But whatever you put that last piece of something in your mouth, there is no food or any drink that would spike your blood sugar three hours before you go to bed. For some of you, this could be tough. So I'm going to start with the cons first. The cons of this type of fasting is that many of us are night eaters. So I just want to remind you that night eating is a lot of times boredom. It can be habit. Sometimes it can be seeking dopamine. I will use myself as an example. I know that if I'm watching TV, sometimes I'm more inclined to eat, especially if you're looking at commercials. They can be highly suggestible. You'll see somebody eating and all of a sudden you want to eat. So you may need to change your TV habits and do something different. It depends on where you are in the country or in the world. If perhaps you need to go for a walk, perhaps you need to start reading a book, perhaps you are playing a game with your family. You might need to change up that routine. The second thing about night eating that I find really difficult for people is they crave a sweet. Put in the comments if that's you. So one of the cons may be my sweet people. They may struggle to be A because they want that sweet treat. So you have two options there. You could eat it when you're done with dinner. Don't give a little lag. Or I can tell you what I used to do a lot, which is a square of very dark chocolate. If you decide to do chocolate, maybe you eat from 5 to 5.30. You're cleaning up the kitchen and you pop a little square of chocolate in your mouth so you're completely done at 6 p.m. And now you've had your sweet treat. And then when your brain is like, I want more sweets, you can remind it that you already gave it its sweet treat and you're not eating food. I've done this a lot with fasting where I'm like, I have to tell my brain we're not eating right now. We're just not eating right now. And it really does work for those nighttime eaters. Now, what are the pros? I absolutely agree with this study. I think three hours before you go to bed, not eating is I've seen all of these benefits, not only with myself. I've seen it with my patients and we've seen it in our Reset Academy over and over and over again. Eating and then going to bed is really hard on your system. And it doesn't allow you to fully go into that parasympathetic rest and digest place that you want to go when you go into sleep. So I think it's great for all the things they said. I think you'll notice that you lose weight. I think you'll definitely notice that you sleep better. I think you'll wake up a lot more feeling refreshed and rested. And I would say another pro is that it's really quite easy to do. So because of that, we are actually going to do this as I'm calling it a cardio metabolic reset fast. Just like I gave you six different length fasts in fast like a girl. I actually based off of this research and how it maps to the experience that we've seen. I would have included it as a seventh fast. It's that powerful. And we're going to practice it for fast training week. And if you're not familiar with fast training week, it's a free service we do once a month across all of our platforms. And we try out different fasts. This is where all of this information in this book came from is me doing fast training weeks with you all here on YouTube. So if you want to join us, we do have a free companion guide that maps out all the fasts, gives you all the things you need to make the fast easy and effortless. And so you can just put companion guide in the comments and my team will send you a link. But for this fast training week, what we're going to do is we're going to do 16 hours of fasting every single day. Now I have one little caveat here. And we are not going to eat three hours before we go to bed. If your cutoff time is 8 at night, you might have to do a little less fast. So let me use the example I gave you in the beginning. If you stop eating at 8 o'clock and you start eating at 12 o'clock the next day, that's 16 hours. But then that's a really difficult time period to try to recreate the 16 hours again for the next day. And we're doing this every day for five days. So for fast training week, it will say it in the companion guide. So make sure you grab that. I'm going to say somewhere between 13 to 16 hours, because I believe that the most important part of this whole study is the three hour window where you don't eat before you go to bed. So for the sake of fast training week, we do it a Monday through Friday every single day. And you're doing 13 to 16 hours. And the most important thing is you're not eating three hours before you go to bed. And in the companion guide, I map out more. And if you need more assistance with this, please come into our Reset Academy. This is where we're helping people personalize these fasts. But this is exciting news. It maps with what I've seen over and over and over again. And now I want you to try it and experience it. And then give us feedback. Give us comments. If you've already done fasts like this, maybe you've changed your eating window so that it doesn't butt up right against sleep. Put in the comments so we can all be inspired by you and hear your story of how well that worked. If you have a hack for nighttime eating, put that in the comments too, because we are a community here on YouTube and we all learn from each other. And I love reading the comments. So please let's blow up the chat and really work on sharing the good news of this study. So as always, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.