 stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip stip more and more people are leaning into fermented foods. I did a whole video here on sourdough that you all love. So if you wanna lean into hearing what fermented bread, the benefits of fermented bread, you can check that video out. But there are three major benefits to sauerkraut that I wanna talk about in this video. I also wanna tell you that when I first found fasting, it was really interesting because a lot of my patients were suffering with leaky gut, candida, SIBO, bloating, constipation, I had a practice full of patients dealing with bad gut challenges. And I used to give them supplements to help solve that challenge. And I kid you not, once I found fasting and I found the power of breaking a fast with something like sauerkraut, I literally took all those supplements and threw them away and never used a supplement to repair a gut again. So if you take what I'm going to show you and talk about here and you use it as part of your break fast meal, you combine it with your fasting window, you're gonna get an even deeper experience than what I'm mentioning here. But for the sake of this video, I really want you to understand how potent this sauerkraut is. So let's start with this idea. What is sauerkraut? So it's fermented cabbage. Although as sauerkraut has become more in vogue, we are seeing that it's all fermented vegetables. So when you go to your supermarket, if you're not making it, you're buying it, you'll see that sometimes there's red sauerkraut or like a purple sauerkraut. Sometimes there's more of a white sauerkraut. Sometimes they put sauerkraut with a mixture of vegetables in there. Kimchi is a form of sauerkraut with spices and with more scallions and green onions in there. So the fermentation of vegetables will actually start to produce different bacteria. So my first recommendation to you, if you eat sauerkraut, is you wanna eat a good variety of it. So there, for the traditional sauerkraut, there are really two types. There's red cabbage and there's green cabbage. And fermenting them is gonna give you different bacterial profile, which is really cool. So make sure you diversify. Now sauerkraut goes way back in history because you have to remember that they didn't have refrigeration. So they had to figure out how to keep their food fresh. And I found some interesting resources that show that actually during construction of the Great Wall of China, builders ate fermented sauerkraut with rice because it was the only way they could get vegetables that didn't spoil during the harsh winters. We also know historically that we can go back and look at documents that mention Roman farmers back in ancient Rome, making salt cabbage about 2000 years ago. So this has been around for a while. And I, you know, my belief system is when you see a food continue through the ages, there's something there. There's something we need to pay attention to. Now, what happens with sauerkraut is you chop it up and you put salt on top of it. The salt acts like a protective layer for making sure that no mold forms forms on top of the vegetable. So it's really interesting too, is that from the salt on top of the cabbage, you'll start to see that it's like the cabbage sweats a little bit and there becomes this, this layer of water and salt. And in that layer is formed all these really healthy bacteria. Like one of the main resources or one bacteria that's formed that a lot of you know, you might see it on your yogurts. You might see it even in the probiotics that you're taking is lactobacilliae, which is a big phylum of healthy bacteria, but it's from the salt and the water in the air that a positive bacteria is formed. And here are the three things that happen to you when you eat this. This is why it's so cool. It's so cheap too. You just cut up cabbage, put some salt on it. There's lots of different ways to make it, but I really want you to get the benefits from it. So the three major health benefits. Ready? One, better gut health. This is why I could throw out all of those supplements. And let me tell you what the research says. So there was a 2024 study in nutrients that gave athletes a hundred grams of sauerkraut daily for 10 days. Now, a hundred grams is not much. It's a less than a half a cup of sauerkraut and they ate it every day for 10 days. And here's what they saw. An increase in good bacteria, good gut bacteria. That's really important for making sure that you replenish those microbes. So like if you've been on an antibiotic or you've been under a lot of stress or you've been on birth control for years and you know you need more good bacteria, what the study shows is half a cup a day, a hundred grams a day for 10 days can increase those good bacteria. Second thing they saw was a decreased gut inflammation markers. So those of you that are struggling with bloatedness, constipation, it's possible that your gut is just the inner lining is inflamed and sauerkraut can bring that inflammation down. And the third thing that this 24 study on athletes saw was stronger cell walls in their intestinal lining. So this is really important because the cell wall is like a thin saran, like plastic wrap in there that protects things, harmful things from getting into your body. And that cell wall is what all the healthy bacteria start to live on so that they can start to make you some really powerful neurochemicals like neurotransmitters and they can support a healthy immune system. There's so many reasons why you want that cellular wall, that lining to be healthy and what, a hundred grams a day for 10 days and you can have one too. It's not that difficult. Now, the reason that the sauerkraut is really an all in one food for the gut is it has everything you need for better digestion. So it's rich in a probiotic bacteria. So you don't have to buy probiotics. In fact, how do you even know those probiotics still have any live bacteria in it by the time it gets to your store and it gets into your stomach? There have been studies that have showed there's not that many probiotics in there. But when we look at something that's alive like sauerkraut, we know even as it sits in your refrigerator at many times, it will the probiotic count will multiply. Second thing that is so great about this all in one vegetable or fermented vegetable is that it's really high in fiber. So I brought you all a lot of videos here talking about the importance of fiber. You need fiber to feed the microbes specifically to break down estrogen. So for women, this is really important. For menopausal women, this is even more important. You also need fiber to be able to take the food you bring in and slow down the sugar absorption, the increase in glucose after you eat it. So really interesting study that I did way back when we went into COVID trying to look for some immune hacks for my patients. And I brought it here on YouTube was the power of kimchi. And one thing that they found was that when fast food went across the whole world, came out of America and started to go to other countries that they started to see the obesity rates go up. But in Korea, they actually in the fast food restaurant served kimchi. It had was so high in fiber that it balanced out that blood sugar level. And so people didn't gain the same amounts of weight in Korea as they did in other countries because they served sauerkraut with their Big Mac. So really interesting. And then it lowers this gut inflammation. So if you're looking for gut repair, I strongly feel that sauerkraut is a fabulous tool, but you can even go even deeper if you go into a longer fast, like a 24 hour fast or a 17 hour fast. And then you make sure that break fast meal has sauerkraut in it. If that's going to be the most potent way. Okay. Second thing it does is it boosts mental health. And this one is really exciting because sauerkraut has something in it called a psychobiotic and psychobiotics help your microbes make neurotransmitters. And there is a 2025 review that found that sauerkraut specifically influences two key neurotransmitters. And these are the ones we lose when we go through menopause for my menopausal friends out there. And they are GABA and serotonin. So the postbiotic that is in sauerkraut can help you elevate your GABA and serotonin levels. Now GABA progesterone for women going through menopause, progesterone helps you stimulate GABA. So if you're low in progesterone, try adding in some and you're feeling anxious. GABA is the neurotransmitter that calms us. So if you're feeling really anxious or maybe you're having trouble going to sleep. What if you put start putting sauerkraut with your dinner? We do this a lot in my household. The second neurotransmitter that sauerkraut can help because of this psychobiotic powerful power is serotonin, which keeps us happy. So we've talked a lot about happiness here, trying to keep you happy. I talk a lot about it in Age Like a Girl, my newest book, where we can influence serotonin and GABA and some of these other neurotransmitters through lifestyle. I've talked to you all a lot about how serotonin, we can actually get more serotonin by the receptors in our eyes by going out into midday sunlight. But what's cool about this study is again, we're looking for all these little micro doses of cool hacks that will bring you back into a balanced neurochemical state and having sauerkraut, maybe you have it with dinner, can increase serotonin. So remember GABA is what's going to keep you relaxed and serotonin keeps you happy, relaxed and happy seems like a good mental state to be in. I don't know what about you, but that would definitely be the mental state I'm looking for most of the time. And this is only by the way with eating 100 grams a day for 10 days. So commitment and consistency is key here. Okay, third thing that sauerkraut can do for you, are you ready? The one you all love, and I mentioned it already, is weight loss. So I talked about the fast food and kimchi coming together and they saw that there wasn't as much obesity in that country because they put a form of sauerkraut. I know kimchi is a whole art and there's, I want to be respectful to the culture that is really mastered kimchi. But I think it's really fascinating that you could put this fermented vegetable with some really toxic food and you could see that there's not as much of a blood sugar spike. So there wasn't as much of a weight gain. Well, in a 2025 review, what they found was not only is cabbage high in fiber, which helps you, keeps you full and balances your blood sugar. But when you ferment cabbage, there is a bacterium called Lactobacillus plantarum that emerges from this fermented cabbage. And what this bacteria does is three really interesting things for weight loss. It increases leptin. So leptin is the hormone that makes you feel full. So, okay, what if you put some sauerkraut with your absolute favorite meal that you're like, I can never stop eating this meal. When you put it in front of me, I'm just going to keep eating it. Well, what if you ate it with some sauerkraut and fermented cabbage so that you get an increase in leptin? Second thing that sauerkraut can do to help support weight loss is it increases insulin sensitivity. So when you are more insulin sensitive, then you are going, your hunger and your cravings are going to be more stable. This is why a lot of women going into menopause will start to see that their cravings get off the charts because they become more insulin resistant. So what if with everybody's HRT, we gave them a prescription for sauerkraut and they were told they needed to do a half a cup of sauerkraut every single day? Third thing that this study showed is that sauerkraut improves blood lipids. And so those of you that are seeing changes in your cholesterol markers, specifically triglycerides, LDLs, adding this sauerkraut to your meal can really help with your blood lipids. So you can help to bring down, change those markers that some of you are finding on your blood tests. So it's easy. If some of you have been eating sauerkraut forever, put it in the comments there. It's simple. I think we're all being called to come back to a more simple way of living. It's ancient. We've been doing sauerkraut for years. I find it fascinating that I've done over 200 podcasts on my Resetter podcast. I've interviewed so many experts and the one food rule everybody can agree on is on fermented foods. So at a time when we are seeing chronic disease go up, at a time when the obesity epidemic has become so prolific where we're only offering solutions like weight loss drugs, we have to go back to some of these ancient principles and we'll start to see that they have tremendous healing power. Here's the trick though, is that sometimes these simple things you don't give it enough credit for. Your doctor doesn't prescribe it, so you don't give it the same potency in your mind as perhaps the weight loss drug. But I challenge you, those of you that are on the weight loss drugs or those of you want to avoid the weight loss drugs, try doing some regular fasting, you know, 15 to 17 hours every day and break your fast with sauerkraut. A lot of times what I do with sauerkraut is so that if I don't like, if I'm not in the mood for the sour taste is I'll just dump it in my salad so it spreads out a little bit more. That can be great. Sometimes we get lazy at night and we're just, I don't want to make a salad. And so we'll have some meat and sweet potato and some sauerkraut on the side. That can be an easy dish. But I think we all need to come back to these ancient principles and really look at how we have gotten astray when it comes to complicating health. I am here to help you bring health back into a simple, easy, effortless flow for you. I want you to find your rhythm and if you're not doing sauerkraut, I'm going to strongly recommend that now is the time. So let me know if that helps. And if you're a sauerkraut fanatic, tell us your sauerkraut story, put it in the comments. If this helps, don't stop here. Click on the next video and let's see what you find there.