 let's talk about why a healthy food might actually be harmful for you. And I want to break this down because I think we haven't really been taught how to look at food. We tend to think of it mostly through our taste buds. But I think of food as like you're in a relationship with it. And in order for any relationship to thrive, we need to be able to know how it communicates to us and how we communicate to it. Okay, hold on. Let me walk you through this. So one of the things I used to do in my clinic all the time is when people would come in and they would ask me like, I don't know why I can't lose weight, or if they had an autoimmune condition, or they had a thyroid problem, or I worked with a lot of patients with cancer, the first thing I would do before we analyzed their food at all is put a continuous glucose monitor on them. And I would just say eat. And it was really fascinating because my patients, that the people that came to me were pretty educated and they had already been eating a healthy diet. But once we put this continuous glucose monitor on them, we started to see what we call glucose spikes. So the first thing I want you to understand is just because something is healthy doesn't mean it's going to not spike your glucose. And this brings us to a really important concept called the glycemic index. And I'm going to explain to you here what that is. But when we're looking at the reasons healthy foods may not be so healthy, it's because the first rule is that it may be actually spiking your blood sugar more than even some of the unhealthy foods. Let me give you an example. When those continuous glucose monitors first came in, I tested everything, every healthy food, like when they became really popular. You know what spiked my blood sugar the most out of anything that I have ever tried in my body? Cauliflower chips. So remember how we were all going grain free forever and then they started making all of these tortillas and chips with cauliflower? That spiked my blood sugar so high, more than a regular chip. So then you have to ask yourself, is it healthy? Is it not healthy? So when we look at the first reason a food may appear to be healthy on the surface but isn't, it's because it spikes your blood sugar and it does it through this glycemic index. So let me give you some examples of this. So when you eat, your body will break that food down and it will turn it into something called glucose. And then depending on how much sugar content, this isn't necessarily added sugar, this is natural sugar content within that food, you will get a glucose spike. Now there are a couple other factors of what will create this glucose spike, but the higher the spike, the more of the crash and the name of the blood sugar game is don't have a high spike. So this is what we know is that regular cane sugar has a glycemic index of about a hundred. So if something has a glycemic index of fifty, it will spike your blood sugar half as much as pure sugar. So let's use that as the gold standard. So some of the foods that are considered great, including many of them that are carbohydrate rich, that have low glycemic numbers are things like chickpeas that have a 10. So sugar has a 100 chickpeas have a 10, soybeans have a 15, lentils have a 28, black beans have a 30, you know how much I love legumes. So we know that when we're looking at legumes, that's pretty low. That's a pretty good glycemic index if sugar is at 100. But other healthy foods didn't score as well. So like white rice, which you all asked me a lot about has a glycemic index of 85. Watermelon, there's I can't tell you anything wrong with watermelon other than it has a glycemic index of 72. Sweet potato, my favorite food on the planet that I keep telling you all about has a glycemic index of 70. And a baked potato, plain russet, baked potato is 111. It is literally worse than sugar. So this glycemic index is a really interesting thing to look at. If you want, you know, like if you're eating a meal and you want to geek out on this, just go down the path and put in the food you're about to eat and ask what its glycemic index it is, and you will see the number. So 100 would be really high. I we want to see it under 50 typically. Now there are a couple ways I do want to point out that you can lower that glycemic index. And one of the ways is by putting a good fat on there. So with a sweet potato with a glycemic index of 70, I would put some grass fed butter on it. And now that spike won't be as high because fat is a break for your blood glucose. So you could also have it with a bowl of salad. If you have some salad with your sweet potato, a little bit of oil, put some olive oil over the top of your salad. Now all of a sudden you have all this good fat that stops these glycemic spikes. Makes sense? So it's not just the pure food. This is why I don't always teach the glycemic index, because sometimes we can manipulate the glycemic index of a food by adding a good fat to it to bring it down. So if you're like, oh my gosh, a russet baked potato is my absolute favorite, then just put some butter on it. And it'll bring that blood sugar spike down. Now the second thing that causes a healthy food to be unhealthy is because it doesn't have enough fiber in it. So very similar when we know that when we eat a diet rich in fiber, what the research is showing us, is that it keeps us full longer and it slows the absorption of sugar and carbohydrates. So where are my pasta lovers out there? I wouldn't call pasta a healthy food. I would call it kind of a neutral food. Like it doesn't, it's not harmful, depends on what type, but it's not, it's not always helpful. There's worse foods you can eat for sure. But if you want to slow down the absorption of the carbohydrate and sugar load of a bowl of pasta, you're going to want to put some olive oil on it. You want to drizzle it with fat and have it with this fibery salad, because fiber is going to really help slow down that absorption. So some of these healthy foods just need a little little buddy with them to be able to make them healthy, but by themselves, they're not. Now a 2026 study that was really interesting tracked people's blood sugar after normal meals versus high fiber meals. And this is what they found is if you eat a high fiber meal, it will dramatically decrease your blood sugar spike. So the blood sugar remained much more stable for more than two hours after the meal. Have a salad with your meal? I'm not joking. They also, this study found that high fiber, high protein meals stabilize blood sugar even more. So that now let's put this together. So let's say you're like, I love pasta, I love, I love potatoes. I thought they were healthy. Okay, let's put them with a salad and let's drizzle some olive oil on it. So now we've got our fiber, now we've got our fat, and let's put some protein with it, maybe put some chicken with it. If you're a vegetarian, maybe you put some beans with it. But the combination again of the food that you put together is really going to make a huge difference. So we don't have to throw the baby out with the bathwater. We can actually look at a food and go, okay, food, I know you're high in the glycemic index. I'm going to add some other little treats to you so we can keep that blood sugar low. And so that extra glucose, that extra sugar doesn't go to gaining weight. Now this study went on to say that if you're looking to try to get both protein and fiber at every meal, here are some foods, some yummy foods, some healthy foods that are excellent sources of fiber and they're fairly high in protein for being coming from nature. And here they are, raspberries, blackberries, chia seeds, beans, lentils, chickpeas, quinoa, high in protein, high in fiber, and avocado. So I've done a lot of videos here on Legumes. I think beans are incredible. I mean, there's so much research showing how healthy they are. By themselves, they could spike your blood sugar pretty high and really actually cause you to gain weight. But in combination with more protein, more vegetables, you can really stabilize your blood sugar. And try it, those of you that are CGM, try it with a CGM and play around with meal combinations to see how it affects your CGM. Okay, reason number three, a healthy food may not be so healthy is menopause. Now, this one's funny because do we get to blame everything on menopause? I feel like that's kind of the world we're living in now. But you have to remember, when after 40 for women, you are more insulin resistant, which means this baked potato that you had at 35 and you had no problem with didn't cause you to gain weight may actually cause you to gain weight at 45. Because as estrogen declines, you become more insulin resistant. This is why, this is why I've written so many books, but specifically age like a girl, I really wanted to bring in a healthy eating protocol for women out over 40 because we have to change the way we approach food. And what might have been healthy in our 20s and 30s isn't so healthy in our 40s because we are more insulin resistant. So what can you do? And this is interesting. A 2023 review noticed that the huge increase in insulin resistance in type two diabetes started once a woman went into menopause. And this drove up a number that I've been really pummeling into everybody's head, tried to get you to just follow this one blood work number and it's hemoglobin A1c. You want your hemoglobin A1c to be down closer to five. And the best way to do that is to eliminate the high glycemic foods, even the healthy ones. So the baked potato, not as great with the exception of if you put some fiber and protein and good fat with it. So things like sweet potatoes, white potato, even white rice, brown rice, all the rice, they can spike your blood sugar so high when you're in menopause and they can really contribute to that belly fat. So you can either avoid them or you can start to add protein, good fat and fiber to the meal and see if you get, if you don't gain weight as much. So you know, we don't want to just look at a food and say you're healthy. A better question is to look at a food and say what are you going to do to the glucose spike in my body? How are you going to affect my metabolic health? And I think that's a better question than are you going to make me fat or are you healthy? I think we need to start to talk in a language that is more succinct like what are you going to do to my metabolic health because when your metabolic health is in order, all the other aspects of your health will fall into place. So make sure that you're keeping an eye on this glycemic index of some of your favorite foods and some of the foods that you eat on a regular basis. Now I do want to say that in Fast Like a Girl and Eat Like a Girl, if you haven't read those books, I put out a version of keto that I still think is the best version and it's called keto biotic. And the reason I called it biotic is because I wanted you to get all of your carbs from nature's carbs. So this is your fruits and your vegetables and your potatoes, the things we've been talking about here today. A keto biotic is limiting your carbohydrate load to 50 grams of net carbs. A net carb is the total carb minus fiber gives you a net carb. I also in keto biotic want you focusing on healthy fats and more protein and the third aspect of keto biotic is eating more fiber. So it's really a strategy, you know, and I think we don't want to get fooled by marketing that says healthy or natural. I want you to be more aware than that because marketing has really gotten obscene now in our food system. So I want you to think about glycemic index. Where are these foods on the glycemic index? The higher the food on the glycemic index, you either need to avoid it or you're going to pair it with the things I mentioned. Lower is going to be always your best. So really fun conversation, but what I really want you to understand is don't get pulled into this is a healthy food. Ask a deeper question. What is this going to do for my blood sugar? What is this going to do for my metabolic health? Do I need to add anything to that meal? Let me know in the comments if that helped. Let me know if you've added in any of these hacks and it's lowered your hemoglobin A1c so we can all glean some inspiration from you. So as always, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.