 pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping pumping for you. I want to help empower you. So what I've done is I've taken the questions and my answer and I have synthesized it for you here in this series so that you can get exactly what you are looking for and help you build your own fasting lifestyle. But most importantly, I hope you understand that what I am teaching here on YouTube is how for you to personalize your health journey. You were born to be so powerful. Your body is a miracle and I just want to help you discover that. So enjoy. Liana wants to know, what are your feelings on HRT and fasting? Do you continue to take while fasting or stop like other supplements? That's a really good question. So it depends. Like what kind of HRT are you taking it through patch or cream or troche? Because my experience is that what most many people are doing with HRT and let's actually just talk about HRT in a moment and then let's bring it into the conversation on fasting. So there are a lot of delivery systems for hormone replacement creams, patches, gels. I just learned of a nasal spray for estradiol and patches. So if that's the delivery system in which you are getting your HRT, those can totally be done with fasting. Like they, you know, and the delivery system matters. So I've learned from a lot of women and just other doctors talking to, and even in my own case, that sometimes the cream doesn't work but the gel works better. And sometimes the patch doesn't work and so you need to cut the patch in half. So in those situations you can fast all you want because it's going on the outside of you. It's not affecting the inside of you. Now there are trochies, which I don't know if you're taking a trochie that goes under the tongue. Those trochies sometimes have a little bit of sweetness to them. So there may be like a little bit of a, it might spike your blood sugar a little bit. But I never want to tell you to get off a medication. You need to go to your doctor who put you on the medication and ask that question. You might switch it out to a patch or a cream because you can use those all day while you're fasting. The other way is sometimes people take like a pill. And if it's like progesterone where you're taking a pill at night, an oral, then yeah, I still, same thing. I wouldn't worry about if it's a pill, it's not going to spike your blood sugar. I think the only thing I'd worry about was a trochie because the material that they use to bind it together may have a sweetener in it that would pull you out of a fasted state. Okay. Hope that helped. Okay. Next question. Terry wants to know at 68, I'm suddenly getting back fat and belly fat. Still working out with HIIT Pilates four days a week per week. Help. Okay. So let's talk about fat. So what is fat? Fat is your body doesn't know where to put the excess. Fat is excess. So what it does is it stores it as fat. And I don't, usually one of the first places if we'll put it is around your belly. And then for women, a lot of times it will go into our chest and then it'll go like around your booty. And then eventually it goes up into your back. So actually women have sort of a formula in which we store fat. So all fat is, is excess. So for Terry, what she's got to figure out is what is it an excess of? There are three possibilities. One is it could be an excess of glucose. So I would say first thing you want to do is clean your 68. So your postmenopausal, the first thing we want to do is clean your diet up, get off the refined flours, the refined sugars, the bad oils. We talked about that. I have lists in all of my books on this. So let's get off those first. Okay. So now your body's not putting the excess. Those are synthetic foods. They're high in glucose. So now what your body is doing is that it doesn't have that extra glucose to store. So you stop, stop the excess. Okay. Second thing your body could be storing in fat could be toxins. So this is a big one. I wrote about it in Age Like a Girl. I've also written a lot about it in my very first, first book on menopause that I wrote years ago called The Menopause Reset. As we age, our toxins start to reveal themselves a little more. We start to see where we may be full of toxins. Our detox pathways get harder to work with. And so what we need to be able to do is minimize our toxic load. So this means not just food, but let's look at endocrine disrupting toxins. And these, the easiest one to look at are your beauty products. So let's make sure that your beauty products are all natural. Natural beauty products have gotten much easier and less expensive to buy. So I like an app. You can get an app on your phone. One is called Think Dirty. It's a cute name. And you scan all your products and see if they're toxic. I always used to tell my patients, I would have them go and scan all the products. And I would say that if a product scores a three or higher on the Think Dirty app, then you want to throw it out. So let's make sure that the toxic load is under control. And then the third thing it can be, and then I'm going to teach you how to, we're going to talk about burning it. The third thing that it could be is the back fat and the extra weight is it could, it could be synthetic estrogens. It could be, I've even seen people on who go on HRT that start to have this extra hormonal toxins that get stored in fat. But you know, you know what a good example of this is, have you ever seen men with the pot belly and the man boobs? Those are usually, that's estrogen, that's synthetic estrogen. Sometimes you can get that from alcohol. So let's start to look at those synthetic estrogens and see what we can do to minimize that. So there's your three categories that we got to, we got to keep glucose low. We got to keep your toxic load low. And we got to make sure that the synthetic estrogens and endocrine disruptors are at a minimum. If that's taken care of, then what we would look at, you said you were doing HIIT training. So awesome. I would love to see if you're fasting. Are you actually starting to fast on a regular basis? So you can do like the 5-1-1. I even encourage you, if you're good, if you're used to fasting, go into some of the longer fasts. So with fasts like a girl, I really emphasized that the 36 hour fast from my clinical experience, and then we saw it within our online world, the 36 hour fast seems to have that thing that will unstick you from, unstick your weight. Because 36, and it was based off research, you can read about it in the book, that at the 36th hour, the body's like, okay, no food's coming in. I think I stored food somewhere else. And so it goes to fat and it starts to burn fat. Now, other really good strategies. If you want to burn fat, let's hope you're sleeping. You prioritize sleep because it's that you burn fat at night. That is a fat burning time. And so I don't know about you, but I'd like to burn more fat at night. So you want to have good quality sleep. Second thing is you really want to work on stress levels. I don't know what your stress levels are like, but at 68, I hope they're low. And if you have a high stress life, it's hard to drop weight. And then one of my favorite strategies that I used to tell my my patients all the time is after every meal you eat, go for a walk. And the reason that's important is then you're using the glucose from that sugar burner system. You're using it for energy. And so you're not storing it. Whatever you don't use, you will store. So hopefully that will help. I have hypothyroid and PCOS and POD and iron deficiency. Can I do fasting? If yes, what type of fast can I take thyroid medication while fasting? PCOS. There are two reasons for PCOS and PCOD. One is insulin resistance. And the best way to get out of insulin resistance is fasting. So that is a yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Please fast if you have PCOS and watch your hemoglobin A1c and let's bring that hemoglobin A1c down. That is critically important. Hypothyroid. Go back and look at the beginning of this video because I answered that. I also have a thyroid protocol in fast like a girl that you can look up that I've used with hypothyroid a lot. So there's resources there. Iron deficiency. This is really fascinating. There is a lot of fun information coming out about iron. And one of it is coming from a good colleague of mine who I love her book, Rushing Woman Syndrome. She just wrote a book called Fix Iron First by Dr. Libby Weaver. I got to bring her on my podcast so we can have this call. So you can fast and make sure you're cycling your fast if you have an iron deficiency. I just want to make sure when you're eating that you're eating iron rich foods. And for me, we eat a lot of grass fed meat in my family because that meat, red meat has lots of iron. If you don't eat a lot of red meat, then you're going to need to do more plant sources like spinach can help. But otherwise, you can work with your doctor to even see if you can get like an iron IV. Those are becoming quite popular. So you can still fast. You just, when you eat, you need to eat iron rich foods. That would be my recommendation there. And never get off your medication when you're fasting. You definitely need to stay on your medication. And if you need to take food while you're fasting, have some nut butter and just so it doesn't spike your blood sugar and then make sure that you, you know, and take your medication. But don't change your medication. I recommend you get off supplements a lot when you fast, but not off of your medication. So, okay. So there's that. Okay. Nancy said, can you please clarify for me, I'm following the new moon since I no longer have a period due to partial hysterectomy, but I also should lose over 120 and want to do a 36. How would that work? Well, okay. So, Nancy, let me give you a couple options. First, you know, you might not, if you've had a hysterectomy, you're not bleeding, you can, you can definitely throw the 36 hour fast in whenever you want. So, I just want to make sure that you're clear on that. But a lot of women really still want to track the moon and I love that. And so, but with what you would then do, if you're going to throw a 36 hour fast in, is you'd want to put it in one of the power phases. So remember in Fast Like a Girl, I called day one to day 10 power phase one and day six, 16 to day 19 power phase two. Those are the times you can power up on your fasts. That's why I call them power phases. Now, when we're mapping those to the moon, a noon moon is day one of the power phase. So, if you wanted to map it to the moon, you just know from day one of the new moon to day 10, you have a 10 day window where you can do that 36 hour. Then the, usually somewhere about day 14, 15 is the full moon. Technically that's where women are ovulating. And then once we hit that full moon and it starts to wane, the five days, six days after the full moon would be another time, power phase two, where you could, you could do a 36 hour fast. So I hope that helps. It gives you a variety. Okay. Quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself. So you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. So Nicole is asking, she says she's a cancer survivor and had a complete hysterectomy because of stage four chronic endometriosis. I'm also on and trans is all is there is there a fasting cycle for me, even though I don't have a cycle anymore. Okay, you had a complete hysterectomy. Okay, so your postmenopausal, you've had cancer and stage four chronic endometriosis. So there's no cycle like I showed you in here, but there are protocols. So first, I want you to know about my go to cancer doctor who is the best at metabolic health. And her name is Dr. Nisha Winters. And she wrote a book called The Metabolic Approach to Cancer. And I would highly recommend it. And I highly recommend following her. And she trains doctors who help people understand what type of metabolic assistance they might need with their specific type of cancer. I am not a cancer specialist. So she check her out as a resource. Now, I will tell you, let's go to a weekly protocol. So there are two weekly protocols you could try. The first would be a four to one, where four days a week you intermittent fast or whatever is a comfortable level. And two days a week, you want to stretch your fast because typically cancer, most cancers do incredibly well. Your body heals incredibly well when you go into longer fasts. So I would do a four to one, which depending on where you are in the cancer stage, and two days a week, I would do one meal a day. So it's a 24 hour fast. Four days a week, I would do a comfortable fast. And then one day a week, I wouldn't fast. So we're still got some fasting variation there. The other one that when I was actively working with using fasting as a tool with cancer survivors, we did what we call a three, three, three, one, three days a week, you do a comfortable fast, three days a week, you do a 24 hour fast, and one day a week, you do a 36 hour fast. Now I know that goes over seven days. But it's the best way I could I can say this. There's a lot of fasting in there. But I when I had cancer page patients with cancer that were really sick, we needed to put them in an extreme healing state. And that's what we did. So 511. Again, I write about all this and fast like a girl. 511 is a great maintenance protocol. 421 is a great healing protocol or people who want to lose a little more weight and 331 is crisis. And this is where we can really start to use fasting as a tool for healing. So I hope that helps. I hope that helps. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video.