 I want to talk about the weight loss drugs for a minute. Now, I don't want to talk about it through the lens of, is it good, is it bad? I will share some things that came out last week about them. I also know that some of you may be on them, so it's not, this is not a shaming of people who have been on weight loss drugs. But there is a cultural change that's happening with people on weight loss drugs. I'm a pattern watcher. I like to see trends in the culture. One of the things that I'm deeply concerned about right now is that we're seeing a lot of celebrities like Oprah, Demi Moore, Serena Williams, Gwyneth Paltrow, a lot of celebrities that are going on these weight loss drugs. And the new standard of a healthy weight has significantly changed. And we are seeing a new skinny emerging. I want to know from you, because this might be my own bias, is it disturbing to you to see our celebrities become thinner and thinner because of the weight loss drugs? And does it make you feel worse about yourself? That's what I want to know because that's what I worry about, is that the new standard of health has now become extremely thin. I'm curious if this is the goal we're going for, which leads me to my second question to you. I'm curious, like, what your goal with your weight is. So, I'll share mine, and then I'd love to hear yours. I want to be a healthy weight. I'm not looking to be uber thin. I'm also not looking to be incredibly muscly. I'm also one of those people that I'm not here to try to impress you by how I look. I do blood work on myself every 90 days. I watch my numbers. I want to be healthy, and I want to live in a body that I love. So, those of you that want to lose weight, what I would be curious about is what is it about weight loss that would free you? Does it free you from self-criticism? Does it free you from feeling less than? Does it want to want to want to want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want want given a warning to the company that makes ozempic and Wagovi. And the warning is that when they went into their trials, what happened was that they withheld some information. They withheld adverse reactions to these weight loss drugs. They're getting their hand slapped. Now you have to understand for big pharma, they don't really care. Like go ahead, find them millions of dollars. They'll just keep making billions and they don't really care. But what I care about is the way we think about ourselves. And this new weight loss trend of these weight loss drugs feels like we're moving into a place where now healthy is uber body. And I just want to remind you for a second, I really think the goal of weight loss and the goal of health is to feel comfortable in your body. It's to love living in your body. Like it's not fun to walk around hating your body, whether you were given a diagnosis or whether you look in the mirror and you don't like what you're seeing. I really think that the goal is to love your body whatever way that looks. I just want to give us a bigger context to think about the questions that are going to be asked here today. Because I don't think the goal of health is outward facing. I think the goal of health is what's happening inside you and how it's affecting you. your mind. So I've sat with people who have had chronic fatigue. It's really hard. They drag themselves throughout the day. It's really hard to even get daily activities. That's a bummer. And that should be fixed. I've sat with women who told me that if they don't lose weight their husband was going to leave their That's hard. That's a really hard pill to swallow. And yes, I can understand why you would want to lose weight. I've sat with cancer patients who if they don't change their lifestyle they're going to die. That is definitely a difficult moment. But for most of us our desire to be healthy is that our desire to be healthy. What I'm going to end this little rant on is built around external validation. And I want to ask you if there is the possibility of you falling back in love with you or maybe in love with you for the first time. That everything I'm teaching here on my YouTube channel, what I'm hoping you will discover about yourself is your own way of doing health that makes you proud of you. Not makes people outside of you tell you that you are worthy. I want you to be proud of you. I want you to love being you. I really feel like that should be the goal. And then you map that with blood work. And yes, let's get hemoglobin A1c down and let's look at blood work like CRP which tells inflammatory markers. These are all great. But at the end of the day, the people that are the happiest and the healthiest are in love with themselves. They love being them. They love being them. And if we come to fasting and we come to the principles that I'm teaching here and I do yesterday I just did six new videos for you all. I love doing it. But I want to make sure that my information is coming in a present box. And if my information could come in a present box and you had a card on the outside of that present box that was from me, here's what the card would say. The card would say, I hope you see how beautiful you are through these tools. And beauty doesn't mean being a size two. Beauty doesn't mean being wrinkle free. Beauty doesn't mean that everybody tells you you're beautiful. True beauty means that you look in the mirror and you love what's looking back at you. That's what that card would say. So I want to always be the one to bring forward to you what's happening in the current world. We already have identified, those of you who keep showing up every Tuesday, that we live in a guru culture. We've been giving our power away to health influencers and spiritual gurus and podcasters. Stop doing that. This is why you will hear me say, I'm providing you information for you to be curious about. I don't need you putting me on a pedestal. I want you to put yourself on the pedestal. So we need to get out of this, somebody's going to save me. Then the second step I feel like would benefit so many of us is to say, what are my goals for my health that are my relationship to me? How can me and me have a pact? And this is really important because those of you that are trying to do something for external validation, what happens is you get into a 17-hour fast and you're white-knuckling it because you can't handle it because external validation will only take you so far. But if you take what I have to say on fasting, you take what I have to say on food, you take what I'm bringing you on all the topics, women's health and the new science, and you look at that and you say, oh, another tool for me to fall in love with me. Then these tools will be effortless and you will find your way. And that is what I stand for, is helping you fall in love with you. Because true strength, true women's empowerment comes from an unshakable woman. And unshakable women don't give their power away to another source. They turn it within themselves. I want you to really think about it from that lens. What would it look like to fall in love with you? Who needs to show up? Who needs to be on the other side of the mirror? Who does that person look like? Because if I can tap you into that person, then everything I have to say about length of fast and fasting windows and breaking a fast and what you should eat and how do you overcome a condition, all of that will become really easy, I promise. But if we are doing these consistent activities to get validation and love from the external world we've lost, it's going to be much more difficult. So I sit here a bit with a heavy heart that people like Demi and Gwyneth and Oprah, continue, and Serena, who was my Giro, continue to model for us that worth comes from thin. I don't believe that. I believe the greatest worth you can give a woman is when she falls in love with herself. And that's what I'm here to do. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.