 most ozempic users regain weight within two years. Ask yourself is, are you going to be on it forever? When you go into your medical doctor's office, they are not trained in lifestyle. You can't lose weight in a body that doesn't feel safe. These drugs do not fix your metabolic health long term. This one's really important and I want us to talk through it because culturally we are all over the place on this particular topic. And the article in the new science that I want to bring to you is on the weight loss drugs. So I'm going to share the science with you that just came out last week. And then I'm going to tell you my pros and my cons that I see with it. And because there's a lot of ways you can go with this topic. Some people are like they saved my life. Other people are like they can't get off of them. Like there's a lot of complexity to this trend that continues to gain momentum. So here we go. Okay. So the study again, it was last week and it was printed in the British Medical Journal. So this that's a really, really good reputable source. And let me get it. I have it on my on my phone here. And the study says the title of the study says most of Zen pick users regain weight within two years. So let's start with that for a moment and just say, can you put in the comments if you are one of those statistics, just so that we again, we're not in the comments. Again, we're not here to blame, but we're here to learn, especially here on my YouTube channel. Like I just want us to critically think through all of this health information. So please put in there if you went on a Zen pick, you got off and you gained weight. Just like if you could put in the comments, I want to know if you went on to one of the weight loss drugs, you got off and you didn't gain weight. Cause we're going to talk about both of those. So here's what the study said is that it was a meta analysis on GLP one Agnes. So you got to remember that a meta analysis is they looked at many different studies and the authors tracked the body weight of over 9300 participants on ozempic, Manjaro and other weight loss medications. And they followed the participants weight loss on these drugs as well as how their weight changed after they got off the drugs. So here were their big takeaways in watching people get on the drugs, lose weight and get off the drugs. And here's what they are saying. The authors of this study, 9300 people, people successfully lost weight while on the drugs. Okay, we cannot argue with that. I would say that for most people, they are going to lose weight when they go on the drugs. That doesn't mean there's not going to be side effects. It doesn't mean that there's not going to be other challenges, but the majority of people, according to the study, and I would say this is what we've seen here too, successfully lost weight while on the drugs. And the authors went on to say that almost everyone reached a healthy body weight eventually. So, you know, weight, you have to always remember with weight loss, it's a protective mechanism of the body. So you're going to have to convince the body because it's so smart that, hey, it might be time for you to let go of that extra weight. So when they say eventually, what that tells me is maybe you get on the drugs, you don't lose weight for like three or four months. It might take that long for your body to feel secure enough to actually drop the weight. I, I, I, I, please tell me, please tell me you're getting this. You can't lose weight in a body that doesn't feel safe. Safety, especially for a female body is massively important because if we're not safe, our whole reproductive system shuts down. Our whole metabolic system shuts down. This is where we differ from men. So I just want to point that out because some of these participants, it took them some time to lose weight. And eventually it says they were able to drop weight. Okay. Second thing that this study came back and said was as soon as the drug stopped, the weight regain started. The moment you stopped the drug, the regain started. So here's what I want you to know if you're on the drug, if you're anticipating the drug, these drugs do not fix your metabolic health long term. You are going to have to do that yourself. So you have to look at these drugs like a supplement. Like they are just giving you an edge up so that you can start to do healthy lifestyle. And that's what this, this science, this meta-analysis said that people gained on average. One pound per month after stopping the weight loss medications. But people check this out who were on ozempic and Manjaro regained nearly two pounds a month. So those two specifically tend to be harder to get off of. The study went on to say on average, people on ozempic or Manjaro returned to their starting weight within one and a half years. Most people in this study of 9,300 people saw no long term weight loss after taking these drugs. And here were the big takeaways from the authors. The only thing that led to long term weight loss was healthy behavioral changes without drugs. People who lost weight the old fashioned way still regain some of what they lost, but much less and at a much slower rate than people who used prescription weight loss drugs. Now, this has been my concern all along. And I'm willing to challenge my own beliefs. I'm willing to be wrong about a weight loss medication. Even though I have spent 30 years plus of my career helping women lose weight. I have never, if you listen to my podcast, you will notice I have not brought an ozempic loving doctor on to talk about that. Because I don't believe long term it is the solution. I have on my podcast brought several people with opposing H, hormone replacement ideas. And I think that's great because I do believe there is a place for hormone replacement therapy, but not for everybody. What I am concerned about with these drugs is you go on it, you lose weight, but you have not solved the problem. So I think the first thing you've got is, and this is what this meta analysis saying is, I think the first thing you have to ask yourself is, are you going to be on it forever? And if you're going to be on it forever, fabulous if that works for you. I mean, there's some crazy studies out there showing it changes the microbiome. I've heard so many people say that the food chatter in their brain stopped. Like these are all really positive. I'm not criticizing that, but they're temporary. So if you are on these drugs, if you're going to use these drugs, I really want to continue to bring you back to lifestyle. Lifestyle is where it's at. And if you pair specifically a fasting lifestyle with these weight loss drugs, okay, now you might have some interesting, you know, an interesting path. I can tell you when the first, and here's something maybe to know about me, is when you're watching my videos. Do you know that often with medical information, especially when somebody comes out with a big claim, like take this pill and you will lose weight. I'm pretty skeptical in the beginning because I'm a fan of the intelligence of the body. I think the body's always doing the right thing at the right time. So when I think all weight gain is, is your body didn't know where else to put this excess, excess hormones, excess stress, excess glucose, excess toxins, excess everything. It just didn't know where to put it. And so it stored it around your belly. And so you get it off by, by lovingly caring for your body, by, by feeding your body, not depriving your body by feeding your body, by feeding your body, great food, by learning these fasting windows that are not horrible to learn. As many of you are experiencing it by moving your body. What, you know, and all the, the research I've done on anti-aging, we still are at one of the greatest things you can do to prevent cognitive decline is move your body. Like these medications give us, give us some misunderstanding that we get a free pass from lifestyle. It doesn't work like that. So when I first heard about the drug, I was skeptical. And then I started watching friends, family, people are in my, in my, in my reset Academy, like people around me, everybody was like, yep, I lost weight. Yep. I lost weight. And finally I was like, I would sit with each one of these people. And I would be like, tell me, please tell me what you're noticing. Is your, is your metabolism speeding up? Do you feel like your heart rate is like you have more energy? So you're moving your body. Like, tell me. And the biggest thing that everybody said, and I know we probably have some of these people here is I lost my appetite. Okay. You know where I lost my appetite. I lost my appetite. I learned to not be an emotional eater. I stopped the chatter in my head. And yes, you, it's easy to look at me now, maybe not see it, but in my twenties, I was 30 pounds heavier. I was on every diet. I was trying everything I could. I, I, I wanted a door out, but you know how I lost the mind chatter, how I started to change my relationship to food through fasting. Just everything that I teach you here. So I think we need to take a bigger, more holistic view of these weight loss drugs. And if you, I have a dear friend from childhood, he dropped like 80 pounds. It's beautiful. He's so excited. And, um, I like, there's so many wins like that. That's amazing. And you didn't get a free pass. Just like if you go on hormone replacement therapy, you don't get a free pass from lifestyle changes. So we have, if we can look at medication through a new lens, can we look at it? Like I've been teaching you to look at supplements where you take a supplement to be able to supplement. That's why it's called a supplement to be able to supplement a healthy lifestyle. So these drugs, if we look at drugs, whether it's a statin, whether it's blood pressure medication, whether it's HRT, whether it's antidepressant, it should be temporary. And you can course correct with your lifestyle while you're taking these drugs and then go back to your doctor and have a conversation about getting off the drugs. Now I do want to bring up a couple of key things that I don't love bringing up, but I think it needs to just be transparent for starters. You have to understand that the media you are seeing on pharmaceuticals, that the big pharmaceutical companies back the big media players. And so you are going to keep seeing the wonders of all of these drugs and you are not going to see the lifestyle that fits with these drugs. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book and I can't wait for you to get it. Okay, number two. For many of you, when you go into your medical doctor's office, they are not trained in lifestyle. Ask them, how many courses in nutrition did you get? How long have you studied movement? What do you know about detox? Your doctor works for you. When you go to a doctor, you are interviewing them to see if you want them on your healthcare team. So if they're like, you just take a medication forever, they don't know the lifestyle solution. So we've got to be, we have to put, they're incredible for diagnosis. They're incredible for saving lives. There's so many great things there, but they're not great at lifestyle. Just have a conversation with any medical doctor. They'll be like, yep, we're not that. We didn't get trained on that. So if you did go back to your doctor and you're like, what do I do? And they're like, you just stay on the drug. That's their way of saying, we don't have another solution for you. Okay. And then the last thing before I get off my rant that I want to say is it. Big Pharma has no interest in getting information out into the zeitgeist that you need to eventually get off the drugs. They will, they will become profitable corporations. And I would say here in America, we're really seeing the, the, the real upfront and close greed of corporations. They want to keep you on the drugs because they make money keeping you on the drugs. So please keep thinking through for yourself. Now, some of you, some of you might be like, it's been a miracle. I have a, I have a friend who is like, I listened to her go. You have no idea, Mindy, how much freedom I have in my mind from the food obsession that was in there. And you're right. I don't know what that's like, but I do know what it's like to reach for food on a bad day. I know it's like to use food as a therapist. I was an emotional eater forever. And I was able to overcome that through a fasting lifestyle. So there's my new science and my rant. And I really, I don't, I will always want you to, to take this information and sit it in you and decide if it's right for you. So if you're somebody who's like, I hear what you're saying, but my life has changed, then great. Keep taking the drugs. Just have an exit strategy when you decide to get off of them. If, if you are somebody who is like, I'm on it and I don't know how to get off. I really would encourage you. I've got a lot of, I got a lot of books for you. Like dive in to fast like a girl. I just, I want to, let's just talk about, let's talk about my baby for a moment. Three years later, she's still killing it. People are still getting results with this. I looked this morning on Amazon. She's like number 150 on Amazon. She stayed in the top 100 of books in Amazon for over two years. 1.3 million people have this book in their hand in one way, shape or form. That's not because I'm like some amazing writer. It's because it works. It's that, that's the only reason this book continues to rock it is because it works. And what I taught in this book was how to build a fasting lifestyle. So let's build one together. That's what we're here for. And I want to want you to succeed at it. So don't fall prey to the shiny object syndrome. There are a lot of shiny objects and there's a lot of, there's a lot of people that will be like, let me sell you one of these shiny objects. It's only gonna, it's only gonna cost you a couple hundred dollars and it's gonna change your life. And it's gonna be easy. It's not gonna be easy. This is not easy, but it's lasting. This is the only formula for weight loss. If you liked this episode, be sure you subscribe to my channel and check out every Monday, I drop a new episode. get this. get this. get this. get this.