 ATMatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatat For me, one of the reasons I love eating meat, I am an omnivore, is that it's just got this vast amino acid profile. And it's interesting because in Eat Like a Girl, you'll see, those of you that purchase it, that there's one double-side page of what I call the key 24. And the key 24 are the 24 nutrients you need to make hormones. And it's actually for both men and women. Nine of those are amino acids. So when I go to look at putting a meal together, I'm like, I got to have some meat in there because they have such an incredible amino acid profile. But outside of that, I'm like, okay, this is chicken, this is steak, and this is fish. And how is it best to cook it? So I'd love to start with poultry. I'd love to talk about how do you prep it? How do you cook it? For me, when I'm at the market, I don't know if you all have this challenge. I'm like, should I buy it skinless, boneless? Should I not take it home and undo it myself? Am I cooking it without the skin? Should I cook it with the skin? These are the kind of questions I have. Okay. Well, for starters, chicken breast, very lean, right? And you can get it with the skin on, obviously skin on, more fat, all that, but also really crispy skin is delicious. Yeah, it is. It's just, you know, it largely is a question of what is the recipe we're trying to do? Like, what is the diaspora it comes from? Right. And, you know, a lot of the world, you know, it might be chicken thighs or it might be, okay, we're going to dice up this chicken breast and make this recipe. Yeah. And so, for me, obviously, I'm looking at the meat when I'm walking around the supermarket and saying, okay, you know, do I recognize where the farm that this chicken or this poultry comes from? Is this, you know, where is it? Because if we're worried about carbon footprint, that kind of thing, well, if this thing comes from halfway around the world, maybe I'm not so happy about it. So, okay, so wait, that's a really important point because we actually try to go to farmer's markets. And I actually had a farmer at one of the farmer's markets that pulled out pictures and, like, showed me, he's like, here are my chickens. This is the name of my chicken. Yeah, right. This is your dinner. It got really personal really quick, but I was like, this farmer is really passionate about this. I love that. I love farmers. So, if I open up, if I'm at the market and I open up the package, will it be a tell me where it's from? Probably not. That's why I love that you said you go to farmer's markets and you talk to the farmer because most of the time that is the best, most honest, and often most delicious meat that you're going to find that may have, you know, only recently been harvested as opposed to, you know, you go to the supermarket, you don't know if that's been frozen, brought back, where it comes from, et cetera, et cetera. Right. 100% support the farmer's market. Go see your farmer. I love that you said that. Yeah. Okay. And then when I purchase it, do I, should I, like to me, the skin has fat in it. Yep. And so then the fat is going to go down. It's got collagen in it, which for women going through menopause, that's like a big thing is like keeping our collagen up. Okay. So, would you, my general thing is buy it with the skin on. If, you know, if it's really no big deal, especially in chicken breast, if you get home and you're like, oops, maybe I didn't, it comes right off. Right. It's no big deal. Okay. So, I would say you have more options. If you think you're going to need it. Yeah. Yeah. Buy it with it on. The butcher or the guy behind the counter or, you know, if you're at a supermarket, they can always take it off for you. Right. Typically, they're pretty helpful like that. But I say eat the skin, eat the fat. Yeah. It's really good. It's really good. Okay. And then what about the different cuts? So, thighs are my new excitement. And you actually, don't you have a recipe? I feel like we had, oh, it's one of the stews. Yeah. Go ahead. You know it better than me. It was the cacciatore? Yes. Chicken cacciatore. So, I like to do that one with the bones because, you know, we talk about bone broth often and the benefits of the bones. And, you know, you're going to simmer that chicken cacciatore for a while. It won't be as long as, say, if you make a bone like a broth. Right. But you are getting the benefits of those dissolved things that are within the bones and all those kind of nutrients that go and enrich the sauce. Okay. I love cooking whole chicken on the bone in braises and that sort of thing for that reason. But when you eat it, then you got to kind of pull it off or it just... If you braise it long enough, you take your fork and it comes right off. There you go. I never even thought about that, that now you're getting all the collagen and all the nutrients. But so, when we talk about bone broth, we'll go into this. But bones have glycine in it. Okay. And glycine helps to repair the gut lining. So, anytime I can put any kind of bone, anything in, I'd like to do that. Chicken cacciatore. Yeah, the chicken cacciatore in the book. And the chicken cacciatore in the book is really good. It was really good. So, okay. So, that's poultry. My other question on poultry is turkey. When do you... I love turkey. Like, we all gravitate to chicken, but why would you as a chef decide to make something with turkey? Well, you know, it's interesting. In this country, when I say turkey, you say Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, yeah. So, you know, we don't always, except for ground turkey, we often, you know, we'll use, actually, it's a lean ground meat that, you know, especially if, again, you know the provenance of where it came from. And you're being ground for you. Or, you know, you go to the supermarket, turkey, ground turkey is generally less concerning than ground beef. Ground beef, most of the time, you don't know how many cows are in that packet of ground beef. And, you know, when it was ground, ground turkey is, first of all, it's healthier, it's leaner. So, we eat that a lot in this country. Everything from turkey chili to you name it. I know in Europe, I've seen turkey a lot more. Oh, that's interesting. You know, something as simple as, you know, the breast that'll get roasted off just like Thanksgiving, maybe not the same flavorings, but then gets a slightly, you know, typically a sauce like with cranberries or other kind of berries or something that's a little bit of a fruit component. Okay. You see it often in Germany and kind of Eastern Europe. Yeah. And it's a delicious meat. Yeah. It's really good. You know what I used to do as a kid? I would go to the Renaissance Fair. Do you remember the Renaissance? Oh, the turkey legs. And the turkey leg. And I was like, eating like a big turkey leg. It was a big thing. And I was, it felt so medieval. I still do that. Yeah. Okay. So, that's okay to do. Yeah. Well, you're the doc. Yeah. I mean, it's okay health-wise, but it feels disrespectful to a recipe when you're just like grabbing it. I eat turkey legs. They're delicious. I love that. The Renaissance Fair, they do something magical to those. Yeah. Disneyland, they have a great one. Yeah. Oh, boy. And then would you spice the turkey leg? Yeah. So, often with turkey legs, I've actually made this for a couple events. We did the Renaissance Fair style turkey legs. What I'll do is I'll actually brine them. Okay. And we'll use some salt and some flavorings and what. So, it'll have a lot of spice in the brine. Okay. And because you're going to smoke them, often poultry that you're going to smoke, you want to put it through a brining process to kind of help it hold onto the juice so it doesn't get really dry. Right. Oh, my gosh. Amazing. Okay. And we've brined our Thanksgiving turkey. Yeah. Okay. Grass meat. And now this one is grass-fed. Clearly glass-fed. Oh, how can you tell? Well, you see there's very little fat. Okay. We're called intermuscular fat. There's a little like flex. When you have the corn-fed, you know, the Nebraska, those really kind of beautiful steaks of, you know, you've seen, you see them today still, but even the ones that we traditionally see in our head, it has all that marbling. Yes. That comes from the feeding and the fattening of it. Grass-fed, there's a lot of fat in grass. Yeah. So, you see, it's very, very, very rich, the redness and the myoglobin. So, it's a really intense kind of flavor in that regard. And just there's not a lot of fat in between. That's how you can tell. Yeah. You know, and I don't know what your opinion is on grass-fed, but I'm like, yes. Because it has so much, so many omega-3s in it that it makes sense. Absolutely. I mean, at the end of the day, it really depends on what the usage is. Like, a really beautiful, dry-aged, you know, I've really come to really like grass-fed, corn-finished, where what they'll actually do is, it'll be very much this style of animal where it's, you know, it's been eating grass his whole life and then they'll finish it with corn to get that kind of, the flavor and the fat that we associate. Okay. Those are big favorites of mine because it's not eating, you know, I know it's eating naturally its whole life. And at the end, we're feeding it corn to kind of get the calories up. Got it. Nothing wrong with, in my opinion, nothing wrong with that. It improves the flavor. Grass-fed has a more mild flavor and it has that sort of earthy quality. Yeah, it has like a grassy flavor. And, you know, for certain usages, that's exactly what you want. Right. Okay. Now, let's talk about the cuts because, you know, in my family, the boys in my family are the meat makers and, like, they cook it all up and I just eat whatever they give me. But then we're out to a restaurant. I always have to turn to my husband and go, what kind of meat do I like again? And so each cut of meat has a different flavor profile. Largely, yes. You know, obviously, it also is more textural than flavor. Okay. But, you know, filet mignon, tenderloin. Why they call it tenderloin? Because it's tender. It's kind of in the middle of the cow. It doesn't get a lot of use. Okay. And it's that round steak that is typically one of the more expensive ones on the menu. Right. But, you know, that is a, that's one of the ones that you're going to see often a lot, filet mignon or tenderloin. Me and a lot of guys, we go for the cuts that have a big bone on them. So whether that's the tomahawk steak. Tomahawk. We have the big bone. Yeah. Okay, I'm partial being, having cooked in Spain, we have a, there's a cut called the chuleton. Chuleton is just another name for the porterhouse. Okay. So it has sort of a, which porterhouse and T-bone are the same thing. Right. One's on one end of the, of what's called the short loin or the, where all the bones are. Right. And one's on the other end where there's less bone. So the T-bones are kind of towards that end. Okay. And it's just, you get that little T and then going that way towards what would be the prime rib and kind of the front end, that's where the big, you know, the big porterhouse, one kilogram or two. Right. And it's, one piece is the New York and the other piece is the filet. Okay. And it's this beautiful, beautiful cut. And so when I, what, yeah. So when I look at it and I see the extra fat in there, my brain is sort of gone, this isn't a good example, but my brain has gone, oh, that when it's cooked with that extra fat, it's going to have a different, a more richer flavor. It will. Absolutely. It absolutely will. And if I see it like, like the filet where it's just completely like red like that, it just has, it's more, we're now in the texture is more, becomes more of the highlight. We talk about lean, lean protein, lean meats, lean red meat. Okay. This is lean red meat. Right. And likewise, you know, your, your filet mignon or some of these other cuts, it's definitely grass fed steak is going to be following the category of lean red meat, which a lot of folks prefer as opposed to the fattier cuts, which will be your ribeyes and that sort of thing. Got it. And when you were putting like a menu together at your restaurant, how did you decide, like, do people have a favorite? How did you decide what cuts to make people? It's my restaurant. It's my menu. Um, oftentimes it's things that I, I like and that I want to share with people, but look, a restaurant's only good if folks are going to come and sit down and enjoy. Right. Yeah. So you, it's obviously we know if I'm opening a steakhouse, I know the steaks that are likely going to sell are the ones that folks know the most, the filet mignons, the ribeyes, the New York steaks. Yeah. And so those are the things that you're going to see on a typical steakhouse menu. So the good news is it's all recognizable. Right. Okay. Okay. Awesome. Okay. My baby's coming to you. Eat like a girl. You want to know the foods that will support hormones? Guess what? I have them for you already. It's a free giveaway. Just click the link above and I'll send you a list of all the foods that support amazing hormonal health. Okay. Now fish. So fish, I will tell you fish from a health perspective has been a bit of a quagmire for me because what I mean by that is it's like I don't really know what I want to do with fish because it's in an ocean that's toxic. And so now we're finding a lot of heavy metals. Sure. And specifically in fish. So I have done a lot of research on like what are the fish with the least amount of heavy metals in it. And I've come to this conclusion that I'm always going to be in the right lane of health if I go with wild salmon or even like a cod. Like cod has so much omega-3 in it. Sure. So talk a little bit about the different fish and what which you like to cook with. Okay. And how we would pick a good fish in the store. So what I understand in terms of the fish that likely have the most heavy metals are your kind of the top of the food chain fish. Yes. So those are your swordfish, your marlin, obviously tuna. These are the, you know, nobody's eating those. So they're eating everybody underneath them and those are the ones that are picking up a lot of that. So we have to be careful when we eat those. And where you're right, salmon, not so much because you have your Atlantic salmon where that's the wild. And that's generally considered, you know, okay to eat. Right. There's a great list called the Monterey Watch List. And they do a great job of not only in terms of that but endangered and that sort of thing that a lot of chefs who are trying to be responsible, we follow that and say, okay, cod is always a relatively safe one. Yeah. Yeah. And so in terms of what to do with those things, I mean, you'll see in the book one of my absolute go-to, standby, favorite salmon recipes that I think we're going to prepare. Yeah, we're going to do it today. By request of just about everybody. Yes. Is the salmon dish where it's just, listen, I don't, when I cook at home, I don't like to clean. I ask my mom, I'm not a cleaner, I'm a cooker. So, you know, when I do it, it's a one pop drop. You make something, you put it on, you put it in the boiler, you let it cook and it's done. Yeah. Yeah. And the salmon recipe in the book, I, I, so my goal with the book, because, you know, you and Chef Leslie made all the recipes was to cook them all from just for enjoyment. And it's been kind of fun because everybody who comes over for dinner to my house, I'm like, I'm going to cook you something for my new book. I have cooked the salmon recipe four times. It is so good. It's good and it's easy. It's so easy. And it's like, bang it out. Okay, here's dinner. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, okay, then my other quandary that I've got with fish is do you eat the skin? Yes. Okay. Some, some fish, most fish, yes. And I'll eat it if it's done right. And the way it's done right is if it's nice and crispy. Right. Because it's, you know, again, it's similar to the chicken when you have the skin and there's a layer of fat under that. So that's where, you know, some of the fat is stored. With salmon, there's a lot of fat also, whether it's in the belly or intermuscularly. But I love salmon skin. Yeah. It's cooked right. Okay. Then the one thing we don't have here that we should bring up because it's also an incredible recipe in the book is pork. And it's a miso pork that you used, which is really cool because miso is soy and we're trying to eat like a girl to help support estrogen. My biggest challenge I've had with the pig, and I'm curious if this sits with your chef brain, is that I've heard the pig doesn't sweat. And so all of those toxins in pigs stay in their body. Interesting. So when you're eating, you know, a general principle of nutrition is you are eating whatever the animal ate. Right. So I wrote a book about charcuterie and I learned in Spain. And very much the belief when it comes to making charcuterie and that sort of thing is, yeah, whatever, you know, if your pig, if it didn't eat like a good diet and if it didn't live a good life, then it's not going to be good to consume. Right. And that's why they, in Spain, we learned how, you know, what the pig is, you know, when it comes to Iberico pigs, they feed them acorns. And you get this incredible thing with the monounsaturated fats that come out of the acorn that go directly into the animal. Where if you have a really beautiful leg of ham, a buberical ham, it's going to sweat at room temperature for the monounsaturated fat because at room temperature, olive oil is liquid. Right. It's the same. They call them walking olive oil treats. So to your point, that is, I don't know about the toxins and whether they're sweated out or not or if they come out another way. Yeah. But definitely how your animal lived and how it ate will impact how it tastes and how, what happens with you. Is there a way for us to know, like, I mean, we've got people all over the world who watch these videos. Like, again, you know, if we go into the store, there's no way for you to know other than if they say it's grass fed. But with the other, like with pork, you wouldn't know. You really, I mean, if you have a good butcher, and I recommend definitely supporting your local butcher or farmer if you go to a farmer's market. And, you know, that's the best thing is go to a farmer's market and say, hey, what kind of, what breed of pig are you using? How was it, you know, raised? What was it fed? Right. And they'll normally share all that. They love, farmers love talking about how they treat their animals. Yeah, they do. I love it. And the same thing with the butcher at better markets. They might have that information and say, hey, we work exclusively with this farm. Right. And here's their practices. If you're really concerned and that's something that you want to hone in on, that's the way you do it. Yeah. We have a farmer's market. They do an avocado fed pork. That is so good. And my, I love, the avocado is like the most perfect food on the planet. I love avocado. And I'm like, well, that makes sense. Now we've put like some really cool nutrients into the pork. Absolutely. Yeah. But what I'm hoping you all will get from this conversation is that we tend to have this approach to food, especially with meats, like just go in, buy the meat, leave. But there's so much to think about. And like, is it wild? Is it organic? What has it been fed? Who's the farmer? Like, I think when you start to dial that down, all of a sudden, not only do you increase the taste profile, but now you're really seeing food as medicine. And you feel it, really. Yeah. When you eat a better quality steak or salmon or pork, you feel it. Yeah. Agreed. Agreed. Agreed. Okay. I guess, actually, I do need to bring this up. Organ meat. Love it. Yeah. Love it. Yeah. And how do you blend it in? I mean, I love chicken livers in all forms. Yeah. And whether it's seared off, there's a couple of really fun recipes where you sear them off, give them a splash of sherry. It's a very Spanish thing. Yeah. Higados al jerez is the name. I also love making, you know, like whether blending it up and making like a pate. Yeah. I also, I mean, pretty much, you know, livers and hearts and kidneys. I worked with all of them because in Spain, you know, the understanding is if you're going to take an animal and utilize it, you use all of it. Yeah. And so there's a whole litany of recipes that I love that are specifically for that purpose. Yeah. So there's a principle in actually homeopathic medicine, which is like heals like. Mm-hmm. And so I've been trying, I was trying to find ways to use organ meat and I found little chicken hearts. Mm-hmm. And I just found a recipe online. This is a couple of years ago and I just made it and it turned out our son loved it. Yeah, they're good. Like he was like, this is amazing. All I kept thinking is all those nutrients that we needed for our heart is in this little heart. At the end of the day, a heart's a muscle. Right. It's like, this is a muscle. Yeah. And that's a muscle. Yeah. Yeah.