ゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲゲ As my mom puts it, I'm so proud of you for taking yourself on. That's what I have done. And when I got to the emotional inheritance idea, where I have inherited some emotions from my ancestors, I literally was like, well, fuck that. Like, I don't even know how to handle my own emotions. And now I got to deal with what my grandmother and my great-grandmother had. Like, I don't have time in this lifetime. I've got enough. And so, right? So then I started diving in deeper, and here's what came up. My grandmother's parents were chronic alcoholics. And my grandmother used to tell a story very stoically that she would be careful who she invited into the house at night because she knew when she would open up the door that her parents would be passed out drunk on the floor. Now, you have to understand that this story got told through my family like it was no big deal. Yeah. But when I dove into this idea that we inherit some kind of emotional spectrum, one of the things that I realized is that one of my biggest pet peeves in life is I don't like anybody I love to be drunk. I do not want to be around anybody who is drunk in my family. It is like nails on a chalkboard. I could watch you be drunk and think it's really funny. But if it's a family member, there's a visceral reaction. And I was like, wait a second. Then I dove in and looked at the genetic expression that changes when there's a trauma in order to inform the future generations that if this scenario ever comes up, here's the reaction you're going to want to have. And I was like, oh, well, this makes sense. Yes. It's all for protection. It's all for protection. It is. So, you know, yes, we inherit these stories. We inherit the wisdom of those stories, too. Yeah, that's true. Where your brain is trying to protect you and move that forward for survival. And so there's been several studies done on even Holocaust survivors and how that's changed in individuals' adrenal health and ability to manage stress in the future. When we look at a mother's lineage and we look at, you know, how women have been treated over the last, like, 100 years or 50 to 100 years and the adjustments that women have had to make to their personalities, to be accepted, to belong, to fit in, to serve, to people please, to do all those things. We inherit those patterns because that's what was taught to our brain that that's how you survive in this world. Right. And so then the triggers today, like you said, that family member that's had too much to drink or whatever it might be, it's like this visceral feeling that we get very confused by because we don't know how to connect the dots. And then when you understand that story, you start to see, like, OK, this wasn't mine to carry. This is something that I can release. So I think that's the empowerment that can come in from understanding your lineage. So, for example, in my lineage, because of colonization in India, it really changed our physiology. Like, it literally changed our beta cells. So for South Asian women, we're more prone to PCOS. We're more prone to heart disease and weight gain and all of these things. So me having that understanding tells me, OK, this phase of my life, I need to be more insulin sensitive. I need to pay attention. Hence why I brought in the meat at this time. So I think these stories we carry, the emotional and the physical, they do produce the person we are today. But we don't have to be victim to them when we become aware of them. And a big one I found in my lineage was resentment because resentment brews when you have to stay quiet. It brews when we're not able to express who we are. So if you're born in a culture where just you being a woman is a burden and there's still, you know, young infants that are female being killed in India and like there's still all of that is still going on. And so you inherit this story of like, I'm not enough. I need to prove myself my whole life to belong so I can survive. So we start to carry this with us, but it can really inform of like, OK, the reason why I'm pushing through, I'm not taking a break. I'm doing all this because I'm trying to prove myself because of the story I'm carrying. So how do I change the narrator? How do I change the story so it can actually serve me now and not take away from me? So I think it can be a really, really empowering thing. And before we got on the call, Nick wanted me to message you about the Walmart guy. Oh, is this where the Walmart guy comes in? Yes. OK, tell me about the Walmart guy. We could talk about the Walmart guy now. And so the reason why he wanted me to bring that up is because when you're in that state of people pleasing or you're born in a culture where you just you don't have a voice, you're taking everything in all the time. And so he pointed out to me, you know, and he was pointing out quite a few scenarios where maybe I had some hormonal rage. I'm not really sure what the initial intention was, but remember when you did this? And you're like, no, I don't. But obviously you do. Exactly. And so but after he said all those examples, he was like, what was what's amazing, though? It's like how you're using your voice and you're not letting things slide. You're not letting people cross their boundaries anymore. So this Walmart guy. So now it's Christmas time. It wasn't this. It was, I think, two years ago because it was after I turned 45. And, you know, it's Christmas time. I'm just trying to get some gifts from my nieces and nephews trying to get out. And it's busy. I don't like being in busy places. You know, when your estrogen is low, all the noises or you're just more sensitive to all of it. And so I'm checking out and he comes up to me and starts selling me their MasterCard or whatever their credit card to get a deal. He's like, yeah, you know, ma'am, you get $90 off. I'm like, OK, well, that's OK. That's OK. Deal. Let's just do it. You don't have to do anything. And then he starts going off about all these other things that I have to pay and whatever. And I just got so overwhelmed. I, you know how they call it, the Karen came out to the point where my poor children were crying because they could see how upset I was. All eyes were on me. And I was just like, you lied to me and I'm not going to take it. So you need to do something about this. So I was stern and maybe a bit ragey, but it had to happen because you crossed a boundary. But 10, 15 years ago, 20 years ago, I would have just taken it and just left feeling resentful towards myself for not sticking up for myself. And that's like scenario after scenario. And today version of me just can't even whether it's resentment or even grief and sadness. There was a moment at just my mom's house a few weeks ago where she said something, compared me to my sister and tears just came like gushing through and I couldn't even control it. Where in the past I would hold it all in and maybe it would get released in a different way. I'd go to the gym or whatever or I'd work harder. But now it's like I've softened so much or I've had to in those situations where I just I can't even keep it in anymore. Do you think women in general are behaving like this more than ever? I think so. I think. Yeah, I do too. Yeah. There's definitely, I call it a revolution. Yeah. Happening where, and maybe we're more aware of it because the stage of life we're in. So our conversations are around this. My hope is that the younger generation is starting to catch on too. And I think they are. They're definitely more ahead than we were at that age. Yeah, for sure. Of being more self-aware. And so I do think it's shifting. And so we're in that uncomfortable shift right now where others don't know what to do with all of that. Well, they're not used to women speaking out. Yeah, we're not. Our culture is not used to women speaking out as boldly as we are right now. And it makes me think you said something early on about these transitions. Like, I feel like we go through so many hormonal transitions. And the way I would explain menopause and perimenopause is like, all of a sudden the veil got really thin. And like my ability to take society's bullshit and my ability to be mistreated and my ability to hold back what I'm thinking, just like you're saying, like there wasn't a buffer there anymore. In my book, I call it, in Age Like a Girl, I call it a neurochemical armor. And the way it feels like to me is like the armor comes down and all of a sudden you're like, wait a second. You've been treating me like that forever and I've been letting you? I'm not going to do that anymore. And it is in, I mean, back to everything you're bringing forward to the culture right now, which is your hormones relate to your moods. I think sometimes our hormones can make us go to sleep. As a good friend of mine said to me, yeah, you mean when we were drugged on estrogen? Yeah. And I'm like, yeah, when I was drugged on estrogen, you could treat me like that. But now that I'm not drugged on estrogen, I have less of it and there's no buffer between your bullshit and me. Yeah. All of a sudden, you're going to hear what I think. And it feels so freeing. But I see woman after woman after woman doing this. And the world is interesting to watch. It is interesting to watch. And imagine the women on birth control. Talk about that. Yeah. Yeah. And just how masked their emotions get, how numb they get, depending on what generation of birth control they're using. But it changes your whole chemistry. It changes your outlook on life. It changes your ability to discern so many important decisions. And so when we're masked like that and the veil is really thick in those moments, we can't speak up. We can't speak our truth because we don't even know what that truth is because it's getting numbed out so much. That's it. So like you said, when that dissolves, it's like, oh, you know, here's the opportunity to finally listen to that inner voice because we made her so quiet. And she was speaking through the symptoms. And so when we start to listen, she doesn't have to yell anymore. We can hear her and then we can express her forward without the fear. And maybe that comes with age. Maybe that comes with experience of not fearing, not belonging or not fearing, not love the way we want to. Because now we have that self-trust and that self-awareness and we have faith in ourselves now. So it's easier to do that. So I do understand younger women may still have these moments of playing these identities and roles because they're figuring it out. Right, right. Yeah. And but I think it's just like we were talking about earlier. And what I hope everybody listening is getting is that when we finally speak out about it, it starts to make it easier for the next woman to speak out. Yes. It's like you just we we have to make a commitment not just to just ourselves, but to make a commitment to the every woman around us that we're once you free one, you start to free them all. I had a line that popped out of my head for age like a girl that was went something like once once a healed woman doesn't stay silent. She turns around and heals another woman. That's right. It's the ripple effect. Yeah, we don't we don't just the world. Yeah, we don't sit back and go, OK, I figured that out. I'll just sit here and hang out by myself. We're like, I got to I got to do a ladies night so I can tell every woman what I just figured out now or crazy enough like you and me. I got to write some books. Yeah. Tell everybody. Tell the world. Tell the world. What's really what's really going on. But I but I think we're at a really cool, pivotal moment in history where women are waking up. I don't I don't know another way to say that. But the waking up is scary and I think it's in these hormonal transitions that we wake up the most. And so what let's talk about rage for a moment, because this is maybe one of my favorite emotions, because it shows up for me. And when it shows up, it comes out in ugly ways. And so I've done a lot of work on what rage is and it's it's built around resentment. It's built around all the times I wanted to speak my voice and I wasn't allowed to. It's built around parents who had an expectation that I behave a certain way in a culture that said, you know, the way I was behaving wasn't wasn't OK. And rage was a very, very big one for me as I transitioned out into postmenopausal. And I've come to learn that the rage now to me, rage is ancestral. Rage is cultural and rage is personal. So can you speak a little bit about the rage that women are feeling right now? Because I don't think I'm alone. You're not alone at all. I think that's probably one of the most common ones, emotions that women are feeling when you become aware of it. And it's so visceral and it's so raw because it is ancestral, whether it's seven to 14 generations before. It's like we're feeling all of that in this moment and it can feel really overwhelming. And I do think rage is full of action. So it allows us to take action. So when we're in rage, we're ready to heal. I'm more worried about women that get stuck in the sadness and the depression and these other feelings that can keep us stuck. Rage is full of action. So we can actually take different. We can do something. We can set the boundaries. Yeah, that's well said. And so if we do it in that way at first, it can then allow us to have the other polarity, which is the softness. It's like we've lived in such a masculine world and we've had to operate in such a yang way. It's such a masculine way that the rage, I think, is actually there because we've been misguided. And because our inner world has been in conflict for so long that it's like ready to burst open. And what I have noticed with women that have held resentment, and this is from a Chinese medicine perspective, too, it's like that's held up in the liver. And in our bodies, we actually increase interleukin-6, our pro-inflammatory cytokine, when we feel anger and rage. And so that this inflammation that we're feeling comes from this emotion. And what I have noticed over and over again in my practice, those that feel rage and resentment often have some sort of growth in their body. For me, it's been a cyst. That's been like an ongoing practice of healing. And I know it's like this ball of resentment. I saw the same thing in my mother. I don't know if my grandmother had any, but I know my mother did. And so when we're holding on to so much, that emotion needs to go somewhere. And so when the rage shows up, I feel like in this stage of life, it's like, okay, now, finally, I can use my voice. It gives us permission to actually speak. So I do think that is where healing actually happens, is when we recognize the rage.