 absolutely will help you improve your thyroid health. The number one challenge that is causing your thyroid to go off is toxicity. Over 50% of women going through perimenopause to start to discover a thyroid problem. We're all my thyroid patients out there. Who has been struggling with your thyroid? Put it in the comments because on this video, I want to specifically talk about some really interesting symptoms of low thyroid. I really want to go into three strategies that absolutely will help you improve your thyroid health that don't cost a lot. This is all about lifestyle. That's what I'm here to do on this channel is teach you lifestyle. In this video, let's master thyroid. Deal? Ready? Let's dive in. First, I just want to point out that in the functional health world, we talk about the thyroid as being the canary in the coal mine. I've mentioned it here on many videos. When we think about a canary in the coal mine, remember they would put the canary down in the coal mine. When the gases got too high in the coal mine, they knew it was because when the canary dies, it was time for the coal miners to get out of the coal mine. The gases were improving or were increasing. Same thing with the thyroid. When the thyroid goes off, that is like a warning bell that the something in the system isn't working right. I'm going to give you some really simple ways to get the system back on track. First, I just have to tell you that the number one challenge that is causing your thyroid to go off is toxicity. I can do a whole video on the toxins that affect your thyroid. If you're interested in that, put it in the comments and I'll make sure that I do that video. What's really important is I'll tell you that I was in clinical practice for close to 30 years. I was doing lifestyle medicine. I was working with nutrition and detox with my patients. I started to see about 10 years into my clinical practice, I started to see that women were coming in and they were saying, I don't know what's wrong, but my thyroid must not be working. We spent, there was about a decade in my clinic where every day I had another new patient that was like something's wrong with my thyroid and my thyroid is off. I got really deep into understanding thyroid health. I understood at that point that actually we, there are about 11 different pieces of measurements in blood work that you need to look at in order to make sure that you're, to understand why your thyroid is going off. I learned during that time that most doctors were only doing TSH. If you want to know those 11 different things, we'll leave a link to an article I did that maps out those 11. Okay, now the second thing that I learned about the thyroid was this toxicity piece and ironically, I will, I will put, hopefully my team will put a map here that shows you the connection of when glyphosate was introduced into our food system. Pesticides are one of the biggest destroyers of thyroid health and glyphosate, the minute it came into our food system, we started to see more and more thyroid problems and you can, you can literally see when glyphosate was allowed to be sprayed on our food, you started to see the number of thyroid cases go up. We have about to go into the same challenge with forever chemicals. If you're here in America, the current administration has, has now allowing PFOAs, which are forever chemicals to be placed into our, sprayed on our foods, which forever chemicals damage your thyroid. So we're going to see another resurgence of thyroid issues. So from that angle, let's make sure we eat organic non-GMO foods. But from, from the angle of what I'm teaching you today, I really want you to see that thyroid is so much more than just struggling to lose weight, that you actually, there are symptoms that will tell you, you got a thyroid problem and here they are. Fatigue is one and here's something interesting that I just want to point out. Every single cell in your body has a receptor site for thyroid, for thyroid hormone, for T3 specifically. Every single cell in your body, it's like an energizer. It's like an, when you get enough T3 into your body, you get this stimulation of energy and that cell, whether it's in your liver, whether it's in your gut, your brain can actually get ignited and do what it's meant to do. So it's like, our cells are like an army of, of processes that are going to make sure that our body functions normally and T3, the thyroid hormone T3 is the activator that is going to energize those cells. So all these things can, all these normal functioning processes will, will, will go, will happen naturally. So fatigue is a sign that you're not making enough ATP from those mitochondria and you'll be more fatigued. Okay, we also know weight gain, that's a pretty common one, cold hands and feet, joint muscle pain is another one, dry skin and hair, heavier irregular periods, slow heart rate and depression is a huge one I saw in my clinic was when people were depressed, a lot of times we would run all their thyroid labs and their thyroid was really off. Now I want to point out that a lot of times thyroid conditions outside of a heavy toxic load can happen during huge times of hormonal shifts. So this is why it's very common for over 50% of women going through perimenopause to start to discover a thyroid problem. So all hormones are like tag team, right? So when one hormone's hormonal system dramatically changes, it affects other endocrine glands. And it turns out when our sex hormones go down, it really starts to affect our thyroid hormones. So if you're in your perimenopause, menopausal years trying to figure out what the heck happened, note that it was really just a change in your hormonal health. And what's interesting is this makes, because we're more hormonally driven as women, we know that women are 10 times more likely to develop a thyroid problem. And way back in the 90s, there was a study that noted that it was always at these big hormonal fluctuations like menstruation, pregnancy, menopause that the thyroid problem was triggered. I can tell you after my second child, my thyroid went crazy. They actually wanted to pull my thyroid out and do radioactive dye. Thank God I didn't, because of through lifestyle, I was able to put it back on track. But it was the second child that initiated a massive change in my thyroid. So sometimes it's not toxic load, sometimes it's just your hormone shifted and so the thyroid had to respond and it responded in a negative way. Okay, so here are the three ways you can start to support this naturally. So the first is one of my new favorite ways that I just keep saying over and over and over again, which is get more minerals. We here in America are living in a time where big egg rules our government and big egg monocrops. So monocropping is where they just keep putting the same crop down in the same oils and they keep tilling that oil, spraying those oils, so those are those soils. So those soils are mineral depleted. So if you are eating fruits and vegetables from a conventional farm, they're mostly like most likely mineral depleted. So look for regenerative farms. And what's interesting is some of the research I saw was just like blew my mind like this 2023 study in the frontiers of vendocrinology, which is an incredible paper, stated that iodine, selenium, iron, copper, zinc, calcium and magnesium play a vital role in the function of the thyroid gland. And any violation of their supply can cause a pathological meaning disease oriented change in the thyroid. Let's get those minerals up. The authors also noted that what they consider a frontline strategy for improving the thyroid is minerals. Get your minerals back in. That's like when they say frontline, they mean like most important thing you should do. So now you can also get minerals, they're high mineral content foods that you should know about, especially if you get them organic because remember we don't want them sprayed. And these are charred spinach, broccoli, kale, cabbage and avocado. Those particular vegetables have a lot of minerals in them. So let's bring those into our diet on a regular basis. One of the more challenging minerals to get back into your diet is iodine. And I also want to say you always want to test your iodine before you start taking iodine. But the best way to get iodine in is through seaweed. But make sure it's organic and or you can take an iodine supplement. I'll tell you a funny, interesting story. My daughter who's now 26 years old used to be like addicted to seaweed. I mean, literally as a kid, like if I gave her a bag of potato chips or I gave her a bag of seaweed, she would always choose seaweed. And it got me really thinking about does she have an iodine, she have an iodine depletion. And it was interesting because she ate seaweed until one day she was like, I don't need seaweed anymore, like she was done eating it. And a lot of times, I don't know if you all have gotten like this, but I'll get in those modes where I'm eating something regularly, like obsessed with it, like kombucha, I became obsessed with kombucha for years. I just want to drink it all the time. And then one day I'm like, I'm done. I've had enough. A lot of times that's because these depletions have come have become balanced or the microbes have changed. There's like an innate signaling, we don't need this anymore. Something interesting to think about. Okay, the second thing we can do to improve our thyroid is to load up on antioxidants. Now, I don't know about you, but I feel like that term antioxidant is sort of a term that just gets thrown around, but nobody really knows what that means. So antioxidants are nutrients we get from our food and our supplements that protect us from free radicals. And free radicals are the byproducts of being exposed to stressors, specifically chemical stressors, but even emotional and physical stressors. So anytime we have a high stressor load, we need those antioxidants to protect us otherwise depletion begins. So in this particular moment or conversation is that a lot of thyroid problems are due to an inflammatory condition. And this makes your thyroid start to attack itself because it starts to sense that these free radicals are getting into it. And so this is specifically with like Hashimoto's where it just starts to attack the thyroid because it doesn't have the protective layer that antioxidants would give. And the free radicals win. And so the body thinks there's a foreign invader there and it attacks itself. A 23 study from this frontiers and endocrinology found that antioxidants from food, and I'll tell you the food here in the moment, strongly protect your thyroid and prevent damage so that you can make enough thyroid hormones. So if you have a thyroid problem, how about doubling down on some of these? Are you ready? Now some of them we got to put some boundaries around. Coffee. So when we drink coffee, they're high in antioxidants, but this is not your commercialized coffee. This is your organic coffee from a small batch farm. Go to your farmer's market. Get to know your farmer, but we want a, we don't want it sprayed with pesticides and we want it grown ideally in regenerative soil. So like we literally get our coffee beans from a local farmer's market. Okay, second one is green tea. Green tea is proving to be an incredible health additive. So if you love green tea, add in more green tea, just make sure it's organic. And what's interesting, I've mentioned this on other videos, coffee's best in the morning. It's going to give you that burst of energy that comes on quick. Green tea's better later in the day because it has a slower release of the caffeine. So if you're looking for when to put it into your schedule, that might be something to look at. Okay, next category is berries. I have yet to have anybody complain about berries. Berries are the hero fruit. Strawberries, blackberries, blueberries, raspberries are rich in antioxidants. I know when I go to the supermarket and I look at the berries, I try to get, you know, there's like white raspberries, there's red raspberries, there's black, black berries, there's blueberries. I grab them all because the color is going to give you a different antioxidant dose. So if you're a blueberry fan, you might dip into red raspberries. And if you're a red raspberry fanatic, have you tried the white raspberries, or maybe you need to go into blackberries. So, but berries are incredible. The next one is soy. Remember, I've done a lot of videos for you on the phytoestrogen upside of soy. Make sure it's organic. The next one is leafy greens has lots of antioxidants in them. So leafy greens with every meal and then brightly colored vegetables. So this is like your red cabbage, your sweet potato, your beets. Like what I would love for you to start doing is looking at your food from a color palette and be like, do I, what are the colors that are going on here? Maybe I need to improve more, get more of color diversity in my food because those are going to have different antioxidants. Okay, quick pause the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl is out? It's a trilogy now. It's fast like a girl, eat like a girl and age like a girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself. So you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. Okay, third tip. Oh, this is a good one. I could do my, I should do a whole video on this. I should do a whole video on it. But because I get so much flat from people for this, and it is intermittent fasting. Yes, there is research showing that intermittent fasting can improve your thyroid health and specifically 16, eight intermittent fasting, which is 16 hours fasted eight hours of an eating window. And here is the research. So a 23 study that measured the hormones of people who with low thyroid who fasted for Ramadan, we have some of the best fasting studies from from Ramadan, because people do it every year and they do it for long period time. So the people in this study fasted 16 hours a day. And this daily fasting led to an increase in thyroid stimulating hormone. So you know, when you go and you get your blood test, go look at it and look for TSH. If it is low, this is going to help you understand that it's 16, eight intermittent fasting could help. So what they found in this study is that during this time, the thyroid hormone stayed stable during the fast. And it had there was no negative effect of this fast. And that there was something that the study went on to say that there was something they were hypothesizing that perhaps in the 16 hour deficit of calories coming in, the thyroid went into a protective mode, like because you need your thought you need thyroid hormones. This is why when they take it out, they give you a medication to take you would not function without thyroid hormones and the intelligence of your body understands this. So when you go into a longer fast, like a 16 hour fast, the body goes into a protective state of these of your thyroid hormone. I've seen I've done a lot of thyroid and fasting videos here will leave links in the bot in the notes. But what's really interesting is I saw a study years ago that showed that when you went back into food after a fast, that T3, the bioactive version of thyroid of thyroid hormone actually doubled. So think about that. You go into 16 hours without food. And then your body goes, whoop, we better protect this vital organ. So we need to keep TSH stable. And then you add food back in. And the body goes, Okay, we don't need to protect this. But we need to because we didn't have food for 16 hours, we need to make sure we up regulate the thyroid hormone. So this system can get up and going. Everything your body does, it does for a reason. Those of you that have been here for a while with me, please tell me you're getting these from all of my videos. It's like, I feel like the PR agency for the human body. It's always doing the right thing at the right time. So we can use a shorter, well, I it's a shorter fast, anything under 24 hours is a shorter fast. Some of you love 12 and 13 hours. And I'm going to ask you to extend it to 16 hours. But you don't have to fast long. This is like most people I've worked with can figure out how to fast for 16 hours. But the important thing is that when you reintroduce food, there is also research showing that in order to keep your thyroid working at its best, you need 1200 calories a day. So let's make sure when you are done with your 16 hours, and you're opening up your eight hour eating window that we're eating enough calories, we're getting enough calories in. Makes sense. So the thyroid, it's like an indicator light. Let's look at it like that. It's an indicator light to tell you that the system is working or not working. We definitely need to look at toxic load. Front line, we learned it from science today, says we need to look at minerals. And we also need to think about things like increasing our antioxidants, which is great for everything. And of course, fasting gets another win. I am not backing down on fasting. I promise you, I am more committed to a fasting lifestyle than ever before, not just based off of all of your results, but based off of continued science over and over again, proving this incredible tool. So let me know, like I'd love to hear what your thyroid and fasting experience has been. If you tried any of the other, like at increasing minerals, what did you notice with your thyroid? But as always, don't give up on yourself. Okay? Don't give up on yourself. You need a lifestyle that matches the health level you are deserving. And when you start to pair that lifestyle to the health you are seeking, you will absolutely love living in this human frame you were blessed to live in. So let me know. Is that helpful? And what have you done? How has fasting affected your thyroid? Let's discuss here in the comment section. As always, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.