 bimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimbimb I want to help empower you. So what I've done is I've taken the questions and my answer and I have synthesized it for you here in this series so that you can get exactly what you are looking for and help you build your own fasting lifestyle. But most importantly, I hope you understand that what I am teaching here on YouTube is how for you to personalize your health journey. You were born to be so powerful. Your body is a miracle and I just want to help you discover that. So enjoy. Okay, Brian, during this fast my sleep was terrible. Yeah, either woke up during the night or I had too much energy. Yep, I can't wait to return to normal sleep. How can I get some sleep during long fast? Yeah, it's such a tricky one, Brian. Like I'm so happy you asked him and I'm going to try to give you a variety of answers. Ketones are energizing. So next time I'd be curious if you measure your ketones and like see where you were at. Because sometimes if you're up at a 4-0 or a 5-0, you're buzzing. I've told this story before last year when I did it on the third day when I was getting that, I just needed to get to the end of the day to break my fast. I called one of my friends who knows me very well and she was like, are you on a water fast? You are talking so fast right now. Because I had hit that point of the ketones where I was just like so happy. And it was like, so it does give you a buzz. So it could be that. I talked about how sometimes sleep you don't need as much because you're healing during the day. And I love sleep. We want to get good sleep. I love where you're like, I can't wait to get back to my sleep. So next time, one of the biggest things you can do is mega dose magnesium. So magnesium just calms the whole system down. So you can take my favorite magnesium. Well, I have two of them, but probably my favorite is bio-optimizers. We may have some discount codes my team can put in there. So take it. And I like them because they're a full spectrum magnesium. So you might, you might try that. Equalia is another great, has a great magnesium. Again, I'm sure my team will put links in here. So try some magnesium. Okay. Second thing I would say is sometimes trying a warm bath or a shower before you go to bed can calm the system. Some chamomile tea can calm the system and get you into sleep better. And then recently, and this is something that I've been deeply curious about because I did a video on this in my YouTube, for my YouTube channel. And I think that's a really cool research showing that yoga before you go to bed can actually, that rhythmic sun salutations can start to calm the nervous system. So it might be that you just, for those three day water fasts, you just needed to do a little more to get your body to realize it could, it could rest. And it is, it's part of the game of three day water fasts that we typically don't sleep the same way and we don't sleep as long. And I'm sure your sleep will go right back to where it was before. Why can't we sleep well when we go into these fasts? And I have looked, believe me, I've like searched the answer for this. And I, I of course don't have nobody studying fasters when they sleep. So I don't, I guess that's not an important thing for them to study. Uh, so, but, but what I, I have come up with this idea and I think it's a good one is that you're healing during the day in a fasted state. So you don't need to sleep as much. Sleep is for healing. Those of you that are, are not prioritizing sleep. I'm going to say that again. Sleep is for healing. That's why we sleep. Sleep, to rest and recover and to heal. But you're actually doing that during the day now without food in your system. So it might be that you don't need as much sleep as you, as you normally do, because the body is healing during the day. So, keep, keep that in mind. Um, those of you with, uh, yeah, and look, somebody said they slept 11 hours last night. Some people go, the body goes into a state where they're just like, I'm just going to completely go into a healing space now. And that's fine. Like, there's no right or wrong. What I want you to understand is how to read these symptoms. So fatigue could be your nervous system saying, hey, we just need you to chill out for a moment. You've been in sympathetic overdrive for a really long time. We just need you to chill out. Now, if fatigue could talk to you, I have a feeling that's what fatigue would say. Sleep. If you're not sleeping enough and you can't sleep, what that's a sign of is, hey, you're healing during the day. I really appreciate it. I don't need as much sleep. Those of you who are getting 11, 13 hours of sleep, what your body is saying is, thank you. You finally put me in a state where I could rest, and I'm going to take every single moment I can. Do you understand how each one of these symptoms are signals from the body? This is a big thing of what I'm trying to teach you all this week is that your body is always in relationship with you, giving you signs and signals. The question is, are you in relationship with it? I guess we had a lot of questions about adrenals and fasting. Let me share my experience with adrenals and fasting and my thought process. The first time, you have to remember, I had brought all these really complicated fasting schedules into all my treatment plans. One day, I ended up with a woman sitting across my table. It was actually this table. It was sitting there, and she's like, I'm so fatigued. I can't even imagine if I didn't eat if I would even survive. I have such bad adrenal fatigue. What we did, and I didn't have any research to be able to see how fasting and adrenal fatigue went together, but I did have this concept in my mind that a little bit of good stress causes the body to heal itself. I was like, what is a little bit of good stress when it comes to fasting for the adrenal glands? Because the adrenal glands are coordinating cortisol production. We literally did this with this patient. I was like, could you push your breakfast back 15 minutes? She's like, sure. I'm like, what I want you to notice is if your heart starts pounding or if you go from seated to standing, these are adrenal signs, and you get dizzy, you let me know. She meandered off, did 15 minutes. Next day, came back to me and was like, no, that was fine. I'm like, okay, tomorrow I want you now to go 15 more minutes. And we literally tiptoed our way into longer and longer fasts, doing these 15-minute increments. By the time, and it took us months to get her to 15 hours. By the time I got her to 15 hours, her energy was completely restored. So we have to remember, and I even blew my own mind, again, got rid of the adrenal supplements. Didn't need those anymore. I mean, I literally, if y'all had ever walked into my clinic, you walked into a whole big supplement wall. And one by one, I was taking sections of the supplement wall and like throwing the supplements away because I was like, well, the body can do that. We don't need this supplement. I told you about probiotics. That's how I felt. I was like, no, we don't need probiotics anymore. We can just fast and put some sauerkraut into the system. Well, with adrenals, I was like, well, let me get rid of the adrenal stuff now. So it was really potent and powerful, but it was slow, so slow. So don't rush into the longer fasts if you feel like you have extreme adrenal fatigue tiptoe in. And then the last thing I'll say on that is I did a video on this in YouTube, and I really fell in love with the research I found on ashwagandha. And those of you that watched the video I did on YouTube on drinking tea, you know, I talked about you could do an ashwagandha tea while you're going through a fast. What ashwagandha does is bring cortisol down. So it tames that system. And when we look at the adrenals, how do we regulate ourself? Because the adrenals are supposed to assess if there is a crisis. But we're all living lives where we're just being pummeled by such horrible news and such stressful lives. The adrenals are like more cortisol and more cortisol, and they get a little jumpy. So when we introduce something like ashwagandha into our system or drink it as a tea, it starts to calm the cortisol levels. It literally will bring those cortisol levels down. And it retrains that whole adrenal system, what they call the HPA access, to just chill out, stop being so reactive. So go look at that video so you understand all the pieces of ashwagandha. I also want to remind you that the greatest way to lower cortisol is to get out into nature. Or put on, I've been talking a lot about it this week because it healed me last year and amongst one of the hardest years of my life. I just kept going back to nature. And every time I went back, I could feel that whole HPA access get retrained. I put a CGM on yesterday morning, and I noticed last night my blood sugar was spiking up to around 11. Last night when I was sleeping, is there something I need to monitor more closely? Well, let's talk about blood sugar spikes. So blood sugar spikes, getting ready for this one, doesn't always happen just from food. Blood sugar can spike from stress. And I don't know what was happening at 11 o'clock. You were sleeping. But I'm curious if your body, and again, I don't know how old you are, but when we go through menopause, a lot of times we get cortisol spikes at night. And so I'm wondering if you're getting a cortisol spike that your body is trying to wake you up. Sometimes these come with hot flashes because the body thinks there's a crisis there. So I'm thinking it's stress if you didn't eat something. It was like a stress response in your body. I did do a video that should be coming out soon on my channel here. I think I did it last week. And it was on some practices you can do before you go to sleep so that you can sleep better. And one of the practices is yoga. Yeah. So if you're struggling and you're having these CGM spikes, okay, you're 34. So you're probably not having the menopausal ones at 34. But you could be having, I don't know if you have a stressful life, but that could be coming. Or if you had a stressful conversation before you went to bed. But I think it's, there's, in all the years I've studied insomnia, I think it's really interesting how we can put ourselves into stressful states. And when we try to sleep at night, the body still thinks that it's running from a tiger. And so it wakes you up to get you going and to get you out the door. So I'm curious if it's coming from a stress response. That's what I would say. And try ashwagandha. But I have to do that video for you so you can understand why. But you could go try ashwagandha when you get that cortisol spike. So, yeah. So anyways, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.