 I would go to my patients who were postmenopausal, and I would teach them to fast, they were like, it was miraculous, because I was teaching them how to accelerate the influx of ketones, which is what the brain craves. It naturally makes it, it naturally craves it, the door out of brain fog, irritability, rage, is the ketone. Let's start off with sort of a big picture on menopause, ketones in the brain that I'm excited to bring to you. So when I first started teaching fasting in my clinic, one of the things that I really noticed is that postmenopausal women did extremely well with fasting. So it was like, not only could they fast, not only well, but not only did they lose a lot of weight, but they lose a lot of weight, but they really but they really started to get to a place where their mental clarity was going through the roof. Now of course in this kind of situation I was like well it's a ketone because the ketones when are burning fat and then they're going up into the brain and the brain has two fuel sources it has glucose and it has ketones as a fuel source. So okay that would make sense like that. It's like all of a sudden you're giving the brain 50% of its fuel source. Kind of like a hybrid car. Like our brains work, both men and women work off of both you know glucose and ketones just like gas and electricity. And so then I had a conversation with Lisa Musconi on my podcast who wrote a book called the menopause brain. And one of the things that she said to me was postmenopausal women need to understand that their brains become less efficient at using glucose. Now let's think this through. This is just like why we gain weight because when we move into our post reproductive years what ends up happening is our body doesn't know how to use glucose. It becomes more insulin resistant. Without us doing anything. We didn't change our diet. We didn't change our workout. It's the drop in estrogen. All of a sudden the body's like I don't know how to process glucose. And so Lisa was saying to me the brain becomes foggy. The brain can get really down the path of Alzheimer's. The brain can go more towards dementia. Because the fuel source that it used for so much of its life it can no longer use. Now I want to pause there for a moment because this is really interesting and just walk through this thought process with me. First I said to her and you can go hear that just type in go to the Resetter podcast type in Lisa Musconi Dr. Mindy Pels and you can you'll find us. You can go to YouTube. You can go to iTunes wherever Spotify wherever you go and you can hear the whole thing. So I said to her well if the brain can't use glucose and too much glucose is causing memory problems and dementia and potentially leading towards Alzheimer's. You know we have another fuel source and it's called the ketogenic energy system. Is it possible that maybe what is supposed to happen is a woman is supposed to rely more on ketones when she goes into those post-menopausal years. And Lisa sat there and she said yeah that sounds about right. And she goes I have heard from my friends who are going through the menopausal process that if they either fast or they do the ketogenic diet that they really notice their brain power. Is there brain power coming back online. And I said well so do we have any research on how the post menopausal woman reacts to ketones. And she's like we don't. And I said well could you do some research. You're the female brain researcher. Can't you do that. And she laughed and she's like well I have a bunch of other things I'm doing. So that was in like March of 2023 if I'm guessing right. And then all of a sudden Lisa went on a marketing campaign with her book saying that the reason women are getting Alzheimer's and dementia is because they didn't get access to hormone replacement therapy. Now now listen walk this through with me. I'm coming to your questions. But this is so huge what I'm about to tell you that I do not want you to miss it. And so all of a sudden the whole menopause conversation took a turn because Lisa's the primary female brain researcher. And they were like oh that's why dementia and Alzheimer's is happening because we read the HRT study wrong. So we just need to get everybody on HRT so that their brain comes back. And I was like watching this and I was thinking but wait what about the ketone. If it can't use glucose if the brain can't use glucose could it use ketones. She said she thought that was a good idea but now she's off promoting HRT. Like there was a disconnect in my brain of like I don't understand why we're not promoting the ketone. Then we went into a phase where all of a sudden Stacy Sims and I love Stacy and I think her work is phenomenal. Started going on all kinds of podcasts saying that menopausal women shouldn't fast. But what she was saying is active menopausal women shouldn't fast. And when I brought her onto my podcast one of the things that she said is if you're going to go lift weights. If you're going to go do a hard workout you may not want to be fasting in the morning before those workouts. And she went on you guys can listen to this interview too. We just reposted it on the Resetter podcast. It's here on YouTube. It's also available on all the other platforms. But basically she said in the morning when you wake up you need to activate the hypothalamus. And so that it starts to produce hormones. And the way you do that is through food. Okay follow me. I hope you're catching this. So I said to her what kind of food do I need to eat in the morning. And here is what she said to me. She said I have protein and cream and MCT oil in my coffee every morning. So that I load up my coffee. And that is part of a meal for me in the morning when I first get up before I go and work out. And then after I work out this is Stacy Sims saying this after I work out then I eat a high protein meal. And my brain is like yeah I agree. I agree. I agree. Like you can load up on MCT oil. You can load up on cream and collagen in your coffee. And you could still be in a fat burning place. Still making ketones. Still giving the brain a fuel source that it desperately needs when you go through menopause. So please understand I have been out there fighting this battle trying to say hello everybody. The post menopausal brain. The brain going through menopause. The woman's brain after 40. As it rewires itself. It needs ketones. And what's been reflected back at me is oh I don't know Stacy Sims said this. She went on Mel Robbins and said that. And I'm like no I promise you this I will die on this sword if I have to. So then two weeks ago I went on the neuro experience. A podcast that was that is by a beautiful doctor. Louisa is her first name. And she's a neurosurgeon. And she tells me that when the brain rewires itself during menopause we lose a major part of our white matter. I tried to look it up before I came on here to give you the specifics but I don't have that number. But let's say we lose 10% of our white matter gets pruned away. And that I've explained and this is what I did in Age Like a Girl is really show you that those neurons get pruned away so new neurons can form. It's a rewiring so that you can be a better leader. This is all what this is about. So that you can be a better leader whether you lead yourself or you lead a community. There is something that is happening. And what Louisa told me was, well did you know when the white matter in the brain starts to break down, it's called catabolism, that the byproduct of that catabolic reaction is a ketone. I was like, what? The brain, let me rephrase this. The brain as it goes through menopause gets rid of a large chunk of white matter. And in that reaction of breaking down white matter, it makes ketones so that it can protect the brain through this stressful experience and it can energize the brain as it rewires itself. The brain naturally does that on its own. Can anybody see how miraculous that is? I'm like, that's it. That's why every time I would go to my patients who were postmenopausal and I would teach them to fast, they were like, it was miraculous because I was teaching them how to accelerate the influx of ketones, which is what the brain craves. It naturally makes it. It naturally craves it. The door out of brain fog, irritability, rage is the ketone. So then I had to go find the science because I didn't want to just take everybody's word for it. I needed the science and I found it. And here's what I want to tell you. There are three articles and that I have synthesized together. And here's where they are. The first one is basically saying that this is Moscone's work, that menopause is associated with measurable changes in brain structure. So this was gray matter. So she focused on gray matter, not white matter. The second study I found, here's what it says. This study says that it proposes that the breakdown of these myelin lipids, myelin is the protective sheath over neurons, can generate ketone bodies as an adaptive response when brain energy metabolism is stressed. The study went on to say the brain may mount a stress starvation response and the auxiliary fuels can be derived by catabolizing white matter and creating a byproduct to increase during perimenopause that converts fatty acids into ketone bodies. Okay. I understand you guys don't read science all the time. I know some of you are science hounds. I will put these studies in here, but here's what I want you to know. If your brain breaks down parts of itself and makes a ketone, that is how your brain is telling you, I need more ketones. That is the preferred source for the brain. It naturally makes it in the breakdown. It knows that you're going to become more insulin resistant. The brain knows you need to rely on the second fuel source called the ketone. So what if we gave it what it needed? Okay. Quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself. So you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. There are two ways your body makes ketones from the inside. The first is what I've been teaching you all forever, which is you go into a fasted state and the body will trigger that the blood sugar isn't going up. And so it will tell the liver break fat down so we can make a ketone to keep this system energized. So the liver responds to a decrease in glucose so that it can make a ketone to keep the brain energized. But there is a second place that the brain can make or the body can make ketones, which is in the astrocytes of white matter. And when the brain starts to break itself down during menopause, your brain actually makes ketones because you are brilliant. Your body was designed perfectly and it knows exactly what it wants. And what it wants is ketones. So I just found that study last week. I want to point out and I just had that conversation with Louisa on the neuro experience. You can go and my team might put this in here. But in the neuro experience, you can go listen to that. It was an incredible conversation with me and this beautiful neurosurgeon. And then I want to point out those of you that have age like a girl, I put in age like a girl on page 117, all the research I found on ketones for the brain. And what I found was that ketones are neuroprotective. Ketones stimulate all of these neurotransmitters. Ketones provide protection. That's why the brain makes it on its own. Do you get how profound this is? So it's not new science, but it's new to me and it confirms what I have been on the quest to understand and to get out into the world. And when we hijacked the menopause conversation with the conversation of HRT, we all of a sudden lost the fact that we can actually help our brains out by tacking on fasting windows. So that if you're doing 15 hours a day, you don't have a cycle anymore, you're going to be getting a good dose of ketones. If you have a lot of brain fog, you might want to do a 24 hour fast every day. So you give your body 24 hours of ketones. If you're in really bad shape, you might want to go into a three day water fast. Give your brain the preferred fuel source. It's trying to make it on its own. Why don't we help it out? Please tell me you're seeing the beauty of this. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.