 There are three supplements that are sabotaging your weight loss efforts and they are really easy to course correct. So on this video, I really want to show you what these three supplements are and I want to talk about, okay, well, how do you identify them? How do you avoid them? A couple of them are harder to avoid. And let's just have a quick conversation about supplements and weight loss that I think will be beneficial to you. So let's dive in. Now, first, I just want to state very boldly what my philosophy is on supplements. I think a supplement should do exactly what it was named for. It should supplement a healthy lifestyle. But when we take supplements on a regular basis and we don't even know, I mean, half the time we don't even know why we're taking the supplement. If you've been on a supplement, for 90 days in theAIyAI MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM MEM lifestyle for you so that you don't have to waste money on supplements. So here we go. Let's talk about the ones that are affecting fat loss. The first one, some of you aren't going to like this, it's high dose caffeine. High dose. Now let me tell you what the literature says because this is really interesting. So there was a 22 review that found that caffeine speeds up metabolism and suppresses appetite, which is really great for getting into shape. I mean, I think even as fasters, a lot of times we grab that cup of coffee because it kind of gets us over the fasting window hump and lets us delay our first meal. But what's interesting is if you keep drinking too much, there is a negative effect. So even though this 22 review says that caffeine speeds up metabolism, it also noted that once you pass 300 milligrams a day, that's three cups of coffee, you actually start to see the negative effects that can stop you from losing weight. Now, how does this work? So one of the ways is that it works is it really tanks your sleep quality. And what we know about sleep is sleep is sleep is where you are become a fat burning machine. Yep. Everybody thinks exercise is going to be the thing that helps you lose weight. And I'm of course not telling you to stop exercise, but for weight loss, sleep is more important than exercise. So if you are doing three, four, five cups of coffee a day, you are challenging your body's ability to get a good night's sleep. So there was a 2025 study found in the Journal of Sleep that when people had 400 milligrams of caffeine or more today, a day, they saw a dramatic decrease in sleep quality. They woke up more times at night. They spent less time in deep sleep, which is where your brain detoxifies itself. And even when they consumed that caffeine, a full 12 hours before bedtime, they had poor sleep. And poor sleep is this huge problem for weight loss. It destabilizes your blood sugar, it increases your cravings, it slows your metabolism, which can sabotage your fat loss efforts. So if you are going to do coffee, let's just do less of it. Let's get it under three cups. Don't that three cup mark is where you're going to start to see the worst effects. Second supplement. And this is a food that a lot of you are taking for the health benefits and it's raw honey. Now it's interesting. I just have to tell you that I have dramatically changed my opinion on honey. I was raised in a family that sugar was like evil, but honey was amazing. So everything my mom cooked was cooked with honey. And I will tell you that both my sister and I carried extra weight throughout our whole childhood. And it was because of things like this, you know, not mom's fault, but honey isn't always the best replacement for sugar thinking you're going to lose weight. And this is what we know about honey is that it is high in antioxidants. It's great for the immune system, but it is pure refined sugar. So it spikes your blood sugar so high and all that extra blood sugar starts to go towards fat and it will cause a crash. So all of a sudden you get this big crash a couple hours later after you take the honey and you are going to want to eat again. So we want to get you off of this up down roller coaster with your blood sugar. The other thing is that it's so much higher on the glycemic index. So I've talked about the glycemic index here on this channel recently. So we'll link that video here so you can understand it a little deeper. But cane sugar has a glycemic index of around 100. Those of you that got into stevia and urethritol, those are like a glycemic index of about zero. Monk fruit is more around 10. Coconut sugar, which I can tell you in my household, when our kids were growing up, I did cooked everything with coconut sugar because it has a glycemic index of around 40 or 50, where sugar has a glycemic index of 100. And honey has a glycemic index around 60 or 70. It's not as good as you think it is. So, you know, if you take a little bit so that you to prevent allergies, I know a lot of people do that. It has to be local, by the way, honey. That's fabulous. If you're taking it for a little bit for antioxidant load, that's great. But if you're replacing your sugar with it, thinking it's going to be the thing that helps you lose weight, it's most likely not going to do that. Okay, third supplement. And this one's a little more complicated, but I want to make sure that you see it in those weight loss supplements. The first thing I want to tell you is don't waste your money on the weight loss supplements that you buy on Amazon or you buy at the store because your bestie supposedly lost 10 pounds on it. There is no proof that these weight loss supplements work at all. So don't fall prey to that marketing. But there's one herb in particular that is in these weight loss supplements that many people report give incredible results to help them lose weight. And I want to debunk this herb. And I want to make sure that when you pull your supplement bottle up that you look for this. And we'll put it here on the screen. So the herb is called Garcinia cambogia. And it's a popular weight that's in most popular weight loss supplements for it's been there for over 10 years. And people call it a fat burner. So when you pull up a bottle of a supplement bottle that says it's going to help you burn fat, go to see if Garcinia cambogia is in there. And it's supposed to speed up your metabolism help you burn fat. But despite the claims, there have been multiple systematic reviews that have found that Garcinia has no measurable effect on weight loss, and that it's actually harmful to your liver, which is your primary fat burning organ. So a 2018 review found that Garcinia not only didn't help you lose weight, but that it caused liver damage in a number of the users, many of whom had to be hospitalized. You really want to keep that liver in good shape. So take a look and see if that Garcinia cambogia is in your supplement. In fact, you go right now after this and go look in your cabinet if you have a bunch of weight loss supplements. Now, I want you to understand that there is no magic weight loss cure. Even the medications that are the weight loss drugs that everybody is talking so highly of. The minute you get off those weight loss drugs, the weight comes back. Well, the same thing can happen with these supplements. Maybe they work for a moment, but then once you get off of them, you might start to, especially like the Garcinia one there, you might start noticing that you gain weight back. So let's just put into some checklist. What is your go-to weight loss tricks? Fasting? Absolutely. I've done a ton of videos here on that. Protein intake? More protein? Absolutely. There's so much research showing even the combination of fasting and protein is like the best combo ever. Fiber? So you slow down the absorption of glucose and your body knows how to use it so it doesn't store it. Can be really helpful. Putting good fats onto your food can be really powerful for stopping your blood sugar spike. Getting a good night's sleep is really powerful and moving your body every single day. You know, 20 minutes a day is not a lot to move your body and keep it metabolically healthy. So in general, what I want you to know is please do not fall prey to the weight loss supplements. Please don't overuse your coffee because you're fasting longer and so you want to have more coffee. That's going to mess your sleep up, which will help mess up your weight loss. And if you've swapped out honey thinking it's better than sugar, I want you to think again, I would move more towards a coconut sugar, a monk fruit. Those are going to taste a little bit more like regular sugar sugar and some of you need to move all the way down to stevia and urethritol. Let me know if that helps. It's confusing, right? It's messed up. Like you're just trying to be healthy and you get sucked into the marketing. But I'm here to make sure that you don't waste your money, that you find your own health path. And I really want you to believe in your body again. And a lot of times we take these supplements or we do these tricks and it doesn't work and we think it's our fault. It's not your fault. Your body holds on to weight for a very specific reason. Once you understand that reason, it becomes much easier to match a lifestyle that will absolutely help you drop weight effortlessly. Now put in the comments if you've used any of those. I think the caffeine one is going to be the most intriguing for all. I can't wait to hear what you what you have to say about that. And most importantly, don't give up on yourself. So a lot of supplement companies out there, a lot of products that want to take your money, but you hold your health power. They don't. So as always, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.