 In today's video, we are going to explore the interesting history of intermittent fasting. And it's fascinating. Those of you that have been fasting with me for a while, stick through this because there is some real gems that we have found through the history of fasting. So let's dive into this for a moment. Let me tell you a little story. When I started studying fasting, it was way back in a about 2010 and we were just getting so much research about fasting and Ramadan and Ramadan and Ramadan is really interesting because it's every year, everybody's doing it the same way. I'll explain what it is here in a second. And before we had a lot of intermittent fasting studies, we could study the ancient cultures and people who were leaning into those ancient cultures and bringing them into the modern world. And it was ritualistic. It was done every year. It was done every year. It was done done in the same way. So that actually makes for a really good study. And what I found, I mean, so many initial studies that I built all my fasting knowledge off of was from Ramadan. So thank you for those of you who participate and celebrate Ramadan because I learned so much fasting through it. So here's what you need to know is that Ramadan is a month-long period of fasting observed by Muslims all over the world. And it's for 30 days from sunrise to sunset, you consume no food or water. Water is an interesting part. I haven't done a lot of videos recently on dry fasting, but basically this is a dry fast, which makes it even more impactful. So listen up as we go through this, because you might find that you might like this style of fasting, even if you don't practice Ramadan. So modern intermittent fasting, the way we all practice it now is only about 40 years old. And there was a lot of problems with the early fasting studies with adherence, you know, way back, you know, in the eighties and the seventies, people weren't like excited about fasting like they are now. It wasn't in vogue like it is now. And so we had, they had trouble getting data and, and people didn't really, they kind of doubted that fasting was power, what was the, as powerful as you all know it now. But now there's a 2025 review where it showed that Ramadan was what helped modern fasting research get off the ground because Ramadan had a strong religious, cultural, and community ties. People take it very serious. Okay. What have we learned so far? Consistency? Maybe you want to skip water. We'll talk about that in a moment. And we want to be serious about our fasting. If we give it intention and we're like, I'm going to not eat from sunup to sundown, then the more intentional you are about it, maybe the better result you'll get. It definitely showed that people who practice Ramadan are much more motivated than the average participants. And they also, everybody follows the same schedule. So it's the perfect design for intermittent fasting. And these early fasting researchers, especially in the Middle East, started doing what they are now called Ramadan studies. And they approached people when they wanted to understand this, they approached people who were already fasting for Ramadan. And they asked if they could measure things like weight loss, blood pressure, insulin, cholesterol, and other health markers. And the researchers first discovered that, wow, there's a lot of benefits to intermittent fasting when you do it regularly. And like, for example, there's a 22, 2002 review that looked at the early Ramadan fasting research from the 80s and the 90s. And what they found is that in this, they call it experimental fasting that your appetite decreased starting somewhere between the first and the fourth day of fasting. And they were thinking at that time, perhaps this was because of ketosis and going into a state of ketosis and that it started to decrease hunger. So then we move into 2010, starting in 2010, fasting research starts to increase. So we move away from the Ramadan studies. Those are the ones that got us up and going. And now we're starting to do studies of our own. Now I've brought this to you in many different ways. There are mouse studies, there are human studies, you know, human studies are always best. Sometimes human studies show up with, you know, men and women of different ages, which is a little bit more challenging. But around 2010, there was a staggering increase in fasting research. And a 22 review found that there were more than 1100 Ramadan studies between 2010 and 20 and 21 with a particular emphasis on the United States and the United and the United Kingdom. And overall yearly fasting studies have been more, have more than tripled since 2010. Now this is important because we don't research things that we don't think are going to work. Like there's a hypothesis that this is going to work. So we don't tend to go in and research these things. So we, you know, the fact that the fasting research was birthed out of Ramadan and we're getting more and more tells you that what they were seeing was impressive, which made them want to fast in as many different ways or do more research on fasting. Now let's talk about a couple of interesting things. Could you replicate the Ramadan fasting style? Well, for starters, let's talk about dry fasting. And this one's tricky. If you are going to dry fast, dry fast means no food, no water, then you, the way they do it in Ramadan is very safe because you're doing it from sun up to sun down. People who dry fast for days on end are not safe. In fact, it's said that we can only go a handful of days without water. So just be aware that this style of dry fast may be not only safer, but more approachable for you. Now, what's interesting about dry fasting is that remember how we've talked about when your blood sugar goes down, um, that your body starts to switch over into ketosis. When your water content goes down and you get dehydrated, your body needs to start to release water from stored tissue. And what do we know about what fat is? Fat is where your body stores the excess. So if you do this consecutively every single day, try and do it for 30 days, this fasting from sun up to sun down, um, you might start to see that there is, uh, that you actually burn more fat because you put yourself in not just a food deprivation state, but you put yourself in a, in a water deprivation state, but you're doing it in a more responsible way. I do. I just want to point out for the record, I do not agree with long-term dry fasting. I've seen people try it when the fasting movement just took off and I saw more people harmed by it than good, which is why you don't see me doing a lot of videos on it. Now, the other thing I just want to point out over the years, I've coached a lot of patients who have practiced Ramadan and, um, I will tell you some of the downfalls for weight loss, especially when we're looking at this fasting lens. I think the biggest one is when sun goes down, you start to really eat a lot more. Now in the Middle East cultures, dates is really, are really popular. I think dates are amazing. Um, but too many dates can increase blood sugar, which can lead to more weight gain. So if you are going to try this, I really highly recommend, um, that you still practice good eating habits. I would keep the fruits and the fruits down. I would keep the processed foods down. If you're going at it for, for longterm weight loss, I would increase your protein. Um, and I would, you know, it's a really interesting way to approach weight loss where you're going sunrise to sundown, no food, no water. And then what you're eating in the morning and you're eating at the night, we're back at lots of vegetables, lots of leafy greens, low glycemic fruits, like berries and apples, clean proteins. We've talked about how getting enough protein can actually support a healthy metabolic system. So you don't, don't be afraid to take some of the other good tools you've learned and apply them to some of the benefits we're learning from Ramadan. So, and it, and there's some interesting things here. So a couple of interesting thoughts is that you remember one of the biggest, biggest complaints and spears that I get around fasting is that, is it safe? And you know, 2 billion people worldwide practice Ramadan and fasting is such a key part of that. So I love looking at different cultures specifically, but looking at different fasting trends and not necessarily saying I'm going to duplicate that exact trend, but what can I pull out of it? Like the dry fasting, um, that might be helpful, but just make sure then you pull out into your, into your bag of tricks. Some of the other good habits, like staying off processed carbohydrates, not eating the bad oils. Um, so we can take, we can glean a lot from the Ramadan practice. When it comes to fasting, I have massive amount of appreciation because I learned so much in those early years when I was really diving into the research on fasting. Um, but more importantly for you, let's, why don't you try it? Why don't you give it a go? Try it for 30 days, even if you're not Muslim and see if you start to see some weight loss results and report, you know, those of you that practice Ramadan regularly report, put it in the comments if you notice a difference. So as always, I hope that helps. If this helps, don't stop here. Click on the next video and let's see what you find there.