 it's a T and it's showing really promising benefits for weight loss, blood pressure encompasses cholesterol, liver, it is waist circumference, there's a lot in metabolic health. It would help you lose belly fat, it would slow down aging, and it would improve your overall metabolic health specifically when it comes to cholesterol. What if I told you that there is a drink that's inexpensive, easy to find, and it would do three things for you? It would help you lose belly fat, it would slow down aging, and it would improve your overall metabolic health specifically when it comes to cholesterol. Would you drink it? Well, guess what? There is such a drink and it's becoming quite popular and it turns out that many of you asked me for a video on this drink and it is not apple cider vinegar, I can tell you that. So, here we go, we're going to dive into what I might consider the most miraculous drink out there for supporting great metabolic health and keeping you young. Let's dive into it because it's really fun and it's super tasty. Okay, ready? I can't hold back the suspense any longer. Okay, the drink is Yerba Mata. So, it is a leaf, it is a tea, it is herbal. So, hang with me if you're like, wait a second, this sounds so woo-woo, I'm putting the science down here. So, Yerba Mata is a traditional drink from South America and it's made with dried leaves from a plant. Are you ready? I'm going to try to pronounce this called Ilex Paruguarensis. Woo, okay. So, just so you know, it's a real plant and it's a tea and it's showing really promising benefits for weight loss specifically around the belly for slowing aging. I'll talk about that in a moment and for helping things like cholesterol. So, here's what the research says. First, weight loss. So, there was a study that showed that a double-blind placebo control study, by the way, that gave overweight people either Yerba Mata or a placebo for 12 weeks and what happened and they just gave them these drinks and said drink them and the placebo group saw no change to their weight but the Yerba Mata group lost a significant amount of weight and most importantly around the belly and they showed, I want to point this out because I know a lot of you are going to go rush off and you're going to buy this but the interesting part is that they, the authors of the study pointed out that it was towards the end of the 12 weeks that they started to see this belly fat come off. So, they drank it every day for 12 weeks. I will put the link in here. Now, there was a 2019 meta-analysis that looked at data from 22 other studies and what they found was that Yerba Mata led to reduction of body weight, body mass index and waist circumference. So, how many of you are out there trying to lose weight around your belly? I know there's a lot of you because those are the most popular videos that we do here is weight loss around the belly. So, another win for Yerba Mata and this particular author, the meta-analysis said that the most surprising decrease was in weight circumference which once again is suggesting that it's great for belly fat burning. Okay, second positive effect of Yerba Mata tea is that it has a very unusual amount of nutrients and nutrients that we don't typically see in other drinks and this is important because the planet, our amazing earth which we should take incredible care of has provided us with a lot of healing foods and if you remember those of you who followed me through the launching of Eat Like a Girl, my cookbook, one of the chefs that created those recipes in there had a dream that she wanted to figure out how to cook with every edible plant on the planet and I thought that was really admirable and I'm thinking even deeper since that conversation of what plants don't we eat and what plants don't we drink and what qualities of nutrients are in some of these plants that when we start eating the same way and drinking the same thing and doing the same over and over we are leaving out some really key nutrients and here are three nutrients that Yerba Mata comes with. I'm going to try to pronounce them. One is called thymobromine. So thymobromine is an alkaloid that is the same component as caffeine but it's very rare and there's only two sources of thymobronene in the world. One comes from Yerba Mata and the other comes from dark chocolate and there was a 25 study in the Journal of Aging that found the more thymobromine you ate that there was less physical and mental signs of aging. I will link that study in here. Okay second nutrient that you don't see in a lot of other plants is a caffeine derivative. It's actually called a caffeine curfew derivative and it's much like the caffeine you would find in coffee and tea except Yerba Mata has them in a higher amount. Now because it has caffeine in it you have to remember that if you drink a Yerba Mata drink after two you might be staying up at night. So this is a different type of caffeine and I did a really interesting interview on the Resetter podcast years ago with the founder of Peek Tea and one of the things that he taught me about caffeine is that when we look at herbs or plants that have caffeine and like the plants you see with black tea or green tea or with coffee is it's the delivery of that caffeine is at a different pace. So like coffee has got the fastest caffeine so that's why we're all addicted to it because it gives us the most immediate wake up. Black tea would be the second fastest delivery whereas green tea takes hours and hours and hours to get out of your system and unfortunately I would put Yerba Mata in a more like a green tea category where it'll give you a little lift but it's going to be the the lift is going to be a gentle lift over several hours not like a rush in and give you an instant increase in mental clarity and energy. Okay another nutrient that Yerba Mata has is that it has it's high in polyphenols and polyphenols if you've been following me here hopefully you've heard me just obsess on polyphenols my favorite way to get polyphenols into your body is through olive oil but it turns out Yerba Mata also is high in polyphenols and that they're the best studied this particular type of polyphenol that Yerba Mata has is the best for and using as an antioxidant to slow aging down which is amazing. Okay third thing and don't worry by the way those of you that are like okay just show me what Yerba Mata you you eat stick with me here because or drink I'm going to show you a couple of my favorites but let's get through the last part of the of the benefits of Yerba Mata which is better metabolic health. Now metabolic health isn't just if you are gaining weight or not gaining weight metabolic health encompasses blood pressure it encompasses cholesterol liver it is waist circumference there's a lot in metabolic health and what the studies are finding with Yerba Mata there was a 2020 study that found drinking Yerba Mata daily significantly improved insulin sensitivity and blood sugar control there was a 2019 study that looked at over 119 overweight women who drank either Yerba Mata or plain water we're back at that and they they've tracked so this is the same one where they tracked their waist circumference and they found that not only did these women for 12 weeks lose weight around the waist but that they also saw a decrease in LDL cholesterol and blood triglycerides. Now this is intriguing for my menopausal women out there because it's really common when estrogen goes down for cholesterol to go up I'm I sit in that category even though I do do HRT I watch my LDL cholesterol and what this study is showing is a daily use of Yerba Mata can bring that that those LDLs and triglycerides down. Okay quick pause the video do you know that my new book age like a girl is out it's a trilogy now it's fast like a girl eat like a girl and age like a girl and I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better it is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first and for the science hounds I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book and I can't wait for you to get it. So how do you use this drink and if I intrigued you all put it in the notes you all wanted to know and it's it's looking very promising so you can brew it there's a traditional way to brew it and you can decide if you want to go this way but it's brewed in a dried gourd called a colobash and it's drunk with a metal straw the metal straw is actually important for drinking Yerba Mata because supposedly past plastics or wood straws tend to change some of the chemical component in it I know that sounds really obsessively nuanced but I have seen that over the years and then we always want to point out that Yerba Mata has the same caffeine content as coffee but the delivery system it doesn't come in right away it's a more gradual so it could keep you up at night so I just want to point out okay what are my favorites enough with the research what are some of my favorites okay well I got to start off by giving this brand a heads up because we have been drinking this in my family for years I there were sodas were not allowed in our household and so our kids got really into Yerba Mata because they liked the energy lift it gave them and so this this one is called and I apologize again if I mispronounce this uh Guaaki um is the brand this one by the way is unsweetened with lemon and that's really important because they have a lot of sweetened ones and I highly recommend you go with the unsweetened if you're wanting to get the benefits I just talked about um it's really refreshing and and yummy and you can find them almost anywhere like I've been in the middle of nowhere before on a road trip and I can find one of these drinks so I highly recommend you go because this is easy to get okay the second thing is I just want to give a shout out because Ben Bickman introduced me to this brand and you don't know Ben Bickman go follow him such a beautiful human and he's a professor at the University of Utah and he specializes in metabolic health I've had him on my podcast many times we've put him on videos here he's just so articulate and he invited me on he invited me to study basically a webinar in which they were looking at the science behind this powdered Yerba Mata and it's called Unisity I will leave discount codes in the in the um down in the notes so if you're interested in getting it this one has stevia in it they don't all have stevia in it so if you're not a stevia lover you might find the ones that don't have it um I have found with fasting that it's really beneficial to put Yerba Mata into your fasting window um I don't know if you're like me but I can't do black tea or green tea um on an empty stomach it makes me nauseous but Yerba Mata doesn't um I've also used Yerba Mata in the mornings when like around 10 o'clock when I'm like I don't think I want to quite break my fast yet so let me see if I can go in with another type of drink I don't want to drink my another cup of coffee um and so I'll do Yerba Mata that way um and it often you know you know when you're fasting and you hit that place where you're like I just want to get over into the fat burning the ketones will come and the hunger will will will go away I have found that the Yerba Mata has been really helpful to get me through that moment and and again put it in the notes if if that's you you know with all teas you really want to make sure they're organic because they spray pesticides and all these some of you gardeners out there might actually grow the tea and then you can dry it yourself some of you may be Yerba Mata fanatics and you have a special brand please put it in the comments so we can all learn from it but I think this is a very very promising um study and uh studies and I I really like this idea that we can use plants that come from the ground to get these effects we're trying to get with weight loss drugs and fancy bio hacks like I'm really trying to bring you all information that is free or very low in cost and I don't know why all of a sudden weight loss became a more expensive uh experience because the weight loss drugs are expensive there's so many free ways for you to lose weight or really cheap ways and Yerba Mata is one of them so I'm all in on the drink and I'm so excited that science is there to back it up tell me your experience put it in the comments I read the comments I'd love to see it but Yerba Mata for the win especially for fasters enjoy if this helped you're not gonna want to stop there check out this video