 g всеumumum, всеumum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, всеum, все for my menopausal women. So I want to dive into where you can benefit from the Mediterranean diet for weight loss and where you need to be careful. So here we go. Okay, first, I've spent probably my whole life, I really as a teenager, was so fascinated by nutrition. And I would read nutrition books, I would take nutrition classes, it's just been up my alley forever. And the Mediterranean diet's been around since then. And I always think that the Mediterranean diet is like this solid, great diet. And then we get bored with it. So we start to go over here and be like, Oh, maybe I should do keto, maybe I should do paleo. Oh, maybe I should go vegetarian. And we start to try different diets because the Mediterranean diet, I mean, I love it. I don't think it's that boring. But we look for what I call the next shiny object, the next shiny diet. But as we have done that as a culture, I find so many people come back just to the fundamental ideas that the Mediterranean diet works for them. And this is why, you know, I used to teach this to my patients all the time. In Age Like a Girl, I did a menopausal version of the Mediterranean diet in that you can go check it out because it's just solidly a good diet, with a couple of exceptions. So here's what the Mediterranean diet means and what you can look at. So it means lots of healthy fats and whole foods, especially olive oil. We love that. There's so many good reasons to love olive oil, fatty fish, leafy vegetables, low sugared fruits. So low sugared fruits are like your berries and your green apples. Lots of legumes, a lot of lentils, which I'm such a fan of beans and lentils. Rice, several different types, unprocessed grains like quinoa and rye, cheese, wine, and moderate amounts of red meat. That's your typical standard of what they recommend for the Mediterranean diet. And it is the most, I just want to point out that those foods I just mentioned, it is the most researched diet that we have. So there's a tremendous amount of benefits, and let me go through them. So the first is that it's better for your metabolic health. Well, that's what this channel is all about. I'm trying to teach you metabolic health from as many different angles as possible. I want you to obsess on hemoglobin A1c, that marker in your blood work, and let's get it down to five because all your other health problems will go away. Well, the Mediterranean diet could be a tool for that. So there was a 2020 meta-analysis that looked at over 2,600 studies on the Mediterranean diet. That included data from nearly 37,000 people. You guys have watched me put a lot of science here. There's no way that I can sit here on any other diet that I have brought you and told, tell you that 37,000 people have been studied with it. And what this 2020 meta-analysis found is that people who adhered to the Mediterranean diet, they started to see that they had lower body weight. They had less belly fat. They had less insulin resistant, better blood sugar control, lower blood pressure, lower cholesterol, and lower triglycerides. All of those markers that you're trying to exercise or medicate your way out of. And so really incredible. And the Mediterranean diet is so tasty. There's so much there for you to explore. Okay. Second thing we know about the Mediterranean diet is it's incredible for brain health. So there was a 2025 meta-analysis that looked at the Mediterranean diet for Alzheimer's and dementia risk. And it reviewed 24 large scale studies on brain health of people eating the Mediterranean diet. And here's what they found that people who ate the Mediterranean diet had a 30% lower risk of Alzheimer's disease. They had 11% lower risk of dementia and an 18% lower risk of cognitive decline. Now I want to point out that when you adhere to a Mediterranean diet, you also are giving up ultra processed foods. So when I mentioned all of those legumes and good oils, olives are big in the Mediterranean diet. And the meat consumption and the quinoa, all of that, they replaced their processed foods diet. So that your processed foods, just here's the most simple way to understand processed foods. You walk into your grocery store, most of the processed foods are going to be in those aisles in the middle. And most of the healthy foods that would fall into the Mediterranean diet are going to be around the outside. So if you decrease the fake foods that are pumped with chemicals and bad oils, and you increase healthy fats and vegetables and protein and legumes, and anything that comes from the ground that hasn't been manipulated, you are going to start to see that better cognitive health. It's really that simple. I think we want it to be more complicated and it's not, it's boring and it's simple and it gets you the result. Okay. Third reason I'm a fan of the Mediterranean diet, and that is really for weight loss. You know, nobody gets, typically people don't get fat on the Mediterranean diet. They get fat on processed versions maybe of the Mediterranean diet, but they don't typically get fat on the Mediterranean diet. So check this out. When it comes to weight loss, there was a 22 meta-analysis that looked at the Mediterranean diet for weight loss, just like they looked at it for brain health. And they looked at it for better metabolic health, which is also tied into weight loss. And they looked at people for five years with a data of over 244,000 participants over a five year time span. I'm sorry, you can't get a better meta-analysis than that. And what they found is that people who ate the Mediterranean diet were significantly more likely to lose weight and keep it off. And the closer they followed the diet, the more weight they lost up to 20% more when compared to people eating a highly processed diet. So again, weight loss isn't complicated. It's just unhooking yourself from those processed foods. And making sure that you're always eating the highest quality and that you're going back to the original sources like eating a potato over a potato chip. Those are examples of where you could go a processed food or a regular food. Now there's two ways that I disagree with the Mediterranean diet. The first is the red meat consumption. I think red meat is great. I had this beef about the new pyramid food pyramid here in America because we are just being told to eat more protein, but we're not told to say what type of protein. And red meat, specifically conventional red meat, meaning it's got antibiotics in it. It was fed grain. So that's more of a conventional meat as opposed to a grass fed meat. That conventional meat can actually cause you to gain weight. It can actually cause your cholesterol to go up. Everything they said about meat was true when it came to the conventional way in which we serve red meat up. But if you, and it's high by the way, in omega-6s and omega-6s is what's causing so much inflammation and weight gain. Whereas grass fed red meat is really high in omega-3s. And omega-3s are going to lower inflammation and they're going to actually be more supportive of good health. So make sure, in fact, one last thought I want to tell you is that, and the science on grass fed meat is completely different than this factory farm conventional meat. In fact, there was a 2022 study in food science of animal resources found that grass fed meat contains much higher levels of omega-3s like I was talking about and mono unsaturated fat. So we need omega-3s. We have a limited amount of places we can get omega-3s in. Wild fish is one and grass fed meat is another. Grass fed dairy is another. I'd rather you get your omega-3s from food than you get it from supplementation. So when we look at the Mediterranean diet, if I could go in and rewrite it, I would say red meat consumption needs to be grass fed, not conventional farm raised meat. The second challenge I have with the Mediterranean diet is the grain and carb amount, especially for women over 40 because you become so much more insulin resistant as you move into menopause. So I prefer that my, and I used to do this all the time with my patients, that you actually are getting your carb load from legumes. There's so much benefit to legumes like lentils, chickpeas, black beans. I've done a whole video on legumes that we'll link here. So when the Mediterranean diet really recommends wheat, specifically bulgur wheat, rice, oats, I would actually have you swap that out with more beans, with more, you could do more fruits. And I think you would figure out that that will help support your metabolic health a little bit better. And especially for women over 50, because like I said, as you go through menopause, you become more insulin resistant. I keep quoting this study on all my videos, a 23 study, that shows there's a huge increase in insulin resistance and type two diabetes for menopausal women. So this is why in age like a girl, I put a whole adaptation to the Mediterranean diet for menopausal women. So you can go check that out there. But for the most part, I really want you to realize that food, eating food to lose weight is not that complicated. We just got to get off the processed foods. And we got to look at food not from a lens of Oh, I ate too much, or from a lens of Oh, it has too many calories. But from a lens of how is this supporting my metabolic health. And if you take the grains and oats out, if you take the farm fresh, or the farm factory farm meats, conventional meats out, and you replace those for more grass fed meats, you've got yourself a winner diet here for weight loss for menopause for cognitive health. There's so many gems in this diet, which is why it persists and continues on through the through the ages. So as always, I hope that helps. I hope I'm simplifying things for you. I hope I'm helping you find your own path with food. Keep in mind that food is a relationship. And the more you put into a relationship, the more that relationship will give you benefits. And hopefully you understand now why the Mediterranean diet is so powerful. So as always, I hope that helps. If this helps, don't stop here. Click on the next video and let's see what you find there.