 Here is the one fast I do not recommend you do over and over and over and over again, primarily because it's not sustainable and when done consistently can actually be harmful to your health. And that fast is one meal a day. And this YouTube channel was built off of me trying to help those of you who are what I call OMACs. OMADers, OMAD, OMAD, one meal a day fanatics who got so many results and then those results stopped. My whole channel was built off of fasting variation and teaching you how to do one meal a day successfully. I really want to show you the research on this video on why one meal a day may actually be a harmful fast. And I want to show you the research on this video on why one meal a day. And I want to show you who should do it and who shouldn't do it. And if you're still going to venture into one meal a day, what do you need to know to be successful at it? First, when we look at one meal a day and who it's good for, we have to ask ourselves is it really depends on who you are, what your metabolism looks like, and whether this is the most important one, whether you can still meet your body's nutrient needs in one meal a day. When I first started YouTube, I was putting fasting videos out, all different kinds of fasting videos. Some of the most popular ones were built off of autophagy fasting. Everybody was loving these videos. At the same time, Dr. Jason Fung's book came out called The Obesity Code. And he was really one of the first people to bring forward that it wasn't weight loss and obesity were not a calorie issue, but a hormone issue. And that hormone is insulin. So if you could get your insulin down and you could get yourself metabolically healthy, you would lose weight. I don't know if you all remember The Obesity Code, but when that book came out, it just took over the world. People were even like tattooing Dr. Jason Fung's picture on their arms because they lost so much weight with it. Meanwhile, over here on my YouTube channel, I was showing you all the science behind all different types of fasts. And all of Jason Fung's OMATers came over to my channel and they were like, you know what? My hair is falling out. Women were saying my period was stopping. People were saying they were gaining weight when they did one meal a day over and over and over again. And so that's where I really started teaching people all the different styles of fasting and how you can use them to your benefit. So, and I will show you where you could use one meal a day to your benefit. And out of that inquiry came this book that has now sold over a million and a half copies. So you all helped me dive deeper into the rhythm of fasting, which one meal a day typically when done over and over again, doesn't have a rhythm. So what's one meal a day? Let's dive into this. This usually means that you're not eating all day except in a one to two hour window, which is a much more extreme version of fasting. I would say that some of the greatest fasting research has been done on in 10, eight hours, six hour eating window. These are the eating windows that you can do more consistently. Remember that a fasting window is the time you go without food where your blood sugar doesn't spike. An eating window is when you actually are going to start to eat and drink and it's got parameters around it. And most of the research is on the broader intermittent fasting time restricted, not so much on this one to two hour eating window. In fact, one of the most famous research studies that I saw at the time of writing this book was done on a 24 hour fast that really helped reset your gut. Some of you may know it from fast like a girl. It's called the gut reset diet going 24 hours every single day. Now, let me let me make a caveat on that can actually start to reset your gut. And so we taught we've been talking about that here on this channel and in my reset academy. But I want to make AI want to make an amends to that current research. I think one meal a day might be really good one time, maybe two days. It will reset your gut. You don't need to do it every single day to reset your gut. And so I want to come back and make a little asterisk on that particular 24 hour fast. Now, what does the rate research say? So in a 2025 BMJ meta analysis, which looked at over 99 randomized trials, intermittent fasting patterns in general reduce weight. But this is tricky. Don't get you're going to get you're going to be like, what did you just say that? But these fasting patterns were not dramatically superior to calorie counting restriction. We're going to talk about calorie counting in a moment. But they actually we have found that there is a fast that is better than calorie counting. It's called alternate day fasting. And it's incredible for weight loss. It's where you eat what I'll eat one day. You don't eat another day. The next day you eat one day, you don't eat the next day. And there has been incredible research. In fact, I'll put a link in here of a 2025 BMJ article that shows that all calories are not only great for weight loss, but it can improve a lot of other cardiovascular markers. With calorie restriction, we have to remember that yes, calorie restriction still works, but it's hard to sustain. So if I set out to say I'm only going to have a thousand calories in a day and I dribble that around the day throughout the day, that can be hard because you never get yourself switched over into ketosis. And remember that ketones actually kill hunger. So there are a lot of people out there that say all fasting is, is calorie restriction. But I like, if I was only going to eat a thousand calories in a day, I would do it in a shorter eating window because it's easier. So when we're debating calorie restriction versus time restriction, we really have to look at the fact that calorie restriction does work, but it's easier when you combine it with time restriction. It doesn't give you a better result when you, when you combine it with time restriction. It's just easier and more sustainable. So what are the pros of this one meal a day? So first is if you do still subscribe to calorie restriction, we know that it's a lot easier to stick to if you put it in a very concrete time period. So you might say, I'm going to have 800 calories today and I'm just going to have it in one meal. That's going to be a lot easier than I'm going to have 800 calories, but I'm going to spread it throughout the day. Number two, one meal a day can reduce weight and improve some glucose markers in certain adults. So there is a study, a six month randomized trial of an eight hour time restricted eating window that showed greater weight loss than calorie restriction alone with a similar or improved glycemic outcomes. Now this is not OMAD, but it supports the idea that compressing the eating window can help metabolically unhealthy adults become more healthy. Again, if you, if you want to follow the calorie restriction guidelines, try to compress it into a short period. Maybe you do it one to two hours at one meal a day, but only do it for two or three days. This is not a fast to do over and over again. The other thing that OMAD may do is it could reduce the food noise for some people. So I don't know about you all, but when I know I'm in a fasting window, even if the food noise comes in, my brain just says, remember, you're fasting right now. You're going to eat tonight at dinner. That really can be helpful because you're not trying to just eat better food as you're snacking along the day. You're just saying, OK, I'm not eating till tonight. And when that food noise shows up, you just remind it I'm not eating till tonight. The other pro is that one meal a day is great for preventing the grazing and the snacking. And it is really in the snacking that we start to gain weight and increase hunger. So it really is can be that clear boundary line that you need to make sure that you don't overeat throughout the day, that you reduce that food noise. It can be really helpful. I did this a lot in my clinic. We've done this a lot in our Reset Academy where we teach people to just micro dose one meal a day. Do it a couple of days a month to be able to reset the food noise, reset the cravings, change the snacking behavior. It can be really powerful for that. So what are the cons of OMAD? So, well, there's one thing we have to point out is that in the whole world of fasting and research, there is less direct evidence on one meal a day, scientific evidence than we actually may know. So just because it worked once for you doesn't mean it's evidence based. So let's start off there. I referenced some of the evidence we know and I'll leave the links in there. And I just want to point out that just because one meal a day may have worked for you at one point, it may not consistently work for you. In fact, put in the comments if that's you. Second con to OMAD is it's really hard to get your protein and your fiber and your micronutrients in. So I've heard a lot of you on my lives. I go live here every Tuesday and a lot of you have asked me like, how do I get enough protein in? Well, if you're doing one meal a day, that becomes near impossible. So this is why for consistent fasting use, I like some of the shorter fasts, 13 to 15 hours. I love throwing in a 17 hour fast once or twice a week. But yeah, you need to make sure that when you're eating, that you're eating high quality food and you're getting those nutrients in. It also another con is it may not be great for muscle fitness. So those of you that are trying to build muscle one meal a day may over and over again, may be consistently a problem, especially in older adults that really have to combat sarcopenia, which is wasting of muscle. Again, this is one meal a day microdosed in and out of your other fasting protocols may be beneficial. And the last thing is that there is some observational data that raises caution and flags. And I want to read this data to you. There was a large perspective study in the U.S. This was done in 2023 in the Journal of Academy Nutrition and Diets. It's a large study and it was done on adults over the age of 40. And this is what they found. This is one of the reasons I'm also a little concerned about continuous use of this fast is they found that eating one meal a day was associated with higher all cause and cardiovascular mortality compared with eating three meals per day. Now, an important thing to note is that this is an association. It's not proof that one meal a day caused these deaths, but it's strong enough for us to pay close attention to. And it's strong enough to know for me to do a video on this to say, please do not do this one meal a day over and over and over again. So now who would benefit from one meal a day and how do you do this in a safe way? So people who will benefit from one meal a day have these things in common. They're already metabolically stable. Okay, how do you know you're metabolically stable? Well, you can pretty easily go without food. You may have a hemoglobin A1c that's a little closer to five. You don't want to have a high hemoglobin A1c. Your blood pressure is a little bit lower. Your cholesterol is normal. These are this is what metabolically stable can mean. You also want to make sure that you're not underweight. You're not pregnant. You're not breastfeeding. You're not using glucose lowering medications that trigger hypoglycemia. You also want to make sure that you're only using one meal a day in spurts. We're not doing it over and over again. So people who are already fasting adapted, they are able to get their protein. They're able to get their fiber. They're able to be able to get their calories in shorter windows because they've been fasting for a while. So those of you who are experts, just these are notes of caution. So if you are pregnant, if you are nursing, if you have are diabetic, if you have an eating disorder, if you're a child or you are a teen or a frail older adult, please do not do this one meal a day fast, even for a short moment. But other than that, I really feel like I do about some other fast, like dry fasting, where one meal a day is not meant to be done over and over again. It's meant to be brought in as a tool to reset things like hunger and snacking and to jumpstart your weight loss. It is not meant to be a lifestyle that you do over and over and over again. Now, what would be really helpful for all of us to learn is that if you were one of those people that was an O-matter, doing it over and over and over again, and you got some really difficult results, you had some consequences, let us know. Put it in the comments because I think it's really important that this fast gets a rebrand. And the rebrand is yes, every once in a while, no, when done consistently. Hope that helps. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video. opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens opens