 Okay, so tell me if this sounds familiar. Everybody is making you irritable. The littlest amount of stress makes you rageful. You're crying at even the sappiest of commercials on TV. You're waking up at 2 in the morning and your heart is pounding out of your chest and you're totally obsessed with the noises in the room. Maybe it's somebody sleeping next to you. And whatever you do, you cannot calm yourself. Does that sound familiar? Well, in this video, I want to talk about the brain changes that happen to women as they go through perimenopause because what's so fascinating to me is so many women go into their doctor's office and they are given maybe a diagnosis. It's not really a diagnosis, but they're given the label of, oh, you are in perimenopause. But one of the major downfalls of the medical system is it's notoriously bad at actually helping you understand what's going on and how you can use your lifestyle to make your symptoms a lot better. So in this video, I really want to explain what's going on with your brain. Are you losing it? Or is your husband really snoring too loud? Or did your mother-in-law actually really irritate you? Like are these situations or is there something going on in your brain that's making you react to everything? So let's talk about the mechanism of what's happening and most importantly, what you can do about it. Okay? Here we go. So first, let's talk about what perimenopause is. It feels like we went from talking about menopause to now really niching down into, okay, let's talk about perimenopause. And I'm going to quote a very famous study. It's called the SWAN study. And it looked at over 3000 women and it found that the menopausal transition often takes about four years. Now, I don't know about you, but most women I talk to, it is not four years. It's not like four years where you're noticing this brain change. You're actually, it's more like seven to 10 years. And really important to note, it's not just estrogen declining. There is a whole array of neurochemicals that are shifting in your brain, in your body, as you move deeper and deeper into those perimenopausal years. And estrogen is often on a wild ride where like one day she's up and one day she's down. And so it's, it's wrong to say estrogen declines because it's more like in perimenopause, estrogen goes on a wild ride, which is why they call it the zone of chaos. Because I don't know, put in the comments, if you, one day you wake up and you're like, recognize your younger self. And the next day you want to kill everybody around you. That is very much the expression of a woman whose estrogen is going up and down. Okay. Okay. Second thing that is really important to understand if you feel like you're going crazy through this experience is your brain is ground zero. Now, this is why I wrote the age like a girl because I wanted women to understand what was going on with the brain. And more importantly, how can we look at it through a positive lens? And one of the things we know, and this is based off of Dr. Lisa Moscone's work, who is definitely considered one of the top female brain researchers in the world right now, is she talks about how the brain rewires itself. So you're literally losing neurons that used to give you focus, used to be able to help you problem solve, used to let you ignore the snoring next to you in the bed. But now those neurons are going away and new neurons are forming. It's like a brain remodel project. And in that remodel project, everything's really messy, just like any remodel would be. The other thing that we know is that you have this neurotransmitter system. So estrogen didn't just work alone in age like a girl. I talk about the girl gang, but there's close to 10 neurochemicals that estrogen actually stimulated. So you're losing what I call this neurochemical armor. It was like a buffer between you and the stress. That buffer is gone. And all of a sudden the stress is getting closer to you and the closer it gets to you, you don't have a filter. You're just going to blurt out what you are feeling in that moment. And again, what this feels like to a lot of women, I highly recommend by the way that you show this video to the people you love in your life. Because what that feels like without that buffer system is that information comes at you. If you don't like that information, it's like, you know, claws up. Because you don't have a padding, a neurochemical padding to be able to pause. This padding is like dopamine and serotonin and oxytocin. I wrote again all about it, whole part two in age like a girl is this neurochemical armor. Okay, the third thing that happens a lot during this time is that you are waking up at three in the morning and you get a racing heart. Put in the comments if that's you. So what is that? Well, it is your hypothalamus trying to regulate itself. So the hypothalamus is the hormonal control system in the body. And as estrogen is doing her up and down, the hypothalamus gets really confused. And there was, this was interesting because there was a 24 journal or study in menopause journal that found fragmented sleep and reductions in restorative sleep are very, very common in perimenopausal women. You're also, as the hypothalamus is adjusting to the reduction in this neurochemical experience and it's trying to understand its new hormonal instruction, is a lot of people don't stay asleep. Put in the comments if that's you, you can't stay asleep, you don't get as much deep sleep to be able to actually detox your brain. And fragmented sleep means you sleep like three hours and then maybe three hours later you sleep again. It's very interrupted. Some people have trouble going to sleep. But this is temporary, which is really important and why I want to give you some action items. Because it's in the perimenopausal timing that we actually are seeing this brain rewire itself. And this goes right down to the hypothalamus that has to recalibrate how it's going to instruct your appetite, your temperature, the other hormones in your body, your heart rate. All of that is up for renegotiation during this time. So what's really important is that obviously menopause and perimenopause is something that is an active movement. It's happening to you all the time. And one day can be worse than the next or better than the next. It's dynamic. And it's temporary. So I want to give you five major steps that you can do to be able to help yourself through this chaos so you don't keep feeling like you're going crazy. The first one, and this is really interesting one, and I used to do this all the time in my clinic, is you're going to create a symptom log. And what that is, is it can be as easy as downloading onto your phone an app that tells you where you are in your cycle. So if you, you know, some people are having 60 day cycles, some are having two week cycles. But if you start tracking, you can track all of your moods. You can track your appetites. You can track your sleeping. Now that might feel like another thing to do, but I want to tell you there's research behind this. That, and it was published in the Menopause Journal, that symptom tracking significantly reduces physical symptoms. Note that if you note your mood, your sleep quality, energy, or any physical symptom each morning, even two weeks of data can not only support your clinician, but it will also support you in seeing that there's a pattern and it doesn't feel as out of control. Okay, second thing I want you to think about doing is getting your thyroid checked. This is also does not get enough attention in this zone of chaos. So thyroid dysfunction is really common for menopausal women, perimenopausal women. And they say like 50% of us will experience some thyroid problem throughout this perimenopausal time. Now, a lot of reason for that is what I just told you where the hypothalamus is recalibrating everything that it's responsible for. But when you go to get your thyroid checked, make sure that you request a full thyroid panel. So you need to look at TSH, T4, T3. I'd even have them look at reverse T3. You want to make sure they don't just do TSH, which is a very common one, is that all they do is look at TSH. It's a great marker, but we need to look at other markers as well. So go into your doctor's office and say, hey, I want to make sure that some of the brain changes I'm feeling aren't because of my thyroid. Can we run a full thyroid panel? Okay, number three, and this one is also intriguing, is that you want to prioritize slow-wave sleep by having a consistent sleep window. And this study I found fascinates me. So it's a 2017 study from Scientific Report that confirms that a consistent sleep and wake time, even on weekends, significantly improves how restful your sleep is over time. So start by anchoring your wake time. So I've discussed this, if you're a member of my Reefset Academy, I've discussed this on our Saturday morning coffee chats, that one of the things that I do and I have been doing over the last couple of years that has dramatically helped sleep, is I actually don't set an alarm, and my body has started to regularly get up at 6 o'clock. Like on the dot. Like I almost, when I wake up in the morning, I'm like, 6 o'clock again? Okay, and I look down. I've gotten myself into a rhythm. So you might have to use an alarm in the beginning, but the goal is to start to not just wake up at the same time, but to naturally wake up at the same time. The other thing I do when I first wake up is I don't jump out of bed. I will sit there and just sort of let my brain sort of go wherever it needs to go. I've had some of the best inspiration from coming from that angle. So move slowly out of bed, get up consistently at the same time, and you're starting to like give the body what it needs to ease into the day, and you're sending a signal to your body saying, we get up at this time. Then you can move to night time. Go to bed at the same time every night. I also taught my academy members this, where I have a special room. I call it my Zen Den, where I go in, it's red light, I draw or I read, and it's like a waiting room for my bedroom, so that I can go in and start to get myself into a sleepy state, because the hypothalamus is still mixed up. The timekeeper up there is still confused as to where you are in your circadian rhythm, so you can help it out by doing some of these small activities. Okay, number four on what you do through this zone of chaos is find a menopause-informed clinician. Now, there's a lot of different ways we can approach this. I heard recently, and I thought this was so fascinating, that there's a new type of job, I guess you could call it, that's really becoming popular in the menopause space, and it's called a menopause doula. And I was like, well, why would we need a menopause doula? And here's why. We have an old standard where we would go in to our doctors, we sort of barf our symptoms all over the doctor's room, and the almighty doctor is like, okay, I know what you have. If you have X, Y, and Z, and writes you a prescription, or if it's really bad, send you for a surgical consult. But there's definitely this behavior that we have fallen into where I show up at my doctor's office, I complain, my doctor gives me the answers. Menopause isn't that system. It doesn't work in that system, because everybody's menopausal experience is different. Some people are going to need HRT, some people are not going to do well with HRT. Somebody that has a high hemoglobin A1c is going to have different menopausal symptoms than somebody who has a low hemoglobin A1c. Somebody who's been on 30 rounds of antibiotics and 20 years of birth control is going to have some gut challenges that need to be addressed. Somebody who's never been on antibiotics doesn't need to have that same care. So it is a unique situation, and how we use our doctors is really unique. So here is what I'm going to recommend. You may need more than one doctor. You may need somebody who teaches you lifestyle, somebody who teaches you maybe nutrition, a fitness trainer that maybe, or somebody at the gym that understands the menopausal body, and then you might need a therapist. I've seen that happen a lot. You may need a primary OB that understands how important all of these collaborating factors are. I'll tell you what I do with my OB. I'm happy to put her name out there. For those of you who want to visit her, her name is Dr. Felice Gersh. She is in Orange County, California. We'll leave a link here. And she and I work like a team together on my health. And she listens to me on what I'm doing with my diet, where my stress levels are at. She looks at nutrient deficiencies. We've had to change my hormone replacement several times because I haven't done well with things like the patch. But we are a team. And she is listening and she is directing. We do regular blood works. She, in my opinion, is the gold standard of what you want in a menopause-informed clinician. Now, I will tell you, in the appendix of Age Like a Girl, I map out how do you, questions you can ask a doctor. And so that you get in that kind of partnership. But it's really important. Otherwise, you're going to be left with feeling like it's your fault or you're crazy. And that is not this menopausal experience. This menopausal experience is about making sure that you are customizing. I think that's the biggest thing I can tell you. You are customizing your menopause treatment. And that may require several people coming together to help you. One of the reasons we leave all my links for all the science that I quote on my YouTube channel is so if you say, Hey, I'm learning from Dr. Mindy Pels on YouTube to your doctor, you could actually send them the video you may have learned from and let them know the science is linked in the bottom so that they know I'm not just spouting off information that it's actually coming from an evidence-based approach. So, I have a lot to say on that. If you want more videos on how do you work with your doctor, put it in the comments. Okay, and then the fifth thing that I want to include is if you do start tracking, then print that out and take it to your doctor and be like, Here are my symptoms. If your doctor dismisses that and puts it away, time to find a new doctor. But this is how we start to come into partnership with our doctor is we don't just show up and go, You're all my problems. We show up and we're like, I've been tracking this. I'm curious about this blood work. I'm looking at these symptoms. I'm doing these things with my lifestyle. I need you to be a team member with me and help me figure out how to customize that. If you do that right, then you don't need a menopause doula. Your doctor, just like Dr. Gersh is for me, can be another sounding board for you. It's like a partner that you're working together with. And even somebody like me that has a tremendous amount of knowledge, it's really hard to take care of your own health. You have to, especially as you start to age, that it's really good to have a team that just in case you have some blind spots that's working with you, which is why I personally use Dr. Gersh. So, on this video, I just want you to know you are not going crazy, but it is. Your responsibility to understand this so that you can get the right care. You can make sure that everybody around you knows that this is a rewirement. And most of all, you can weather this zone of chaos with a lot more grace. Because on the other side, once you get to the other side, it's amazing. You just got to get through the zone of chaos. And if you want to know what you're getting on the other side, that's what age like a girl was. The brain is rewiring itself for something incredible. So, if you're post-menopausal, put in the comments just to cheer on the perimenopausal women. Like, yes, hang in there. It gets better. I'm also curious. Those of you who have read Age Like a Girl, let me know what you thought of it. What was your favorite part? I always love hearing the feedback. And most important, do not give up on yourself. This is a very different health journey and it needs a different set of tools. And so, I want you to just keep the hope and never give up on yourself. You got it. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.