 n telefoon-5-s attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker, attacker attacker, attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker attacker First, we have to start with this part of the conversation. It is really normal as a woman goes into her perimenopausal years for her metabolic health to go completely off the rails. And with the same lifestyle. And it is so frustrating. You didn't do anything. But you're having this massive neurochemical shift that is dramatically impacting your metabolism. And it's super important that we make that part of the discussion of menopause. Because you have so much control over your metabolic health. And I'm going to explain it in this video. You all know me. I'm going to give you a list of things you can start doing immediately following this video. And it's really important that we remind ourselves that metabolic challenges lead to greater chronic disease challenges. And it was interesting because in researching this video, I found a 23 review in Frontiers in Public Health that found that metabolic dysfunction is strongly linked to diabetes, heart disease, stroke, dementia, and overall poor health. But it also found this meta-analysis that people who maintained robust metabolic health into their old age. Not only did they reduce their risk of illness, but they felt better. Their moods were better. Their menopause symptoms were much better. Their overall lifestyle was better by just focusing on this one thing. So this isn't a moment where you have to have the right doctor or have the right HRT prescription. This is a moment you get to control. And here's how you do it. So the first metabolic marker that I think every woman over 40 needs to obsess on is hemoglobin A1c. Hemoglobin A1c is a measurement of your insulin and glucose system for 90 days. When you eat food, your glucose levels go up. And that raise in glucose signals to the pancreas to release insulin. insulin finds the glucose molecule and says, here, let me show you where to go so that you can create energy in this body. And so it escorts the glucose into the cells. But if you're bringing your glucose levels up incredibly high, what ends up happening is your body's making insulin over and over and over again. All the insulin molecules are taking their glucose buddies, trying to get them into the cell. And the cell's like, hey, I can't take all this glucose. So insulin has to find another place to store it. You know where it stores it? Around your belly. It's the first place it's going. So we want to make sure that when you are eating, that you're not only eating these lower glycemic foods that keep that glucose level down, but that you're eating just the right amount of glucose to be able to allow insulin to do its job. And to be able to let your cells take in that glucose and turn it into energy. And how you know if that system is working is hemoglobin A1c. It is the most important measurement for metabolic health. And it's measuring your metabolic health over a 90-day period as opposed to just a snapshot in the morning of a blood work or a lab work visit. Now, healthy ranges of hemoglobin A1c. I'm going to tell you both in milligrams per deciliter, which is the U.S. measurement. And Europe, I'm going to bring you the millimoles. I always forget to bring you millimoles. So here we go. The ideal range for hemoglobin A1c, according to the American Diabetic Association, which these marks are not really, I mean, we need to try to get even better than this. But ideal range is less than 42 millimoles per mole. Strange way to say it. Or less than 6.0 in percentage. So it's measured milligrams through deciliters. They have a little percentage on. I'm not going to go into the details of that. Pre-diabetic range is 42 to 47 millimoles per mole and less than 6.0 or 6.4. Diabetic range is greater than 48 or greater than 6.5. So y'all have blood work. I am sure of it. Go look it up and look for hemoglobin A1c. It says HB1A1c. And go, and depending on if you're reading it through the American measurements or reading it through what the rest of the world does, you want to make sure that those numbers are matching what I just mentioned. Now, I can tell you in my clinical experience and what we're doing with our members of our Reset Academy is we're really encouraging specifically women to get their hemoglobin A1c under 5. They're saying ideal range is under 6. We have to have a better metabolic standard for ourselves. So to slow down aging and minimize menopause symptoms, we want to get that sucker as close to 5 as possible. And as the hemoglobin creeps up, what it means is that you are developing insulin resistance. So if you're listening to this video and you're like a 5.7, and it's getting higher and higher, you are moving towards insulin resistance. And there might be insulin resistance in your blood before you see it in the mirror. So I'm trying to give you some ideas on how we can start to measure this right away. Every single blood work I ever looked at for my patients, the very first thing I looked at was hemoglobin A1c because that is what we need to correct first. And in a 22 study by cells found that a high hemoglobin A1c is also a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's. So if you're worried about mental cognition, you can improve your mental capabilities by getting that EA1c down. And by the way, if you're worried about dementia, I just did a beautiful interview with Bruce Willis' wife who has been walking the journey of dementia with him. And she came up with a list of things we all can be doing to prevent dementia. So please go watch the Resetter podcast on that one. But as your brain, those cells become more insulin resistant, they can no longer produce enough energy to function well, which leads to brain fog and memory problems and over time increases your dementia risk. And we also know that when estrogen was around, she helped protect against insulin resistance and now she's gone. And as she's gone, hemoglobin A1c starts creeping up. So it's on you. It's on your lifestyle to bring that marker down. Super important. Now, how do you test hemoglobin A1c? So there's a couple ways. You can just go to your doctor and ask your doctor to test it. You know, if you're getting regular blood work, your doctor's probably already testing it. Make sure before you go into your next appointment, ask if they will test it, you know, in the prescription they give you. But there's also a monthly test you can do with a finger prick. It's an at-home test where you can prick your finger and you send it off for a lab analysis. We have one we used with our following for a while. We'll put a link in here so that you can benefit from that. But ideally, you know, because it's a 90-day measurement, you want to check pretty regularly, but not too frequently. Like once a month would be good. But most doctors are not going to test it more frequently than every 90 days. So otherwise, if that sounds way too complicated, you can get yourself a continuous glucose monitor and start to see the daily movement of glucose and insulin. I personally like that longer trajectory because it tells you what you're doing over 90 days. Now, what if you start testing this and you're like, woo, it's high. How do you lower it? So there's a couple things. For starters, exercise. Exercise will lower it. There was a 23 study that found that any kind of aerobic exercise decreases hemoglobin A1c, including walking. Doesn't have to be anything super fancy or expensive. This study actually found that three 40-minute sessions of aerobic activity each week, and it can be walking, jogging, swimming, dancing, anything that gets your heart pumping, can have an incredible effect on lowering hemoglobin A1c. So you don't have to even do it every day, three times a week for 40 minutes. And if cardio is not your thing, maybe weightlifting is. Everybody's into weightlifting right now. A 24 review found that weightlifting also can lower your A1c. Second thing that will lower your A1c is a low-carb diet. Now, if you have been following my work for a while, you know in Fast Like a Girl, I brought forward a diet that I think is amazing for metabolic health called ketobiotic. And the reason I called it ketobiotic is because it was lower carb, but it left fruits and vegetables. And when the keto diet first came out, it was like people were just eating meat and they weren't bringing in these fruits or vegetables, which is horrible for the female system. The female system needs some fiber in there. So ketobiotic allowed you to have a little higher carb content, but all of those carbs were coming from fruits and vegetables. If you need more information on that, Fast Like a Girl and Eat Like a Girl can show you that. So it's not hard to go low carb. The best way you can do it is just get away from the processed breads and cakes and cookies. Just look at eating any vegetable, any fruit, even some of the legumes that tend to be a little bit higher on the glycemic index, even our tubers, which I talked so much about in Age Like a Girl. They can be really beneficial too. And a 22 study in JAMA, the Journal of Medicine, American Medicine, found that six months, six months on a low carb diet, significantly lowered hemoglobin A1c in people over 40 with prediabetes. The third thing is always going to be my go-to. I was interviewed last week in celebration of Age Like a Girl coming out by a menopause doctor. And I said, you're never going to be able to sway me from the healing power of fasting because I've just watched so many people do it. And she laughed and she looked at me and she was like, I've heard that about you. I'm like, yeah, I'm just convinced more than ever because of all of you. I've watched you get the results. So my third recommendation to bring hemoglobin A1c down is start fasting like a girl. So you can follow the fasting cycle if you're still cycling and you're in perimenopause, or you can follow my fasting recommendations for post-menopausal women in Age Like a Girl. But fasting absolutely will help you bring that hemoglobin A1c down. Second metabolic marker I want you to focus on as you're going through menopause, and that's blood pressure. Now, this is really interesting because as estrogen goes down, cholesterol can go up. We'll talk about that in a moment. And blood pressure can go up. And this starts to get doctors very concerned about your cardiovascular health. So instantly, they'll want to put you on blood pressure medication or they'll want to put you on a statin. And in some cases, that might be necessary. So you want to talk to your doctor about it. But first, we want to make sure you're building a lifestyle that keeps your blood pressure down. And we do know there was a 2020 study done by the CDC found that 49.9% of women aged 40 to 59 have high blood pressure. And after the age of 60, that goes up to 73%. So for starters, just like I did with hemoglobin A1c, how do you know if you have high blood pressure? Well, the first is you do the cuff test. You know, your doctor will do that. Sometimes at your pharmacy, they might do that. But keep in mind when you are actually doing the cuff test, you have to rest. It's not like you can just go whizzing into your doctor's office and they bring you into a room and they take your blood pressure. The statistical way that it is blood pressure is diagnosed is two to three readings with you laying down and 20 minutes in between each one of those readings. Most doctors aren't doing that, but you can do that at home. And there are two numbers you want to look at. The systolic number is the top number and it measures the pressure when your heart activity is pumping the blood into your body. And the diastolic pressure is the bottom number and it measures the pressure between heartbeats when your heart is at rest. A little bit like HRV. So here's a chart. We're going to put it up here so you can look at where the ranges are. But normal is typically 120 over 80. And most people, most doctors, are focused on that top number because it's showing you how much work your body has to do to get blood into your system. So think of the higher number as more work for that heart to be able to pump blood throughout your whole system. You don't want it up at 150 and 160 and 180. That says your body's working really hard just to circulate blood. Whereas that diastolic number is really telling you how is the body, the heart recovering. So when we have a high systolic, like it's up at like 170 and a high diastolic where it's like up in the 100, 120, that's not good because that means the body's working so hard to even circulate blood and it's not recovering. That's where we start to get cardiovascular problems. So ideal range is 120 over 80. Elevated would be one, like they say, it's about 129 over 80. So we're getting in 130 and hypertensive actually comes in at 130 over, like anything, the top number being over 130 and the bottom number being over 80. So it's not, I mean, this is a pretty sensitive measurement. So there are two ways that you can lower blood pressure. And they're not, it's not low fat diet. So the first is de-stressing. So stress is a big accelerator of our blood pressure. And there was a 23 study that found that stress is the major driver of blood pressure because what happens is when we stress, cortisol comes bursting into our system and it will vasoconstrict our arteries, which then spikes blood pressure. So I just want to say, I've mentioned this on many videos here, but one workaround for that is anytime you're stressed, go for a walk because cortisol wreaks havoc on your body when you don't use cortisol properly. And the way to use cortisol properly is when you're stressed, move. Cortisol is the hormone that wants to make you run from the tiger. So the worst thing you can do is get stressed and sit still. That's going to raise your blood pressure and narrow your arteries and make it harder for your heart to pump and distribute blood. So stress and movement, let's put them together and that will help you if stress is causing your blood pressure to go high. Now, where are my meditators out there? Because we do have a meta-analysis from the Journal of Hypertension that showed that daily meditation lowers blood pressures by several points and it works so fast. It can work just in one week. I'll tell you that a new routine that I've started doing in my life is I spend 20 minutes at night and 20 minutes in the morning listening to music that is mellow and calming. I do a lot of chanting music because chanting stimulates the vagus nerve and I literally say thank you over and over again. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And so I'm spending about 40 minutes every day looking at what I love about my life, not looking at what I don't love about my life. And what that's doing is it's starting to rewire my brain to see more things that I love about my life and bringing my stress load down. So I know there's a lot of ways we can meditate but if meditation sounds exhausting to you, try a gratitude practice of just 20 minutes in the morning, 20 minutes at night. I did do a beautiful doodle class if you're not familiar with Colette Barron-Reed's work but we actually did a beautiful doodle class with my Reset Academy. This class now lives in the Academy. If you join the Academy, you can get it. And she really showed us how to use doodling, music, and affirmations to lower stress. It was really cool. So anyways, come join me in my Academy and we can show you how to do that. The other interesting thing is that saunas, a lot of you have been using saunas to lower blood pressure and the evidence, the research says it's very effective. So a 2018 study found that 30 minutes in a sauna lowered blood pressure by an average of seven points for both systolic and diastolic readings. I can tell you I have a very good friend whose husband had high blood pressure, high cholesterol. They had an infrared sauna and what she did for, had him do three times a week for over 90 days, he would do 20 minutes in the sauna followed by three minutes in a cold plunge. And after 90 days, she saw his cholesterol and blood pressure go down. So those two are some really cool ways to start to affect your cardiovascular health in a positive way. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out. It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer-reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book, and I can't wait for you to get it. Now, another thing to think about with blood pressure that doesn't get discussed enough is potassium. So getting more potassium will lower your blood pressure. And so we don't hear about this. Again, we're back at food is medicine. So we need to make sure that we don't just look at food as something that we need to satisfy our taste buds or give us a dopamine hit. When you're eating, you're either eating to build health or you're eating to build disease. You get to choose. And the problem with eating is we're doing it all the time, all day long. So every single moment, you're either going, which path? Are you going disease? Are you going towards health? And there was a 2017 meta-analysis that found increasing your potassium intake either through supplements or food was incredibly effective at lowering blood pressure. They didn't say how much, so I don't have a number for you. But what they did recommend were these potassium-rich foods. Bananas. Okay. We like bananas. They're a little high on the glycemic index, but every once in a while we can eat them. White potatoes, sweet potatoes. Okay. Those of you who have read Age Like a Girl know that the tuber is the menopausal hero. There's a reason we can go back into history and see so many women are eating tubers. Well, one of them is it lowers blood pressure. Grass-fed steak. So those of you that are avoiding meat because of cardiovascular challenges or concerns, understand that not all meat is made equal. Grass-fed has higher omega-3s. It has the right omega-369 balance and can actually lower blood pressure and specifically when we're looking at it through the potassium lens. Wild salmon is fabulous for potassium and Brussels sprouts. Okay. The third metabolic marker I want you to track to make sure your metabolic health is in order is your waist circumference. I know. It's like not a lot of fun unless you love your waist size. But that's where the visceral fat lives. Remember how I've talked in videos about how estrogen converted white fat into brown fat? Well, that's why we need to look at the waist circumference because we want to see if you're starting to convert white fat into brown fat. And that hard belly fat is what's the most damaging. So there was a 28 study that found that visceral fat is the single biggest predictor of death from all causes because it builds up and think of it like it doesn't let your organs breathe. It's like putting like an arm around your organs and then it's like your organs should be like a filter. Like your liver is this beautiful filter and it's letting the good in and getting the bad out. And when we get fat around it, it can't be a filter anymore because it has rigidity around it. And visceral fat, if it increases fatty liver disease, it also starts to dump a ton of triglycerides into your system, which also now makes all the other cholesterol markers go up. So waist circumference is something to watch when we're trying to measure our metabolic health. And there's a couple ways. You can measure your visceral fat. So the best is all you need is a tape measure and you wrap it around your belly right above your belly button. And you want to exhale and then record the measurement. So this isn't a time to suck in your belly. This is where we're just going to put it around, measure it, take note. And an ideal waist circumference size for women is under 35 inches. And you can decrease visceral fat very easily. So the first and the best way, what am I going to say, is intermittent fasting. And here's why. intermittent fasting allows your white fat, it's a process in which your body, when it's in this intermittent fasted state, will take white fat and turn it into brown fat so that you can burn it a lot easier. We also know if you combine intermittent fasting with protein intake, that is the best way to lose this visceral fat. I've done videos on this. It was a new study that came out a couple of weeks ago and I did a whole video on it. We'll link them in here so you can find them. But what they found is that if a person did intermittent fasting 13 to 15 hours every single day and when they ate, they had 20 to 40 grams of protein at each meal, they called it protein pacing, that was the most effective way to lose belly weight, this visceral fat. It was more effective than getting on the treadmill for three hours or however long you're trying to get on the treadmill to lose weight or by calorie restriction, which so many people are still doing. So we want to make sure that we combine intermittent fasting with protein intake and here's the results you can expect to get. That nearly two and a half times greater visceral fat loss when you combine intermittent fasting with protein pacing and this is compared to calorie counting and that the overall weight loss was 1.8 times greater and a much greater appetite reduction when you combine those two. So if you really want to burn fat quickly, try skipping breakfast and eating, starting at lunch, 20 to 40 grams of protein and then each big meal. I mean, I snack all the time on jerky, turkey jerky, on beef jerky if you eat meat and if you don't eat meat, you might start to put protein powder in your coffee or some protein powder, especially collagen powders, you can just put them in water and drink them. But we got to make sure we're prioritizing protein with our intermittent fasting and that's going to be the combo that's going to help you lose the most visceral fat. So metabolic health, it matters. It matters for chronic disease. It matters for menopause symptoms. It matters for mental health. And you want to take these three measurements, hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure, and waist circumference and you want to stare and analyze and obsess on those three measurements. Get away from the scale. The scale is not telling you what you need to know to make better choices for yourself. These three things will. And then start to implement everything I mentioned in here. Let's get your stress levels down. Let's get you in a sauna. Let's get you lifting weights. Let's get you fasting. These are not difficult things to do and they don't cost money. So you are never out of answers once you understand why your body puts weight on, what's happening after 40 that changed your whole metabolic health and understand that you are in control of this. That's the biggest thing. You get to decide. And diet and things like fasting and sauning and exercise plays a major part. So, okay. I hope that helped. I hope you're losing weight. Please let me know in the comments if you've been losing weight with my videos. You can tell me how much. And most importantly, keep saying kind things to yourself. When you look in the mirror, find a part of your body that you absolutely love. Find something that you love about yourself and obsess on that as opposed to telling yourself negative things all day long. Because that's spiking cortisol and we already know that cortisol leads to more fat. So let's flip that mindset around. You are in control. Once you understand how to work the metabolic system of your body, it will become effortless. But don't give up on yourself. As always, I hope that helps. Okay. You're not losing belly fat. I get it. Watch this video so you know exactly how to get rid of your belly fat. I really want you to remember that cortisol and belly fat, those go hand in hand. So as your belly is growing, it's not always diet related. It can also be stress related.