 EURin, izin, detoxing. And so what I wanted to do, because I know so many of you come to my channel looking for specific answers to your fasting journey or your health journey, is I wanted to pull out the answers to these questions that have been asked over the years so you can easily find them. So in this Q&A playlist, in this series here, hopefully you will find what you need. This hopefully will give you the very specific answer that you're looking for. Now, I want to remind you that what I teach here on my channel is for you to find your path, because what I am teaching you here is how to customize your own healing journey, not how to do it like everybody else. I want you to do it like you. So my Q&A series, enjoy. Okay, Jessie Mee said, is 16-8 fasting okay? I know it's not that much. I'm going to be a little bit more. I don't know if it's not much at all. I wonder if it still is beneficial. Thank you. Yeah, you know, 16-8 got a really, got a really like, it became famous. And let me tell you why it became famous. It became famous from Sachin Panda, who is one of the leading fasting experts out there. And what he discovered, it was a great study, like when I found this, it just blew my metabolic mind. What he discovered is that if you eat within an eight hour window, within an eight hour window, leaving 16 hours for fasting, check this out, that you are metabolically immune from the toxic ultra processed diet. So one of the studies that he did is he actually took people who ate unhealthy food and he measured all their metabolic markers. So he looked at blood pressure, he looked at cholesterol, he looked at the waist circumference, and he decided that he would measure anything that had to do with metabolic health. And what he found is that that diet actually didn't increase your blood pressure. It didn't increase your cholesterol. It didn't make you gain weight as long as you ate that horrible diet that I am not recommending you eat, but this was the study, that you compress it into an eight hour eating window, leaving 16 hours for fasting. So is it beneficial? Heck yeah, it is a great fast. Should you eat McDonald's every day? No. Should you? Does it give you a free pass to eat all the toxic food that is available to us out there? No. But it is a really cool fast for metabolic improvement. Okay. Nancy said, can you please clarify for me I'm following the new moon since I no longer have a period due to partial hysterectomy, but I also should lose over 120 and want to do a 36. How would that work? Well, okay, so Nancy, let me give you a couple options. First, you know, you might not, if you've had a hysterectomy, you're not bleeding, you could definitely throw the 36 hour fast in whenever you want. So I just want to make sure that you're clear on that. But a lot of women really still want to track the moon, and I love that. And so, but what you would then do, if you're going to throw a 36 hour fast in, is you'd want to put it in one of the power phases. So remember in Fast Like a Girl, I called day one to day 10 power phase one, and day 16 to day 19 power phase two. Those are the times you can power up on your fasts. That's why I call them power phases. Now, when we're mapping those to the moon, a noon moon is day one of the power phase. So if you wanted to map it to the moon, you just know from day one of the new moon to day 10, you have a 10 day window where you can do that 36 hour. Then the, usually somewhere about day 14, 15 is the full moon. Technically that's where women are ovulating. And then once we hit that full moon and it starts to wane, the five days, six days after the full moon would be another time. Power phase two, where you could, you could do a 36 hour fast. So I hope that helps. It gives you a variety. So I don't know what an extended fast is to you. To me, it's over 24 hours. So if you're doing a 36 hour fast, did you say once a month? Yeah, you're going to be fine. I mean, I always want people to put a CGM on a continuous glucose monitor when they go over that 24 hour mark, because we need to see if you're, if you're, if it starts to drop, your blood sugar drops too quickly. So, but otherwise you should, you should be fine. It might be a little, if you're healthy and 30 years old, it might be a little bit of an overkill to do a 72 hour one every month. So again, watch your cycle, make sure you're not losing your cycle. Watch your hair, make, watch, make sure you're not gaining weight. But a 24, 46 hour, even a 48 hour fast once a month for a healthy 30 year old should be okay. But just watch your continuous glucose monitor. And I don't know any, I mean, I'm going off your word that you're healthy. So, you know, be, be safe and know when to break the fast and, and just be smart. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm going to try to answer hair loss for a second. So if you guys are losing hair while you're fasting, I just want to kind of give you a checklist. And, and the reason I'm giving you a checklist is because what works for one person might not work with another. First thing, first thing, are you, do you have enough minerals? And my favorite is B minerals because it comes from the ground. I would be doing B minerals every single day. So you might be incredibly mineral deficient and you need to just keep going. So that's the first thing. Okay. Second thing is that you might be nutrient deficient. So you might need a really good multivitamin. You might need to go get a really good IV drip. You might be nutrient outside of minerals. You might be just missing vitamin A and vitamin E. A lot of the vitamins that help with, with healthy, healthy hair. So find a really good supplement, mineral supplement or go get an IV because you might be nutrient deficient. Okay. Third thing and something we saw often in our clinic is you might have a high toxic load. And one of the things we know is that when we fast, we tend to off gas or get rid of toxins in our body. So autophagy gets stimulated at 17 hours and it goes and it peaks at 72. And with autophagy fasting, you sometimes trigger the intelligence and the intelligence starts to realize that the cell is really packed with toxins. And it needs to get rid of that cell and kill that cell. It's a process called apoptosis. And if that cell dies, oftentimes it starts to mobilize heavy metals through your system. So sometimes faster will start to lose hair because these heavy metals are coming out of the cell. As the cell starts to detoxify it or starts to kill itself. And when those toxins come out of the cell, they'll be reabsorbed and they bind to the minerals again. And the hair starts falling out. So you might look at your toxic load level. And we're going to have more in our Reset Academy. We have a whole bunch we're teaching about toxins. So if you feel like you need more toxic detox information, you can join our academy. I just started a really cool alliance with a franchise called Next Health that has clinics, integrative health centers all over the United States. And they have some detox protocols. So detox is a big topic. So the person who said that they tried two weeks ago to add in minerals and they're still losing hair, I would say give it more time, give it more minerals, and let's start thinking about your toxic load. So those three things. The last thing I want to say is a lot of fasters don't get enough calories in. And I rarely talk about calories, but in this situation I think it can be important because your thyroid needs at least 1200 calories a day. So if you're fasting a lot and you're only doing one meal a day, you may not be getting enough calories. And if you're not getting enough calories, you're actually hurting the thyroid. And when you hurt the thyroid, your hair will fall out. So something to consider, but there's the checklist that I would recommend. You know, it's not fasting. It's what's happening. You know, fasting is like a mirror. It just shows you underneath what needs to be worked on and what it's referring to. And what it's reflecting back to you is more minerals, possible toxicity issue, more calories. And then I will throw out the one last thing is that some people fast too much. And so you might need to back off on all the fasting and go to more of like a 5-1-1 where you do intermittent fasting five days a week, a longer fast one day a week, and you don't fast another. You might need to do a protocol like that. So Lori wants to know, first time on a live. Thank you, Lori. I'm going to tell you a little behind the scenes on the live. I was in clinical practice for 30 years. We saw hundreds of patients in my clinic. I love people. I love hugging people. I love cheering people on. I love being on people's health journey with them. And now I write books and do videos. And we have a membership academy. It's called the Reset Academy where I interact with our members there. But I miss chatting with you all. I miss hearing how I can help you. So thank you for being here, Lori. And I hope you find value here. And I'll be here every Tuesday. Okay, so the question she has is, does the 5-1-1 fasting plan need to be done in sequence? The week began naturally with 21 and 16 hour fasts. Great question. So what Lori's referring to is in my book, Fast Like a Girl, which if you haven't gotten it, we sold over a million copies of this book. And everything you need to know about fasting and different protocols and the science behind fasting for women is in here. So check that book out if you don't have it. And in it, I put different protocols. I talk about 5-1-1, 4-2-1, 3-3-1. In the back, for those of you who have the book that may not know, that I put all the protocols that I used in my practice. Like here's a protocol on chronic fatigue. Here's one on type 2 diabetes. So thyroid conditions, autoimmune conditions, all the protocols that I saw work over time. So 5-1-1 is a maintenance fasting plan. So it's five days a week. You do your comfortable fast. One day a week, you push your fast. I'd like to see you get to 24 hours where you're just eating one meal a day. And then one day a week, you don't fast. So it's called a 5-1-1. And when people would hit sort of a maintenance level with fasting, this is what we would recommend. So to answer your question, Lori, it doesn't have to be consecutive. You get to splice it up however you want. I can tell you for me, the way I used to do it, the way I liked to do it, was on Sundays when my kids were living in our house. Our kids are empty nesters now. So they're 25 and 23, so they're not around. But Sunday was like family day. We would go to the farmer's market. We would have a nice brunch together. And then in the evening we would have a family dinner. My parents would come over. I was not fasting on that day. So that was my no fast day. But then Monday at my clinic was the busiest day of the whole week. And so that would be my one meal a day. So I would have a feast day and then I would have my one meal a day. And then the rest of the week was comfortable fasting. You spin it however you want. So great question. So Nicole is asking, she says she's a cancer survivor and had a complete hysterectomy because of stage 4 chronic endometriosis. I'm also on antransazole. Is there a fasting cycle for me even though I don't have a cycle anymore? Okay. So you're post-menopausal. You've had cancer and stage 4 chronic endometriosis. So there's no cycle like I showed you in here. But there are protocols. So first, I want you to know about my go-to cancer doctor who is the best at metabolic health. And her name is Dr. Naysha Winters. And she wrote a book called The Metabolic Approach to Cancer. And I would highly recommend it. And I highly recommend following her. And she trains doctors who help people understand what type of metabolic assistance they might need with their specific type of cancer. I am not a cancer specialist. So check her out as a resource. Now, I will tell you, let's go to a weekly protocol. So there are two weekly protocols you could try. The first would be a 4-2-1. Where four days a week you intermittent fast at whatever is a comfortable level. And two days a week you want to stretch your fast. Because typically cancer, most cancers do incredibly well. Your body heals incredibly well when you go into longer fasts. So I would do a 4-2-1, which depending on where you are in the cancer stage. And two days a week I would do one meal a day. So it's a 24 hour fast. Four days a week I would do a comfortable fast. And then one day a week I wouldn't fast. So we're still got some fasting variation there. The other one that when I was actively working with using fasting as a tool with cancer survivors. We did what we call a 3-3-1. Three days a week you do a comfortable fast. Three days a week you do a 24 hour fast. And one day a week you do a 36 hour fast. Now I know that goes over seven days. But it's the best way I can say this. There's a lot of fasting in there. But when I had patients with cancer that were really sick. We needed to put them in an extreme healing state. And that's what we did. So 5-1-1, again I write about all this in Fast Like a Girl. 5-1-1 is a great maintenance protocol. 4-2-1 is a great healing protocol. Or people who want to lose a little more weight. And 3-3-1 is crisis. And this is where we can really start to use fasting as a tool for healing. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book. Because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer-reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. But I plan to go 14 days fasting with an electrolyte and extra virgin olive oil. Is it doable? Any precaution that I need to take? Thank you, you're my hero. Thank you for the kind words. Okay, I'm super happy we're talking about this. Because I just want to start off and say I have seen some miracles happen in these longer fasts. So I applaud you for trying out a 14-day fast. And I'm hoping that you're using it as a healing tool and I'm cheering you on. So know that. What do you need to do? I would never do that length of a fast without having some kind of blood sugar and ketone monitor. My favorite is Keto-Mojo. You can find it on my website. But I would be testing every morning and every night for 14 days. These 14 days, I would be testing my blood sugar and ketones. If your blood sugar dips below into the 50s, and maybe even if it goes into the 40s, you need to stop. I've seen a lot of people in these longer fasts go into the 50s and they feel amazing. So if you go into the 50s and you still feel good, you're probably okay. But if you dip into the 40s, it's a no. Stop the fast. If your ketones get above into the 7.0 range or bigger, you need to stop the fast. So those are what I call your bumper rails. Monitor your blood sugar every single day. Now, I love that you're doing electrolytes. Awesome. I think that's fabulous. And I love, here's somebody using olive oil. That is spectacular. And it should be a good fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat fat and you're fasting and you feel like you're dizzy and you're going to pass out, your adrenals are not surviving the fast very long. Abort the fast. Stop the fast. If you ever get so lethargic you can barely pick your hands up, you need to stop the fast immediately. If your heart starts pounding out of your chest and you can feel heart palpitations, try upping your electrolytes and see if that stops. But if it doesn't, you'll need to stop the fast. So those are kind of my edges that I go with. Otherwise, I'm totally cheering you on and please come back to one of my lives and give me an update on how you did. One thing you might do is let your doctor know you're doing it, except for your doctor, if your doctor doesn't understand fasting, that can be a problem. But you might have an accountability buddy who, because here's the thing that I've seen happen in these longer fasts, we become stubborn. We're like, oh, I'm going to go longer. I'm going to go all the way to 21 days. And sometimes just having somebody to be a voice of reason for you can be really helpful as well. Okay, so Marcy wants to know, how often can we do a three-day fast? And are there more benefits to doing it quarterly? Does it make a difference for a cycling woman or a post-menopausal woman to do it frequently? Okay, so let's just put this under the heading of, how often should you do a three-day water fast? And I think that the answer to that is, what are your goals? So my goal for myself right now is brain health, for sure longevity, but just feeling good in my body. I just, I don't have any other major goals than that. So I did one three-day one, and I might do another one in September, but unless I feel called to, I'll probably do one to two a year. So, and we guide you through these too, because we'll do another one, group one in September. So think about if you are into maintenance or prevention, one to two is fine. You don't need to go crazy with it. Now, if you're trying to reverse a condition, like whatever it is, an autoimmune condition, stuck weight loss condition, like you're trying to really come out of a hole. And let me use an example that I used to give my patients that I think is really good, is if optimal health is a plus 10, and symptom free is a zero, and then when you move into the negatives, like negative eight, negative nine, negative 10, you're down in symptom land when you're in those negative numbers. You're down into, you have a condition that is, that you're trying to overcome. If you are in that part, I feel like I should, I want to draw this out. Like if you're in that, from zero to negative 10, and you're in those negative numbers with your health, then yeah, doing them more often would be great. But if you're in a place where you are in the positive numbers, like you're like, I'm a, you know, in fact this might be something we just look at right now and put into the chat, like what do you think you are? If 10, positive 10, was the greatest health you've ever experienced, and negative 10 was a scary, potentially fatal diagnosis, and zero was, you're okay, but you're not thriving, but you're not sick, where are you in that scale? Because if you're in the negative numbers, then more frequent water fasts, those three day fasts, will definitely help. But if you're in the positive numbers, and you're just wanting better mental clarity, and to keep, you know, working on unsticking your weight, then the frequency will be different. So think of, just think through, like what exactly, where exactly you are. Now I will also tell you that two things. I, one of the greatest cases, I told you I worked a lot with people with cancer, and one of the greatest cases I ever had, was a doctor actually, who had lymphoma. And so, he was game to do anything, and so we did three day water fasts every week. I tried to reproduce Walter Longo's famous three day water fast, and we would do blood work every 60 days, and we would watch his blood work improve by doing that. That would be an extreme case. Like, I'm not recommending, like he, he had a rhythm where Sunday night he would stop eating, Wednesday night he would pick up eating again. Like, it just became a weekly thing, and after a year, he had completely reversed his cancer condition. It blew me away. So, again, extreme situation. So, if you're not in those positive numbers, maybe you do them quarterly, if you're trying to overturn a condition, if you are in those positive numbers, one to two a year is good. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.