 So how many of you have woken up, looked in the mirror and thought, what the heck is going on with my belly? How could I have been sleeping all night and I still wake up bloated? I can tell you this very much happens to menopausal women. And bloating is such a frustrating body expression because what the heck did you do? And it makes you look like you've carried more weight than you want to appear as if you have. I even when are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just are just into the research on the spice and how to apply it, but I want you to understand why bloating happens so you don't think it's like your fault. There are so many reasons that your body will bloat, but there are two main ones. So the first one is trapped gas, and this comes from those gut bacteria that ferment in your inside of you, undigested food. So this can be like if you're just eating too quickly and the food gets in there, it didn't have time to go be digested in your mouth and your stomach, and so as it moves along the GI tract, it's still undigested, and that can create gas and trapped air. You can also, if it's, this is controlled by the gut bacteria, so a lot of times we saw in my clinic where somebody would go on antibiotics and then they'd be bloated for a significant period of time. So it can be that trapped gas, but it's coming from the gut bacteria, and I'll explain more on what you do to prevent that. The second thing is slow gastric emptying, and this is where food just sits in the gut too long, and it's fermenting in there. It's getting yeasty, as gross as that sounds, and so all of a sudden you start, the yeast starts to give off a gas, and it can start to create that bloated, and sometimes it can be really uncomfortable. So typically those are certain foods that will trigger it. I would say I've seen gluten trigger it. I've seen beer trigger it. I love beer, but I do not drink it because of the bloat. Sometimes it can be, for some people, a lot of fibrous foods. So again, we got to go to finding the root cause that's specific to you, but it's not always how quickly you are eating. Sometimes it's what you're eating, and sometimes it's when you're eating with stress. So the worst thing you can do if you're one of these people that is bloated is to stress eat, because when you are in stress, you're in sympathetic nervous system mode, and there is no digestion that happens there. Remember that the opposite of fight or flight, sympathetic mode is parasympathetic mode, and parasympathetic mode is rest and digest. So if we want to bring those stress hormones down, I highly recommend that you slow down when you eat and that you're not eating in a stress state. That way we're handling both of those possibilities. Okay, with that in mind, now let's dive into the spice. I know, I know, I kept you a long time waiting on the spice, but I really want you to understand the mechanism. Here's the spice. It's ginger. And really, there's a lot to know about ginger. So the first thing, and I love the statistics on ginger, because it should be proud of how well it's represented in peer-reviewed journals. So here are the key stats on ginger to know, is that it will help 50% faster gastric emptying, emptying, according to clinical studies, meaning that it moves it through the digestive tract better than if you don't have ginger. It also has six active anti-bloat compounds that have been identified. We're going to go through those in a moment. And I mean, when you're looking at science, it has 25,000 years of documented medicinal use. So here's how ginger works. And I want to go through each one of these mechanisms so that you really understand why you're using it. So first is it helps with gastric motility. It will speed up the emptying of food. And what the research is showing, this was a 2008 study, that 1.2 grams of ginger before a meal can cut gastric emptying time nearly in half when compared to a placebo. That same study also showed that there are two key active compounds in ginger. One is called gingerols, sounds like overall gingerols, and or show, showga alls, showga alls and gingerols, gingerols. This is like a new, a new outfit where you're unaware. And what it does is it stimulates 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptors in the gut wall. And these receptors control how fast the digestive muscles contract. How cool is that? Like, let me just stop and think about that for a moment. This is where my brain just geeks out when I'm like, are you kidding me? Nature created a substance that has a compound in it that goes into a receptor site in our gut that will cause the gut to improve the muscle contraction so it can increase gastric motility so the food doesn't sit there and ferment and cause bloating. What? Like, that is freaking miraculous. So ginger, the best way to think about ginger is ginger presses the gas pedal on gut motility. And when it's sitting there in your gut and it's not moving, that is when all the bloating and inflammation will start, will start, but ginger can help you with that. Okay, mechanism number two that science says about ginger, it has a carminative effect. So what does that mean? Ginger relaxes smooth muscle tissue, which is what the intestinal wall is all about. It's not like the fibrous muscle tissue of the muscles that we see on the outside, but on the inside is smooth muscle and it's got this thin saran wrap in it. And what happens when it does this is that it is able to keep again, the motility happening throughout your whole digestive system. It is anti-spasmodic, meaning that if there's anywhere in your whole gastric system where that smooth muscle is in a spasm, ginger is going to help to bring, not just help with the motility moving through, but it's going to unwind the spasm. Okay, number three is it's anti-inflammatory, meaning it calms the gut wall. Gut inflammation can cause fluid retention and the more inflammation in your gut, the more sensitive your gut is. So these gingerols act as COX-2 inhibitors. You know what else has COX-2 inhibitors? Ibuprofen. So we go to take ibuprofen to bring inflammation down so we can feel better. You can do the same with ginger because of these gingerols and it's more gentle, it's more better food and it's food-based. Everything should, we should try to heal everything with food. So it also has a pro-inflammatory cytokines. Remember cytokines? We all learned about cytokines during the pandemic. And so not only do these gingerols act like a natural ibuprofen, but they also inhibit any cytokine storm, any inflammatory reaction that your body might have to a food that would cause inflammation. So let's put this in terms of how I might use it. You might use this. I try to stay away from gluten. I have a gluten tolerance that if I start to tip over it, I feel horrible. Bloating is a very common one. So after doing research for this video, I was thinking, you know what I'm going to do when I, whenever I have gluten, which is rare, but if I do have it and I feel like there's some inflammation, I'm going to have some ginger because ginger is going to bring that inflammation down, but it also inhibits a cytokine reaction that's pro-inflammatory. I might even have it before the meal. So you try that and let's report back. There was a 2019 study that showed ginger supplementation significantly reduced gut inflammation markers in as little as four weeks. So this is consistency and research is showing that this is as effective as some of the medications you would take. And the result from four weeks of ginger supplementation or ginger eating, you take your pick, was less water retention, less sensitivity to foods, and less bloat. So how do you take your ginger in? So I want to, based off of research here, I'm going to show you three ways that are really easy. So first is fresh ginger tea. I do this all the time. I do this when I fast. It is the easiest. I do not buy ginger tea. I just buy the ginger root and I cut it up and I put it in one inch, little one inch coins, and I put it in hot water for 10 minutes. Sometimes I add a lemon and I drink it throughout the day. But according to this research, I would encourage you to drink 20 to 30 minutes before your biggest meal and report back. Option number two is ground ginger in food. So a half a teaspoon in stir fries or soups, maybe even smoothies, maybe your oatmeal. Even, you know, a quarter of a teaspoon can produce these measurable effects that we're talking about with gastric emptying and the anti-inflammatory piece. It doesn't take much. It could be a quarter of a teaspoon. And what I love about both of these is you don't have to supplement. You don't, that's not, these are not expensive tools. So we don't always have to reach for the supplement first. But the third one I will tell you is the supplement. And the research shows 250 milligrams of ginger root extract. It has been well studied and something as little as 250 milligrams. Some clinical trials have used one to two grams per day split across two meals. You're going to need to figure out what works best for you. You be your own and of one. But I know so many of you out there, especially my menopausal women, are really struggling with that bloated feeling. And it's not fun. I hear you. It's and it's not fun to walk around feeling like you look pregnant. So of all the things I could bring you today on helping bloat, this is the most impactful one. So I challenge you all, how about you all try doing the ginger tea 20 minutes before a meal every day and do it for one week and see what you notice. How do you feel after the meal? How does your belly feel? It's such an easy tool and so inexpensive. So my heart goes out to you, those of you that are feeling bloated. And I know that these hacks are going to really help you. And if they have, put it in the comments, but most importantly, nature and the human body once again, come together to heal. And I love this idea of us all diving into ginger to help with living. Let me know how it works. If you like this video, you're going to want to check out the next one.