 Okay, welcome to another solo episode. Today, what we're going to talk about are the principles that I wrote about in Eat Like a Girl. So, I'm really excited to share this with you. There are some really tried and true principles that all women should use when looking at their eating window. We're talking about the eating window. And how do you master the eating window? In Fast Like a Girl, what I was really helping women see is that they're going to be understanding people's understanding people's understanding people's understanding people understanding people's understanding people's understanding people's understanding understanding people's understanding people's understanding understanding people's understanding people's understanding understanding people's understanding people's understanding understanding people's understanding people's understanding fasting window, which is really cool and why so many of you got such great results. But then we saw that a lot of you really struggled to go back into your eating window. Food is complex and food has become toxic and our taste buds have been hijacked. And so with Eat Like a Girl, I wanted to give you some guiding principles, just like I gave you guiding principles with Fast Like a Girl. Here we go. Here is the five foundational food ideas that really everybody should follow. This one, I've been out doing podcasts, talking about the new book. And this one is really what people say to me in the foundational five is, well, isn't this good for both men and women? And the answer is yes. But again, the lens in which I see my work a lot through is the female body. So these five, are musts. And when you lose your way, let's come back to these five. So here they are. Principle number one of the foundational five is that your blood sugar matters, calories don't. Now, there are a lot of thoughts right now on calories. It's really surprising to me. If you haven't heard the interview I did with Stephen Bartlett on the diary of the CEO, we will link that in the notes to this show so you can go see it. But the second episode I did with him, we spent a lot of time talking about calories. And when you look at the science on calories, yes, it's prolific. I mean, there is a lot of research showing that a calorie is a way of understanding the energy that is required to absorb that food into your body. And if you take in too much energy and you don't have enough energy output, then yes, you will gain weight. There is a piece of that. And I'm not saying that that is wrong. What I'm saying is that is harder than shit to follow. Like I asked Stephen this. I was like, nobody that I know of has told me I counted my calorie input and my calorie output. And I did that every day of my life and it kept my weight where I want it to be. I'm sure there's somebody out there, but I have never heard somebody say that that worked for them. And this was really what I brought up to Stephen. I asked him when he said, what do you think of calorie counting? I said, well, have you ever succeeded at it? And he said, well, maybe for a day or two. So the calorie model is so broken because A, we can't follow it. And B, every time you decrease your input of calories and you increase your output of calories, you change your set point. And this is something that Dr. Jason Fung brought to us when he brought the obesity code, which really gets a lot of credit for being one of the original books that said, hey, we're looking at weight loss from a really different lens and it's broken. And we need to look at weight loss as a hormonal issue, not a calorie issue. And he actually, in the obesity code, he referenced something called the Minnesota starvation experiment. And the experiment went something like this. They took a group of men, quarantined them, and slowly started lowering their calorie input. And what they found is that the less calories they ate, the body changed its set point, its metabolic set point. And so they kept reducing the calories down and they kept losing weight until they came out of the experiment. I think the experiment went on for close to a year. And these men came out of the Minnesota starvation experiment and they were very, very thin. And then the minute they ate food, they just gained all the weight back, which was good in their scenario. But it was how we understood that there was this metabolic set point. And if we keep trying to eat less and exercise more, we are at risk of changing the set point. So we always have to eat more or eat less and exercise more to stay at that space. Now, if you put your lens on blood sugar, you bypass that whole experiment. And so the first principle is blood sugar matters, calories don't. And when you look through the lens of food from blood sugar, how do I put combination of food together to keep my blood sugar stable? How do I eat foods that keeps my blood sugar down and I don't end up with these huge blood sugar spikes? If we look at it from that lens, calories don't matter and you will not gain weight. I have seen it over and over and over again that the minute I can take your focus and I can put it over on blood sugar, now you literally can have your cake and eat it too. Because the combination of foods matters, and we'll talk about that in a moment. Like you can take a piece of carbohydrate and put it with a fat and you won't increase, you don't have a blood sugar spike. And if there's no blood sugar spike, then there's no insulin required from the pancreas. And if there's no insulin required, then we don't end up in insulin resistance. So when we look through the lens of blood sugar, we start to see we have more options. We have more flexibility. And when we have more flexibility and options within our food, we can sustain that. And so what I saw with Fast Like a Girl was so many of you went into this fasted state pulsing into it, and then you cleaned up the metabolic system. And the people that got the best results with what I taught in Fast Like a Girl, when they switched back into their eating window, they started to notice that they were not gaining weight. And I think I've told this story a thousand times, but if this is new to you, when I first started teaching this metabolic switch within my clinic, what I noticed was that people would go on vacation and they would come back in and they would say to me, oh my God, you have no idea how much I ate on vacation that was wrong, but I came home and I didn't gain a pound. And that's because I taught them the metabolic switch and how to eat to keep their blood sugar stable and how to tap into the fasted state so that they could keep bringing down the stored glucose and keep getting rid of any glucose that's been stored in fat and make their cells insulin sensitive again. So I really want you to get this because it's freedom. It's food freedom when you just say, I'm not going to look at calories. I'm going to look at everything that I eat through the lens of what is it doing to my blood sugar. As we speak right now, I've got a blood sugar reader on and I wear one. I used to wear one twice a year and I'm now wearing it like once a month because I'm just looking and watching how my food combinations are. It just keeps me in check. So it's the greatest measurement. It's better than the scale. It's better than counting calories. It's a measurement of real time action of what my food is doing to my blood sugar. And I think blood sugar has gotten a lot of attention, which is great. I think we are hearing this more and more. You can go and listen to the podcast interview I did with the glucose goddess. And she has brought this message to so many of us in a brilliant way. So there's a lot of people saying this, which is why it had to be the first foundational rule was, I want to get you off calories. I talked about it in Fast Like a Girl. I was like, I want to get you all off this. But I understand that if you've been a calorie counter for a large part of your life, it's scary because calories was control. And so now what I want you to do is if you're going to control, want to have some control over your food, have control over your blood sugar. And again, we will put links to my favorite blood sugar reader in this. And if you want to know more about all the nuance around blood sugar, please message us and let us know. And maybe I'll just do a whole solo podcast just on all the ways you can analyze your blood sugar. But foundational principle number one is pay attention to your blood sugar. Your blood sugar matters. Calories don't. Okay. Principle number two of the foundational five is eat nature's food, not human-made food. So this is another one that's not necessarily unique, but it's mandatory. Just like when I went to go right, eat like a girl, I was like, we have to get some of the old thinking out of your brain, but I can't just tell you this is bad. I want to replace it with some new thinking. So if you want to control something, control blood sugar. If you are tired of counting carbohydrates, which a lot of us are, or counting protein, and we'll talk about protein here in a moment. It's in the rigidity of counting that I think people go into these diets and they're like, at first they like the, like, tell me the rules. Okay. Like you'll see in my cookbook or in, in eat like a girl, which is a food book at the front section and a cookbook in the back section. I was like, okay, how can I get some of you off the counting of the carbohydrates? But I also gave you some guidelines. Like I have two eating styles in this book. I introduced it to you in fast like a girl. One is called ketobiotic. And in ketobiotic, we keep your carbohydrate level low. And I like it around 50 grams and net carbs, which means you have to factor in the fiber. And the other style is hormone feasting foods where we actually purposely bring your carbohydrate load up so that you have enough glucose for progesterone. Okay. My baby's coming to you. Eat like a girl. You want to know the foods that will support hormones? Guess what? I have them for you already. It's a free giveaway. Just click the link above and I'll send you a list of all the foods that support amazing hormonal health. So both of those eating styles are carbohydrate driven. Like I have some real strong feelings about how we want to make look at these two different eating styles through the carbohydrate lens. But before I could introduce ketobiotic and hormone feasting to you in a very detailed way in eat like a girl, I really want you to get out of counting carbohydrates to a point in which it is now become a rigid, disciplined food principle that you can't stick with over time. And I wanted to introduce this idea that we need carbs are good sometimes and they need to be nature's carbs. Human-made carbs are absolutely what's killing us. And another way that we say it is ultra-processed foods. Ultra-processed foods are incredibly high in refined carbohydrates and they will spike your blood sugar. And so let's just move to that second principle of when you go to pick a carbohydrate out, ask yourself, you know, did this come from the earth? The earth didn't make anything that wasn't helpful to us. So a banana that's really high in carbohydrates, there's a time and place for it. We need bananas when we need potassium. We need bananas when we need to make progesterone, which is why it makes it a very, very good hormone feasting food. But when we want to lose weight and stabilize our blood sugar, we might need to bring, get the banana out of the diet and go more keto-biotic and bring that, take a different lens of that carbohydrate. So in this conversation, I feel like I'm having with all of you, I really want you to see that carbohydrates are not bad. But when we move to refined carbohydrates, now we have a problem. And there's so much coming out right now about ultra-processed foods. I'm really feeling encouraged that so many people are calling this toxic food out. But where I think we're lost is in nature's carbohydrates. And to go one step deeper into this, what I want to tell you is that keto-biotic works really good for estrogen. It does not make you more estrogen, but it makes you insulin sensitive, which creates a beautiful environment within your body to allow your age-appropriate estrogen to be produced by your body. When you are in a state of insulin resistance, that's when we see estrogen have challenges. And a perfect example of that is the woman going into her perimenopausal years. Estrogen starts to go low, and then it creates a more insulin-resistant environment. And you need to make sure that you keep your carbohydrate low so that you don't start to gain weight. And I saw this so many times in my clinic where people were doing just fine with their diet until they went into perimenopause. And then they went into perimenopause, and that diet didn't work anymore. And so we had to pulse some lower-carb days where we don't bring the banana in. We don't bring mangoes and the tropical fruit. But then, like I told you in Fast Like a Girl, on other days, we needed to bring those tropical fruits back, and we needed to bring the sweet potato back and bring glucose up for progesterone's needs. So this is the nuance of the female body, is that our two major sex hormones actually have two different environments that they like. And you could almost look at it like I can use myself as an example. Like, I'm a very social human, and sometimes I like environments that are very outgoing and have lots of people around. And then sometimes I like environments that are quiet and no people. So we need to hold both those truths, which is what I did with a ketobiotic lens. I said, hey, sometimes the female body needs lower amounts of insulin production in order to support age-appropriate estrogen. But then other times, your body needs more glucose to support progesterone. So I gave you hormone-feasting foods. And just to make it easier for all of you, the way that I divvied up these recipes in Eat Like a Girl is there's a whole section on the ketobiotic ones and a whole section on hormone-feasting ones. So that when you have this book in your hand and you're making these recipes, you know what they fit in. But you'll see, I didn't put macro counting on each recipe because I want to free us from macro counting. It's gotten a little obscene now. And my lens is always freeing women from the constraints of health that have been placed upon us. We've already been told, so you do this, don't do that. And all I'm saying is, okay, let's focus on blood sugar. And now let's focus on nature's carbs. Let's just lean in on nature's carbs. And when you want to help support estrogen, we eat the lower glycemic nature's carbs so we don't spike glucose. And when we want to cater to progesterone, then we eat the higher glucose nature's carbs. But they're both nature's carbs. Okay, so that's principle number two. I wish I could see all your faces to see how, because this is really important. It takes us out of this fighting that seems to be happening in the nutritional world of do this, don't do this. Women, as women, we've had enough do this, don't do this. Like the last thing we need is more freaking food rules that shame us and make us feel guilty. Like I'm trying to give you a new relationship with food. And food is healing. And when we want to heal our estrogen system, we lean into the foods that are lower on the glycemic index. And that means carbs that are more like lettuces. And you'll see I have lists after list in here of, here are the carbs that estrogen loves. And then when we go over to progesterone, here are the carbs that progesterone loves. And now we have more to work with, and we're not in this rigid mindset. Okay, so that was number two. Now, number three, this one I love, and I really want to continue to bring this home for you all that especially those of you that are struggling with sugar addiction or carb addiction. I want you to hear this really clearly. The third foundational five principle that I wrote in this book is eat for your microbes, not your taste buds. Now, it would be easy in that discussion to feel like I'm telling you to eat tasteless food. I'm not saying that. Wait till you try these recipes in this book. They were performed by two different chefs, celebrity chefs that are celebrity in their worlds. One is a plant-based chef, Chef Leslie, and then one is Chef Jeff, who is an expert in all styles of eating, but also has a unique lens through looking at meat and cooking meat in an incredibly tasty way. So when we look at eating for your microbes, what we need to understand is it's your microbes that determine your taste buds. I want to say that again. Your bacteria in your gut tell your taste buds what to crave. An incredible example of this is candida. Anybody who's ever had candida has a massive sugar addiction because candida is a fungus inside the gut that tells the brain and the taste buds eat more sugar, drink more alcohol in order to keep that fungus alive. But if you starve out that fungus, you no longer get those signals. And I am living proof of it. When I was in my 20s and I had chronic fatigue syndrome, the first thing I did was go on a candida diet. And when you get eat like a girl, I wrote a beautiful acknowledgement to the doctor that taught me this because I was craving carbs and carbs were causing me to gain weight at this time. And they were suppressing my immune system, which was causing Epstein-Barr virus to accelerate within my body. And this incredible doctor put me on a candida diet, which was meat and vegetables basically. And within two weeks, I started dropping weight and I started getting my energy back and my taste buds changed. I stopped craving sugar. So if we go and make choices through the lens of the microbiome, then now we are repopulating the microbiome and the microbiome is so key for breaking hormones down. When I feed more and more of the bad bacteria, I get more and more bad cravings. There's also some really interesting research on chocolate. They found the strain of bacteria that makes you crave chocolate. I also found a study. And if you listen to the episode I did with Dr. Kate Shanahan about fat, I found an interesting study that fats, and you'll go listen to that episode. We dove into the study to see if it was toxic fats. They didn't say my suspicion is it's toxic fats. The toxic fats start to change the microbiome and cause an upregulation of bad bacteria that shut off GLP-1, which is this semi-glutide that everybody's all excited about because if you can upregulate GLP-1, you can kill hunger. But part of the story that's not being told is it was in the fats that changed that semi-glutide within your gut. So now you're having a different experience with food. You're wanting to eat more. The foods we eat change the microbiome. And as the microbiome changes, it tells us to eat more of either the right or the wrong foods. So you get to pick. What do you want to do? Do you want to crave more of the right foods or do you want to crave more of the wrong foods? It's up to you. So as you're eating and going around day after day after day, you are building a microbiome that tells you what you should crave. One of my favorite original introduction to fasting was through the lens of a researcher who wrote a book called the Every Other Day Diet. And she took a group of people that were addicted to toxic food and were overweight and had incredible metabolic markers that were all off. And what she did is she said, okay, eat whatever food you want to eat one day and then the next day fast. And then the next day, eat whatever food you want to eat and then the next day fast. And what she found is she did this for a year. That's why it's called the Every Other Day Diet. And she found that the days off from the toxic food let the microbiome repair itself. And throughout the year, not only did the metabolic markers change for the person, like hemoglobin A1c came down, blood pressure came down, and liver enzymes healed, and cholesterol changed. But what surprised her is their food choices changed. And those of you who've heard me talk about the story of the young man, Todd, who I helped overturn a food addiction and he lost 175 pounds, we applied this. He was addicted to Western food. And so instead of taking that Western food away, I taught him to fast. And then I taught him to add in like fiber and add in good foods, prebiotic, polyphenol, probiotic foods that would help to create better bacteria in his gut. So now changing his food habits isn't a discipline issue. It is actually an innate feeling inside of him because his taste buds changed, because his microbiome changed, then he made different food choices. I hope you're getting this because it's huge when we go and feed the microbiome. And I have all kinds of lists in here about different foods that really do a good job feeding your microbiome, specifically the astrobilome, which is the set of bacteria that break down estrogen, which is really important for perimenopausal and menopausal women. Okay. Principle number four is protein is the hero macronutrient. Now, this one is really important because protein is having its day. And there's a lot of conversation on protein. You've probably heard me even talk about protein a lot here on this channel and on my podcast, but we're back at counting again. We can't keep counting. So the rhetoric that's getting out there is one gram of protein for every pound of ideal body weight. That's what we should be focused on. But it's hard to sustain that. So I want to just flip that and say, protein is the hero. So when you're looking to put food together in combination, and when you're looking at a day's worth of eating, ask yourself, do I have protein at every meal? This is why I love beef sticks. And my favorite is paleo valley beef sticks. I walk around eating that all day. This is why I love eggs, hard boiled eggs. I've gotten really back into tofu. For those of you that are plant-based, hanging out with Chef Leslie's just gotten me thinking about tofu and tempeh. And I'm bringing back a lot of different sources of protein, knowing it's the hero nutrient, but I'm not counting because I know I'm going to lose focus and I can't sustain the count. So when we come to the protein model, we want to make it front and center. It's like the main actress that we're looking at when we look at a meal. But then we need supporting actresses too, which is why we need things like fiber. So one of the things that I really focus on when I put a meal together, and we're going to talk about how to put a meal together for Eat Like a Girl, is you want to build a meal around protein and then put the supporting actress fiber with her. And if you're doing that at every meal, now you're in sync with your hormones. But again, I've said this over and over again, but it's such a good quote, which is you don't need motivation to stay healthy. You need momentum. And when we start counting all this stuff, we lose motivation over time. I want you every year to get a little more momentum and a little more momentum with making good food choices. So protein is the hero. And then fiber is the supporting actress that needs to be with protein. So for example, I was putting a meal together for myself and I had a bunch of greens and I really loved, I have like some cool greens I'm mixing together. And I was looking at my options for protein in my house. And I found a can in my house of sustainable tuna that I, we are starting to, you know, I studied heavy metal toxicity for many years in my clinic. We did tons of heavy metal toxicity. And the minute I learned about mercury and how much mercury is in tuna, then all of a sudden I was like, no more tuna. But then I learned about certain tunas coming from certain waters don't have as high mercury content and these tunas have been tested. So now I'm like, I'm bringing tuna back because tuna has some other nutrients in there that can be really helpful. So I, and I'm always varying my protein sources. So if you are a meat eater, like I will look at like, they have some really cool meats that are like ancestral blends where they like put grass fed beef with some organ meat in there. And it's a great way to get the organ meat in because I don't know about you, but the organ meat is not very tasty for me. So you mix it in with other things. So there's also buffalo meat and there's different types, you know, there's several different types of poultry. And so the goal with protein is this diversity of it, of like bringing in as many as, as much different sources because the amino acid profile will be different, but then also making sure that we're putting fiber with it because fiber, as I've taught you all acts like a net where it slows down the glucose response. So we, and then it feeds the microbiome. It was a really yummy salad. And, but I, I, I put it together through this lens of these things I'm teaching you. And one of them is proteins, the hero macronutrient. Okay. Now, number five, this one is really important because some of you still are in this lane. And I, I feel like as a culture, we're starting to get out of the lane, which is fat doesn't make you fat, but the wrong fat does make you fat. So just like I'm trying to repattern the way that we look at carbohydrates, let's stop the counting. Let's focus, focus on natures with fat. The low fat movement is the, it was the beginning of the obesity epidemic. So what we want to do is we want to make sure we engage in the right fats. And I've brought you lots of people on this podcast, one being Kate Shanahan to talk about the impact of bad fats and to lean into the good fats. And again, make sure you go and listen to that because she has a list and we talk about it in the podcast interview about what are the appropriate fats. And I also put lists of bad fats and good fats in eat like a girl, but let's not fear the carbohydrate and let's not fear fat. Let's just get educated on those. So when you eat the right fats, you are providing a nutrient that your body needs. So one of the guiding principles I wrote in eat like a girl is called the key 24. And in the key 24, these are the 24 nutrients that you need to be able to make hormones. And one of those nutrients is omega-3 fatty acids. So you need omega-3 fatty acids in order to make hormones. But then you also need polyphenols to support the set of bacteria that break that hormone down. And one of the best polyphenol rich foods is olive oil. So we don't want to fear fat. We just want to in our brains separate out that there are fats we avoid and there are fats that we lean into. Same concept, right? There are carbs we avoid and there are carbs we leave it lead into. It's rhythmic. I hope you see there's a pattern here of rhythm. Sometimes we fast. Sometimes we don't fast. Sometimes we work hard. Sometimes we rest, right? Like everything is cyclical. Okay, check this out. I have a free fasting guide for you all. It's free and it's going to teach you all the basics of fasting. It's going to teach you how to kill hunger when you fast, which is really cool. And it's going to show you how to break your fast among many other things. All you got to do is click on this link right here and enjoy. So fat doesn't make you fat. You need fat. You need the right kind of fats, not the wrong kind. And this is the thing. Those of you that are in my Reset Academy, I've been really talking recently a lot about stop making a reel on socials. These 90-second clips don't build your health habits around these 90-second clips. And the reason I say that is because they should be ahas. You see a 90-second reel and you should be like, oh, that's interesting. Let me go and find the deeper information. And I think I've done this on a solo episode with you all before. And the reason that we lose our way when we start to look for soundbite information is because you're not getting the nuance that I'm now giving you. So it's in episodes like this that give you that depth of information so that you're able to make smarter decisions for yourself. The last thing I want to say on fat doesn't make you fat is that I will continue to be the champion for your body. And when you are eating the wrong foods, your body will tell you by storing fat, by you gaining weight. What your body's saying to you when you gain weight is, you have been giving me too much of something I don't know what to do with. And it's harmful to the body. So what I want to do is I want to store it in fat to protect your internal organs. And then we go to the mirror or we go to the scale and we start getting upset. And your body's over there like, hey, hey, hey, like I'm saving your life. Don't be mad at me. So we have to learn how to read the clues that the body is giving us. And those clues, one of them is you're gaining weight. And you're not gaining weight because you were undisciplined. You're gaining weight because the food system wants to keep you addicted to toxic food that your brilliant body is now taking all those toxins and storing it as fat. So we want to look at it as a message from the body to eat differently and not as a message to your own brain that you messed up. So please relieve yourself of that. So those are the five foundational five principles that I put in the book. Again, I have so many lists to help back those up. Like I'm looking right now at the book and there's like one page where I put a whole list of how do you eat to support your microbiome. I have a whole list of carbohydrates that support estrogen and carbohydrates that support progesterone. So within these principles, I've put lists to help guide you. So now if you and I are having a discussion about how do I master this eating window, I just gave you the foundational five. Let's start the conversation there. Now once you have those five, and what I would encourage you to do is just write these five down. Blood sugar matters, not calories. Nature's carbs, not human made carbs. Eat for your microbes, not your taste buds. Fat doesn't, protein's the hero macronutrient and fat doesn't make you fat. Write those down. Put them on your refrigerator. Put them somewhere you can see so that you're always guiding yourself through that foundation. If you get any of those steps off, your metabolic switch may get rusty and fasting could get hard and losing weight could be difficult and your hormones may be out of balance. But we got to start there. Okay, where are my gals that are struggling with hormonal imbalance? Bloated, feeling like you're not making progress with weight loss. You need to add these foods in so that you can support better hormonal health. There is a lifestyle that estrogen wants you to live. And there is a lifestyle that progesterone wants you to live.