 p pediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediediedi how nutrient depleted our food is now. And how do you make a better choice? Because actually this nutrient depletion is, we are starting to see some really bad health effects from the fact that our food doesn't have as many nutrients in it. Now, first, I just overall want you to know that research, and there's a lot of it, the other video shows you it each research study in general, but over the last 75 years, there's been a 25 to 50% drop in the nutrient density of our fruits and vegetables. So let's go back to what your grandma told you. Your grandma said eat your vegetables because why? So you can be healthy, but if you're eating vegetables from the wrong farm, that's literally what it is now, you're not necessarily getting the nutrients you need. So I want to walk you through the process of how do you pick the right food. So here we go. One, you want to avoid GMO crops, okay? Genetically modified crops. Now, let's think this through as well, because I think there's been a lot of debate over GMO foods and non-GMO foods, and you have to remember that genetically modified foods were meant to be more bacteria resistant, meaning that the farmer could actually yield more crop and make more money. So genetically modified was a term and a style of farming that allowed the farmer to win. But in order for the, when the farmer's winning, let's just put it this way, when the farmer is winning and getting more profit and yielding more food, that often means less nutrient density. And what we know is that there is a huge reason that you should be avoiding GMO foods. And let me explain why. So the biggest problem is you have a genetically modified food that is what they call Roundup Ready Crop. These foods are modified to survive glyphosate. Okay, walk this through with me. Don't click off. I want you to understand this. This is life-saving what I'm teaching you here right now. I'm not joking. GMO foods are meant to survive one of the harshest pesticides on the planet. And it's called glyphosate. And glyphosate, I've done tons of videos on it, is actually driving toxins deeper into our tissues. Glyphosate destroys our microbiome. Glyphosate has been linked to all kinds of hormonal problems. Glyphosate has been linked to learning disabilities. Like, this is a nasty pesticide. And the brilliant agricultural Big Ag basically came up with a genetically modified seed that they could yield a lot of product with. And they could spray the shit out of it with glyphosate so that this seed had to be able to handle this really toxic pesticide. So glyphosate and genetically modified foods go hand in hand. And the challenge with that is glyphosate destroys the nutrients and the microbes that are in soil. So think about your food growing in soil. Whatever is in the soil, whatever positive bacteria, whatever nutrients are in the soil, as the plant grows, it's grabbing the nutrients from the soil in order to grow strong and big. And that becomes a nutrient-dense food. But if the soil's already depleted, then there's no nutrients for it to grow from. So even though it may look beautiful, it literally doesn't have the same amount of nutrients because of the glyphosate. And then there's something else called monocropping, where they're going in and they're just tilling over and over these fields that our food is grown in. And it keeps weakening and weakening and weakening the soil. It really comes back to the soils are depleted because of this way of farming. So whenever you see genetically modified, I want you to think glyphosate. I want you to think toxicity. And I want you to think this food, if it's not, doesn't say non-GMO, this food is nutrient deficient. This is why I want you to start looking for the label on your food that says non-GMO. Non-GMO means that that food isn't being grown in this torturous, toxic way. Does that make sense? And science is all over the place. There was a 2019 review that found that glyphosate interferes with soil bacteria and binds to the nutrients that are in there. So not only is there not as many nutrients, but there's actually this glyphosate is binding to the nutrients, making it even worse. And this review that I just commented on, they found that glyphosate persists for years after spraying. So you are continuing to see the degradation of those soils. And this one's fascinating. There was a 2020 study that showed that Bayer, well, Monsanto, the company that orchestrates glyphosate and genetically modified foods, has paid more than $10 billion in cancer lawsuits to 40,000 people, all of who developed non-Hodgkin lymphomas cancer after being exposed to glyphosate. So this is not, we're not, I mean, when we invented GMO foods and glyphosate, we weren't thinking about the human, we were thinking about the farmer's profit. So if you want food that's nutrient dense, make sure that it's non-GMO. Okay. Second thing is you want to buy organic whenever possible, because now you're not getting glyphosate, plus you're not getting other endocrine disruptors. I can tell you here in America, depending on when you're watching this, our president just like accepted and allowed Forever Chemicals to be a pesticide that gets sprayed on our food. Another win for Big Ag. So what that means now is not only do we have glyphosate on there, but we have Forever Chemicals, and Forever Chemicals have been linked to all kinds of hormonal problems. Probably one of the biggest is infertility. So I think like when I was first in practice over 30 years ago, I used to say to my patients, hey, you should buy organic. And some of them would say back to me, well, it's a little more expensive than I would like to. And so I would be like, okay, I totally get that. I'm going to say what the most expensive thing to do, especially here in America, is get sick. If you get sick, your hospital bills, your healthcare bills are going to be really large. So how about we keep you healthy by making smart choices like staying away from crops that have been sprayed with pesticides? And a 2010 study found that the organic produce, the one that's not sprayed, is more nutrient-dense. And here's the fascinating reason for this, and the study goes into this. We'll put all the links at the bottom. The fascinating reason, it's just like fasting, think this through with me, is that when you spray pesticides on, let's say, broccoli, that broccoli doesn't have to become nutrient-rich in order to fight off harsh weather conditions, bacteria that are trying to eat at it, hot sun coming down on it. So we manipulate it by spraying these pesticides onto the food, and so the food doesn't have to be strong, which means it doesn't have to build a resilience packed with antioxidants. If you do not spray that food, that particular broccoli, lettuce, whatever is being grown from the ground, has to make its own nutrients. It has to find some nutrients to pull into the food to protect it from insects, and to be able to handle harsh winters, and to be able to handle harsh sun. So it has to come with an internal resource, and so it is more nutrient-dense because it is forced to become more nutrient-dense. Did you catch that? So even though we go, well, I might, and I'm going to talk about the cost of organic in a moment, we know that organic produce has higher levels of vitamin C, has higher levels of magnesium, iron, and phosphorus because it is forced to be able to create that. But if I spray it with a pesticide, now the pesticide is doing all the work, and the internal crop doesn't have to do that kind of work. Make sense? Kind of like fasting. When you go into a fasted state, your body has to repair itself. But when you eat, those repair mechanisms don't turn on. When you spray a crop, that crop doesn't have to become nutrient-dense, but when you don't spray it, now that crop is forced to make its own nutrients inside to protect itself. But when you eat that, you now get those nutrients. Does that make sense? It's like, I really want you all to get this. So just keep in mind, without the protection of pesticides, organic crops have to deal with a lot more threats, and they end up more antioxidant-rich. So, okay, what if you're like, well, shoot, I don't know if I can afford, like let's use an avocado as an example. If I'm sitting in the market, and I look at an organic avocado compared to a non-organic avocado, it's about a $4 difference per avocado. That's a lot. So I can tell you, for me, I looked at that, and I was like, well, there's a skin on the outside. That's a good thing. So it protected it in some way to have this skin. So the pesticides, maybe that were being sprayed on the skin, are not seeping into the fruit that I'm going to eat. So I'm not eating pesticides, but we still have the nutrient issue. So, but I, I mean, just FYI, I always eat, we always buy non-organic avocados because of the $4 difference. It just seems a little obscene. But the good news is that there's an organization, a nonprofit out there called the Environmental Working Group, and they've come up with something called the Dirty Dozen and the Clean 15. And the Dirty Dozen are the 12 things you really need to stay away from. And I'm going to read them to you right now. Spinach, strawberries, kale, collard, mustard, greens, they put that in one category, grapes, peaches, cherries, nectarines, pears, apples, blackberries, blueberries, and potatoes. These are the ones you absolutely need to buy organic. These are the ones that are being sprayed the most, and these are the ones that are being affected by the depletion of nutrients due to the spraying. So, if all you did is swap out your spinach, your strawberries, the ones I just named, and made sure those were not organic, that's not necessarily going to be a huge expense to you. So, make sure you buy those whenever possible. Okay, so the first one was non-GMO. We're not buying genetically modified food. Okay, we're also trying to buy organic. Now, the third step is you want to eat grass-fed meat, pasture-raised poultry, and wild-caught fish. Now, I grew up in a household with a total nutrition nut as a mom, and I got to tell you that I have been eating healthy since I was a kid, and we never, back in the 70s and the 80s, we never had to use terms like grass-fed or pasture-raised or wild-caught, and that's largely because just like our crops have been depleted of nutrients, our meat has been pumped with hormones and antibiotics, and if you're taking like a chicken, for example, that has been in a cage, it hasn't been out on the pasture moving around, so same thing as the plant that hasn't been forced to create its own nutrient. If the animal you are eating hasn't been forced to exercise and move around or eat from a regenerative farm that has a lot of biodiversity, then it's anemic of nutrients, and it's packed with antibiotics and chemicals like growth hormone, which is a massive endocrine disruptor, and it starts to affect your hormones. So, I mean, this is the sad state. I'm like depressed even doing this video, but I want you to understand these buzzwords and how to eat so that you're getting what you need to be healthy. So, start looking for things like grass-fed meat. For example, a 22 study found that grass-fed beef has more omega-3s and a better omega-3-6 ratio and higher micronutrient content than conventional beef because that cows off on a pasture eating from grass as opposed to the cow in a conventional farm that is being caged in and feeding grain. Now, here on this channel, we've talked so much about what the positives and the negatives of grains are, but I don't think we realize that we're eating a grain-fed animal that there's actually going to be a higher glycemic expense of that. It's actually going to spike your glucose like a piece of bread would. So, we want to make sure that we're getting you into a grass-fed type beef and it's more nutrient-dense plus you don't get that glucose spike. So, and the other thing that we know about animals that are grass-fed and pasture-raised is their environment is so much healthier. So, they're out ranging around on big fields. So, because they have so much open space, they actually don't have to use as many antibiotics because these animals don't get as sick as the conventional animals do. And the wild-caught is also a very interesting one. When I go to a restaurant, I love salmon and I will always ask, is it wild-caught or is it farm-raised? Same concept. If it's farm-raised, it's raised in a pond where the fish are really tight and they haven't been able to swim in large, open, cold water. A wild salmon that comes from Alaska where it's been in a wild, in a cold water where it can swim and be free is going to be able to build more nutrients, specifically omega-3. And when you look at why do you eat salmon, I mean, some of us love the taste of us, some of us don't, but don't we eat it for the omega-3s? Don't we eat it for the nutrition? Well, if you're doing it farm-raised, you're not eating it for the nutrition. So, when I go to a restaurant, I always ask, and if they say, oh, it's farm-raised, I usually, nine out of ten times, won't order it because it's nutrient deficient. I'll only order it if I'm, like, really looking for the taste of salmon. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl, and I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer-reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book, and I can't wait for you to get it. So, and then the fourth thing, and I'm going to call this a bonus tip, is that when you go to shop, I really want you to start reading these labels, and I want you to look for some buzzwords, and there are two buzzwords that tell you, hey, they did something different with this food that made it more nutrient-dense, and it's the buzzword of biodynamic, specifically in produce. Biodynamic produce means that they, just kind of like biodynamic wine, means that they use the moon. They plant it according to the moon so that they didn't have to use as many herbicides and insecticides. So they don't have to spray it as much when they do biodynamic farming. The other bonus tip is anything that says regenerative farms. So I'll give you an example. Our daughter lives in Idaho, in Victor, Idaho, and we were in a store there, and I found the most perfect bag of potato chips. And you know, Idaho, if you, those of you outside the country don't know this, maybe, but Idaho is known for its potatoes. So I look at this bag of potato chips, and it literally has every buzzword on it, biodynamic, organic, non-GMO, and then it said from a regenerative farm. Well, what that means is if I'm eating a potato chip from a potato that came from a regenerative farm, and it wasn't sprayed, that this potato chip, how many of us love potato chips? This potato chip actually has more nutrients in it, and they even went on to make sure that they put the right oils in there. They did it with avocado oil. I literally hold this bag of chips up in this supermarket in the middle of nowhere, and I'm like, this is a masterpiece of a potato chip, and I love potato chips. So these buzzwords allow you to eat guilt-free some of your favorite foods. So look for regenerative and look for biodynamic. Now, a 22 study found that these farming approaches lead to more nutrient-dense crops, specifically more vitamins, more minerals, and phytonutrients. So if you're looking to get your nutrition out of your food, you've got to follow these buzzwords. And I know you're going to ask me what the brand of the potato chip is, so we'll put a link in the bottom. It's a family-owned business, too. It's just the whole thing was a big win. So when we look at using food as medicine, when you have conversations with loved ones where you say, well, I don't need to take supplements because I eat a good variety of food, I want you to ask yourself the question of, am I getting food from nutrient-dense places? Is it non-GMO? Is it organic? Is it coming from a regenerative farm? Are they using biodynamic principles? chemicals? These 10, 20 years ago used to be laughable. I mean, we were like, really? You're going to pay that much more? But we have now hit a moment that you're either going to pay more for those or you're going to make a decision to supplement and pay for supplements, which you can also pay for, or you're going to pay for disease. So you decide which way you want to pay. And for me, I would way rather buy food from the right farm so that I'm getting the right nutrients than spend that same money on supplements or pay that same money on doctor's bills. It's a sad truth of where we are today. So there are my tips for more nutrient-dense foods. And then I also just want to point out that you all have asked me over the years, like, should I take supplements or can I get everything in food? I hope you understand the answer to that question. So let me know if that helps. Let me know if you have more questions. I want you to know that at the time of doing this video, 2026, I'm reading all these YouTube questions. I may not answer them all, but I'm reading them all. And they're very helpful for me to understand what kind of videos you all need. So please give me comments. Also, I'm putting out new videos almost every day now. So make sure you come back. I'm very fired up. I've put out my three books. My trilogy of Like a Girls are out into the world. And I'm focused now on educating you here on YouTube. So let me know what you need to hear. As always, do not give up on yourself. This is where I get frustrated. We think we're doing all the right food things. We just got the wrong farm. Let's get the right farm so you get the right nutrients so you can thrive with your health. So as always, I hope that helps and I'll see you tomorrow. Okay. If you love this video, you're going to want to check out the next video of my food series. I on this video want to talk about the healthy foods that you might be eating that will stop you from a long and healthy life.