acoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoacoaco every new patient gets an emotional treatment and workup. That's beautiful. Yeah. Because- This is why you're my go-to clinic. Anybody who wants to know where to go for cancer, I send them to you. You treat the human condition without addressing the spiritual, psychological, emotional aspect of a human being. Yeah. It's so beautiful. So, okay, what if I'm 45? Is the Dutch test still helpful? Yeah, great, but do it on day 19, 20, or 21. Got it. Okay, so a little- Because that's when progesterone's the highest. So that's when you do the Dutch test. So I do both. You do both. So I'll do serum. I do serum and the Dutch test. Now for menopausal, I use doctor's data test because it's a little more comprehensive for menopausal women. For the blood test? No, for urine. Urine. Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah. Okay. And then for, like I said, cortisol, I'll do the saliva cortisol test. Right. So you'll do those three. And how often, so if I'm, let's say I'm in my late 40s, I'm on HRT, what would be the normal routine that a doctor would run all that? Once a year, twice a year? Once a year. Yeah. It depends on the stability. If a patient's not stable, you got to check the blood. Got it. Yeah. So if you're not stable and if you're not zen, then we need to, you know, we need to change things, you know? Yeah. So through your lens, you would say HRT has some real benefits, but we need to put it in a package, a holistic package that's unique for that patient. Right. And then you also have to address someone's existence. Are they sleeping? If you don't sleep, how are you going to have good hormones? Yeah. Because the sleep disturbs their hypothalamic pituitary axis. Right. Okay. So you've got to get that in order and over 50% of the population doesn't sleep. Yeah. It's really true. And don't take sleeping pills. Yeah. Or benzodiazepines, because those increase cancer risk. Oh, wow. And dementia risk, et cetera. Okay. Okay. Then are you drinking water? Most people don't drink water. Yeah. Very few. It's half your body weight plus 10 if you do it. When you do exercise, you have to add another 10. Okay. And you've got to drink purified water, some kind of purified water. Okay. And because water provides electricity to your body. That's what people don't understand. Your cells won't have electricity if you don't have water. That's why when people go on a hike and get lost, they die within three days. They never starve. It's they die because of no electricity to the cell. Interesting. Then you've got to eat foods that nourish and strengthen and heal your body. And you have to eat real food. I know that's an unusual concept, but it is you've got to eat real food. Yeah, get off the package. If you read and you need to be a chemist to read the label, then you know this is probably not going to serve you, even though everything is chemistry. But you've got to eat foods. Like every food is like a QR code to turn that cell on. Okay. And then you've got to move your body. And you can't just, you can't just like walk. We all, men and women need to do walking or an activity, something they like, because if they don't like it, it's not going to happen. And then you have to do weights because now your muscle mass is a vital sign. And so you've got to like, we check everyone's muscle, fat, phase angle, et cetera, hydration, you know, doing a test. That's beautiful. Yeah. So, and then you're not going to burn calories if you don't have muscle. Like while you're sitting, my muscles burning calories. Right. So the more muscle you have, and then your muscles have mitochondria, the more you exercise, the more the mitochondria, the more the energy. That's what people don't understand. Right. And it's just like, this is the way the body works. Right. And women, I would say, do not do weights. Oh, interesting. Yeah. Most women. Well, first of all, I would say in 40 years, I would tell that I can get people to change their eating, but to exercise, it's a much more difficult. That's why gyms are able to stay open. Cause if everyone they signed up, went to the gym, they'd be overpacked. Overpacked. Right. Yeah. Right. And so I would say about 10% of the patients really exercise. Okay. But actually, and you got to incorporate exercise in your day. Don't think going to the gym. First of all, like, like don't add work to your work. Yeah. Like just go outside and take a walk. Yep. You can do pushups on the floor at home. I do my things on the floor at home. you know, I don't like, don't just think you have to go to a gym. Now, if a gym encourages you to exercise, or you've got someone to meet there with either a friend or a trainer. Okay, great. But incorporate activity in your day. Like I go and walk outside and have a meal. Okay. And so just, and, and, and change it up, you know, like variety is the spice of life. Okay. And, and, and let's say you can only, you can't even do a pushup. We'll get on the floor and just get on your knees and do one. And then one becomes two. Yeah. And then two becomes three. Okay. It's beautiful. You can do wall sits. Take, during commercials, you're watching a movie, whatever, go do a wall sit for a minute. Yeah. I mean, like so simple little thing. You know, it's, it's funny. That's another trend that I've been like, Oh my God. All of a sudden we're being told you got to lift heavy weights. You got to eat more protein. And like medical menopause has become this like extreme sport that you've got to keep up with. And I actually did a YouTube video this year that went viral. And I explained the things I was giving up. And one of the things I said, I'm giving up is the gym. I'm like, I don't, I don't want to be in the gym under synthetic lights with loud music, lifting heavy weights. Like it feels like it's going against my feminine body. And so many women responded to me and said, yeah, I can't, I'm like, I'd rather hike. I've got a forest behind me. I have an ocean in front of me. I surf every day. I'm like, I just want to move my body in a natural state. And then you're adding to this. Well, pushups, you know, wall sits, tricep dits. Like these are not, you don't need any equipment for this. Right. Yeah. Well, I didn't have a gym 50 years ago. Right. Outside. Okay. Right. Yeah. You didn't go to a gym. Okay. True. And so, and then like, are you really going to go? You got to say to yourself, are you going to really go? Okay. But I would say incorporate as much movement as you can. In your daily existence. So like, enjoy washing dishes. Enjoy doing anything. Like I like run up and down stairs. I have to go get something. I just, I go, Oh, I get to do more. I get to move more. You know? That's beautiful. And nature is your best medicine. Yep. I learned that. I want to be in nature because that's the ultimate balancer, the ultimate energy you get. People don't realize you get electrons from nature. Okay. So electrons neutralize abnormal chemicals in your body. So there it's, you know, in medicine, now they have a name for it. Forest bathing. I'm like, Oh my God. Now we have a name for it. It's like, Oh, just nature's name. I mean, come on. Like, let's just get out there. Yeah. Let's just get out there. And it doesn't have to be an hour because people like, it's like pressure. Yeah. So start with, I would tell people 15, 30 minutes. And then maybe like, sometimes I have to, I tell people five minutes every hour. Yeah. You know, somehow get it in, but you, you really, really, we know you decrease morbidity and mortality. The more muscle mass you have. Yeah. And it's a dramatic increase in longevity. So, and start. So it's important. Like I tell people, I show them how to do a wall sit. And I just go, if you can only do five seconds, get five seconds down. Yeah. Then go to 10 and then put on your favorite song, you know, whatever, but make it and make it fun. Make everything fun. You gotta like, you gotta say, I'm blessed to do this. Yeah. I agree. You know? So on the hormone replacement, before we move to two other really key topics, I want to talk about. Does it, does the delivery system matter? We've got creams, patches, pellets, trochies. I mean, it's, there's all over the place. It's yeah. You name it. Yeah. It's everything. Okay. And I've done it all. I've done every single one of them with the patients and probably personally too. So let, let it, we go by pharmacokinetics. So if you take a pill, you absorb or take anything, vitamins, pills, you absorb about 12 to 15%. Okay. If you use a cream, it's about 30% give or take because everyone's absorption is a little different. All right. If you do a shot, it's a hundred percent. If you do pellets, it's a hundred percent. Then you probably pump. Someone's going to probably say, Oh, then I'll just do a shot. Well, the problem with the shots, you know, you get this ebb and flow. Like it's not constant. Now, you get a big influx and then it goes down. Yeah. Right. And then if you do pellets, so pellets are an invasive procedure. I put a little anesthetic in, I make a teeny little incision and I slide the pellets in. Okay. So the problem also with the pellets, it's in a little invasive procedure every three months. So then you get a high peak and it goes down too. But some people swear by the pellets. Okay. So you know what I'm saying? They swear. That's what works. And so like, again, it's, you meet the patient where they are and you make the patient feel as best as possible. Yeah. So I primarily will use transdermal. Oh yeah. Yeah. Okay. Now with DHEA, I usually give it oral. Mm-hmm. Pregnenolone, oral. Mm-hmm. Testosterone is not absorbed orally. So you must do it transdermally through the skin. Yep. Progesterone. Like if I have women with fibrocytic breasts, I'll give them cream. All right. If they have fibroids, if they have PMS, I will give them time release progesterone, natural progesterone. Okay. Okay. So estrogen always pretty much topically because you bypass the liver. Mm-hmm. Yep. And I never used to use estradiol. I use nature, which is some estriol and estradiol. Yeah. Beautiful. Okay. And then the other thing is the estradiol cream that doctors give to, for women, for vaginal moisture. That isn't the best hormone for vaginal mucosa. The best is estriol. Mm-hmm. Estriol is E3. It's the weakest estrogen. Mm-hmm. And the best for the vagina. Okay. So if you have atrophy or dryness. Atrophy, dryness, or let's say you've had breast cancer, I'll use it for women to have, you know, so that they can have normal vaginal tissues. Yeah. That's beautiful. And you don't have to do it every day. You've got, you know, I have them do it one to three times a week, depending. I said, you figure out what you feel best on. Mm-hmm. Okay. That's beautiful. Then, what other hormones? So estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, pregnenolone, DHEA. So those are the main, I would say, core hormones. Yeah. But you made a very good point about, you must get your lifestyle in order. Mm-hmm. Because that is what makes it all work. Yeah. Like, I tell everyone, I was talking to my son this morning. And, you know, my kids grew up in this, so they know all this. Yeah, my kids too. Yeah. Like, my kids can talk better than I can. Yeah, exactly. Correct. Yeah. And so, and then they can tell you how to do everything. Exactly. Exactly. And so, anyway, so we were talking about, you know, like the biggest thing are these weight loss peptides. But people think that a weight loss peptide is going to outdo your nature, AI in your body that you already have. Yeah. Okay. And then it's not just doing a peptide. Okay. Did you talk to the person about their sleep? If you don't sleep, you gain weight. Yeah. water, eating, you know, exercise, stress. If you don't have that right, then how are you going to lose weight? That's right. And if you don't cleanse your body, I do the 21 day cleanse on all my patients, minimum once a year. They lose eight to 10 pounds with the 21 day cleanse, literally. And feel phenomenal. They say they can sleep better. They go, oh, we got our taste buds back. Yeah. Because that food is addicting. And it changes how yourself worked for you.