 Welcome to my Q&A series here on YouTube. Over the last decade, I've answered a lot of questions about fasting, breaking fast, timing of food, detox, exercise, you name it. I feel like I've been asked almost every question on the planet. And I know you all are searching for very specific answers, especially if you're in the middle of a fast, or you're about to do a fast, or you're trying to get your health back on track, you come to my channel looking for those answers. So I want to make it easier for you. I want to help empower you. So what I've done is I've taken the questions and my answer, and I have synthesized it for you here in this series, so that you can get exactly what you are looking for and help you build your own fasting lifestyle. But most importantly, I hope you understand that what I am teaching here on YouTube is how for you to personalize your health journey. You were born to be so powerful. Your body is a miracle, and I just want to help you discover that. So enjoy. Okay, so Miss Mandy wants to know regarding eye intermittent fasting, I keep hearing that anything over 16 hours releases more glucose into the body, raising blood sugar. What's your take on that? I love the urban myths. I'm going to just say it like it is. I'm going to say it like a woman who's watched millions of people fast, which I have. I call bullshit. Absolutely not. 16 hours, no way. Glucose is not being stored at 16 hours. So whoever's saying that out there is, it's wrong. Now, having said that, let's test it on you. So how would you test when glucose is being dumped? You put a continuous glucose monitor on. That is the best way. And go in to some fasting. First time I put a continuous glucose monitor on, we didn't even have them accessible. I actually had a friend whose daughter was a type one diabetic, and she was done with an old version of a continuous glucose monitor and was going to a new one and offered me the equipment for the old version. And I was like, yes, please, because we didn't even have it then. And so the first thing I did is I went into a three-day water fast. Somewhere around hour 24, I noticed that all of a sudden my glucose spiked. And I was like, oh, look at that. It's sugar is dumping. And so my body was releasing stored sugar. And so what ended up happening was when I looked at that, I was like, oh, okay, well, let me see how quickly it goes down. And it went down like within an hour. So I think we really have to unpack some of these like messages that are getting out there. You know, it's interesting because social media is the most popular place for people to get health information. But you have to remember that some social media is small, like small nuggets of information like Instagram and Facebook. Whereas podcasts and YouTube are going to be a lot longer information that we can deliver you so we can give you the nuance. But if you're building your health habits off the real short content, you lose some of the really important things. Well, for starters, you always have to ask yourself why you're fasting. Then the second question you would want to ask yourself is, is dumping sugar bad? I mean, there's going to be some dumping sugar when you go into a 48 or 72 hour fast, but not typically 16. The only time I've ever seen that is people who have fasted so much that their body is like, oh god, here she goes again. All she's going to do is fast and the body keeps dumping glucose and it's a bad situation. But that is incredibly rare. So put a CGM on when you go into your fasting and let your body tell you what it needs. That would be my recommendation. I put a CGM on yesterday morning and I noticed last night my blood sugar was spiking up to around 11. Last night when I was sleeping, is there something I need to monitor more closely? Let's talk about blood sugar spikes. So blood sugar spikes, okay ready for this one, doesn't always happen just from food. Blood sugar can spike from stress and I don't know what was happening at 11 o'clock. You were sleeping, but I'm curious if your body, you know, and I again, I don't know how old you are, but when we go through menopause, a lot of times we get cortisol spikes at night. And so I'm wondering if you get, if you're getting a cortisol spike, that your body is trying to wake you up. Sometimes these come with hot flashes because the body is like, thinks there's a crisis there. This is why I've actually got a video that I'm going to do for you all here on Ashwagandha and how Ashwagandha can help these cortisol spikes at night. So stay tuned, I just got all the research on it and I'm excited to bring it to you. So I'm thinking it's stress if you didn't eat something. It was like a stress response in your body. I did do a video that should be coming out soon on my channel here. I think I did it last week and it was on some practices you can do before you go to sleep so that you can sleep better. And one of the practices is yoga. So if you're struggling and you're having these CGM spikes and you're, okay, you're 34. So you're probably not having the menopausal ones at 34, but you could be having, I don't know if you have a stressful life, but that could be coming or if you had a stressful conversation before you went to bed. But I think it's, there's in all the years I've studied insomnia, I think it's really interesting how we can put ourselves into stressful states and when we try to sleep at night the body still thinks that it's running from a tiger and so it wakes you up to get you going and to get you out the door. So I'm curious if it's coming from a stress response. That's what I would say and try Ashwagandha, but I have to do that video for you so you can understand why, but you could go try Ashwagandha when you get that cortisol spike. So yeah, so anyways I hope that helps. Okay, Christine wants to know, she's on a CGM and she does eye intermittent fasting regularly for her hypo glycemia and it averages 75 to 80 and then when she eats it bumps up to 125 to 50 and then she quickly crashes to the 50s for an hour. Why and okay, so Christine's got hypo glycemia and it's a really common thing. I had it before I started fasting. A lot of people shy away from fasting because they think that they aren't supposed to do it, but hypo glycemia is a sign of imbalanced blood sugar. So let's go through a checklist first. If you're one of those people that you can't go without food, your blood sugar is crashing, again let's make sure your diet is cleaned up. So I want to make sure that we I've already went through this. I don't know when you hopped on Christine, but get off the ultra processed foods, get on the good healthy diet. So I won't go through all the details because I just did, but let's let's first make sure that your diet is good. Okay, the second thing that Christine brings up which is a really important point is that after she eats her blood sugar spikes to 125 and then to 50. So that spike, depending on what you were eating, there's two things I would try. The spike's not horrible, but it's not wonderful. So I would first try drizzling any kind of fat on your meal. So olive oil, grass-fed butter, let's try to put a fat with that meal to see if we can slow that spike. The second thing is I would have fiber with that meal. Fat and fiber will slow the blood sugar spike from almost any meal. And then the third thing that I would do is after you eat, if you know it spikes high, go for a walk, use that glucose. What's probably happening and why it crashes down into the 50s is that your body is insulin resistant and it doesn't know how to use that. The glucose that came from that meal. So you also might look at your hemoglobin A1c and make sure that it's hovering somewhere between five and five five. So but we want to make sure that your body knows how to use this meal. So fat, fiber, and a walk. And if you can't go for a walk after the meal, do some air squats. And let's see if your body utilizes your forcing, is what you're doing lovingly, forcing your body to use that glucose. If your body can't use glucose, what it will do is that blood sugar will spike, the glucose goes into fat, and then your blood sugar crashes, which is why it goes down into the 50s. So those would be the three tricks that I would try. And I'd love for you to report back and hope and I don't know if you're trying them or not, but you can let us know if you've been trying that. We can go a little deeper, but those are the three that I would see the most necessary. Next question is from Lucy Ann. For the past few years, I've adopted a fasting lifestyle both short and long during the three-day water fast. After 37 and a half hours, I was still not in ketosis. This is such a good one because this happens. Lucy Ann, you're not you're not alone. Last night my ketones were 0.5 and this morning an hour after waking they were 0.3. Why is it taking so long to get into ketosis? Okay, so there's a couple things that I'm going to try to address here. So the first is the more you fast, the quicker your body will use ketones. So again, I'm going to use me as an example. When I first started doing three day water fasts, I would get ketone readings like day two and day three that were like 5.0 and I thought I was like killing it. I was like conquering the game and then I would keep doing these three-day water fasts. I kept building a fasting lifestyle and in that three-day water fast, all of a sudden now I was only getting 2.5 or 3.0 and then as I kept going with more water fasts, longer water fasts, I would get maybe one and my range in three days would be a sweet spot of about 1.5 to 2.5. Now you have to remember that what you're seeing on your meter is what is accessible in the blood but the brain is a fuel hog. So the and you and for many of us we haven't trained our brain to receive ketones. So the more you learn to metabolically switch, the more you're going to end up with a body that's producing ketones and the more the brain goes oh there's my preferred fuel source and it's going to grab it out of your blood and use it for fuel. So now you're reading your reader and the number looks low and you're like oh my god I used to get 5.0 on the second day of a water fast and now I'm getting 1.0 yeah because your brain you've trained your brain to gobble those up so you're just not seeing it in the blood. So that would be an important thing to to take note. The second thing it can be and this is going to sound like a complete contradiction but it's important to understand the nuance that's why we do an experience like this is that some people have a rusty metabolic switch and there are reasons for having a rusty metabolic switch. So first could be that you had mismanaged glucose and insulin so if I was sitting across from you Lucianne I would ask you what's your hemoglobin A1c? If you tend to be a little more towards the pre-diabetic you might be that your metabolic flexibility isn't there yet and your body hasn't quite gotten the art of getting over into that space. Now something tells me this isn't you because you said you went to bed and then you went walking and the ketones went down that tells me your brain used them so you just didn't see them in your meter but I want it just in case you're like hey I never get high numbers I want to leave this and a lot of people are in this position. So sometimes when we haven't been practicing sugar burner fat burner and building a fasting lifestyle like that is we just have a rusty switch. Okay second thing that I've seen cause a rusty switch where you can't get deeper into ketosis are mineral deficiency. It's very very common these days to have a mineral deficiency depending on where you're buying food from if it's from a conventional farm that you're getting your fruits and vegetables you're not getting enough minerals so one thing you could do Lucianne is the next time you go into a longer fast like double dose bean minerals and see if you can get or go get an IV of minerals and see if you can get your your mineral content up and then see if that helps. Okay third thing that it could be is toxicity and we haven't really talked about toxicity because it's such a big topic but I spent the last 15 years of my practice detoxing people extensively, intimately, it was quite an experience and I will tell you when we brought people's detox toxic load down they started to be able to metabolically switch so much easier. So you might look at like what's your plastic load I recommend always that people take one day where they go into their kitchen and just get rid of all the plastic and replace it with glass so you can look that would be an easy one. The second easy one would be go look at all your beauty products. There's a great app called Think Dirty or Skin Deep and you can take your phone and you can just scan your beauty products and it'll rate it for you and tell you if it's toxic or not so you might spend a day doing that as well. And then the third piece that that can really give you a rusty switch is trauma, unprocessed trauma, high stress like anything that's cortisol rich and I think it's really interesting because the way trauma gets stored in the body is that it just allows cortisol to keep dripping in and it never turns off the cortisol faucet and as long as cortisol is dripping into the system then that switch becomes harder and the body's like I'm not sure it's completely safe to go over here into this fat burning because we're we still have a lot of cortisol and cortisol is a messenger to the system that we are under stress so should we be burning fat when cortisol is around? So learning how to you know one way my principles for taking care of cortisol one is learn how to work with cortisol and cortisol is a hormone that's meant to make you move so anytime you're stressed go for a walk or get up and do air squats or do jumping jacks like get like get that cortisol out of you otherwise it's going to be stored and usually where it'll be stored is in your belly we've heard people who talk about cortisol face where the face is puffy that can be cortisol too much cortisol as as well. Another key principle of cortisol is that you get the biggest spike naturally in the morning so do your hardest workout in the morning frontload your day and do most of your hard work in the morning and the back half of your day be more relaxed so it could be cortisol that's affecting those ketones so there you go okay Colleen wants to know it 62 hours my blood sugar was 109 and the ketones were 0.4 does that mean the stem cells and other benefits will not happen because of insulin resistance ah yeah trying to stay motivated this is a really good nuanced question Colleen because there's a lot going on during the 72 hours and I look at those numbers and I wonder sometimes our blood sugar doesn't go down as quickly as we want because there's a lot of stored blood sugar and so your body's like wait there's no food coming in I stored more let me go ahead and dump more into the into the system and so it keeps that blood sugar reader up really high and as long as there's blood sugar in the system sometimes that can prevent us from going into deeper states of ketosis but there it's think of it like a workshop in there there are other things going on in in these in your body as it's sensing no nutrients are coming in no proteins coming in and the body's trying to regulate itself to the no glucose going in so my gut feeling is it doesn't impact stem cells you will still get stem cells as long as your state you're in a topology and so yes I mean I would still expect all the healing the dopamine reset you get at 48 hours the immune system reset you get at 72 the intestinal stem cells that come in at 24 autophagy that stimulates apoptosis that gets rid of aging cells like all of that still is happening the reason your numbers are what they are is because the system is trying to regulate itself and it's like wait a second this is the first time maybe I don't know how long you've been fasting this is the first time we've seen no no no blood sugar you know nothing come in to raise the blood sugar no nutrients and so it's trying to it starts with glucose but those other healing switches can can still take place it just the system based off what you're telling me right here is just balancing glucose so don't lose hope stay motivated okay quick pause the video do you know that my new book age like a girl is out it's a trilogy now it's fast like a girl eat like a girl and age like a girl and I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better it is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first and for the science hounds I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book and I can't wait for you to get it deb johnny um had a question and she said I wish to ask you a question do women with very low hemoglobin count mine is 6.9 undergo continuous intermittent fasting I tend to fast 20 hours um so I'm thinking you might mean 5.9 so let's talk about hemoglobin A1c because this is so important if there's one number I want you looking at on your blood test every single time you get a blood test it's hemoglobin A1c hemoglobin A1c is tells you what your glucose and insulin system your metabolic health has been like for the past 90 days when you put a monitor on or you do like the keto mojo where you prick your finger you are seeing what is going on with your glucose and your ketones right here right now in this moment but when you lean in and look at the at hemoglobin A1c it tells you 90 days and you hear the numbers that you want ideal hemoglobin A1c for longevity which is what I'm here working on now is teaching you how to age with power how to age with incredible functionality how to age with purpose you want your hemoglobin A1c to be around five five point one five point two should be pretty good once you start to get over 5.5 you're moving into an abnormal state what the what the medical profession will say is 5.7 or higher is diabetes it goes pre-diabetes like 5.7 to 6.0 6.0 and over is diabetes but that is like a really low standard I want you around five and one of the reasons that for aging that hemoglobin A1c is so important is because it is measuring the lifespan of your red blood cells your red blood cells carry oxygen to your tissues including your brain when you have a high hemoglobin A1c what that means is that all of the glucose molecules your body doesn't know what to do with has attached itself to this red blood cell it's called glycation and so now not only are you dealing with weight gain and hunger and fatigue and brain challenges but you're not getting oxygen to tissues including your brain and it's a process called glycation and when we are looking at aging it is the most important thing that you on your marker on your blood tests that you should be looking at now with that comes this question that she had which is how long should she be fasting the higher your hemoglobin A1c if you want to bring that down closer to five the more longer fast you want to do so doesn't mean you do a three day water fast every week unless that's calling you but it does mean we want to go into these longer fasted states when you fast longer all this extra glucose that you don't know what to do with that's stored in fat stored in eyes stored in the brain it gets recalled it all gets recalled back your body is like 20 hours in 36 hours in or like christie she's 52 hours in what the body's doing is saying hey give me the glucose back i stored it in the brain i stored it in the eyes i stored it in fat hey everybody i need all this glucose to come back to me because we haven't had food in 20 hours 36 hours 48 72 and so that is what starts to bring your hemoglobin A1c down and it is what makes you insulin sensitive again it is the absolute best free way to do this uh 51 year old female no energy can't sleep belly fat now on ester gel and metformin eat keto will 421 get me off metformin if you're a comfortable faster i would go into 421 i would go there and then the second thing that i would do is start to see if you can train yourself to do a 48 hour fast um and then or a 30 start with maybe 36 hour try one so you can do a normal 421 and then i would do maybe you know the next week do your comfortable fasting and then try a 36 hour fast and then maybe a couple weeks later you try a 48 hour fast and try dipping in to these longer fast and see if things start coming down you didn't say what your hemoglobin A1c is but that would be the strategy i would use um think of it like this this is how i used it in my practice in these exact situations where a patient would come to me and say hey i want to get off these medications what can i do is that we would pulse fasting so we would start with light fasting then we would move to this weekly fasting i just taught you then i would stretch their fast and then we would do like a three-day water fast and then we would go back to just an easy fast so i would slowly bring it up and then slowly bring it down i look at it like uh like a supplement you're not supposed to be on supplements forever a supplement is supposed to supplement a good diet fasting is supposed to supplement a good diet so you want to make sure that you're pulsing in out and out of different lengths fast and i think the longer fasts are going to help you and i really do think the 421 is going to be good so if you like this video you're definitely going to want to check out the next one