 SATDIgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetgetget bread because everywhere I go, people are obsessing over the art of making sourdough bread. I was even out in the lineup surfing yesterday and there was this nine-year-old boy that was telling me he was making sourdough bread. So why is the world crazy about sourdough bread and where does it fit into the ketogenic diet, into fasting, into weight loss? Like what's going on with this bread? Let's unpack this because it's pretty interesting. First, I think we need to ask ourselves, well what is sourdough? And I think the whole idea behind fermentation is fascinating because you are literally pulling out bacteria from the air, goes into the food and all of the microbes in there start to reformulate into something that's beneficial. So, you know, we live in a world that is not super excited about bacteria. We fear microbes, we fear viruses, but we also need to know that we have to live in harmony with them and it's important for us to know that there are good bacteria and there are bad bacteria. Like, I don't know about you all, but there was this yogurt craze that went around the world a couple years ago and they were specifically making yogurt with a strain of bacteria called L-ruteri. Well, L-ruteri helps you make neurotransmitters that keep you happy. That's a good bacteria. So the same thing happens in sourdough is you start with flour and water to get your starter or I've also seen a lot of people talk about, they got a special starter. They call it a mother from a friend and there's a whole culture of that going on, but you really want to bring flour and water together to pull wild yeast and bacteria out of the air into the flour so that it starts to create this starter. And what's interesting about this chemistry is that when you let it sit out, which is so funny because we don't ever, like who wants, typically we're taught, don't let your food sit out. But when you let it sit out in this raw form, there are several things going on. First, there are two major bacteria that are starting to form inside your sourdough starter. And one of them is called Lactobacillus bacteria. This is what you will find in your yogurts. And it's in the air all across the world. And it is the culture of every fermented food. You also see people, by the way, going and buying probiotics with Lactobacillus in it. So it's a very beneficial, very popular bacteria that is being coming. It's in the air and now it's getting pulled into your starter. There's a second bacteria and I'm going to try to say it right. Saccharomyces cerevisia. Yes, I said it. And that is a wild yeast that is again found all over the world. It's the same yeast they put in wine and beer. That's a whole nother topic. But when you mix these two organisms together, what ends up happening, and this is the way I really like to think of it, is that your dough mixture becomes like a war zone. And all these different organisms start to compete for territory. And in this amazing duo, this incredible combo between Lactobacillus and S. Cerevese, we're going to just keep that one concise, is that they start to proliferate and win the war. And so what they're doing while it's sitting out on top of your counter is they are eating the bad bacteria and they are getting strong. The good bacteria is getting stronger and stronger. Okay, then what do we do? We take the starter and we start after about a week after this war is over and these two key bacteria have won, we actually go and make the sourdough bread. And that's as good as, as simple as the process as I can give you. But what I want you to know is the reason that chemistry is so important is because now you have beneficial bacteria that is going to be baked into your bread. And this is why this is a superior bread compared to just your standard loaf or even your gluten-free loaf. We're going to talk about gluten here in a moment. Or your ancient grain loaf. Like, those do not have these beneficial bacteria. And I'm going to explain what happens when you ingest these beneficial bacteria. So first, these two bacteria break down gluten. So I can tell you as somebody who's gluten intolerant, I just like to stay away from gluten. I feel better when I'm not on it, but I'm not celiac. I can handle sourdough bread. So it's a better fit for me that way. I can't eat it every day, but I could eat it even a couple times a week. So somebody who's majorly gluten intolerant might not be able to do that. But those of you who've just been shying away from gluten because you just don't, you feel a little off, try sourdough. It might actually work for you. The other thing I want you to know for all of us is that sourdough spikes your blood sugar very little less, let's just say. It does not, you do not get a huge blood sugar spike. That's the best way to say it. So think about that. Why in the keto world, why in the fasting world, why in the weight loss world, have we been like, carbs are bad? Well, a large reason for that is because it spikes your blood sugar so high that you have a really strong insulin response. And the more you call on insulin, the more insulin resistant you're going to become. Again, whole nother story there. But with sourdough, because it's been fermented, because these helpful bacteria are in there, what happens is you get less of a blood sugar spike. Try it on your continuous glucose monitor. It's incredible to see. If you put a little bit of grass-fed butter on that, you might not even get a blood sugar spike. I mean, that's crazy to think about. But what a study, there's several studies that have looked into this blood sugar response of sourdough bread. And here's what a 2024 study, I link all my studies in the notes so you can find them there, compared the effects of sourdough bread compared to commercial bread. And what the authors found is that the consumption of sourdough bread has a lower impact on blood glucose compared to industrial bread. So the first, you know, first, less gluten, amazing. Second, less of a blood sugar spike, amazing. Okay. Okay, quick pause in the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book, because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself. So you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations, proving everything I wrote in this book, and I can't wait for you to get it. Next, third, is that sourdough bread has fewer anti-nutrients and inflammatory compounds. So remember, the more we refine something like bread, even if it's organic, even if it's gluten-free, like it can be highly refined. And in that refining process, it also becomes nutrient absent. It doesn't have, there's not enough nutrients in it. And some of the refining process can actually create inflammatory compounds. But with fermented bread, we don't have that issue. And there was a 23 study that found that sourdough is lower specifically in lectins, agglutinins, and phthalates. Okay, let's go to lectins. I just want to, I want to break this one down for a moment. So remember how those of you that we've been talking about SIBO, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, where you get really bloated when you eat something fibery, that can be a sign that there's a bad diversity of microbes in your small intestine. And one of the things that Dr. Stephen Gundry brought forward to us in his Plant Paradox book was that some guts don't do well with these lectins. And lectins are found in plants primarily, but they also are found in wheat and in breads. So if you are one of those people that you get constipated, you get bloated, you get sluggish, you feel like it's like a lump in your stomach, you might not be breaking lectins down enough. And so a sourdough would be a lot better. And because you have, it will, it breaks it down already for you. So you don't have to worry about it in your gut. So they've also found that these lectins tend to bind to minerals and make something less nutritious. So with a fermented bread, you have more nutrients in there. Have I convinced you yet? I'm sure if you've watched this far through the video that you're committed to sourdough, I hope. Now, the last thing I want to say is that it's great for your gut health. Okay. I just also should have pointed out in the beginning, it's tasty, right? Like here's a food that is yummy and it's good for us. But what they're finding is that because of these powerful combo of bacteria, that you are actually repopulating your microbes and the diversity of your microbes in your gut when you eat sourdough. So I don't know if you all have heard me say, you know, one round of antibiotics will destroy 90% of your gut microbes. But when you go and eat fermented foods, including sourdough, you replenish those microbes. And we have trillions of different types of microbes in our gut. So we need to use fermented foods to add new strains of bacteria in our gut so we can start to change the terrain of our gut. So there was a 21 study that compared the gut microbe of people who ate either sourdough or normal bread every day for two weeks. So we had the normal, the sourdough group and we had the normal bread group and they ate it every day for two weeks. And the sourdough group showed higher levels of beneficiary, beneficial anti-inflammatory compounds. And they showed more digestible nutrients. For example, resistant starches. Resistant starches are really helpful for creating a great microbial ecosystem. And the authors of the study came out of it and said that the daily consumption of sourdough bread may promote the healthy microbiota metabolism at the colon level. Okay, fancy words. Let's break that down. What they're saying is that it will help with the diversification of microbes in your gut. It will help create an ecosystem in your gut where microbes can feel, the good microbes can grow. And those microbes affect many things from neurotransmitter production, but they also affect your metabolism. And so we're back at this as being a really beautiful, beneficial food to keep your blood sugar stable. So are you convinced? Who should eat sourdough bread? Well, or why I should say, should you eat sourdough bread? It's higher in nutrients. It's lower in gluten and inflammatory compounds and anti-nutrients. It doesn't spike your blood sugar and it's incredible for your gut health. And yes, you can eat it in moderation. I don't want you to run out and start doing lobes, but you know, I'm a believer in cycling in low carb days. And I'm also a believer in eating carbs. So those of you who've been around for a while, you understand the nuance of that. But when I personally eat bread, it is sourdough bread because I want all the benefits I just told you about. So there you go. Let me know if that was helpful. If you have some amazing trick with sourdough bread, leave it in the comments. But most of all, remember, always, always remember that food has the power to be medicine, including food has the power to be the most incredible supplement. And making sourdough doesn't cost very much. So as always, I hope that helps. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video. So