 ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti guide you through this. So in the book, I have a whole section on how do you create a circle of support? And there were two big things that I wanted to point out in this section. One is that there are two people you want to avoid. And this one's really interesting to me because by the time I closed my practice, I had close to 40, 50,000 names in my database over 25 plus years. I'd seen a lot of people. We had a rocking lifestyle clinic, a functional health clinic before functional medicine was even a term. And I was trying to help people make lifestyle changes. And I started to see that I couldn't just talk to that one person because if that person had a spouse that disagreed with them or that person had friends that disagreed with them, that all of a sudden, whatever I was trying to help that person change became more difficult. I'll give you an example. Years ago, I had a front desk who was overweight and she was so full of love and gregarious and the patients loved her. And we were a health clinic and I never put any pressure on my team to look a certain way or be a certain way. I just hope that they get the message through all the teachings to inspire them to be healthier. And so I was always like, I really hope someday she'll decide to make different choices for her. I watched how she ate, but I also knew I couldn't make her make those changes. She was going to have to make them. One day, something in her head clicked and she decided she wanted to lose weight. And what that meant is that she stopped drinking her frappuccinos from Starbucks. She started going to the gym right after work. And literally, all she did was those two behaviors. That was it. And over time, she lost over a hundred pounds going to the gym every night and stopping the daily frappuccinos. And it was like every patient, every person was just like, oh my God, you look amazing. And we're all so excited for her. But there was a core group of women that weren't so excited for her and they were her best friends. And the reason they were not so excited is because she stopped going to coffee with them. I don't know why she didn't order something else. I think she felt like she couldn't discipline herself. And they loved bitching with her at the end of the day on the phone. And she couldn't do that. They weren't, she wasn't doing that anymore because she was leaving work and going to the gym. Now, I also want to point out that they were overweight. They had bad habits. And a lot of times when we make changes, it's a threat to people who can't find the energy to make that change. And so you know what they did? They started saying, telling her what a bad mom she was, that she wasn't going home at the end of the day to help her teenage daughter with her homework. They started telling her what a bad friend she was, that they didn't come, she didn't come to their outings and hang out with them anymore. And over time, they started to wear her down. And she went, stopped going to the gym. She went back to Starbucks and she gained all the weight back. So sometimes we have to avoid two different types of people. One is the naysayer. The one that tells you, you can't do it. I had this experience too, with a woman whose husband was not happy she was making food changes. And he kept telling her, who are you listening to? Why does she think you can lose weight? You can never lose weight. You've tried a thousand diets before, you're never going to lose weight. Well, it turns out, I find out later, that he loved sitting and watching movies and eating popcorn and eating ice cream with her and drinking soda every single night. And that he wanted his buddy back. And so he kept telling her all the reasons why she couldn't lose weight. The second person to avoid is the bitcher. And the bitcher is the one that's like, oh, you're fasting. I wish I could fast. It's just so hard. It's so hard. I can't do it. Or the bitcher might look like, I tried the keto diet. It didn't work for me. I don't think it works for me. I'm not really sure it's going to work for you. And I just didn't, it just never worked for me. It's the negative Nelly that is constantly feeding you doubts that get put in your head. So I want to point out that you truly become like the people you hang around. So you have to decide as you go through this alchemizing moment of menopause, look at your inner circle and be like, are these my cheerleaders? Are these like my front row of people who are going to, who want to see me succeed in this transformation as much as, as I want to succeed? Or are they, or are they having their own struggles and they, it would be a threat to them if I go through a transformation and come out a better version of myself. It's really an important thing to look at. And I can't tell you how many times I watched that inner circle make or break somebody's health goals to the point that the last five years of my practice, I made sure that the spouse came to the first appointment so I could explain to the spouse what we were doing. Because I knew if the spouse didn't agree with the, with the patient I was trying to help, that we would never be able to make any progress with their health. So you want to look out for the naysayer and the bitcher, make sure they're not in your inner circle because, and if they are, I'll tell you a really important thing to say to them is, Hey, I need to let go of some things that I told you I was willing to do. But what was happening is me doing those things over and over again was making me resentful to you. And so I'm not going to do them anymore. And it's not because I don't love you. It's because I love me. And I want to make sure that I'm always bringing you the best version of me and me doing things for you at the cost of me is not bringing the best version to you. So you can, you can talk about things like that. So with that in mind, there are three people that I think you really should invite into your circles of support. And the first one is called the butterfly. You can see a theme here. I like the butterfly concept. I had a whole chapter in age, like a girl about the butterfly and we pulled it apart and changed it because in editing, that's kind of what happens. But what's interesting about butterflies is I started to look at women that were five, 10, 15 years ahead of me. And I started to see what, how they lived through their menopausal journey, how they let go of behaviors and identities that no longer worked for them. And I started to ask them, like, teach me how you were able to do that. And so a butterfly is somebody who's already been into the cocoon, has already dissolved the parts that they don't like. And they've come out the other side in a version of them that in their authentic version that they like. So when our younger years, we tend to create circles of support that are around our age. I really think as we go through the menopause process, we need to create circles of support of people that are older than us that have already been through this process. And that's what to me, a butterfly is. Okay. The second person in your circle of support that you want to consider is the potentialist. And this is something that I, one of my best friends is a potentialist. And she will say to me when I'm verbally processing something, she will often say to me, Mindy, that's not who you want to be. You don't want to be resentful. You don't want to be angry. Like that's, I know you, you don't want to be that. And so a potentialist is always holding the highest version of you. They see the best version of you, even when you can't see it, when you want to get in the muck and you want to go back to, but I don't feel worthy. Let me just go back to helping everybody. The potentialist is like, I know that there's this wisdom inside of you. I'll give you an example. I have a really good friend who went through a very difficult divorce. And she recently actually went into a MDMA journey, a therapy assisted journey. And there's some really interesting research about MDMA journeys. And before she went in, what I said to her is, I'm, I'm really excited for you to see yourself the way we see you. That's what a potentialist does. The potentialist sees the best in you, sees what you're capable of, even when you can't see it yourself. So you got to have a potentialist in your circle of support. And I will tell you, I sign up as a potentialist for all of you. This is one of my superpowers is I hold the vision of the best version of you emerging. If you're willing to do the work, then the third person in your circle of support is the anchor. And I have a couple of anchors in my life. And they are such good listeners. Like sometimes I'm like, wow, you've really listened to me a long time. And what's beautiful about these anchors is when they listen to you, is that then they reflect back what they heard. And that reflecting back is so important, because sometimes we can't see ourselves, we can't hear ourselves. But when an anchor sits and just listens to you, like fully focused on you without trying to fix you, without trying to change you, just like letting you off gas, then all of a sudden that becomes such a powerful person in your life. Because as women, so many of us feel like we haven't been seen or heard. And I think sometimes as women, we don't express enough emotion. We repress our anger. We don't speak what we want. And sometimes we hit a point of rage. There's a lot of conversation right now in social media about menopausal rage. I've coached a lot of women through the menopause process and rage is very, very common. And sometimes the rage isn't because of a circumstance in your life. It's because of the 30, 40 years that you had to adapt to a culture that told you to behave and look a certain way. I think that rage comes out because we're like tired of being in this patriarchal world that had all these expectations of us. And so when the rage comes out, the anchor becomes such a important part of your circle of friends. And so when we suppress emotions, what ends up happening is it oozes out of us sideways. And what I've learned, and I know we have a lot of therapists and health professionals in both the Reset Academy and our Fast Like a Girl certified coaches. And so I'm not trained as an expert in that, but I'm just telling you what I've learned in my life. And that's that if you suppress it, it's coming out one way or another. And so you've got to have an anchor, whether it's a healthcare professional or a best friend or your sister, somebody or your spouse, somebody that you can just express what you're feeling, get it off your nervous system and get it out of you. That's really what the anchor can do. And the last thing I'll say on your circle of support is that some people fall into all three categories. I have a few friends that are butterflies, potentialists and anchors, they move in between all of those. So but keep your eye looking on those qualities. Think about your friend group, think about the women that you love in your life. You know, they don't have to be a bestie, like you could go to a woman that you might have a casual relationship with and be like, Hey, I'm going through this transformational support. I've really watched you transform your life. I'd love to lean into your wisdom. Tell me how your journey was. I did that with a friend in my circles of support. Once I she's the one that brought to me the concept of codependency and told me, Hey, Mindy, I think you've got some codependent behaviors. And I was like, Okay, where do I go learn about this? She told me where to go. And then I came back. I was like, Oh my God, you are so right. I have a strong codependent part of me. And she goes, Yeah, I did too. And she's in her mid 60s. And I'm 55. And I was like, Well, what did you do? How did you unwind it? And she shared that with me. So that's what the circle of support can be. We don't need to do this transformational experience by ourselves. This is why we pull community together in the Reset Academy, like our, our Saturday morning coffee chats, and our fat burner resets and all the, the, the, the calls that my coaches do. This is why we're bringing master teachers to you. Because I'm trying to create a community around you to help you feel safe to go through a transformational process. And you don't, if you're in your 70s, your 80s, you can still go through it. When I explained this to my mom, my mom said to me, You know, Mindy, I'm so proud of you for taking yourself on. She's like, I wish I had done that at my age. So it's never too late. It's never too late. But your circle of support becomes like medicine through that process. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video.