 make sure you are eating fiber at every single meal. You know, if you're hungry, have a carrot. If you're putting a meal together, always put a salad with it. And then when you're looking at your plate, eat the fiber first. Fiber first should be a mantra in your head. Always think fiber. If you want a snack, pick a fiber snack. If you're looking at your plate, pick fiber. If you're at a restaurant, get a salad on there. It's so baffling to me how sometimes on the other side of weight loss is eating something. The most important thing I can tell you around weight loss is love yourself now. Love yourself before you lose the weight. Find peace and harmony within you first. And the weight loss.!! Love yourself anyways. So keep that in mind as I go through this checklist because what you're looking for when it comes to weight loss might actually be self-love. It might be as simple as that. So that's the context I want to start this checklist off with. Is just really go in and ask like how can you be worthy anyways? How can you love yourself anyways? And if you find that before you drop the weight, you are going to find a lot of happiness. And you will find the weight loss journeys much easier. With that, here's the checklist. The first is make sure you know how to metabolically switch. Okay? Remember, we've gone from eating all day to, wait, timing of eating matters. How do we start to see that we have this lens of two metabolisms? One is a metabolism that turns on when we eat and one is a metabolism that turns on when we fast. If we don't ever go 12 hours without food, you are always operating from one metabolism. You have totally left out the other metabolism. So the first weight loss step, and I know I'm speaking to the choir here, is to learn to tap into these fasting windows. Now, how do you know if you are metabolically switching okay? Well, this is where, you know, like a ketone reader, we talk a lot about the blood sugar readers, but we don't always talk about the power of the ketone reader. So I'm a fan, if you're really wanting to master this switch, is to not only know your blood sugar from what foods are doing to you, but also know your blood sugar from, is your blood sugar going down in the fasted state? And then are your ketones going up in the fasted state? Okay, second thing is that once you're switching and you're making ketones, it means your body's burning fat. If you want your body to burn more fat, you need to stay in the fasted state longer. So some of you are just going to need to try to get into those longer fasts and just keep working the principles. But I promise you the longer fast is where the accelerated weight loss comes off. And what's interesting is you would think like, oh, when I go into a longer fast, of course I lose weight because I'm not eating. But then once I eat, it'll come back. That's not how it works. This is why this is better than ozempic, because you didn't have to spend any money for it. You didn't have to, you know, you didn't have to get nauseous for it. Like you just had to train for it. So if you're struggling to lose weight, we got to train you into that 36 and 48 hour spot. So that's number two on the checklist. Number three on the checklist, and this is really important one that I just, I think it's getting a little more airtime now, but make sure you are eating fiber at every single meal. Like try like making fiber your go-to food. You know, if you're hungry, have a carrot. If you're putting a meal together, always put a salad with it. And then when you're looking at your plate, eat the fiber first. Fiber first should be a mantra in your head. Always think fiber. So if you want a snack, pick a fiber snack. If you're looking at your plate, pick fiber. If you're at a restaurant, get a salad on there. So fiber, fiber, fiber. It's so baffling to me how sometimes on the other side of weight loss is eating something. Like an eating fiber. Try it for a week where you just fully go in on vegetables and eat as many as you can. Fourth one is now we go to protein. So protein with every single meal. And this is where you can be plant-based, you can be omnivore. But you literally, again, when I'm looking at a plate of food, a classic go-to plate in my family is a grass. We eat meat is a grass-fed steak, a salad, and a sweet potato. You know, if I bring up that to my kids, they're like, oh, yeah, we had that like every freaking night of our childhood. And that's pretty much what we had. But here's the trick. Can you eat the vegetable and the protein first and the carbohydrate last? When it comes to protein, I think you all know, I don't like, if you like one gram of protein and it works for you, you know, great. One gram of protein for every pound of body weight, great. If that's working for you, great. It didn't work well for me. I started gaining weight when I powered up on protein. So I've gone back to just protein at every single meal. So you're going to have to find your kind of own end of one with that. Okay, now, fifth one. Get rid of the liver agitators. These are interesting ones. I'm going to give you a checklist of them. For sure, alcohol is number one. I hate to say that because I think there is something beautiful about sitting at a meal with a glass of wine and a lot of great company and sitting and like eating an incredible meal. I think the art of eating and connecting with others is a beautiful thing. So in that context, I think a glass of wine can be beautiful, can be used as a health tool almost, like it's a part of a health environment. But most of the time, our daily glass of wine, if that's what you're drinking, is actually agitating your liver. And as long as you have, this is a really startling stat that might be helpful for you to grasp, which is as long as you have alcohol in your system, your body is not burning fat. Because the liver has to prioritize its needs. And a toxin like alcohol is its number one priority. Get it out of the, clear it out of the system. So it's not breaking down estrogen and it's not breaking down burning fat, which are two of its most important jobs. So you might try getting off alcohol for a month and see what happens with weight loss. Okay, other things on liver agitators. Some medications are liver agitators. Tylenol, acetaminophen, is the most dangerous medication, one of the most dangerous that I know, for the liver. So if you're taking any painkillers, this is a subtle one that people can come to you and be like, I'm not losing weight, I'm not losing weight. But then when you actually break it down, you realize that they're doing some things around that is damaging the liver. Like nobody would ever think their daily Tylenol that they use to kill pain is preventing weight loss. But it is really hard on the liver. So there are many medications that are like that. Okay, the third part of liver agitator is anger. It's the emotion of anger. We're back at weight loss as an emotional journey. You can't stay angry and lose weight. The thing about anger is that it can sneak up on you. And when you're in a fasted state, sometimes it's really present. Like it's really right there. Like it shows up. The first time I started fasting, all this anger came out of me. And I was like, what? What is going on? And I realized that as my liver was healing in this fasted state, there was this stored anger coming out. I'm not a mental health expert in any way, shape, or form. I can only share from what I'm learning. One of the things that happens as we go through the menopausal journey is that a lot of unresolved trauma reveals itself. And that trauma is there for us to heal. And as women, I've talked about this before, and especially on the coffee chats, a lot of us have anger for having to push our authenticity aside and quiet our voice in a patriarchal culture. And we may not even know we're angry. And so being able to speak your truth, being able to express anger. So if you're in a fasted state and anger comes up or you have a lot of resentment or anger that is showing up, know that that's there protecting you. And you may want to dive in and figure out what you can do to heal that. Now let's go to exercise. So I love this movement diet. I really love, like, are you moving on a regular basis? And so I can tell you something that I've been doing that's really working well for me is in this discussion with Katie Bowman, I asked her how much we should be walking every day. And she said three to five miles a day. So I was like, okay, well, let me try that. So I have been, I have been, like, leaning into the more fiber. That was a big one I needed to work on. And I've been walking three to five miles a day. Nothing has dropped weight more quickly for my body than that. Like, I can feel, I feel lighter, the belly fat, you know, that accumulates during menopause, like, feels like it's releasing, like, it was a portal in to loving living in my body. So if you're not moving every day, try something as simple as three to five miles a day. And then I really tried to figure out where I wanted to go with the weightlifting. And I was trying three days a week. And then I realized that I think it was too much. And so I brought my weight training down to two days a week. And then I found a sweet spot. I'm like, oh, this feels good. I like it. I feel invigorated afterwards. So we got to bring weight training into the picture. And I started in the last couple of weeks, I started doing heavy, heavy weights, like I shared with you all the interview with Stacey Sims, that I'm now doing eight, max eight reps, but the heaviest weight that I can find. So really work walking with two days of weightlifting. And then I'm doing two days of HIIT training like I do with you guys on Saturday morning. I do one more day. And I have, now I got to figure out where I'm going to put yoga because I do love yoga. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer-reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. Next one. Go for a 20-minute walk after every large meal. So when you eat a meal, you are increasing your glucose is up. Now, how is your body going to use that glucose? This is why eating a meal at the end of the day is horrific. So after a big meal, either take the dog for a walk or do the air squats where you just for like do 100 air squats. Just why air squats is because you're moving the glucose into the biggest muscles in your body. So when you start squatting up and down for 100 times after a big meal, you're now driving all that glucose to your quads and your hamstrings and your glutes. And your body is using it to perform the exercise. And it's not going to store it as fat. So make sure that if – and you can do it after every meal if you want. 100 squats is easy to do. 20-minute walk or 100 air squats after your largest meals. Ooh, this is a good one. Prioritize sleep. Here's what happens when you sleep. Your body repairs. And if you're not sleeping, your body's not repairing. But when you sleep, your brain shrinks so that you can flush out all the toxins. Your liver dumps out all of the stored sugar. So it can be there to be a fat burner for you. And every single organ in your body does a self-assessment. And it's like, hey, these cells aren't working. We're going to dump those. And then we're going to build the cells here. So you are literally, when you're sleeping every night, your body is letting go of the old. And it is building you a new healthy body. There is no way we should skimp on sleep ever. In fact, it is like my number one health priority right now is sleep. And I'm like eight, nine hours every night. Like, boom. That is like my most important part of my health path right now. So please prioritize sleep because all these other things could be blocking you. So there is what I hope is a very thorough checklist. You will notice that I didn't say berberine supplement. I didn't give you any fancy weight loss peptide. I didn't, you know, endorse the weight loss drugs. And if you're on the weight loss drugs, go through the checklist still because at some point you are going to want to get off of those drugs, I think. So, but what I want is, you know, a moment where you are stuck for you to be able to go back and solve your own health problem. Because when you solve your own health equation, then you get the credit. You get the power. And so this checklist was designed to be able to help you solve your own health problem. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video. Check out this video.