 So check this out, this one drink, this one drink, can not only transform your gut, not only help you with joint health, it's gonna bring back the glow to your skin, it's gonna kill hunger and it could even help you lose weight. So let's dive into why this one drink, it's so easy, it's so easy to make, it's so easy to get, could be a game-changer for your health. Are you ready? Let's dive in. So I want to talk about bone broth. broth because we need to keep bringing bone broth into the health conversation. And a lot of you have asked me, can I do a bone broth fast? And we've used bone broth quite a bit. Not only in my clinic did we use it, we've used it in my membership group. It can be a phenomenal adjunct to your fasting lifestyle. And I want to explain why and how you go about that. Let's dive into three huge benefits of bone broth and why it's one of the best foods you can eat, especially over 40. And I'm going to share a simple, delicious five ingredient bone broth recipe. That's one of my go-tos. Not to mention, I have two books with bone broth recipes in it. My Fast Like a Girl and Eat Like a Girl both have bone broth in them as well. So if you are like, I don't know how to make it, I got lots of resources for you. So here's the first thing to know about the science of bone broth and why it's worth making it as a staple in your diet. And it's all about the collagen. Most of the bone broth benefits come from its collagen content. Now I want to remind my menopausal women that when estrogen goes down, so does collagen, which is a large reason we start to see changes in our skin. We start to feel changes in our joints. We can even start to get some gut issues. So when you're young, your body's making collagen. Collagen for both men and women is making collagen a lot. But as you age, you don't get as much collagen. Just look at your skin to notice how much collagen you're getting. And yeah, we can put in a collagen powder, but why wouldn't we go to a true food source? A 2025 study in the Journal of Cosmetic Dermatology noted that when estrogen falls during menopause, so does collagen production as well. The authors of the study are actually quoted to say, the decline in estrogen during menopause contributes to structural and functional skin changes, including decreased collagen production, reduced elasticity, and moisture loss, resulting in more dryness and wrinkling. And low collagen in women, especially during menopause, can make it very difficult to recover from your workouts. So we want to bring collagen back in, and this is a beautiful way to do it. And the research shows that getting a daily collagen dose can work wonders, not only for your skin, but for your joints and for your skin as well. And bone broth is exceptionally rich in collagen. In fact, it has more collagen than almost any other food I could bring you. And it's easy to make, and if you drink a cup a day, you'll be amazed at the results. So let's break down these three benefits of drinking bone broth daily. And I'm going to show you a little hack on how to make sure you're getting the most collagen-rich bone broth possible. So let's start with the skin. There was a 23 meta-analysis in nutrients that looked at how eating collagen affects your skin. It reviewed results from 26 different human trials, including 1,700 different participants, which is a very, very big study. And what it found was that a daily dose of collagen improved skin hydration, skin elasticity, fewer wrinkles, and smoother skin. And eating collagen every day slowed or reversed skin aging. That's the first big benefit of drinking collagen daily is let's reverse the aging of our skin. Number two, it makes your joints stronger. So there was a 24 study in contemporary clinical trials communication that looked at collagen in respect to arthritis. There were 120 participants. 50% of them were men, 50% of them were women, and the average age of the participant was 59 years old. The participants drank either 10 grams of collagen every day for six months, or they were given a placebo. And after six months of taking collagen every day, the collagen group had significantly less joint pain, had better knee mobility, had fewer arthritis symptoms, had lower C-reactive protein, a marker of inflammation that you can find on your blood work. So it's so simple, so easy to get a cup of it in every single day, and the joint benefits are off the chart. Number three is it's incredible for gut health. Collagen is so massively important for repairing specifically something called a leaky gut. Collagen, specifically from bone broth, has a nutrient in it called glycine. And glycine can take the little micro holes that have been built up in the inner mucosal lining of your gut from chronic stress, from poor eating, and it can start to repair those micro holes. They're called tight junctions. And they, if when these junctions get loose from stressful living and stressful eating, all of a sudden we can start to get nutrients and toxins into our bloodstream. And when we get those nutrients and toxins into our bloodstream, it can create a attack by our immune system. This is a large part of autoimmunity. This is why with autoimmune conditions, you're always working to repair the gut. But these new, if we allow toxins specifically to get into our body, we're also going to see a lot of inflammatory response. So people who have leaky gut syndrome typically have more chronic inflammation. So we got to find ways to close those junctions down. And collagen from bone broth is one of the greatest ways to go about that. So if your gut is out of balance, and you know, you have a leaky gut, or you know, you have gut problems, this can be an incredible opportunity for you to heal yourself. So there was a 2017 study in food and function that found collagen helps repair your intestinal lining. It keeps those junctions tight. And there was another research, a 22 study that found that when women took collagen for eight weeks, 93% of them had a decreased bloating and better digestive health. So this is, this is no joke. This is a serious health tool. So how do you make it? Well, for starters, I just want to point out that a lot of times you can buy bone broth. And for some of you, you can buy it in a little container in the in your grocery store. And when you get that it is quite liquid. These are going to be have less collagen in them. I really want and this is why I wanted to show you an example. You can see this was a fresh bone broth from the farmer's market. This is straight out of the refrigerator, both of these, this one, because it has more fat, because it has more collagen, you can see it's got more, it's more gelatinous. This is what you're looking for, a more gelatinous bone broth as compared to a liquidy one that might come in a cardboard container. So make sure you pay close attention to what your bone broth looks like when it is chilled. If you want to make your own bone broth, there's a really simple recipe. I've got again, I've got one in eat like a girl and one in fast like a girl. They're both different recipes. So you can make a decision which one works best for you. But there are just five ingredients to making bone broth. You need two pounds of beef bones. You need two onions. You need three large carrots. You need three ribs of celery and a handful of herbs. And you put them all in a big pot and add fresh water and bring all, you can add as much as you want. If you keep the water a little bit lower, you're going to have more of a gelatinous, more likely to have a little more gelatinous bone broth. And you're going to simmer for four hours. And when it's cooked, you just strain all the solids out and save the liquid and you'll be left with a simple, delicious collagen rich bone broth. It is about the easiest soup you could ever make. And sometimes what I like to do with my bone broth is I'll take parts of it and freeze it. If I can't eat the whole thing, it's great to make other soups with. You can try putting it. We've done things from making risotto with it to sauteing with it and making other soups as well. And this simple recipe is a great place to start. If you're wanting to go more intricate, I have a functional mushroom broth recipe and eat like a girl and a functional bone broth recipe in eat like a girl as well. So lots of different ways. But what I really wanted to express to you all today is please, please bring bone broth back into your diet. It has so many benefits. And when we look at spending money on skin treatments, when we look at the physiological and mental expense of joint replacement, when we look at what happens to our bodies as we age and the achiness that starts to limit us from fully expressing and living the life we want to live, how simple is it to just do a cup of bone broth every single day? So if you're a believer in bone broth, you've had great results with it, put in the comments. But most of all, don't give up on yourself. Food is medicine and there is no better medicine for the aging body than bone broth. Hope that helps. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video.