 i gatบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบบ Let's dive in. So first, I just wanna point out that the longer we go without food, the more we create what is called a hormetic stress. Hormetic stress is a good stress. It's where the body has to really adapt and it'll adapt it by turning on all kinds of healing switches. And what is interesting about the 36 hour fast is that it seems to be enough time to signal to the body to go find fat to burn in order to make ketones. So that ketones, remember, are a fuel source for the brain and for the body. So some of you that are trying to lose weight and you're really struggling with it, this fast can be incredible because it just, you just need a little more time in the fasted state to tell your body, hey, you remember, you stored some extra glucose around my belly. So now I need you to burn this. In fact, I have a dear friend who tried all types of fasting, never lost weight. I hadn't seen her in a couple months. And one day we had a date to go have lunch together. And when I took one look at her, she had dropped like 20 pounds overnight. And I asked her what she did. She said, well, I finally did 36 hour fasts. So it was the key that unstuck her. So let's customize this and figure this out. So what would a 36 hour fast look like? Basically you would finish dinner. Then the next day you completely skip a meal and then you eat the following morning. So it is a little bit like alternate day fasting. An exact example might look like Sunday night for dinner, you end it at 6 p.m. Monday you fast all day. And Tuesday morning at 6 a.m. you break your fast. And what's interesting about this longer time period is the research is showing that when we go into this extended fasting window, it can trigger what scientists are calling a metabolic switch. Remember this fasting sugar burner, fat burner, that's your metabolic switch. So some of you can't seem to get your fat burning switch to go over and become a fat burner. And so what the research is showing, this was a 2018 study that showed that it is these extended fasts, specifically a 36 hour fast, where the body will shift from using glucose to burning fat to make a ketone. So it is a lot longer than your typical 16-8. And it is more in accordance with what is a very popular fasting fast for weight loss, which is alternate day fasting, which has incredible research on it. I'll leave a link here for that. So what happens during your 36 hour fast? Well, there are three stages to know. Stage one is that you will, within the first 12 to 24 hours, you're gonna get glycogen depletion. So glycogen is just a fancy word for stored glucose. When your body doesn't know what to do with the extra glucose, remember glucose comes from the foods we eat. So it's blood sugar is just a lay person's name for actually blood glucose. And when you have too much glucose, your body is so brilliant that it actually will store it in this form called glycogen. So the stage one is where it starts, your body from 12 to 24 hours will deplete the glycogen stores. That's great. A lot of that is in fat. And also your body will find stored carbohydrates. So remember the brownie you ate last week? It'll go find that and it'll start to burn it. Stage two of this longer fast is what we call fat mobilization, where around 24 hours, the body begins to release fatty acids from stored tissues. So this is where we're at about that 24 hour mark. This is where the fat burning begins, which is why I want to encourage you to go a little longer with it. And then stage three is where ketones start to come in somewhere after 24 hours. Your body will be making ketones, which remember ketones will kill hunger. I did a whole chapter on the brain benefits of ketones for women over 40 in age like a girl. And ketones are incredible for mental health. I mean, more than just losing weight. We want a good dose of ketones on a fairly regular basis. Now, what are the pros of this 36 hour fast? Well, you probably already guessed increased fat burning, which is why in fast like a girl, I call it the fat burning reset because it is. It's like what my friend experienced. It is an incredible go to for unsticking weight. The second pro or reason you would want to do it is it primes the metabolic switch. So those of you are like, I fast forever and I can never get enough ketones. I really encourage you to look at putting a 36 hour fast into maybe once a quarter. We can talk about frequency here in a moment. So it definitely primes that metabolic switch. Okay. Third thing is it may support weight loss a little bit better than just intermittent fasting for 15 hours. So if you're really struggling with weight loss, you might try the 36 hour fast. Although alternate day fasting is also showing a modest weight loss over several weeks, which alternate day fasting is I eat one day. I don't eat another day. And the next day, then I eat, then I don't eat. There was actually a really interesting book when I first got into researching fasting. That was called the every other day diet. And what they found or a whole a researcher wrote a whole book on it. And what she found was that people who had really poor eating habits, eating those ultra processed foods. If they did alternate day fasting for a year, not only did their metabolic health improve, not only did they lose weight, but their cravings change. So these longer fasts have a real benefit. The other thing that we know about a 36 hour fast is it really can reduce the cravings and improve appetite control. So those of you who just feel like you can't get it, your appetite under control, sometimes a 36 hour fast is just enough to reset the system. And so you may try that even though the 36 hours may be difficult, it could reset the system. Now, what are some of the cons? So, I mean, let's just say it, let's just call it what it is. 36 hours can increase hunger and it can cause fatigue. And that makes it a hard fast to stick to. Again, this is why I am recommending you might try it for once a quarter as a reset to your metabolic health. Another con is that it's these longer fasts are just hard to sustain. So you may set out to do it and you might get 20 hours in and then you're like, can't do it. This is why you may want to train yourself to learn how to do it. Like I would recommend get comfortable with a 17 hour fast. Then maybe you'll get comfortable with a 24 hour fast. And then you would be ready for a 36 hour fast. So it's not one that you would just jump into as a beginner. The other con is muscle loss. We worry about muscle loss, which is why I do not want you doing it regularly. So one 36 hour fast once a quarter is phenomenal for all the reasons I've stated. But a 36 hour fast every week, I would only use that with severe chronic illnesses. But I, in overall, I really encourage you to not do it on a regular basis because of the muscle loss. And one of the last cons is the fact that it can throw off your electrolytes. So this is why I recommend if you're going to go into a 36 hour fast, that you use something like beam minerals. And you can do as many beam minerals as you want throughout those 36 hours. Or you can do LM and T, which is a really nice packet of sodium, magnesium and potassium. And you can put that in some warm water. We do this when we do group three day water fasts. Those two are great solutions to make sure that the electrolyte imbalance doesn't happen to you. Now, who would want to do a 36 hour fast? Who's going to benefit from it? And here are the possible candidates. It's people who are already comfortable with intermittent fasting. It's metabolically healthy adults. This means you have a hemoglobin A1c closer between 5 and 5.5. It's those of you who want to lose extra weight like my friend. And those of you who you can tolerate fasting, you're just wanting a better result, specifically if you're wanting more of a weight loss result. Now, who shouldn't do a 36 hour fast? I'm going to go back to breastfeeding, pregnancy, eating disorders, children, teenagers, or if you're taking insulin or glucose lowering medications, please do it with medical supervision. Now, I will tell you that a lot of you ask me about the longer fasts and their benefits or their consequences to chronic diseases like cancer. And I did interview Dr. Lee Erin Keneally, who's an integrative doctor who specializes in cancer. I will leave the link for that podcast interview in the notes below. And we talked about fasting for cancers and she is clear that of all the work and cancer patients she's seen, fasting is excellent for cancer. And she did not have any cautionary tales when it comes to fasting and cancer. But if you want to hear it from her mouth, go listen to that podcast. So how do you start a 36 hour fast? How do you do this safely? How do you like if you're listening to this, you're like, yes, me, me, me. I want to do one of these. Here are the five steps I want you to think about. So step one is we've got to clean up your eating window. So let's get you off the ultra processed foods and let's get you on to nutrient dense foods, especially leading up to the 36 hour fast. So if I was going to do the example I gave you or Sunday night at 6 p.m. I was cutting off dinner. I would start Thursday before that eating more protein, fiber, healthy fats, less carbohydrates so I can stabilize my blood sugar. OK, step two. I would also the days leading up to it hydrate well. I would drink lots of water. I would make sure my electrolytes like my element tea. I would do my B minerals. I'm a huge fan of the mineral water. Rollsteiner has the highest mineral content in it. So hydrate yourself going into that. Then when we are actually in the fast, this is not step three is we do not work out hard when we're going into a longer fast like a 36 hour fast. So light movements and walking or gentle activity. Step four is really avoiding these intense workouts so that you can get the most out of the fast. You can go back to the intense workouts afterwards. And then the last step I really want to point out is that when you break your fast and I have so much on breaking the fast in both fast like a girl and eat like a girl, the cookbook. I have a whole set of recipes for breaking the fast and eat like a girl. But you want to make sure that those meals are protein rich. They're fiber rich. They're whole foods. I even recommend you put some fermented foods into those areas. So it is a very, very powerful fast specifically for weight loss. And make sure you don't do it too much. And make sure that you are monitoring yourself. You're setting yourself up for success with these five steps. And use it every once in a while to jumpstart your weight loss. I love it for that. And if you've had great results like my friend with the 36 hour fast, put it in the comments so we can all share our wins. But as always, don't give up on your weight loss results. Sometimes you just need something like a 36 hour fast. Hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one. i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i