 nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost nost medications. But first, we got to show what the FDA is reporting through this Wall Street Journal article because it's something that we need to pay attention to. So according to the FDA, it issued, this is last week, depending on when you watch this video, it issued a warning to nolva Nordisk, which is the maker of the drugs Wagove and ozempic, saying that the company failed to properly report certain side effects connected to these medications. Now, this might seem technical, but it's actually a really big deal when it comes to getting a medication through the system that is supposed to protect the consumer. Because these drugs are now being used by millions of people, and many of them not for diabetes. Remember, these weight loss drugs were first meant for diabetics. They weren't meant for weight loss, and they definitely weren't meant for losing 5 to 10 pounds. They were meant to save a diabetics life. And so when the FDA has reports that there is unreported adverse reaction, it forces us to all really look and ask ourselves is, what do we know about the long-term effects of these medications? I really think we need to think deeper on this. So what the Wall Street Journal reported was that these GLP drugs found that there were more side effects than really appeared, and that these adverse side effects were not properly documented. That alone tells you that there were hiding something, right? And now that every pharmaceutical company is required to report all significant side effects that occurred during these trials, they've been warned, they will be fined for not reporting it. And these reports, when you report the adverse effects when you're getting a drug through, what it does is it helps us regulate if drugs are safe for us. Not all drugs are safe. Every drug has a side effect. And we as the consumer and the user really need to understand this at a deeper level. And like I said, these drugs are not just used for diabetes right now. They're used for weight loss, for metabolic health, even for longevity. And they have not been studied on that. I want to point this out. They have been studied on diabetes, not on those three things I just said. Yes, diabetes is a part of metabolic health. Yes, when you can get diabetes under control, you're going to live longer and you're going to lose weight. But the actual study was for diabetics, not people who were metabolically healthy that just needed to lose five or ten pounds. Go look up the lawsuits. Everything you need to know about the harmful effects of these medications is in the lawsuits. I thought, well, that's a great idea. Why don't I do? Why don't we do that with every single medications? Well, I looked the lawsuits up and let me tell you what we have found. There are thousands of lawsuits that are pending on these drugs. And many of them have been grouped together in what they call a multi-district litigation. But we're not reporting the adverse side effects and we have growing lawsuits. We need more information. One thing that I want to help you think through is how these GLP-1 drugs work. And the GLP drugs mimic your own GLP-1 hormone. And the drugs themselves activate several things. They slow down the emptying of your food out of your gut. So you're going to feel full a little longer. So it decreases your appetite. A lot of people who are receiving positive benefits from these GLP-1 say the food noise stops. Go check out some of the videos that I've done on some of the longer fasts, like the 36-hour fast, the food noise stops too. The drugs will create a better insulin sensitivity and it also helps your blood sugar drop. So they're pretty predictable and this is why everybody's getting such great results. They're feeling full faster, they're eating less, they're losing more weight. But long term we don't have research and I want to teach you how to make your own GLP-1. And here's how it works. Your gut microbes make these. Those little bugs inside your gut, they make these GLP-1s. And you know what destroys them? This is what is like completely blown my mind. These little bugs in your gut are making GLP-1 hormones and then you go and eat ultra processed foods, highly refined carbohydrates, toxic oils, and you kill them. You kill these little critters that made this anti-hunger hormone that you're so desperately wanting from a medication. And you didn't know it. This isn't your fault. This is just a, oh wow, I can do this on my own without a drug. So we've got to start to create some patterns of eating and the way you eat to bring this back. So let me explain how you can make your own GLP-1 hormone. So first meal order matters. So there is some really interesting research that is showing that when you eat fiber first, protein second, fat third, before the carbohydrate, that you feed enough of those microbes to bring them back to life. So they will make GLP-1 hormone. Then that hormone will go up into your brain and it will kill hunger by the time you get to the carbohydrate. So the research, and I'm going to put, it's a 2022 research study. I'm going to leave it here for you, that when we eat our vegetables first, grandma was right. Then we eat our protein and our fat, leaving the carbohydrates for last, you actually produce more GLP-1 naturally. Here's why this works. The fiber feeds those gut microbes, just like we talked about. Those microbes produce short chain fatty acids that signal your intestines to release GLP-1. Then the protein comes next and it enters the gut and further stimulates the release of the GLP-1 hormone. So by the time the carbohydrates arrive, the hormone signals are already there and you're less likely to eat more of those carbohydrates. Now for women, this is really important because we are rhythmic. So we have a lot of metabolic shifts that are happening. We have metabolic shifts in our menstrual cycle. That's what this whole book was about is how to eat and fast around your menstrual cycle. We have metabolic shifts that happen with stress hormones. We have metabolic shifts that will happen according to our, how our thyroid is functioning or according to where we are in menopause. So we have a lot more metabolic shifting going on than men do. So it's important that if we're just taking the GLP-1 hormone, just like everything else, we should be cycling it. But more importantly, how about we try first the meal order and see if that makes a difference on our hunger levels. If this helps, don't stop here. Click on the next video.