 NIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIGIG I want to help empower you. So what I've done is I've taken the questions and my answer, and I have synthesized it for you here in this series so that you can get exactly what you are looking for and help you build your own fasting lifestyle. But most importantly, I hope you understand that what I am teaching here on YouTube is how for you to personalize your health journey. You were born to be so powerful. Your body is a miracle, and I just want to help you discover that. So enjoy. Okay, so Christy Kline says that because of you I'm doing my first long fast. Congrats! And she's 52 hours in. And after breaking the fast with bone broth, how long do I wait for the probiotic food? Now, if you don't know what Christy's talking about, I have a four-step process on breaking a fast that I talked about in my book Fast Like a Girl. So if you haven't read that book and you want to know how to fast, that's the manual. So you can go over there. In it, I talk about when we go into these longer fasts, there needs to be a bit of appreciation for what your body is doing. Christy's at 52.5 hours into a fast, which is amazing. So if she just jumped right back into food, that would be a real shock to her system. So I recommend broth first. I've got my bone broth right here. And the reason I recommend bone broth first is because it has glycine in it. Glycine is really important for repairing the inner lining of your gut. So you go 52 hours and you've now really redistributed a lot of microbial diversity in there. I wrote about this in Fast Like a Girl, that when we look at what happens when we go past 24 hours, is the microbes in our gut start to spread out. It's called geographical relocation. And the microbes that were like making you crave sugar, and the microbes that were telling you to eat all the time, and the microbes that were bullying the serotonin-producing microbes, they go away. It's pretty awesome. And so it's like, think of it like you're weeding your garden. Now, when you bring food back in, it's like putting plants into your garden. Would you want that soil to be rich and fertile so that when you put a new plant in, nutrient dense, when you put a new plant in, that plant can grow? Any gardeners out there? It seems like that's a pretty clear idea. So it's the same thing when we fast for a long period of time. We want to make sure that we've done a good job of really keeping our microbiome well nourished, so that when we bring food back in, that we can pull those nutrients out. Christy brings up a really interesting point. And so when we do the bone broth, we're soothing the outer, the inner lining of that gut. So we are making sure that the mucosal lining is nourished. So then, to Christy's point, you want to add within your question, Christy, was how long? And I would say 20 to 30 minutes. And the reason I say 20 to 30 minutes is that I'm trying to pace the steps out for you, because then you won't, you'll be full by the time you get to the end of the fourth step, and then that way you won't have that kind of challenge of boomeranging into the bad foods. So then what Christy's going to do is she's going to add in a probiotic. And when she adds in the probiotic, now what we've got is we're adding in good bacteria. Then you wait another 20 minutes, and you want to start to add in some steamed vegetables. You can try some fruit. The reason for that is I want you to see how you do with fiber. And then you wait another 20 minutes. You can go 30, and then you're going to start to add in some meat. You make that your last thing. So the reason that we step it out is so that you don't boomerang. You've done so much good for yourself. I want to make sure that you continue to provide your body what it needs after an amazing fast like that. So congrats to Christy. Maureen, if I break my 48-hour fast with a cup of bone broth, will it kick me out of autophagy, even if my GKI stays low? Yeah. Okay, so Maureen's an expert faster. I love this question. And let's start with what kicks you out of autophagy, which actually we should probably start with what is autophagy? When you go into longer fasts, ones that are maybe 17 hours, a little bit longer, your body will turn on an internal cellular mechanism called autophagy. And autophagy stimulates the inside of the cell to clean itself up. Now, I don't know if you all have ever had a Roomba, but you know those little robot vacuum cleaners you can put in your house and it just goes around and sweeps up all of the dust and dirt off the floor on its own and you don't have to push it? That's what autophagy is. You are going into these longer states and Maureen's at 48 hours of a fast, so she's deep into autophagy. So her body's cleaning itself up and getting rid of the inner workings of that cell that are no longer working for her, which is beautiful. This is why we love autophagy. So there are a handful of things that will kick you out of autophagy and usually the most potent thing that will kick you out of autophagy is protein. Okay, what? Why would protein kick you out of autophagy? So when we look at cellular processes, there's a lot of opposition, there's a lot of inverse processes. So just like our nervous system has a rest and digest and it has a fight or flight, those are two opposing processes. Just like we can be a sugar burner and a fat burner, two opposing processes. We can stimulate autophagy and we can stimulate mTOR, but we can't do them at the same time. Just like you can't be in parasympathetic and sympathetic at the same time. Just like we can't be at night and day at the same time. They're both critical. So autophagy is where the bad is breaking down and you're getting rid of the bad. And mTOR is where you're growing the good. When we eat protein, specifically 20 grams or more at one time, what we're doing is we switch from autophagy, over into mTOR. So my first thought for you, Maureen, is how much protein is in your cup of bone broth? So if it's not 20 grams or more, if it's less than that, you haven't moved into mTOR. You're over here in autophagy. Now the second part of the question was the GKI. Now the GKI is the glucose ketone index. And it's a measurement of where your blood sugar is at and your ketones are at. And when your GKI is low, typically that means you are in autophagy. And when we first started teaching fasting to this channel, everybody got so obsessed with the numbers. And it became this moment where everybody wanted the best GKI. You know, I think of GKI as really necessary if you're trying to overturn a disease of some kind, a chronic disease of some kind. But for the typical person, GKI, especially if you're using, Maureen, if you're using autophagy just to stay healthy, the GKI may not be as important. But it might be a fun number to be watching. So, are you still in autophagy if you hit, if your GKI is low? And my thought is yes. And I don't have a science article to show you on that, but my intuitive clinical thought is, yeah. I'm thinking, actually Maureen, what's going on here is I'm thinking the reason the GKI stays low is because your bone broth isn't over 20 grams of protein. I'm also thinking that when you go to break your fast with bone broth, it's so rich in fat that it's taking you a while to switch out of that fat burning. So, I would tell you if you wanted to really do a test is keep checking your GKI an hour after the bone broth and then like two hours after the bone broth. And see if that number changes at all because it may be just, you might have a delayed response where the bone broth starts to actually, you start to see that GKI go up. So, hopefully that helps. Why does raw salad cause me to have diarrhea on day one after a prolonged water fast? Okay, this is a good question. When you go into a longer fast, so to me a prolonged water fast is 24 hours or longer. What happens is you are creating a massive change in the microbial ecosystem of your gut. So, one of the things I wrote about in Fast Like a Girl is something called microbial geographical relocation. Think about this. This is like we're so, we're made, we're designed so, so perfectly. So, you go into this fasted state and your body registers that blood sugar is coming down and it registers no foods coming in, no nutrients are coming in. So, I better become a better version of myself so that when food comes in, I can grab the nutrients from that food so that I can make sure to refuel this organism here. So, the microbes that have been clumped together start to spread out like an army. They're like, okay, when's food coming in? When food comes in, we're going to be ready to get the nutrients. Because it's the microbes, by the way, that pull the nutrients out of your food. This is why when we've been on multiple rounds of antibiotics, when we've been on a lot of birth control, when we've had a lot of stress, when we've eaten highly processed foods, you've destroyed your microbiome. And so, all of a sudden, what happens is the microbes are like, we got to get better. Now, in that process, the microbes that are helpful to you also start to create an internal environment that makes it so that the other microbes that weren't helpful for you die off. But you might not see that die off until you eat food. It's like, think of it like they're little critters that kind of fight against each other. The good guys are trying to get rid of the bad guys. The bad guys are trying to increase your cravings like sugar and alcohol and things like that. So, you feed them so that they can stay the bad guys. And the name of the gut game is, we want more good guys than bad guys. When we fast, the bad guys are like, hey, I got to go away. And then when we eat fiber specifically, we refuel the good guys. And the good guys are going to look over and they'll be like, hey, there's some bad guys here that still made it here. We're going to get rid of it. And it's going to do that through two ways. One would be constipation. I've seen that. Or two would be diarrhea. So, it is a sign that you have reset your microbial system and your body is getting rid of the microbes that are not serving you. Diarrhea is not fun. But if it's temporary after a prolonged fast like that, that's what's happening. There was a microbial shift for the benefit. And that was the last way your body wanted to get those out. This is why I love bone broth as your first entry back into after a prolonged fast. Because bone broth has glycine on it. And glycine starts to heal the inner lining of the gut. And so it gets that gut ready. And naturally in that process, some of these microbes will fall off. So you might, if you don't like the diarrhea, which nobody does, but if it's bothersome, then try some bone broth before eating the raw salad. So, I hope that helped. Okay. Gisela said, I would like your guidance about my experience. 24 hours into the fast, she had headaches and felt dizzy. So, she had a cup of tea, caffeine-free tea. Hour and a half later, I had a glass of water and a pinch of real salt. Approximately 30 days later, I vomited the liquid. I do not own a glucose monitor, so I ended the fast. And she's 46. And basically, was that a normal response? Okay. So, vomiting, again, you have to remember that there is an ecosystem in the gut. And that ecosystem sometimes is giving us really bad food cravings. It's shutting down neurotransmitter productions. It's amping up. It's giving us an autoimmune condition. That all starts in the gut, autoimmune problems. And so, then we go into a three-day water fast and those bacteria are like, Woohoo! Okay. We're going to clean this up in here. Because no food's coming in, so the bad guys need to go. And so, the bad guys go. And how they go is by any orifice in which they can go. So, I would say that I don't think it had anything to do with the tea. Or the salt. Maybe the salt. But I'm curious if you've got some gut challenges that you need to focus on. That would be the way I would look at this. So, how do you handle those gut challenges? The first thing I would do is I would start breaking every fast with bone broth. Now, this isn't something we really went into yesterday. So, I want to go into this right now. Bone broth has glycine in it. And glycine acts like a soothing agent to the mucosal lining of our gut. So, when we break our fast with bone broth, it's like reparative. So, Gisela, you asked me what would you do next time. I would say as you approach 24 hours, I would do a cup of bone broth. And I would do that. And if you kept getting nauseous, I would keep doing that until the nausea went away. I used bone broth a lot with my patients. So, know that that's a possibility. You might also next time at like 20 hours. I would do it right before the 24 hour mark since that was your spot. Maybe do some nut butter. Maybe do an avocado. Do some fat. And then see if you can go longer. Because it could have been too much too quick for the microbiome. And so, they were breaking down and off-gassing and all kinds of things. And so, that could have been contributing to the problem. But it definitely sounds to me like a gut issue. I'm glad you broke the fast because I think it's important that we don't always push through these adverse symptoms. We learn from them. And then we know next time. I had a lot of patients that couldn't go three days. So, every time we would do a three-day experience as a group, they would be like, Okay, I made it 24. My goal is now to make it 36. So, the next fast, you might try the bone broth trick or the avocado trick. And then see what you think. If you can go at least another 24, another 12, and you slowly work up to the three-day. So, hopefully, hopefully that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one. We'll talk about the next one.