 detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion detion det as we possibly could. We were little cardio bunnies. We were running, we were on stepmills, we were doing Zumba classes with our leg warmers on. We were in a high aerobic state because we thought that is what is going to help us lose weight. Am I alone? Put it in the comments if you were that person. Well, guess what? The science says that wasn't very good. We were wasting our time and our effort that there is only one exercise you should be doing to lose weight. And I'm going to explain why. And that exercise is lifting weights. Now, if I was hearing this video back in the 80s, I would be like, no, because when I lift weights, I would find that I've got really bulky. And then I put my pants on and my pants felt tight. And I was like, I don't, I don't want my pants to feel tight, but we have sort of a new idea around lifting weights because it's actually a metabolic primer. So it's so much more than just building muscle to look good. It actually makes your whole metabolic system upgrade so that it works faster. Now I can tell you in my clinic, I used to have women come in all the time and be like, I don't know. I feel like my metabolism slowed down. How many of us have said that? Like, I just think our metabolism has slowed down. Well, maybe your metabolism has slowed down because you've lost muscle. What if it's, and that's common as we age. So there are three reasons I want you to start thinking about lifting weights. And we'll talk about how much and how many, you know, what, how do you do this? There's, I'm going to make this easy for you, but let's go into these three reasons. So the first reason to start lifting heavy weights specifically is for long-term fat loss. And there was a huge 22 meta-analysis, 2022 meta-analysis in the Journal of Sports Medicine that looked at the data from 58 different studies regarding exercise and weight loss. And what the authors concluded was that lifting weights was highly effective for long-term weight loss and decreasing body fat. And the weight loss was also especially good for reducing visceral fat, which is the most dangerous part of fat. It's belly fat. So lifting weights was highly effective for long-term weight loss. And one of the reasons is because muscle burns a lot more energy at rest. So let's talk about what your metabolism is. When you, like me, let's use me as an example. I'm sitting here right now and my, I just ate. So my glucose, my sugar burner metabolism is in full effect. And so in order to burn the food, I just ate, my body is raising its temperature so that it can burn efficiently that fuel source that I just gave it, the glucose. But at rest in the fasted state, you could also have a higher metabolic rate if you have more muscle because muscle requires more energy and more energy requires that you increase your metabolism. So in order to, whenever there's more muscle on you, your body, in order to adapt to that muscle is going to raise its metabolism because that muscle needs more energy. Did you catch that? So at rest, you will have a higher metabolism if you lift weights. Another interesting study, a 2020 study in the Journal of Sports Science found that only weight training is the only exercise that increased your metabolic rate, not aerobic training, not jogging, that it was only weight training that increased your resting metabolic weight. Bottom line, when you lift weights and you build muscle, you burn more fat at rest when you're sitting. So yes, there's the metabolic expense when you're in the gym, but if you have more muscle and you're sitting, you're going to, you're going to have a faster metabolism. Make sense? Okay. Second reason women over 40 should be lifting weights is hormonal balance. Now, this one's interesting because there was a 2002 study that found that weightlifting actually increased estrogen and testosterone in women of all ages. Now, this is an interesting conversation because if you've listened to my podcast, The Resetter Podcast, one of the things that we know is that you need testosterone to build muscle. And so I brought on a testosterone expert onto my podcast. Her name is Dr. Kelly Kasperson. And we entered into a really interesting dialogue. She believes that you should take exogenous testosterone so you feel more motivated to lift weights. I'm a lifestyle expert. I believe we should always use our lifestyle first before a prescription pad. And so I believe we should lift weights to make more estrogen and more testosterone. So when you're lifting weights, you're increasing your metabolic state at rest, and you're making more of these key hormones that are on a massive decline as you go through menopause. There was a 2018 study that had women over 55 do a 12-week weightlifting program. And they found that weightlifting increased estrogen, testosterone, and progesterone, and even follicles stimulating hormone, which is really important for hair and keeping your skin shiny. We also found an interesting study that showed that lifting weights increases a hormone called IGF-1, which helps control your blood sugar and keep your metabolism running fast. We also found evidence that weightlifting significantly reduced menopause symptoms. It made estrogen more stable and had fewer hot flashes and helped with bone density and helped with better sleep and more energy. Am I convincing you yet? And then another study that showed that it helps with emotional regulation because it has a stabilizing effect on hormones. So if you're not lifting weights to increase your metabolism, how about you lift weights to get all those benefits of increasing hormones? We're so obsessed right now with putting patches and creams on us, but we can make our hormones and keep them up just by lifting weights. We can have better bone density. We can have more energy, better sleep, and better moods by lifting weights. Third reason I want you to lift weights. If I can put in the comments, if I convinced you yet, just checking. Third reason is that it helps with aging. And there was a 2008 study that found bone density in women declined sharply after menopause. This is a key one for me because I have a mom who is got osteoporosis and has had two hip fractures. So I've been watching her very closely to see what can I not repeat that she did. She never lifted weights. I will definitely tell you that. And so what this study found is that as estrogen goes down, so does bone density goes can go down. But when we dove into the science on what increases bone density, that's where we found a low muscle mass increases your risk of injury later in life, specifically fractures. And that the best way to increase bone density is by increasing muscle. And the best way to increase the muscle is lifting weights. Are you following me? I have studies on all of this. So those of you that are my science geeks, I'll put it all in the notes and you can dive into the research that we found. But lifting weights is not only going to improve your bone density as you age, but it also makes your joints stronger and it makes you more flexible, which is really important because you don't want to slip and fall as you age and pull a muscle or break a hip. My mom slipped and fell at 86 and broke a shoulder. So balance and flexibility is really important. And you know, the last one I will tell you on this is that this meta analysis, a 2019 meta analysis found that weightlifting increases the quality of life in older adults. People felt physically people over 50 that were dedicated to weightlifting felt physically healthier, had less pain, better muscle and joint function and better mental health. So you lose weight, you balance hormones and you slow down aging. So how do you do this? A little behind the scenes, my undergraduate work was in exercise physiology and nutrition. And the way I was taught was that you always lifting weights is better than a weight machine. And the reason that we said this back in the 90s was because when I go to lift weights, let's say it's a bicep curl. There's an eccentric contraction and a concentric contraction, and both are necessary for building muscle. So if I lift, do a bicep curl, and then I let gravity just drop those weights, that's not great because I'm not using both sets like bicep, tricep. You want to use both sets of muscles. So you use the bicep to make the curl. And then if you gently start to let it go down slowly, now you're using the tricep and you're working more muscle, as opposed to just lifting it up and then dropping it down. So the first thing I want to encourage you to do is to try free weights, which are weights not attached to a machine. Now, the evidence on weights attached to a machine is interesting. And I did find a study that says that both free weights and machines are equally effective at muscle strength and bone density. And this was based off of researchers following a group of people for eight weeks. Now, my guess is if you're doing a machine, you need to do the same thing where you push the machine, let's say it's a bench press, and then make sure when it comes back, you don't just let it slam back. You want a complete range of motion of tension. It's so easy to be like, I'm going to push this really hard, and then I'm just going to let it slam back at me. So we need to make sure we're going through a full range of motion. Now, I will tell you that I've done some podcast interviews with lots of different fitness trainers. I've done many videos here on exercise. And right now for menopausal women, what they're saying is you want to be lifting the max amount that you can lift in three sets of eight reps. So let's say I'm doing a bicep curl. I want to be able to lift, you know, like by the seventh or eighth rep, I should be like, oh, I can barely do this anymore. If I go, it's not like one, two, three. You want to be like really trying to lift the weight by the seventh and eighth rep and do that three times. I did a really cool master class on creatine that will really help with muscle strength as well. So make sure you listen. That's on my podcast. I also hear it on my channel because you can use creatine to help give you a little more muscle power and enjoy that experience. But I think the weightlifting topic has really trended recently. And I think we've lost sight of why we would lift weights. This is not just about looking good. This is about weight loss. This is about slowing aging down. And this is about hormone production. And this is why I love lifting weights for us all. Now, for me, I don't love lifting weights in a gym. So I'm going to do a rocking vest sometimes. I'm going to do, I love a TRX, the little straps that come down. I'm going to do that in my backyard. I'm going to do push-ups. That's a form of weightlifting because you're using your body weight. So that just means you would push up and then you would go down slowly. These are the kind of things we do in my Saturday morning workouts that I lead in my Reset Academy. You can come join me over there. If you need more information, I did a whole chapter in Age Like a Girl called Exercise the Menopause Way. Definitely, like, your food needs to change. Your fasting style should change. The pace of your life changes. And your exercise should change as you go through this menopausal experience. So if you've been lifting weights and you're seeing all the benefits, please put it in the comments so we can all learn from it. But most importantly, I don't want you to sit there and suffer. I want you to keep believing in yourself. I want you to understand how powerful your lifestyle is. And weightlifting is showing some really good evidence for us aging that it can really make a dramatic difference. So, as always, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.