 ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç ç green onions in it. It has a huge immunity piece to it. Okay, YouTube, I am back with another cooking show for you with Chef Jeff, who is one of the masterful chefs that made incredible recipes. And I always call you my omnivore chef. It's like my little pet chef that I take with me everywhere I go. And this recipe we're about to make is actually, I've made it four times, which is amazing. It's awesome. But before we dive into it, please tell everybody what your claim to fame is. It's like, I love hearing your stories because you have been sitting at the feet of masters. I've been very fortunate. I got to cook with Jose Andres and his restaurants with his crew and learn from him and his chefs. And then that afforded me the opportunity. I was one of only two Americans to win the scholarship to cook in Spain, live there for a year and work all over the country. And I wound up through that. I wanted the experience and was given the opportunity to go to Extremadura, which is way in the west. It's where all the Iberico pigs are. And I got to work in the countryside with, they're called the sabias. The sabias means like wise women. And so they're the elderly women who carry the recipes and the traditions from basically from village to village with what were called the matanceros, the butchers. And they work in concert. They go from farm to farm, historically in times before refrigeration. And they would harvest the pig for the family and make all the recipes that the sabias know. And the men would break down and harvest the animal. And then that's how folks survive the winter. And so I got to study with these folks. And then when I came back to America, I realized charcuterie was just starting to be a thing. And nobody knew about the Spanish stuff. So I wrote this crazy cookbook called Charcuterie de Sol de Spain, which I'm a chef. I don't claim to be the greatest writer, God's gift to cookbooks. Why do you have the editors? Yeah, exactly. We did a pretty good job. The editors of the magic. Yeah, well, they did a good job because we were nominated for a James Beard Award off the first shot. And we won the Gourmand Cookbook Award. It was really, it's a very, very cool thing. Amazing. Well, I feel really honored to have your recipes in Eat Like a Girl. Because, you know, one of the struggles, and you and I have talked about this, is that women don't really know how to eat the right foods to support the feminine body. And so what we did in the book is, the front part of the book is the rules of eating like a woman. But then we have your recipes. We have Chef Leslie's recipes. So one of the things I'm trying to do is really show people that healthy eating can be really tasty. 100%. And this recipe does a really good job of it. It's a fun one. So, yeah, so salmon furikake and take it away. How do we do this? Well, I wanted to make eat salmon. This is how I eat at home. I'm lazy. I don't love cleaning. And so I wanted, when I cook salmon at home, I don't want like three different dirty things in a pan. And I want like one shot, one deal. Cook it. I want to eat it. Right. And so this dish I developed for people with that thought process. So it's really just, you get some beautiful salmon. Yep. We're going to do a quick little kind of quasi brine. And with that, it's just a little salt, a little sugar. Put it on top. Let it sit for an hour, two hours, three hours. It doesn't matter in the fridge. Okay. When you're ready to cook it, you take it out. You rinse it off. You pat it dry. And you give it a little kind of smear with like a Dijon honey kind of mixture. And then the whole thing gets baked and then boiled off. The top gets nice and kind of bruleed a little. And you sprinkle on your furikake and that's it. Done. Easy peasy. Lemon squeezy. It is so easy. Yeah. Now, before you dive into it, so like this salmon is wild. And so I can tell that just by the richness of its color. Yep. Absolutely. But you've owned several restaurants, worked in so many. Do people, do they typically go for the wild over the farm fresh? For the most part, what it is is the wild is generally known to be healthier, more omega-3s. Right. Overall, just a better product. So most of the restaurants I've worked in, as long as it's in the season. Right. And we work with the seasonalities. We work with the Monterey watch list. Right. Where if salmon's available, we're getting the wild. Okay. And then, you know, there are some that are, they call wild farmed. Right. Which is really interesting where it's, they block off a huge waterway. And so it is a farm, but it's also a completely wild environment. Wow. And so that's most restaurants that still need to have salmon on a menu, but it's out of season. That's, they'll go that direction. And what is sustainable? Because I've been in restaurants. I always ask at a restaurant. I always say, what is it? Is this wild farm? And sometimes they say it's sustainable. Yeah. So sustainable, really, and I'm not the expert on this, but what I understand it to mean is that it's something that from an ecological standpoint, you're not harming the species. You're not harming the things around it. Yeah. You're not, basically, you're not going to cause a shortage of the supply. And it's regulated in some fashion that those things will happen. Right. Okay. Perfect. Great. Okay. Get that out of the way. There you go. Now let's make this amazing. Let's make some salmon. So again, we're just going to start with a really simple brine. Okay. And all it is, is, you know, a brine is just, normally it's salt and water, or in this case we add a little bit of sugar just to kind of help out the salinity of it. Yeah. And also to get some browning on the fish. So I just do a really quick one-to-one salt and sugar. Okay. Okay. Right. So from here, what we're going to do is we have our salt, we have our sugar, we do that little quick little mix, and we're just going to sprinkle it right on top. Okay. And that's it. And we're just going to kind of rub that in. Amazing. Okay. And you have both sides. And we use coconut sugar just so, we've talked about it on other videos before, is that coconut sugar is lower in the glycemic index. So in case you're wondering why it's brown, that's coconut sugar. That's why, it's coconut sugar. And it's, you know, it's just, it works really well with this particular recipe as well, because it's not like crazy sweet. Right. But it's sweet enough. Now you can go skin on or skin off. In this case, we decided today to go skin on. It will get a little nicer of a brulee if it's skin off. But we're, I think that's how we wrote it in the book. But for today, we just said, you know what, we're going to do it with the skin on. And the thing about the skin is that I, every time I have fish on my plate, I try to eat the skin because there's more omega-3s in it. Super healthy. Yeah. So if you put something lovely like salt and sugar on there, I'm probably going to eat the skin. Absolutely. So this we're going to put into the fridge and let it hang out for, oh, just a couple hours. Okay. So from here, we did a couple extra pieces. Okay. And you can see what's really interesting with the salmon when it sits in this brine is it gets this sort of denseness to the flesh. It doesn't look quite as open. Okay. So the water has come out and it's compact. And what's going to happen now is it's going to, when it cooks up, it'll be nice and firm for us and meaty. Okay. So the one thing we do need to do from here, and you can actually touch it and feel how firm it is now. Oh, yeah. It's super firm. It's almost like a... Like turkey. Yeah. I was going to say lox or like a thick piece of lox. That's exactly how lox is made. Yeah. Oh, interesting. So from here, we're going to rinse it off just to get the outside surface salt and sugar off. And then we're going to pat it dry with paper towels. And then we're ready to go. We can pop it in the oven. Okay. So quick little rinse. And when you're rinsing it off, are you rinsing it off just gently? A little splash. Yeah. That's it. Yeah. So we have our salmon rinsed it off. I'm just going to pat it really nice and dry. We want it really good and dry here. Okay. So the brine was really about texture and firming it up. Absolutely. With an essence. A little seasoning. Yeah. It's going to season our fish a little bit for us. Okay. So from here, you can see it's really, it's pretty nice and dried out. It's got a really nice kind of texture. We're going to put this right onto the cookie sheet. Okay. And I'm going to go, I think we're going to go skin side down to start. What's the difference? Well, if I was cooking this, say, in a pan, I would go skin side down and I would want to brown it and then we would finish it. And, you know, the thing is, is since we're going to throw this in the broiler and the broiler element's going to be right on top of the meat. Yeah. I want to really blast the meat. And I think what we're going to do, just because we have the skin on, we're going to flip it over and we're going to glaze the top of the skin and finish it that way. Okay. Before we put it in the oven, we're going to put just a little bit of oil on them. Oops. And it's going to do a little. It's like, I mean, imagine the omega threes in this between the wild salmon and the olive oil, like, like it's talk about a good fat meal. Yeah. Right. All right. And we go. And it goes. You're good. Yep. Now it cooks. Okay. And how long are we letting it cook for? You know, just until the meat is like almost completely cooked through. Okay. And we're going to flip it over and then we're going to glaze it with our glaze, which we're going to make in a second. Great. And then away we go. Okay. So for the glaze, really very simple. Dijon mustard. Any kind will do. I mean, really, I like the French ones, but yeah, pretty much any supermarket Dijon, any good Dijon mustard. And, you know, I know I gave actual proportions in the recipe. I think it's two tablespoons at two tablespoons. Okay. But, you know, at the end of the day, the thing is when it comes to this, you can, you can pretty much, we know, okay, half of the bottom of this guy here is going to be mustard and half is going to be honey. Right. Got it. And away you go. So. And this one's raw honey. You know, and you know the raw local trick. Beautiful. Yeah. What's the trick? Well, the trick is for allergies. Like they say that honey is really great for allergies, but only if you get the raw and local to you. Well, that makes sense. Yeah, of course. So. So from here, we just give this a mix. Now we have our little kind of pasty sauce. Okay. Super easy. This is what we're going to go onto our fish with to glaze it once it's ready. And then we have, of course, our furikake, furikake. Yep. Which is going to go on top of that. Okay. And that's it. Great. Let's see how the fish is doing. Yeah, let's see how he's doing. Okay. My baby's coming to you. Eat like a girl. You want to know the foods that will support hormones? Guess what? I have them for you already. It's a free giveaway. Just click the link above and I'll send you a list of all the foods that support amazing hormonal health. All right. So. Our beautiful salmon. Yep. So this one we will do a little flip. Okay, good. Give a little flip. There you go. And I think this one will leave as is. We don't want aluminum on our fish. So from here, we're going to just paste up our guy. Okay. So a little of this. And so this was just for everybody. This was cooked like five minutes. Not even. Three minutes. You can even touch the fish and you can see how firm it is and just how delicious. It's super easy. Yeah. So we'll do this guy on this side because it'll release what gets nice and hot from this. Okay. Now we're going to go back in and we're going to broil. Okay. And then we're going to add it for a cocky and we have dinner. Yay! Okay. Now what would you serve the salmon with if it was at your restaurant? I like the forbidden rice move. Yep. I'm a big fan. In the book, we have a few different vegetable dishes that are specifically Asian leaning. So you have the broccoli. The sesame broccoli is a good one. Yep. Yep. That was good. There's a couple of those that are really good in there. Even something as simple as kimchi on the side. Yeah. You get your probiotic in there. Oh, yeah. That would actually, kimchi would actually be really good with it. And kimchi is a unique fermented food because it has so many different, because the green onions in it, it has a huge immunity piece to it. You ferment green onions, you get a bacteria that supports great immunity. So this would, and I have tasted this recipe now four times. And what I actually did is I put it with Chef Leslie's kimchi edamame bowl. Oh, that's delicious. I just put it right on top. That's great. Don't tell Chef Leslie. Oh, look at that. It's getting all nice. And just want to show the halfway point here. You can see it's all nice and bubbly. We're not quite there. We're not quite browned, but she's pretty delicious. Whoa. Maybe just a couple more minutes. You want it caramelized. Yeah. Caramelization. So a little brown dent. Exactly. But not hard. No. What the honey is doing is it's kind of setting up. And it's almost not quite candying, but it is, the water is reducing out of everything. And it's creating this nice little glaze. And right before it gets too hard and set is when we're going to sprinkle on the furikake. And it'll kind of set like a crust. Okay. Right on top. All right. This guy smells about done. There we are. There we go. I don't want to burn yet. Yeah. We're going to go right here. Look at that beautiful. Listen, you see it's still kind of wet and tacky. That is when we're going to do this. Oh, that looks good. And then if you want to do the no skin, you do it on this guy. Right. Got it. There you go. Oh my God. It looks amazing. So from here, let's see if it'll behave. So no need to put it back in the oven. See, it's a lot easier without the skin. It goes right. Yeah. And there you go. There's dinner. Amazing. One for you. I'm going to get some forks. Yeah. Let's see if this will behave. Oh, there we go. No foil. No foil, no skin. Foil free. No foil, no skin. Boom. Okay. All right. One for you, one for me, one for the camera guy. One for the what guy? The camera guy. The camera guy. Yeah. Yes. Maybe we'll let the camera guy eat. Okay. Hold on. I go. Here's salmon. The pressure. Cheers. That's the one. You know what I like about it? It is a sweet and then there's like a salty. Like throughout the whole thing. It's like, to me, it's like candy. It is so good. And it's not candy. No. This might be one to feed your kids. Right. Oh, that's good. You know, it's funny. Because they like sweet. Kids love umami too. Oh. Crave umami. So this is a way to get them to do that. Yeah. Okay. Cheers. So eat like a girl. If you want these recipes, we got it in a book for you. And um, they, you know, I'm not the recipe maker. He and chef Leslie are and they did a phenomenal job. So cheers. I know you're struggling to lose weight. It may be your fasting length. So in this video, I'm going to show you the perfect fasting length to unstick weight loss. In fact, it's such an incredible tool for weight loss. I think you should start with fasting before you change your food to be able to get into that door in for losing weight. I like you're holding up.