 So we have a very new weight loss challenge, that we have never seen, and it's that we are watching people lose weight, but they are losing muscle, and this is very dangerous. This isn't just on the weight loss drugs. This is the new weight loss vibe that's going on. Is skinny supposed to be the new healthy? On this video, I want to show you why that is not the goal with weight loss. I want to explain three mistakes people, three mistakes people are making, and what the research says, and the five action items you can take so this doesn't happen to you. Okay? Let's dive in. First, the goal of being metabolically healthy isn't just a number on the scale. It is actually more, has more to do with numbers on your blood work. And there are a couple of numbers I want to point out that are really important. The first number is hemoglobin A1c. We always want to see that as close to five. But you also want to look at inflammatory numbers. So you should be looking at CRP and seeing every range is a little different. See if your CRP is high or low, because that tells you how much inflammation is going on inside your body. So when the old way we used to do weight loss was a number on the scale or a size of the genes, the new way, especially when we're looking at longevity and health needs to be looking at the blood work along with the weight loss. Now, what people are doing right now that is really messing them up and causing them to lose more muscle are these three things. So first, they start counting or cutting calories too aggressively. So this is a major point because the minute you bring your calorie count down even lower than it's ever been. What ends up happening is you create a new set point. So you're going to have to consistently keep your calories at that number in order to not gain weight. So let's say you eat 1500 calories in a day. Let's say you eat 1500 calories in a day and you expend through working out and doing your daily activities 500 calories. You have a delta of 1000. When we start to look at weight loss through calorie counting, we start changing set points and we have to always have that delta of 1000 calories for you to keep that new level of weight that you are at. So I'm going to show you something that the research says that's more powerful than the calorie counting. Second thing and I've been I don't know about you put it in the in the comments. I have fallen prey to this, which is more cardio than weight lifting, especially as a woman. I've been over the years. I grew muscle very, very quickly in my younger years. And if I lifted a lot of weight, all of a sudden my my clothes felt tight. But when we're doing too much cardio, we're back at that set point again, where we are expending so much outward energy, and we're not taking in enough calories. Usually people put those two together, which ends up changing the set point, which over time will not only make you gain weight, but it can start to make your body eat muscle. And so then you don't have enough muscle for functionality, which is really important for longevity. Third thing is that you're not eating enough protein. So those of you this is where those of you that maybe are on the weight loss drugs. I really want you to think about these action items going to I'm going to give you because protein builds muscle. So when we go to lose weight, we have to think about the muscle that needs to be in our priority list and getting enough protein is really important. Otherwise, you go into what is known as a catabolic state where your body is just breaking down muscle to try to find nutrients, specifically amino acids. So if you are eating enough protein, then your body won't go in and start to break down muscle to get those amino acids. So let's keep protein up. Now, here's what the research says that there are five things we need to take into consideration when we want to pair muscle groups. And then we want to pair muscle growth with weight loss. Here's number one, intermittent fasting, my favorite. But I want to talk about what the research shows. And the research is really interesting because this research that I'm going to I'm going to show you is actually done on men. Totally fine. We don't have a lot. You know, we are missing some of the research for women. And here's what the research says is that eight weeks of time restricted eating with a cadence of 16 hours of fasting. And eight hours of eating in resistance trained men caused reduced more fat mass and maintained that fat mass while maintaining strength. So what this study shows is that if you pair intermittent fasting with strength training, then you will get the weight loss result, but you will not get the muscle loss result. Now, I will tell you that ketones when we start to intermittent fast, ketones will preserve your muscle because remember that going into an intermittent fasted state, your body is trying to pull all of the resources, all the extra glucose from where it hit it in fat. It has no evolutionary advantage to break muscle down. And so what it does is as you metabolically shift over and you start making ketones from burning fat, ketones preserve muscle. This is why intermittent fasting is such a powerful tool for weight loss is because there is this ketogenic muscle preservation piece to this. Okay, research number two says protein intake. So what do you need to know about the amount of protein? Well, there's a big controversy on this. So some people say one gram of protein for every pound of muscle weight or body weight that you want to be that will keep preserve your muscle. But here I've got a British medical journal research showed that 1.6 grams a day can give you the muscle gain while allowing your fat loss to happen. I'll tell you where I've seen this work incredibly well in when we've done our fast training weeks, when we've done in our academy is something called carnivore fasting, where you go 17 hours, you stimulate autophagy, you go 17 hours without food. And then when you open up your eating window, your focus is mostly protein. If you are plant based, you could probably do the same thing using legumes and some of the more protein rich plants, which I wrote about in Eat Like a Girl, the cookbook. I have lists upon lists of protein rich foods. And so what would be interesting, whether you do carnivore fasting or let's call it protein fasting, where you go 16, 17 hours in a fasted state, you're getting those ketones, you're getting that muscle preservation. But then when you eat, your focus is on protein. All you like, that's what you're going to eat in your eating window. Try that for five days in a row and see what you notice with muscle strength. But the deficit, what they're recommending is the higher the amount of protein, the more nutrients you are giving to the muscles. Pair that with intermittent fasting. Intermittent fasting and now we have a winning combo. Number three is resistance training. Consistent resistance training is the most effective tool to preserve lean muscle. And, and it does, you don't have to do a lot of it. Three to four times a week where you are lifting the heaviest weight you can, mass, max capacity, where you're just really trying to lift that weight till you can barely lift it anymore. You want to do eight of those heavy, heavy weights, three sets, eight of them, three to four times a week. I'll tell you what we do in our house. We have one, one room that has a spectacular view. And so we have put weights there. So when we're looking out at the view, we're doing bicep curls, we're doing overhead presses, we're doing squats. Simple. This is not like you got to go get a gym membership. You could do the same thing at your TV where you can do the same thing at your TV. Where you go to and put weights by your TV and every commercial break, you decide you're going to lift heavy weights. This is not a hard thing to do. You just got to put it on your radar. Number four that the research says about preserving muscle while losing weight. This one shocked me and it's sleep. And let me tell you the study. So in the annuals of internal medicine, they looked at people who slept eight and a half hours versus people who slept five hours. They had the same calories in, they had the same calories out. So they, they, they accounted for calorie deficits. So what they found that was really fascinating is the sleep deprived group, the five and a half hours lost, had a 55% less reduction in weight. And so they didn't even lose as much weight. And the majority of the weight loss came from lean mass from that muscle, muscle power. So if you are not sleeping, you, your body is going to go in again. It goes searching for those nutrients. And so it starts to find it in muscle to pull those amino acids up to be able to support better brain health. So sleep is really, really important for preserving muscle. The fifth thing that the research is saying is back at our old cardio, remember back in the seventies and the eighties that we used to do that? Well, there is an obesity review that said, instead of getting on a treadmill and going for an hour, or even I love hiking or I love walking, but it's that consistent oxygen deficit where you're, you're either breathing hard at a consistent rate, or you're not even breathing hard. That that is not as effective for weight loss as HIIT training. And so this is something we do every Saturday morning because of the research on HIIT training in my Reset Academy. And basically what HIIT training, what we know is that you will get a spike of exertion followed by a 30 second rest. So it's like 40, we do 45 seconds of all out exertion. So that's running in place, jumping jacks, and then we take a 15 second rest. And then we repeat that again, that is HIIT training. And we do that for 15 minutes as a group. And what, and I followed the research protocol. And what it says is that HIIT training preserves muscle better than that steady state of, of calorie burn, like with walking or with hiking or biking. You need to get your heart rate up and down. You need to get that, that oxygen deprivation up and down that starts to stimulate growth hormone. When you stimulate growth hormone, you will preserve muscle. Plus if you think about like the jumping jacks and the squats, what ends up happening is you have to, those muscles have to stay strong to be able to perform that activity. So here are your five action steps. Ready? You might want to write this down. This, I love making checklists for you. So number one is intermittent fasting. So research again is showing 16, eight, 16 hours of fasting, eight hour window. Or if you want to try my protein fasting that I just offered you carnivore fasting, you would go 17 hours of fasting. And then when you are eating in your eating window, which is a seven hour eating window, you would focus primarily on protein. In fact, you could eat only protein if you want it. This will trigger human growth hormone, which will help you burn fat and preserve muscle. It triggers norepinephrine, which will keep you excited and coming back for more, which is that way you don't dread it, which is amazing. Okay. Step number two, hit your protein target every single day. So I like the one gram of protein for every pound of body weight. We have all kinds of different research on this. I also like the 30 grams of protein at every meal. That's another good target. So, and I really love animal protein as your main resource because there's so many more amino acids in it. So, you know, it's up to you. But if you were 180 pounds, then you would want to have 180 grams of protein a day. It's just simple, simple math that we all can focus on. Again, I lean more towards animal protein. If you are plant based, I love tofu. I love lentils. Tempeh is really great. So there are a lot of great protein sources along with a lot of great protein sources coming from vegetables. You can find lists upon lists of those in Eat Like a Girl. Okay. Step number three, three times a week, you're going to lift weights and you're going to do them as heavy as you can so that that eighth rep is, you can barely lift it. And you're going to do three sets of them three to four times a week. So you might, it can be so easy. You could do biceps and triceps one day. The next day, maybe you do overhead presses, which is more for the shoulders and the arms. And maybe one day you do legs where you're squatting and lunging with these weights. Not hard to do. If you're curious about it, come join me in my academy. We're showing how to put this into action. Okay. Number four, use cardio as a tool, not as punishment. And I would actually say use cardio for mental health. Cardio is great at bringing, giving you an endorphin rush, but it is not the tool for weight loss. So if you are going to use cardio, use it for your mental health. Do what you love, but don't do it expecting a weight loss result. Number five, prioritize sleep. And I've done a lot of videos for you on sleep because when you sleep, you start to release growth hormone. Growth hormone slows the aging process and it helps you burn fat and it starts to maintain muscle. So here's what I want to try because we're a community here. I want us to do eight to 12 week challenge. You decide. So you're either going two months or you're going three months. And I want you to do all five of these steps. Intermittent fast, hit your protein target daily, lift three to four times a week, use cardio for mental health, prioritize sleep. I want you to do those five things. That's all you're focused on. And I want you then to report back to me what you notice. This is not rocket science. If you are on ozempic, you can still do this. So the hardest part will be eating protein because you're not hungry. So you might have to really, you know, muscle that protein in. And I would really intermittent fast with your calorie reduction that ozempic and the weight loss drugs are giving you. So these five things will still work if you're on the weight loss drugs. And if you don't want to be on the weight loss drugs, these five things are the things that will allow you to lose weight while maintaining muscle. So let me know if you're doing the 12 week plan and the challenge that I'm offering you to follow these five things. And if you've been making any of these mistakes and you course corrected and it got you a great weight loss result with muscle building, let me know. Put it in the comments. But there it is, folks. Let's keep it simple. Let's keep it focused. There's your five action steps. Report back how it goes. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.