 In this video, we're gonna talk about the number one food that speeds up your metabolism, think about that for a second. Think about that for a second. This food, it's not, I'm not talking about taking a food away, I'm talking about adding a food in and you get a faster metabolism, and we're gonna talk about seven ways you can make this food, because the interesting part is this food could be a health food, or it could be a toxic food, depending on the type that you get. So let's dive in and look at that. First, let's just say what the food is. It is soy. And I've done a lot of videos on soy because I'm really trying to bring soy back. In all my books, I've written a ton about the phytoestrogens that are in soy, they are so helpful for women, and I think one of the challenges we have in believing this is that there was an old research that said, oh my god, if you eat soy, you're going to start to get cancer. And I can tell you first hand that I interviewed Dr. William Lee on my Resetter podcast. We'll link it here below, you can listen to it. And he was one of the authors on the study that determined, that came out and said that soy was carcinogenic. And what he said is when, and you go listen to yourself, but that when they went back and re-looked at, I don't know, I still don't understand how this happens, but when they went back and they re-looked at the data, they realized that the person interpreting the data misread the estrogen metabolite that it increased. You have three estrogen metabolites, and one of them is toxic, one of them stores in the body, and one of them is protective. And that soy actually increased the protective estrogen. And this particular author looked at just total estrogen, not, he didn't break it down into protective estrogen. So William Lee's like soy is incredible. He even went on to tell me that it's one of the greatest tools for stopping blood flow to tumors that form in the breast. We need to bring soy back. But for the sake of this video, we're going to talk about how it speeds up your metabolism. So here's why soy is so great. So first, you have to remember that it's high in fiber. It's a legume. A legume's a bean. It's high in fiber, low in carbs, and it's a complete protein. That's important because an incomplete protein won't have as many amino acids, and we're always needing amino acids to be able to make neurotransmitters and hormones. Soy has a complete protein. It's high in fiber, and it's low in carbs, which what does that do for you? Those of you that have been following me here for a while, what have I been teaching that fiber does and protein does and bringing the carb load down? It kills hunger. So fiber and protein are very filling, which makes soy a top food for anybody who's trying to lose weight. But here's the real magic of soy. It's all in its phytoestrogens. And you make estrogen and plants make estrogen. And the estrogen that plants make when they go into the human body helps support your total estrogen load, just like I said that Dr. William Lee noticed. And there was a 2020 review that found eating phytoestrogen-rich soy speeds up metabolism, leading women to burn total fat throughout the day. Now you mix that with another study I found, a 21 review that found that phytoestrogens in soy increased estrogen level and decreased menopause symptoms. With this one food, you can burn more fat and you can feel better. Now, when we look at menopause symptoms like depression, fatigue, brain fog, weight gain, when we are adding in foods that are reducing those symptoms, it actually also reduces that emotional eating that so many of us, I've been there myself, have been conditioned to do. So, yes, it helps with those symptoms and it speeds up your metabolism. They're also incredibly high in antioxidants. They're packed with phytoestrogens. That combination is going to lower inflammation. So those of you that feel like you're getting bloated, you feel puffy from anything, from your life, from menopause, it can really bring that inflammatory component down. Now, there is a downside to soy that we need to talk about and that's that the type of soy you get matters. So the first thing I want you to know is you always, always, always get soy organic. End of story. If it's not organic, it does not have these benefits and let me tell you why. Soy is one of the most heavily sprayed crops and it is sprayed with a chemical called glyphosate, a chemical that if you live in America, I'll explain this in a moment, but our president is now allowing this chemical to be sprayed on all of our food. And as of this week, as I am doing this video, as of a few days ago, he has given immunity to Bayer, which is the company that makes glyphosate, that if anybody gets damaged or health problems from glyphosate, you can't sue Bayer. This is a major problem. So here's what you need to know about soy that's sprayed with glyphosate. So a 22 study found that soy is the biggest GMO crop in the world, making up 48% of all genetically modified foods. 75% of all soy grown worldwide is also genetically modified. So this isn't just in America. I know in France and in Mexico and maybe in Italy, but mostly France and Mexico, I do know that they have outlawed the spraying of glyphosate on foods. The thing that's so harmful about spraying is that, and about non-organic soy, is that it's genetically engineered, meaning that they have changed its original state. Now think about that for a moment. The earth gave us something spectacular and we change it at the seed level. We genetically modify it so it's not giving us the same healing powers that it once did. Then we spray it with a pesticide that you're going to see here in a second is carcinogenic and harmful to your thyroid. Can you see where all of a sudden you're like, wait a second, health food, not health food. So glyphosate specifically, soybeans can tolerate large amounts of glyphosate. So when you are eating those little soybeans, like if you do edamame, what you're really getting is a little tablespoon or teaspoon of glyphosate. And glyphosate is carcinogenic. The World Health Organization has declared it carcinogenic. Bayer and Monsanto, the owners of glyphosate, have paid more than $10 billion in cancer lawsuits to 40,000 people who have developed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma from their exposure to glyphosate. Glyphosate is a persistent environmental pollutant. It does not break down easily. It accumulates in soil. It travels outside the area in which it's sprayed. So you can have an organic farm that doesn't spray and you can have a farm next to it that sprays. And too bad, it's going to go over to the organic farm and it will negatively impact plants, animals, and people. And it is a sad day here in America that we are allowing soy to be infiltrate into our food system because it is not a good, a good, it is not a healthy chemical. So when you go to get soy because you want to increase your metabolism, which I hope you go and do, we want to make sure that it is organic. Now there are seven delicious ways you can eat soy. My favorite is edamame. So when you go and get Japanese food and they give you a bowl of edamame and you can do fun things with it. Like I like to put flake salt on top of it. I had friends over for dinner the other night and that's exactly a bowl how I served it. And I put some flaky salt on top of it. You can boil edamame. You can steam the whole beans. You can put it in salads. You can take it out of its little sleeve and you can put it into salads. So it's a really easy go-to. A lot of stores have it conveniently pre-made. Again, just make sure it's organic. Second thing you can do is something called soy nuts. These are soybeans that have been roasted and they're great. You just dry roast them, put them on a cookie sheet, put them in the oven, and they're great topping for salad. Or if you like that crunch, they're great for the crunch. We also, the third way you can cook it is tempeh. In Eat Like a Girl, one of the chefs that created the recipes for this book was plant-based. And she has a bunch of great tempeh recipes in here that I would encourage you to go and look at. And tempeh is nutty. It's fermented. It's super high in nutrients. You can treat it like ground meat. You can chop it up. It's fermented. It's lightly fermented. Anything fermented is going to give a new probiotic profile. So check out tempeh because there's a lot of fun things you can do with it. Okay. The fourth thing you can do is soy milk. But you've got to be really careful with soy milk because there are a lot of fillers. I would encourage you to actually go and try and make your own soy milk. Or just look at the ingredients. Make sure there's not a long list of ingredients. Look for things like citric acid. A malodextrin sometimes gets put in soy milk. But soy milk is an option. A lot of people like it in their coffee in the morning. Okay. One, two, three, four, five. The fifth one is tofu. This is one of my favorite. Anywhere I go, I order tofu. And tofu is interesting because some people go, well, I don't really like the taste of it. But tofu actually just takes on the taste of anything you put with it. It's kind of a different texture. Some people don't like the texture. But I personally like the texture. I like to put it with some soy sauce, some rice vinegar, some scallions, some garlic, and a tiny, little, tiny bit of honey. And then brown it in a fry pan. And it can be quite tasty. Okay. Sixth thing is miso. Every time I go to a Japanese restaurant and they offer miso, it is a yes. So miso is also a form of fermented soy. So remember, anything you ferment is not only going to have the same nutritional qualities. So not only are you getting the phytoestrogens, but you're getting the bacteria, the probiotics that will help support a healthy gut. So, you know, with miso, you can turn it into a paste. You can rub it on chicken or on steak. So it doesn't just have to be soup. There are three main types of miso. Red miso, which is intensely nutty and savory. Yellow miso, which is kind of more in the middle. And white miso, which is gentle and sweet. So there's a real variety that you could have fun playing with. So try which one and see which is your favorite. And the last one way to get soy in is through soy sauce. I don't think you're going to get that much in through soy sauce that you're going to start to lose weight. But it's a great addition. If you don't like to do salt, maybe you don't like the taste of salt, maybe put a little bit of soy sauce on. And keep in mind, those of you who are gluten-free, you can do tamari. That's the way I do it so that you can still get the taste but not get the gluten. But I really wanted to emphasize the importance of soy for you all. It has gotten a bad rap. It is great for menopause symptoms. It's great for raising your estrogen. And it turns out it is fabulous for losing weight. If you have a great soy recipe, put it in the comments. We all want to know. And as always, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.