 Dr. Dr. Mindy here, and on this video I'm gonna show you one food, one food that can make you happy, that can actually calm you, can help stabilize your blood sugar and make your menopausal experience so much smoother. And I mean this not only from a lose weight standpoint I'll talk about that in a moment but also from a mood standpoint. So I really want you to understand this. Let's dive in. When we are eating certain foods, not only are we like satisfying and nourishing our body, like we talk a lot about foods from like, oh, that's high in vitamin A or that's high in vitamin C. And I don't know about you, but that's a little hard to measure. But what isn't hard to measure is when we look at foods through a neurochemical lens. So for example, the food I would like to highlight today, and it's in Age Like a Girl, I'm going to give you the cliff notes version on this, is that tubers, and I'll talk about what tubers are here in a minute. One of the things that they do is they help your body make GABA. And GABA is the neurotransmitter that brings your stress levels down. It calms you. And progesterone, one of the major sex hormones that has been pumping through your body for a long time, initiated the production of GABA. But progesterone starts going down at 35. And then we've got estrogen, who also has been making GABA. And she goes on this wild ride in your 40s. And eventually, as you get to the tail end of your 40s, then you start making less and less GABA, which makes us all a little anxious and wiggy and we can't sleep. So when we look at tubers, and I'm going to talk a little more in this video about what tubers are, I'll talk about how you make what kind of recipes you can do with tubers. But first, I want to talk about what tubers do. Now, I always like to kind of teach you a system for thinking. So a lot of the research that I found for age like a girl came from understanding something called the grandmother hypothesis. And the grandmother hypothesis says that back in our primal hunter-gatherer days, that women, when they stopped having a cycle, moved to a different position in the tribe. And they actually, one of the things they became was foragers of food. They would go on long treks every single day to go and gather food. And what they gathered were tubers. And so I wanted to understand for this book, like, why tubers? What was so great for tubers? So tubers do five very specific things in your body. Ready? Straight from the book. So first, they support blood sugar stability. So those of you who've ever put a CGM on, or maybe you're doing like a keto mojo blood sugar measure, you probably have seen your blood sugar go up and down. Try adding a tuber to your meal and then see if that blood sugar spike is a lot less. Remember that it's not only a one food that spikes your blood sugar, it could be a combination of foods. So we're, and again, I'm going to give you some ideas on how to cook these. The second thing that tubers do is they feed your microbiome. Now, remember that the microbiome is making neurotransmitters. So one of the most important neurotransmitters that your microbiome makes is serotonin. And serotonin was stimulated by estrogen. And when estrogen went away, you became, your body didn't have a resource for making serotonin. And so it puts a lot more pressure on those microbes in your gut to be able to start to make serotonin. And if you've been eating horribly, if you've been on birth control pills for years, your microbiome is completely deficient. And so one of the ways we get that microbiome back and those bacteria healthy again, and making you serotonin is by eating tubers. And if you're not convinced yet, let's keep going. Okay. Third thing that these tubers do is they promote GABA and serotonin synthesis. Now, this is a really important one. I really want you all to get this because just because you produce a hormone doesn't make it usable by your body. Okay. This is one of my worries about hormone replacement therapy is just because you're putting it on your body doesn't mean your body's going to break it down into a usable amount, which put in the comments. I think I've seen it from a lot of people. I've experienced it myself. When I take hormone replacement therapy, when I first started trying it, my, if my body couldn't break that estrogen down, then it just started as fat and people start gaining weight. So we can start to use something like a tuber to not just break down estrogen, but to promote the breakdown, the production and the breakdown of both GABA and serotonin. So it's usable for your body. Okay. Fourth thing, if you're not, if you're not convinced yet, you're going to be convinced after this video. Fourth thing is that it helps you detoxify and eliminate estrogen. So remember that estrogen breaks down into three metabolites. They're kind of tricky names like 2-OH, 4-OH, and 16-OH. 4-OH is the carcinogenic toxic estrogen. So your body doesn't know how to break that down. It stores it. And that is what's going to cause you to get cancer or possibly. I don't want to make any strong claims here that every body is a little different. But when you're eating a lot of tubers, what you're doing is you're giving your body the nutrients it needs in food to be able to break that toxic estrogen down and not only prevent you from getting cancer, but also help you lose weight. Because if you go back to what I said a few minutes ago, when we are making this toxic estrogen and our body doesn't know what to do with it, it will store it as fat. But when we start to eat things like sweet potatoes, that's my favorite tuber, then all of a sudden we're giving our body the resources to break, to detoxify, and to eliminate estrogen. And the last thing it does is it calms your nervous system. It soothes your nervous system. So by soothing your nervous system, you're not making as much cortisol. If you're not making as much cortisol, you're sleeping better. And remember that cortisol production, if you don't use cortisol, which is the hormone that is meant to make you move, you will store it and it gets stored as fat. So seriously, when I look at these five things, I'm like, my gosh, why are we not eating enough tubers? And then I look back and I'm like, whoa, our primal friends, no wonder the grandmothers went hunting for tubers. They did all five of those things. They intuitively knew. So what is a tuber? We've come to this point in the video. So my favorite is a sweet potato. I talk about sweet potatoes all the time. If you didn't notice, if you hang out with me, I order sweet potatoes all the time. I think the most common question I get is what's the difference between all of these and what's the difference between a yam and a sweet potato. And I will tell you that I I've studied and tried to figure out that answer. I can't tell you what it is. Nobody seems to have a clear answer. What I can tell you is that when I buy sweet potatoes, I buy all the different kinds because when you have and I always you eat the skin, the difference in color in the skin is the difference in antioxidant load. So if you always eat the same yam over and over and over again, you're getting the same antioxidants. But if you start to eat different skin colors of these different flesh colors on the inside, like this, surprisingly enough, is bright yellow on the inside, whereas this one is white on the inside. So different colors are going to provide you different nutrients. This is why I like to split it all up. Now before I move on to other tubers, I want to let me see if I have it in here. I think this might be one of them. They're hard, they get hard to tell. But purple sweet potatoes, those are specifically known to feed the microbes in your lower intestine. So they, even though they are not as creamy as a regular sweet potato, they still hold a very unique function, which is they can really multiply the microbes in the lower intestine. And this is also important for serotonin GABA production. It's also important for estrogen breakdown. You don't want to just feed the microbes in the small intestine. You want to make sure you get it into the whole gut. And that's why we often, probably a couple times a week, we'll make sure that we do the purple Japanese sweet potato. Okay. What other tubers? Turnips are a tuber. All kinds of all potatoes. So the red potatoes, the white potatoes, your good old fashioned russet potato is also a form of tuber that will give you those five things. We also know that as ugly as this thing is, this is turmeric, which I should have cut it open because on the inside, it's a bright orange. You can juice this, you can, you can grate it and put it in some mashed potatoes. So in fact, if you have a good way to use turmeric, put it in the, in the comments, but I would say most people juice it. That's pretty, the most common way to do this. But the important part of all, oh, jicama. I couldn't find a jicama for you all. I love jicama. Cut it up, put some cayenne pepper and some lime on it. And it's incredibly tasty. But the thing about tubers is you want variety. So this is why I wanted to give you a good example, visual example. I also want you to know that when you get the book, when you get age like a girl, on page 107 is a whole list of foods that are, that have these five qualities in them. So I tried to give you as many resources as possible. And then also remember that eat like a girl and eat like a girl. I've got tons of tuber recipes in there that my shets made because it was, it's in all the research I'm doing for menopause and women after 40. This seems to be the hero food. So if you have a good recipe, you can put that in the comments too, and we could all benefit from that. So it's really fascinating to me that we can see it through a hunter gatherer lens. We can see it through a neurochemical lens. We can see it through a microbial lens. We can see it through an antioxidant lens. We can see it through a detoxification lens that tubers are the hero food for menopausal women. And they are so tasty, which is, makes it even more exciting. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video.