 s about how many of you have noticed when you're not getting a good night's sleep, you start to crave strange foods or you start to eat more. And the research I'm going to show you is showing that this is really happening to people who skimp on sleep. I'll never forget, I had an employee in my office who was so proud of the fact that she didn't need much sleep and she was around 100 to 150 pounds overweight. And one day something propelled her to start to prioritize sleep. Not only did she start to lose weight, but her food behavior started to change. And all she did is prioritize sleep. And some of these hacks, not all of them, she applied to her life. So those of you that are struggling to lose weight, let's start with sleep. Let's see if we can get you sleeping. Then let's see if you can get you can start to lose weight. I can't think of anything more simple. So let's dive into this. So how does sleep affect weight loss? And here's what you need to know. So and I want you to see the research because it's compelling. There was a 21 study that had 125 overweight people who prioritized sleep for 12 months. So let me ask you, can you prioritize sleep for an extended period of time? Because what the authors tracked were the participants weight as their sleep started to improve. And sure enough, they found there was a direct link to when people slept better, they lost weight. We also have another study, a 2012 study in obesity found with women, 198 women, that if you had a lower sleep score, you lost 33% less weight. And you've reported greater hunger than people who had better sleep scores. So those of you who are like, I don't know, I'm just so hungry or I can't fast. Let's start with sleep. Let's go to sleep as the very first thing. So why does this work? Well, the main thing that sleep does is it actually will start to affect your hunger hormones. And there are two. There are ghrelin and there is leptin. And there was a 22 study that found that sleep strongly regulates these two hormones. Ghrelin is what makes you feel hungry. So it controls your hunger. And poor sleep causes you to release more of it, increasing your appetite and your food cravings. So let's just think that through. You're skimping on sleep over and over and over again, which is making you increase the hunger hormone. Okay, let's tie this to ozempic. How many people are saying on ozempic and the weight loss drugs, they're saying, well, I'm just not hungry anymore. They are affecting GLP-1 hormone is affecting the hunger hormone. But so does sleep and sleep is free. Okay, the same thing they found with leptin, that poor sleep decreased leptin. And leptin is the hormone that makes you feel full. So that means you tend to overeat when you are sleep deprived. Think about it when you're jet lagged. How many of us, when we are jet lagged, we start to eat. Sometimes I feel like I'm eating just to wake myself up. But so much of that could be from a poor night's sleep. A 2022 review found that a single night of poor sleep led to more snacking the next day, with a preference leaning towards more processed foods high in fat and high in carbs. So those are the facts of how important sleep is. Now let's talk about the boosts and what you can do, because there is a 10-minute bedtime routine that you can start to tap in. And there are three things that you can focus on. And some of them are supplements. So I'm going to give you the supplement and answer. And then I'm going to give you the no cost answer. So you can look at both of those. So the first thing you can do before you go to bed is you can have kava tea. I've done a lot of videos on kava. I love kava. If you have access to kava, I highly recommend it. You usually can find it in your natural health food store. There's kava bars popping up everywhere. But it's an amazing sleep and stress supplement. And it's rich in something called kava lactones. And these are kava lactones are chemicals that bind to your GABA receptor sites. So remember how I've been talking to you all about GABA here and how progesterone stimulates GABA? Well, and what progesterone does is it goes in and activates these GABA receptor sites, but so do kava lactones. And there was a 24 study that found that kava before sleep reduced sleep disturbances. It improved deep sleep. Deep sleep is incredibly important because that's where your brain starts to detox itself. And it improved overall sleep quality. Just a cup of kava every night. And I'll give you some dosages here. It also lowered stress, which is another bonus for weight loss because when you're stressed, you increase cortisol. When you increase cortisol, it goes and it's stored as fat. So the one interesting thing, you may or may not like this, is kava lactones can start to actually make your mouth a little numb. You may like that side effect. You might not. But it doesn't take much kava and just a cup in tea and you'll start to get the benefits. Okay, number two is ashwagandha. Now this one's really interesting. I've been playing with ashwagandha. I actually have a bottle of it. Done some videos for you all here. I have a bottle of it next to my bedside because I find if I wake up in the middle of the night, it can really help. And ashwagandha is rich in something called with analytes. And those will lower cortisol naturally. So there was a 21 study that gave ashwagandha root to healthy people and people with insomnia. And it was a trial. It was actually a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, which is impressive. And the participants took ashwagandha before going to bed. And what they found is ashwagandha helped people fall asleep faster. It improved sleep quality. It reduced sleep disturbances. And it increased mental alertness upon waking up. And all you needed was 500 milligrams before bed. Okay, third thing. And then stay tuned. I'm going to give you all the natural hacks too to these. One milligram of melatonin. Now a lot of people have been harping on melatonin because there was a study that came out recently showing that melatonin could impact cardiovascular events. But we're back at the dose. The dose matters. So when we go into this lower dose of melatonin, it has no negative effects. It does not have, it doesn't suppress your body's own melatonin production. It doesn't have the cardiovascular risks that they saw in people who took higher doses on a continual basis. And it was so amazing for sleep. There was a 24 study that said that melatonin serves as a safe first line sleep aid, potentially aiding in giving you a regular sleep cycle. Now that's really important because we're not looking for just one good night's sleep. We're looking for multiple good nights. Melatonin will improve sleep quality, reduce sleep disruptions, and help you fall asleep faster. And all it takes is one milligram. Okay, so if you like supplements and you want to go into those, there you go. Those are those boosts. But what if you don't want to take supplements? What if you want to do this free? So the first is let's look at the kava. Kava is stimulating those GABA receptors. One of the more interesting things to be able to stimulate GABA is something called 4-7-8 breathing. This is where you go in through the nose for four seconds. So it's like, you're just counting to four, you hold it for a count of seven, and then you exhale for a count of eight out through the mouth. And you do two to three rounds of that, and it stimulates GABA, where all of a sudden you're starting to get a whole, infiltrate your brain with GABA. You make your own GABA. So where kava would go into those GABA receptors, or even progesterone, like we talked about, goes into those receptors, you can actually use 4-7-8 breathing to make your own GABA, and it will go into those receptors. Try it. It is one of the greatest hacks I have ever found for making my own GABA. Now the second one, when we look at ashwagandha. So what does ashwagandha do? Ashwagandha lowers cortisol. Well, cortisol is that hormone that makes you move. It wants you to go and move. I've done some videos, we'll leave links in here, on certain movements before bed can also lower cortisol, like yoga. So just some simple sun salutations, some yin yoga, where you hang in your favorite yoga position, those can dramatically lower cortisol. A walk at night, dramatically lower cortisol. What else have I taught you that lowers cortisol? Nature sounds. Put some bird music on, rivers, you know, running water, or watch nature scene on your TV, where you can actually start to lower cortisol through nature. The sounds, the visuals will bring it down. Walking will lower cortisol. These are not difficult things. So if you don't want to do the ashwagandha, how about we, yoga, we start doing activities ourselves. So there's that. And then the last thing with melatonin. So melatonin is driven by sunlight. So one of the things we have to make sure if we want to reset our circadian rhythm is we want to make sure that we are getting morning sunrise. There's a red hue that will shut off melatonin. So make sure you're seeing the sunrise. If you got up early in the dark, that's amazing because you're going to just make sure your eyes see the sunrise. If you got up after the sun is up, this is where some red light might be helpful. Make sure in the middle of the day, go take your 20 minute walk that I have been helping you all understand that the science behind walking is tremendous. Take a 20 minute walk in the middle of the day. So you're getting full spectrum light. And then at the end of the day, can you see the sunset? Get out. You can watch, you know, in your backyard, you can go for another walk, but the red hues of the sunset will tell your body that day is ending and will help you make melatonin. So you can make your own melatonin. And we have these resources as supplements. These are easy hacks. These are not hard. You can do the free route. You can do the supplement route. But most importantly, what I want you to understand, because so many of you here have stressed how much you're struggling to lose weight. And I think in a world where we are, so many people are turning to the weight loss drugs, knowing that they can never get off these things, we have to start to really talk about a weight loss lifestyle. And part of a weight loss lifestyle is prioritizing sleep. In fact, when I look at this research, I look at what my employee did. Maybe the first thing you do in a weight loss lifestyle is prioritize sleep. Let's start there. And then you're going to see all those other habits. One of my favorite quotes that I will always tell you is you do not need motivation. You need momentum. And perhaps these hacks, this 10 minute routine is going to give you the momentum with your sleep, which will give you the momentum with your weight loss, which is going to give you more motivation to keep doing all the other health tools. See how that works? So as always, I hope that helps. If this helped, you're not going to want to stop there. Check out this video.