 and coming out of that experience, I was diagnosed with acute PTSD. It was not something I ever wish anybody to go through. People's cortisol reduction doubled after 20 minutes in nature. Nature or Xanax? You can get the same result with a prescription you can get in nature. Let's talk about the power of nature on your health. Because I'm I know we've heard about this, and I know we've heard about this, and you might be like rolling your eyes, and you're like, oh God, I gotta get out in nature again. But it doesn't always get out in nature. Sometimes it's even listening to nature sounds or looking at nature. So stick with me. But what I want you to hear is there is tremendous science showing that being in nature not only helps our stress recovery, not only helps our mental health, but it could help you lose weight. It helps your metabolic health. I'm not. I'm not joking. So on this video, I want to explain exactly why. So first, what I want to just say is that this is a very personal video for me. Just not with I don't want to go into all the details. The details are in age like a girl, those of you who have read my new book, but 2025 produced to be a very stressful year for me. And it started off with me living in the neighborhood where the LA fires were. I was there that morning. I was at the epicenter of the fires, I evacuated with buildings burning and embers going flying throughout the city, I was stuck in gridlock traffic, it was horrendous. And coming out of that experience, I was diagnosed with acute PTSD, it was not something I ever wish anybody to go through. I had crushing anxiety, I couldn't sleep. And I finally landed here where I am now in Santa Cruz, California. And if you don't know anything, if you don't know Santa Cruz, California, it has the ocean in the front and the forest in the back. And when I got here, I had so many people say to me, let the let the land heal you, let the nature heal you. And so every day, I got my feet in the ocean, or I got my body in the ocean, or I went out into the forest, got with the trees, and I am not joking, doing that repetitively rewired my brain. I even started surfing and getting in the water every day. And all of a sudden, all of a sudden, I could sleep again, I could think again, the crushing anxiety went away. And I started to feel my brain rewiring, happiness came back, it's it was miraculous, and I give the credit to nature. So with that in mind, here's what research is saying about nature. First, it doubles your stress recovery. And it makes it so not only do you work, recover more quickly, but they actually are this this study I'm about to quote you said that you can recover from a stressful event within 20 minutes. Now that's something I could have used back in when I was running from fire. But this 2019 study recruited people who lived in urban cities across the United States. And they had participants spend at least 10 to 20 minutes in a green space three times a week. That's not a lot 10 to 20 minutes three times a week. And the green space was identified as an outdoor space that brings a sense of contact with nature. So you didn't have to be full on in nature, you could you YouTube does an amazing job of putting nature scenes there's like you can go to people's YouTube channel, just type in a creek, you know, a rushing creek in a mountain top, and put that on your screensaver, put it on your TV, that could be your 10 to 20 minutes in nature. For this study, the options included a park bench gardening in your backyard. So you could have a you could have a maybe you're in an apartment where you have a deck, you could have some pots that are that would be nature filled and or walking in a nature filled and or walking in a tree line street. And the researchers described this as a nature pill, taking a nature pill in small doses of nature. And throughout the study, they tracked people's cortisol levels. And what they found is that people's cortisol reduction reduction doubled after 20 minutes in nature. Now, one of the things I know about all of you is that I watch what videos you love. And one of the more popular videos, I'll leave a link here that I've done in the last couple of months have been on ashwagandha, and the reduction of cortisol, if you watch that video, let me know, if not, we'll link it here. It was a very popular video, I got a lot of comments on it. In my reset academy, we kept talking about it. And one of the things we know about ashwagandha is you take a pill and it lowers cortisol. But what this study is saying is that all it takes is 20 minutes, three times down. Now, if you have read any of my books, which hopefully you have, I talk about something called the hormonal hierarchy. And the hormonal hierarchy is that when you're trying to balance your sex hormones, specifically estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone, you need to be insulin sensitive. And if you're trying to be insulin sensitive, you need to have cortisol in check. So if you're trying to lose weight or you're trying to deal with menopause symptoms or balance hormones, we, the nemesis of balancing those things is cortisol. And what happens with cortisol is it's like a slow leak that just keeps coming into your system. So we can stop that leak by getting out into nature. And this is exactly what happened to me is every day, I did more than three times a week, I got into nature. And after a couple of months, I saw my brain rewire, I could feel the difference, please try it because I've spent 1000s of dollars on therapy. I've experimented with psychedelic journeys. I've tried exercise used to be my my my drug of choice, my mental health pill. And I literally love all those things. But nothing has been as effective as nature daily dips into nature. And there was this is the same. This is interesting because the study that I just quoted, one of the things that they noted is that this is the same stress reduction you get from Xanax. So I'll put another study in here for you is in the Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism that said, nature, or Xanax, you can get the same result with a prescription you can get in nature. Think about the power that is the power of nature. Okay, second thing that nature does is it keeps our brain strong. So those of you that are trying to prevent cognitive decline, those of you that are worried about dementia, or Alzheimer's, I want you to hear this. There was a 2019 study that found nature is great for aging brains. And what they did, it was a Korean researcher that developed two different nature therapy programs for people over 65. One was a breathing program, where they had people go and sit in a forest and focus on their breathing while they were in surroundings. The second group was a part of a walking program, where people simply walked through a forest, and then there was a placebo group. And here's what they found. Each program lasted two hours, it's a long time. Now I would say this year, because of my trauma, I've been spending about two hours in nature. And the longer I spend, the more I can feel my brain rewire. So if you know you have a big trauma, I'm not joking, keep dipping yourself into nature as much as possible. One of the things side note that I have done, because I'm surfing now in cold water here in Santa Cruz, there's a study that was done showing that 11 seconds of putting your wrists, getting your wrists exposed to cold water, or your face exposed to cold water, starts the rewiring of a brain that's been under trauma. So when I'm surfing, I literally put my hands and make sure that my wrists are getting in the cold water, so that I can get that rewirement of the brain. This is, I mean, we are so connected to nature. So it's really important that we don't dismiss it like it's like some kind of extracurricular activity that's optional. It should not be optional. And in this study, they did two hours a day, these three programs for 11 weeks. And the researchers measured electrical activity of the brain as well as the parasympathetic nervous system responsiveness. Now, let me pause there for a moment. So those of you who have read Age Like a Girl, or if you haven't, I highly recommend this. This may be my favorite book that I've ever written, but specifically on this topic, because what I see with women as they go into menopause is they have no access to their parasympathetic nervous system. And so now their adrenal glands, which controls that stress response, has to make hormones their sex hormones and their adrenal glands and their nervous system are like, I'm so frazzled. There's no way I can make sex hormones. So I'm definitely convinced more than ever that the menopause symptoms that you may be struggling with may be due to the fact that you're not, you don't have enough parasympathetic energy. So the, or in your parasympathetic nervous system hasn't come online. And so this study showed that when they put people in nature for two hours a day, either breathing or walking, that they significantly didn't say how much they significantly increased the brain activity that brought the brain back online, brain clarity, brain cognition, and it improved the parasympathetic responsiveness at when they compare that to the placebo group that didn't go into the forest. Now, the third thing, and those of you that are weight loss lovers, and you, many of you come to my channel for that, I know. So I want you, I want to give you the lens of weight loss from as many directions as I possibly can. And we now know that make nature and and time in nature can actually start to help you lose weight. And here's how there's a 2020 review that found that spending time in nature lowers bread, blood pressure, it increases heart function, it decreases cardiovascular inflammation, and it improves cholesterol and triglyceride levels. And so I'm going to be able to do that. And I'm going to be able to do that. And I'm going to be able to be able to do that. And I'm going to be able to do that. And I'm going to be able to do that. But when we went into the pandemic, I started to study everything I could about the immune system. And I brought it to my YouTube channel, trying to give you guys things you could do to keep your immunity up. And at that time, we had a statistic that just was permeating social media. And it was that 17% of Americans were metabolically fit, only 17%. Now metabolically fit means a lot more than just the right weight loss. It also means cardio, cardio metabolic. So what's your blood pressure doing? How's your heart functioning? What's inflammation? What's cholesterol and triglyceride? So this is this study is saying that if we go into nature, we can lower and help improve all these things. There was another study that found walking in nature lowers your blood glucose and your hemoglobin A1c, as well as increasing your insulin sensitivity. Okay, how many times if you've been listening to my videos, am I like your hemoglobin A1c, let's watch that marker. It is the most important health marker you can look at. And just walking in nature can help improve that marker. So those of you that are like fasting, you're eating well, you're following all the things, all the things I've been recommending. And you're like, but my hemoglobin A1c is not going down and my cholesterol is still high. Let's go back to nature. It's free. It's easy. And it really research is showing that it really can help your metabolic health. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book, because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself. So you finally put yourself first. And for the science sounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations, proving everything I wrote in this book, and I can't wait for you to get it. Okay, last one. Number four is nature can boost your mental health. So there was a 2016 study that found that when middle aged people with poor mental health walked in nature once a week for 80 minutes versus walking the same amount in an urban area, it lowered cortisol, it lowered your heart rate, it increased your energy, and it decreased depression, anxiety, and fatigue. Okay, what do we do with the city folk? How do I get you to start to walk in nature? Well, you could, you could start listening to nature sounds when you're walking in the city. That would be one way. I've gotten really into listening to chanting music, because there's incredible evidence that chanting the repetitive over and over and over again, can lower cortisol and prime the parasympathetic. So maybe you just use your ears if you can't get out into nature or try to find a tree lined street, go to areas that have plenty of nature that's already been planted there. And the cool thing about what this study found is let's say it's a Monday, you're super stressed out, and you have a long work week, and you just go for a walk for 80 minutes. What this study found is that the benefits of a walk on Monday for 80 minutes lasted multiple days. It wasn't just while you're walking, it continued on. There was another current study 2025 that found that women with depression saw significant improvement in their mood after a long nature walk every other weekend. So get in the car, get up, find a nature spot. And they compared that to the women who did the same walk in an urban setting. Same kind of result, lower depression scores, lower cortisol, increased oxytocin, higher serotonin. Let me know if you've read Age Like a Girl. One of the biggest things I brought forward in this book was that when women go through menopause, they're having a massive neurochemical shift. And some of those neurochemicals that are changing are oxytocin, serotonin, and dopamine. Every other weekend, go for a walk in nature, a long walk. They didn't say how long. I would say an hour if you're going to ask. And you're going to bring these neurochemicals back. This was a big point of Age Like a Girl is I wanted to show women that you are in control of your own neurochemical experience. So if all of a sudden you lose estrogen, and you have less estrogen than ever before, which forced you, your body to have less dopamine and serotonin and oxytocin, get out in nature, and you can bring those back. You are not a victim to this experience. And a 2012 study found that mental health benefits with people who immerse themselves in nature was more than just depression relieving. It actually increased people's creativity, their problem solving skills, and that over time, the more nature people got exposed to, the more creative they became, and the more capacity they had to solving complex problems. The researchers of this particular study theorized that nature hits a sweet spot in our brain, where we don't have constant tasks and stimuli from our phones, from advertisements, from social media, that nature provides a gentle and irregular background stimulation that keeps our brains active. So we end up feeling more relaxed and mentally engaged, which is ideal for creativity. So do you see why I'm so excited about this? If you're looking for an easy way to de-stress, you're trying to bring your insulin sensitivity back, you're looking for better cognition, spend 20 minutes in nature three times a week, and go for a long walk in nature every other weekend. It's that simple. For bonus, let's start listening to nature noises, maybe some bird songs, maybe some running rivers, put it on your TV so you're seeing it, immerse, get more plants in your house. Maybe you need more plants in your house, but nature is a healer and we cannot dismiss that. So I'm excited to bring this to you. I'm always trying to give you things that are free. Let me know if this is helpful. If you've had a similar experience to mine where nature healed a trauma brain, I'd love to hear it. That was one of the greatest surprises for me this year. The more I got into the nature, the more I kept telling my husband, like, something's changing up here. I can feel the happiness come back. I can feel my focus coming back. And it's been so profound for me that every single day I get into nature now. You might only do three times a week and every other weekend. But know what I want you to know is that when you're living in a body and a mind, you are like, not enjoying that the door out of that is free. And, and it's our, our earth has provided, Mother Earth has provided us many resources to heal ourselves. Let's not, let's not lose. Let's not go and buy a big, expensive, fancy biohack and not get into nature, which is free. We're so easily swayed by the shiny object that might be medication or a supplement or a biohack when fricking nature is sitting right before our eyes and has the potential to heal us. Does that make sense? So, and as you can see, I'm quite wound up about this because I've had my own experience. So let me know. I want to hear your experience. And just it's 2026 when I'm doing this video, I am reading every single YouTube comment. I may not be responding to all of them. We're trying my team and I are trying to get to them all, but I really want to hear from you. I want to know what you're resonating with. I want to know what you need to move your health forward. And I'm doing new videos every day. So I'll see you tomorrow. I don't want you to waste money on supplements. Your body's a miracle. Buy the right ones. Sometimes you don't buy them at all. Check out this video. So you don't waste money on your supplement. When we do the same probiotic over and over and over again, what we're doing is we're creating a monoculture in our gut.