 p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p So here we go. Number four, the carnivore diet. Okay, how many, put in the comments, how many of you have tried the carnivore diet? Because so many people think that it's an extreme diet, and it is. It is the most extreme for what is on this list. It also is the simplest, and it's ridiculously effective. So here's what you need to know about the carnivore diet. It's pretty much as it sounds. It is meat. And so the question we get a lot in my community is, all meat, different types of meat? Can you do dairy? Can you do eggs? Can you do fish? Lots of questions. So usually, meat includes animal fats like butter or tallow, and some people add in eggs to this diet, as well as dried herbs and spices. But for most people, for the most effective way to do the carnivore diet, what people do is straight animal meat. No dairy, no eggs. But this is where the variation you get to decide. Now, there hasn't been much research on this diet, but what we have found is that in the Journal of Nutrients in 2026, so this is a very new study, that it really broke down the pros and cons to eating carnivore, and here's what it says. Research shows that people following the carnivore diet do lose weight, and pretty quickly. And I will tell you, we notice this in my own community when we have done five days in my Reset Academy, where we do five days of carnivore only, people lose weight, and they lose weight quickly. And partly, that's because without any carbs, not any carbs coming from fruit, or coming from vegetable, or coming from dairy, you move into ketosis so much quicker. And that's what this study is saying is a real pro to the carnivore diet is that we're switching you over into ketosis very quickly, much quicker than any other diet that I've ever seen, and probably as quickly as fasting. We also know that when you switch over into this ketogenic state, that ketones will go up into your brain, and they will actually kill hunger, which is what this study showed, is that the carnivore diet is incredible at decreasing hunger. It also, we know that the carnivore diet is great for specialized groups, people that are trying to overcome certain conditions. I'll tell you the best condition that I love the carnivore diet for is autoimmune. And let me tell you why. And the study says that, that for autoimmune cases, carnivore diet can be like a hero diet. And part of the reason why is the carnivore diet is known to upregulate what we call our T regulatory cells that are made in our gut. There is nothing for your gut to attack. When we're back at the old conversation of oxalates and lectins and plants, where you can start to get gut inflammation, where your gut actually attacks the plants you eat, and that can cause an immune response. So for people with autoimmune conditions, it's really powerful to take the plants out for a short period of time. It starts to stimulate these T regulatory cells, which will do exactly what they say. They will regulate the immune system. I can tell you when I was in clinical practice, we used the carnivore diet not only as a weight loss diet, but we used it with our autoimmune diet. And so it's really, really powerful diet. And because you're only eating one food, carnivore is a little bit of an elimination diet. So that can be helpful if you have gut issues or autoimmune issues. You can go on to a carnivore diet, and then you can slowly add certain foods back in, and you can see what you react to. So great for weight loss, great for ketosis, great for killing hunger, and really powerful for conditions like autoimmune. Here's the con. You're probably already thinking about it. Well, let's just call it what it is, the nutrient deficiency. If all you did is eat meat over and over and over again, you would not be getting a complete set of nutrients, specifically phytonutrients. You would be losing vitamin C, vitamin D, calcium, magnesium, and iodine. Second con, it's got zero fiber. And we've talked about this a lot here on this channel, that fiber is so important for helping you break down hormones, for you detoxing. And research shows that fiber is essential for preventing colon cancer. And so we want to make sure that you're not on the carnivore diet for too long, because you will really miss the fiber and your microbes in your gut need that fiber. The third problem that we have with the nutrient piece of the carnivore diet is it's low in antioxidants. So meat contains a couple of types of antioxidants in small amounts, but plants are by a huge margin the main source of antioxidants in our diet. And really the elephant in the carnivore room is it's restrictive and it's boring. We have done carnivore so many times. I love how I feel on it and it's so freaking boring. So use it as a therapeutic tool. Use it to drop weight fast. Use it to bring an autoimmune flare up down. But long term, I do not recommend this diet. It is more of a therapeutic diet. Okay, next one, diet number three, the vegan diet. And I know we have a lot of vegans who follow me. I know if you are in the Resetter Collaborative, our fasting group on Facebook, we have a lot of vegans in there. And plant-based diets were so popular with my following that I actually in Eat Like a Girl, I've actually hired a plant-based chef to do a whole set of recipes. So, and I was a vegetarian for over 10 years. So I have so much admiration for the vegan diet. And it is really, really popular. And a recent study showed that vegans increased by 600% here in the U.S. from 2014 to 2018. So this type of diet has continued to gain in popularity. Now it couldn't be any more opposite than the carnivore diet because all you're doing is eating plants. So carnivore, all you're doing is eating meat. Vegan, all you're doing is eating plants. So you have no meat, no animal products. Eggs, butter, cheese, milk, and honey are even off the table on a vegan diet. And this can present a major problem for a lot of vegans because sometimes what can happen is all you do is eat vegan junk food like chips, fries, candy, and highly processed snacks can all be vegan. I know for myself when over 30 years ago I decided to go vegetarian, I didn't have the nutritional knowledge that I have now and I was a carbitarian. So we have to be careful with the vegan diet that we don't start to lean into some of those ultra processed foods. But for the sake of this video, we're going to talk about the pros of the vegan diet and hopefully you're following a healthy vegan diet. And a healthy vegan diet is going to have a ton of beans in it. It's going to have a lot of phytonutrients so you're going to get a lot of fiber. So you're going to have a ton of greens which is great for the microbiome. And there is some real interesting evidence that the vegan diet led to weight loss for 75% of the people. On average, people naturally ate about 20% fewer calories when they were vegan. I think that's interesting. I wonder if it's because all the fiber fills you up. And they saw some dramatic health markers change with the vegan diet. Specifically my favorite marker which is hemoglobin A1c and many people saw a reduction in blood pressure. So lots and lots of vegetables. You can only eat plants and so a good vegan diet tends to be really high in fiber. And high fiber diets are great for weight loss which is probably why 75% of the people who go vegan lose weight. And remember when you're doing a lot of fiber it keeps you full by slowing down digestion and boosting satiety. And we know that the vegan diet is really nutrient dense. I've been trying so hard to get you all to eat more soy. So there's a lot of soy in the vegan diet. So a lot of tofu. I'm a huge fan of sprouted beans. So I've been doing myself a lot of sprouted garbanzo beans and lentils because they have a lot of enzymes in them and a lot of protein. The vegan diet is so good in getting so many nutrients. Just make sure you're staying with lots of different colors. So blueberries, raspberries, all the peas, snap peas, greens. These are all come from different color sources which is important because each color source of the vegetables you eat are going to have a different set of nutrients. Now the cons to the vegan diet is that it still is missing a few nutrients that you find in meat that you can't completely get in vegetables. Nutrients like B12, vitamin D, you know you get a lot of vitamin D in fatty fishes. Iron, that's the biggest one I saw in my clinic over and over and over again was that people who followed the vegan diet tended to be more prone to anemia and lower in iron. Zinc, it can be low in zinc which is a real bummer because zinc is so important for making testosterone, specifically a little bit of progesterone, a little bit of estrogen but specifically testosterone. You've probably heard the idea that oysters are aphrodisiacs and that's because they're so high in zinc it helps your body make testosterone. They can be low in calcium and they can be low in omega-3s. So it's like they're high in fiber, they have a lot of other beautiful nutrients but they're missing some key nutrients which is why vegan by itself can be a limiting diet. The other con that I have with the vegan diet is that it doesn't, it's hard to get your protein. So your protein sources become nuts and seeds and beans and tofu and each one of those protein sources has a different amino acid profile so it's not a complete, complete protein meaning it has all the amino acids. So you have to make sure that you're getting tofu and different kinds of beans are going to have different amino acids or as I would recommend to my vegan patients you're probably going to want to take an amino acid supplement because your diet's not getting that. Whereas if I sit down and I have a grass-fed steak I can get all the amino acids it is a complete protein and remember that protein is huge for both weight loss and muscle building and if you're exercising a lot you want at least 80 grams of protein a day you know the gold standard right now is saying that one gram of protein for every pound of ideal body weight you want to be and that can be really hard to get on a vegan diet. And the last thing I would say about the vegan diet is it's really high it can be really high in carbs like we talked about you become a carbitarian and very low in fat. So yes I think it could also be a temporary diet like just like the carnivore diet. Could you go on the carnivore diet to get yourself into ketosis and drop some weight and then maybe two weeks later you go on a vegan diet. Why do we have to stick to one diet? Why do we have to walk around with like I am I'm a believer of this diet. Why can't we try it all and I think the vegan diet does have a place and like I said the research is showing 75% of people will lose weight with the vegan diet and a lot of that changing of diets really gets your body into a state where it can drop weight. So you could do carnivore one week, vegan the next week, you could actually do all four of these diets and just switch them week by week and you're going to end up with different results from each one and it keeps your body always on the gas. So number two is the Mediterranean diet and I've done a lot of videos on the Mediterranean diet and I think that science would say time tested people have incredible experiences with this diet easy to follow you have so many more options but what does it mean in terms of weight loss. What we know about the Mediterranean diet one of the its greatest qualities is that it is got lots of healthy fats. So we have fatty fish, we have olive oil, we have hummus which can have good fats, there can be grass-fed dairy in it so there's a lot of healthy fats and there's a lot of whole foods. So the choices are vast much more than carnivore and much more than the vegan diet. So the pros is that it's really well balanced and it's very evenly split between protein and fat and fiber. Long-term weight loss research looking at over 2600 studies on the Mediterranean diet and metabolic health including nearly 37,000 people show that the Mediterranean diet is incredible for what long-term weight loss, for lowering blood pressure, for lowering inflammation, for lowering triglycerides, for lowering overall disease risk, for reducing belly fat, like you can not turn away from the research on the Mediterranean diets. So from a whole food standpoint this is the gold standard diet and it can be incredible for weight loss. It's also nutritionally complete. The wide variety of nutrient-dense foods makes the Mediterranean diet the first nutritionally complete diet that perhaps was ever created. Now one of the cons of the Mediterranean diet after I just have gone on and on about how much I love this diet is it is slightly higher in carbs. So you can eat grains. In fact fermented sourdough is a big part of the Mediterranean diet and for some of you you can eat grains and you'll be okay and for some of you you're going to eat grains and you are going to gain weight or you're going to have some kind of gut challenge. So if you can tolerate gluten and you can process a carb well whole grains are fine in moderation especially when you're younger. But as you get older and you move especially women moving through menopause what ends up happening is we become more insulin resistant and parts of the Mediterranean diet can start to feel a little bit restrictive. The other con of the Mediterranean diet is that typically it avoids red meat. The traditional Mediterranean diet suggests minimal red meat consumption with a focus on chicken and fish and although I love that I think red meat gives you more iron and it gives you a bigger amino acid profile. So avoiding red meat completely grass especially grass fed meat can be a challenge. But since the creation of the Mediterranean diet a large body of research has found that when it comes to red meat and health quality is what matters. So grass fed meat is completely different than a factory farmed meat. And in a 22 study it showed that grass fed meats have more omega-3s and less omega-6s and making them anti-inflammatory. So a modified version of the Mediterranean diet based off modern research would be to add red meat back in. Specifically I wrote about this in Age Like a Girl where I think there's a menopausal Mediterranean diet that works incredibly well. You can resource that book to see exactly how I mapped it out. But the healthy fats in the Mediterranean diet we need to include grass fed meat so we can get that omega-3 influx. So overall I'm going to give the Mediterranean diet number two for weight loss. If you are listening to this and you're like I've done the Mediterranean diet forever it's easy to sustain but I'm not losing weight then you're going to want to go to diet number one. So diet number one for weight loss for killing hunger for mental clarity is the Ketobiotic diet. Now this is a diet I first introduced to all of you with my book Fast Like a Girl and I gave you a whole cookbook on the Ketobiotic diet with Eat Like a Girl and the reason it is my favorite diet is that it takes the best of the three I just gave you. So the Ketobiotic diet is becoming increasingly more popular over the last couple years and it is an upgraded version of Keto. When the Ketogenic diet first came out into the world it was extremely low carb and that low carb was really difficult for people to sustain. It was damaging for women's hormones so I modified it by looking at these other diets I'm telling you about and added in a few extra things. So here's what the Ketobiotic diet is all about. You are going to do 50 grams net carbs so it is low carb but it is not no carb. Now remember that a net carb is the total carb subtract fiber gives you the net carb. So in a ketobiotic diet we start to be able to keep our carb amounts down enough to put us into ketosis but not down so much that you feel deprived and that you tank your hormones. Second reason I like the Ketobiotic diet is it's very high in fiber so lots of greens. I mean any green plant you can find and is edible, you can have, you can also bring in some fruits, low glycemic fruits like berries which are really high in fibers. So you have all the vegetables, you have the berries for fruit and the other fruit that I recommend to keep that carb content down are green apples. The other thing I love about the Ketobiotic diet is that you're really focusing on whole foods. So wild fish, grass-fed beef, olive oil. These are key to the Ketobiotic diet and the last thing that I absolutely love about the Ketobiotic diet is I really wanted to emphasize fermented foods. So making sure that you are getting plenty of sauerkraut. I've done a lot of videos on that. I actually dumped my sauerkraut into my salads. Sometimes I'll put it like a Ketobiotic meal at night for me would be like a steak with some sauerkraut next to it. I can't tell you how many meals just out of simplicity I had a grass-fed steak with a cup of sauerkraut. So for weight loss this diet going Ketobiotic and getting yourself into Ketosis for weight loss is absolutely the best way to go. There is a 2025 review in Nutrients that found Ketogenic diets perform better than any other diet for weight loss. Ketosis speeds up your metabolism, it suppresses hunger, it controls blood sugar, all of which lead to a sustained, this is the important part, in a sustained weight loss. And because you're eating more carbohydrates, they're just coming from nature's carbs, the Ketobiotic diet is giving you more fiber and remember you need fiber to be able to lose weight. And many of the other Ketogenic diets didn't offer you enough carbs to get enough fiber. And the last thing I love about the Ketobiotic diet that I really want to emphasize is that the protein, you can do as much protein as you want. The main component of the Ketobiotic diet is keeping carbs at 50 net carbs. But protein, originally in Fast Like a Girl and Eat Like a Girl, I talk about the protein amount being somewhere between 100 grams, 120 grams of protein. But you can do the protein routine that so many of us are now embracing based off science. It's just 30 grams of protein at every meal, trying to get one gram of protein for every pound of body weight. So protein is becoming more and more important when we talk about it in terms of weight loss. And the Ketobiotic diet really allows you to be able to bring protein back in. And then the last reason I love the Ketobiotic diet is it really emphasizes probiotics for gut health. Fermented foods keep your gut balanced, they lower inflammation, they speed up your metabolism. So I think it's literally the best of all the diets and I have seen that clinically work over and over and over again. If you have been using the Ketobiotic principles, please put in the comments so other people can see that. Now one of the cons is it is a little more low carb. So you'll notice that I said the fruits you typically will eat are the berries and the green apples. I didn't say bananas or pineapple. So you have the lower glycemic fruits on the Ketobiotic diet. Unlike the Mediterranean diet, you notice that I didn't talk about bread. I don't recommend any bread on the Ketobiotic diet. So it isn't for everybody. That might not be long term what you stick with. And in Fast Like a Girl and Eat Like a Girl, I really talk about the different hormonal times that you would use this diet. You wouldn't use it all the time. So there's no one size fits all. But the way that I like to look at all four of these diets is as healing tools. So carnivore diet is my go-to when I want to drop weight fast. I want to like I've done it before photo shoots or before I'm going to go on camera where I want my skin to feel like it's really moist. I want to be energized. I want to be satiated. It is a quick weight loss diet but hard to sustain because it's so boring. Vegan diets can be really powerful when you're wanting to make sure you add in a ton of greens and you might need a little meat break. Mediterranean is an awesome diet for us to use for the majority of the time but may not be the most perfect weight loss diet whereas Ketobiotic has it all. It brings it all together so that you can lose weight. You can still get all the whole nutrients. You can still get the healthy fats. So it has a beautiful way of combining everything and you get the weight loss result. So let me know what you what do you think of all of that and what have you noticed with the Ketobiotic diet? For those of you who have fast a girl and eat like a girl, what have you noticed? And I'm excited to see all of your comments. But most importantly have fun with your diets so you can take all four of them and switch them up and do them at different times. You don't need to be a zealot for one diet. You can benefit from them all. Hope that helps. If you like this video you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.