 HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV HIV out the answers to these questions that have been asked over the years so you can easily find them. So in this Q&A playlist, in this series here, hopefully you will find what you need. This hopefully will give you the very specific answer that you're looking for. Now, I want to remind you that what I teach here on my channel is for you to find your path because what I am teaching you here is how to customize your own healing journey, not how to do it like everybody else. I want you to do it like you. So my Q&A series, enjoy. Any suggestions on fasting while pregnant? Is intermittent fasting okay to keep weight in check and insulin sensitive? Thank you. Love your work and book. Thank you. So here is the thing about fasting and pregnancy. So first, it's an absolute no. So fasting is not your tool when you are pregnant. Before you get pregnant, it can be your tool, but not while you are pregnant. But you do have another tool that is really cool and really important for your baby. And that's called feed your microbiome. So your microbiome is, you pass your microbiome down to your child. So from zero, this is really fascinating. And when I, my kids were little and I had a big family practice where we were always talking about these kinds of things. The digestive system is the last system to form in the womb. And it is meant to form partly outside the womb. So our gut microbial system is meant to fully form from the years of zero to three. If a woman who's pregnant has a really diverse set of microbes in her gut, she is going to pass those microbes down to her baby. And she's going to do it usually through breast milk. In fact, our bodies are so intelligent. One of my favorite studies on nursing babies is they took twins. And they started to measure that if they put one twin on one breast and the other twin on another breast, that the saliva in the baby's mouth has microbes in it and sends a message to the intelligence of the mom's body on what microbes that baby might need in order to thrive. And in this study, they found that if they kept the babies on the same breast, they didn't mix it up, that they actually, each breast would produce a different microbial balance based off what the baby needs. How crazy is that? We're so intelligently designed. And then the other really interesting thing is when you're holding your baby, you have microbes on your skin. And those of you who are like, I'm not interested in babies, listen to this because this is interesting, should be interesting to everybody. So when you have microbes on the outside of your skin, when you're holding your baby and your baby's got bare skin and you've got bare skin, you're exchanging those microbes with your baby. They've even found romantic partners are exchanging microbes when they're kissing, when they're touching. There's an exchange of these microbes. And then the microbes on the skin actually have a communication system to the microbes in the gut. So I used to tell all the families and all the pregnant women in my clinic, I would say fasting's not your tool, but feeding your microbiome, fermented foods, lots of variety of foods is really important because if you can make your microbial system very diverse, that is what you're going to hand down to your baby. So you're not without a tool. It's just fasting isn't your tool. The second thing I want to say is for nursing moms. If you're nursing, you can fast, but don't hit that 17 hour mark because that's where autophagy kicks in. And once autophagy kicks in, your body's detoxing itself. So I don't think you want to detox, you know, and the milk, your breast milk is where a lot of those toxins will go. And now your baby's getting those toxins. So no more than 17 hours. If I have an eating disorder, is there a fasting method that will work for me? Okay, so let's talk about this. And I'm going to say a couple things first. I am not a therapist. I do not specialize in eating disorders. But I am a woman who has walked the path of building fasting lifestyles with millions of people. And I have seen so many hurdles that people have to go through and eating disorders is one. So for some people with eating disorders, it will trigger the eating disorder, the fasting. So if you feel like that is you, you definitely want to be working with whoever's supporting you through your eating disorder, a therapist or a life coach or a doctor, somebody that's helping you with the mindset of the eating disorder. So that would be like the first thing that I would point out. Now, once, if it's a recovery eating disorder where you're not, it was like a long time ago. I've seen so many cases like that where somebody will say, I used to have an eating disorder. It's not active right now. And in those situations, here's what I did. I would slowly move there. It's kind of like what I teach you when you're beginning to fast, I would say, how about instead of eating your breakfast at seven o'clock, we eat it at 730. And so let's just move it back a half hour. And then tell me what you think. And they would report back. Yeah, that was easy. Okay, tell me what's going on in your mind. Are we triggering anything? Never anything? And they would say no, I'm good. Then I would move it back another half hour for a couple of days. And then I would move it back three or four hours a week or two later. I just slowly move them. You got to go slow so that you don't trigger any old wounds or old thought patterns. And what I found with every single person who had an eating disorder is that eventually they could fast successfully. And I found that actually fasting helped them have a new relationship to their body and food and help them overcome the eating disorder. So that slow, methodical push it back a half hour for a couple of days and push it back another half hour for a couple of days. Do that for a couple of weeks till you're at about three to four hours pushed back and just keep checking in on yourself. That seems to work. Your body is always in relationship with you giving you signs and signals. The question is, are you in relationship with it? Headaches. Headaches. Headaches. So headaches is an interesting one because if we have A-50% fuel source for ketones in our brain, meaning our brain needs 50% of its fuel every single day needs to come from a ketone, and I've never understood the ketogenic energy system, then I never gave it a ketone. It never had its fuel source. So when all of a sudden I go into this three-day water fast and I give it ketones, the mitochondria up there in the brain is like, whoa, I want this. And it grabs it and it gets excited because you finally gave it the fuel source it wants. But the mitochondria does more than just make ATP, which is the unit of energy. The mitochondria also upregulates and produces one of the most powerful antioxidants on the planet that your body makes, and it's called glutathione. Glutathione. So when you make a ketone in this fasted state and it goes up into the brain, the brain gets excited, the mitochondria get activated. They're making energy, but they're also making glutathione. Glutathione is a detoxifier. And so it will start to detoxify the cell. And the symptom of that may be a headache and it may be brain fog and trouble focusing. So if that's your experience, what I want you to see as the mirror, I talk all the time about how these three-day water fasts are like you, maybe I should look at it like a crystal ball, like what your body needs you to know. Is it telling you this through these symptoms? So the head symptoms, headache, brain fog, those are your mitochondria are detoxing your cells. So this is where if you have bean minerals, I would dip into some bean minerals. You can try some activated charcoal. Sometimes the toxic dump goes into the gut first and then goes up into the brain. So you might try some activated charcoal. You could try chorella. Some people like that as a detoxifier. But know that that symptom is telling you that there may have been too many toxins in the brain. Now there's a really big difference. And you tell me if this is right as well. Sometimes we get a headache and we get brain fog and we're like, God, I hate this. I just want this to go away. But if you understood that your mitochondria have been activated and the plastics and the heavy metals and the glyphosate that's sprayed on our foods, bazillion toxins in our environment just got pushed out of your brain so you don't end up getting dementia and Alzheimer's, if you knew that symptom was a sign of mitochondrial ignition that is helping to heal your brain, I'm just curious, does that feel better? Because it's purposeful. So it's not like you have to sit there and suffer. You can sit there with the symptom and you can be in awe of yourself, of what your body is able to do. I wonder if fasting more than 24 hours is safe if you have stage three kidney disease. Well, so the first thing is whoever your kidney doctor is, we would want to invite her or him into this conversation. And something to know about my work, I always leave citations everywhere. So our whole YouTube channel was built off of nurses and doctors coming. My podcast, the Resetter podcast, is highly listened to by health professionals because I like to bring the science with the information. So I would always want your doctor involved in your fasting regime. And I would want your doctor to understand fasting. So you might send him or her our way just so they can educate themselves. So that was step one, number one. Step number two is when we go into a fasted state, something like 24 hours, you're really asking the body to heal itself. You're saying to the body through the absence of food and glucose, you're saying there's no nutrients coming in. There's no glucose coming in. But I know you store glucose in certain places. And I know you have the ability to repair yourself. So go ahead and repair yourself so that you're ready for when food comes in. That's literally what we're saying to our bodies when we go those long distances. And so in that process, what the intelligence inside the body does is it looks around and it's like, okay, we don't have food. We don't have nutrients. So we got to clean this system up. And so it starts to look at the weak links. Sometimes those weak links are on a cellular level. Sometimes those weak links are on an organ level. So it would make perfect sense to me that fasting 24 hours, if you were comfortable with it, we'll talk about that in a moment, that it would work for stage three kidney disease with the acceptance of your doctor. I really want to point that out. You've got to bring your doctor into this conversation when you have any advanced disease like that. But it would make sense to me that the kidneys would start to repair. You would want to keep a lot of water. You'd want to make sure you're really hydrating with clean water. And you'd want to keep a CGM on you to make sure your blood sugar isn't spiking too low. And you might even add in so that the kidney doesn't get any more stress. Something like bean minerals, which I talk about a lot. And it's a fulvic and humic acid mineral. And so you would want to keep the mineral level high and you'd want to stay hydrated so that you don't place any more stress on those kidneys. And then the last thing I would say that would be like a con against it is if 24 hours is like you're white knuckling it and you have so much stress going into that 24 hours. Because, you know, the kidneys, each organ has an emotion and the kidneys is fear and worry. So we don't want to put you in a 24-hour fast and have you be anxious. That would not be good for the kidneys. So there's kind of my answer and you have to decide if it works for you. I'm hypothyroid and I have my thyroid removed. Is fasting safe for me? Okay, so this is probably one of the most common questions I get. So the first thing I want to tell you is if you haven't gone to the back of Fast Like a Girl, I have a thyroid protocol there on fasting that I used in my clinical practice. So if you're looking for a fasting rhythm, please go to the protocol section in Fast Like a Girl. So that's the first thing that I want to say. Okay, second thing is that what tanks a thyroid is consistently keeping your calorie count under 1,200 calories a day. So if you are fasting so much that you're not getting 1,200 calories a day, yes, it can tank your thyroid. Which is why everything I teach with fasting is about cycling fasting. Just like cycling supplements. It's that we use our lifestyle to really help balance our health. And something like a 12 to 13 hour fast is going to help most people. That's one of the lower level intermittent fasts that doesn't need a lot of cycling. But once we start to get into the 17 and the 24 and the 36 hour fasts, those are going to need cycling a lot more. So you might do a 36 hour fast if you had a thyroid problem. And then when you brought food back in, I would eat, make sure you're eating. And then I wouldn't do that length of fast for several months. But what I just want to say over and over and over again, because I keep getting this question. And I want people to understand it. And is that you tank a thyroid when you consistently keep your calories under 1,200 calories a day. Over and over again. That is not enough nourishment for the thyroid. On the benefit of fasting for your thyroid is anytime you stimulate autophagy, you are detoxing your body. So when we look at like a 17 or a 24 hour fast, the thyroid is interesting because toxins will accumulate. They're very easy. It's like the canary in the coal mine. Remember they would take the canary and they put the canary in the coal mine to see if there was off gassing. And if the canary died, then everybody knew they needed to leave the coal mine. Well, when the thyroid starts to malfunction, it is a sign your toxic load is going up. Especially when we've got things like Hashimoto where the autoimmune body is attacking itself. So we need to make sure that you're using techniques like longer fast, like a 17 hour fast. Maybe even a three day water fast periodically. Periodically, that's the key word. To make sure we're bringing your toxic load down. There's a lot of different ways to skin the toxin comment. Those of you that are in my Reset Academy, we just did a whole course on toxins. So you can join my academy at any time and come find that there if you want to dive more into toxins. So we have this upside that we can stimulate autophagy. And we can really help the toxic load, which helps the thyroid. And then we have this downside that if you fast too much and you keep your calories under 1,200 calories, that you actually tank your thyroid. So can you see the spectrum? Help me understand that you guys can see this because I feel like we're getting too caught up in absolutes. And so what you'll hear out there on social media is fasting tanks the thyroid. But you needed the nuance of what exactly about fasting tanks the thyroid. And what about fasting helps the thyroid. We have to have more critical thinking. Okay. Cheryl says, what is your fasting protocol for those who do not have a thyroid? Okay. Cheryl, thank you for asking this because I have continued to be in awe of what fasting does for thyroid issues. And I have continued to watch people shy away from fasting because of thyroid. So to Cheryl's point, one of the things that I found really interesting about fasting in the early years that I was teaching my patients, I literally had a woman who didn't have had her thyroid removed. And I started to teach her how to fast. And we did everything I taught in Fast Like a Girl. I have a thyroid protocol in there as well. I don't know if you know that in the back of Fast Like a Girl, I put so many of my clinical protocols in here. I wanted to make sure that you guys saw what worked in my practice. And one of the things, I don't know what page it's on, but it's in the back. One of the things that I was blown away by this patient was that as we fasted her, check this out. I really want you to hear this. She had to start to take less medication. She started to get the symptoms of a thyroid storm. She had no thyroid. It had been taken out. Now, whenever you take out an organ, there is still tissue, active tissue in that area. We had the same thing happen with somebody who had a hysterectomy, but the ovaries were left. And as this woman with the thyroid, thyroidectomy that was taken out, she started making thyroid hormones after learning how to fast. And the tissue that was in there was starting to produce a little bit of thyroid hormones. And so she had a thyroid storm. She thought it was the fasting. So she went to her doctor. And her doctor took a blood test and was like, your thyroid's actually starting to work. But you don't have a thyroid. And so it was my first aha that when you fast, the body heals itself. And even if you have remnants of tissues. Okay, quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book. Because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer-reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. Jenny is wanting to know if she can fast after a hernia repair surgery. And my husband has just informed me that a lot of you are asking post-surgery. So let's just talk about surgery. One of the best fasting reviews that ever came out came in the New England Journal of Medicine publication. So it was in 2019. They did a meta-analysis. A meta-analysis means they looked at all as many different types of fasting research. And they came up with new conclusions. And what this meta-analysis found was that there were five major conditions that fasting should be used as the first line of treatment. And it's not being used like that. Little pet peeve. But let's go into this. The first is metabolic syndrome. I just talked about it. High hemoglobin 8-1c. Pre-diabetes. Yep. They recommend for pre-diabetes that we look at fasting. Alzheimer's. They absolutely said that dementia and Alzheimer's, memory loss, cognition definitely improved by fasting. Certain cancers they looked at. The fourth one was post-surgical. Every single type of surgery. You should be fasting afterwards. Now, this doesn't mean you go into the hernia surgery and you come out and you're famished. I'm just saying maybe you might be. That you're like white-knuckle it. And all of a sudden you're like, I can't eat. I need to stay in a fasted state. But if you are not white-knuckling it, then when you come out of a surgery, stay in a fasted state. I can tell you, I just went through spinal surgery with my 89-year-old dad this August. And I gave him the same recommendation I'm giving you. I said, when you get out, let's make sure that you're in a fasted state. Let's keep you fasting. Unfortunately, my dad has glimmers of dementia. And by the time I showed up into the recovery room, he was eating a bowl of ice cream. And he was being given food every two hours. It broke my heart. But the research shows that post-surgical fasting speeds up healing. The last one I just want to point out because I told you I'd tell you the fifth one that the New England Journal of Medicine was really adamant about was skin repair. Wounds on your skin. So how many of you have gone on a three-day water fast and your skin looks different? When I had my clinic, I could see them when they walked in the door. I could see the women be like, ooh. I'd be like, day two? Day three? Your skin color's changed. It's a healthier glow. You can literally visibly see it and put in the comments if that was you. From what age can we introduce our daughters and young women to fasting and eating with your cycle? I'd love to share. Thanks for the question, Tina. It's a tricky one. I just can kind of tell you what I did with my daughter. It was before she went to college. So it would have been the end of her senior year. And she had watched me fast. She knows that I was teaching fasting. And we had a conversation. I brought up the conversation that she was going to be going to a dorm where the food was going to be horrible. And she might, and then, you know, on those meal plans in college, you have to say, do you want one meal, two meal, three meals a day? I was like, you may only want two meals a day because you might find the food in the dorm horrible and you might want to learn to fast. And so I just threw it out there as a possibility to an 18-year-old. She was 18. And we talked about it. She said, yeah, I think I want to skip breakfast. I think I can do that. And it became this collaborative discussion. We have to be very, very careful that we don't create an eating disorder in a young girl. And so I typically say, please let it be her questioning you. You want her to come to you and say, teach me fasting or her to come to you and say, why are you fasting? It's so important that we don't push it on her and say, hey, I think you should fast now. So you could also give her fast like a girl and then just have her read it and see how she feels. And her eat like a girl is another, I talk a lot about periods and what's in period blood. And again, remember, I wrote eat like a girl with the 19, 20, 21-year-old in mind. So you might give her both of those books. And do like a discussion with her. Like maybe you do a book study together. And then let, but the thing I'm trying to get across is we want her to come to her own conclusion. And if we push it on her, we may end up with some eating disorders. So be mindful of that. If you like this video, you're going to want to check out the next one. Whoa.