 Okay, dr. Mindy here, and I'm gonna do something very uncomfortable. And I am gonna tell you something that may appear to be an opposition of things I've told you for the last decade. Because I have morphed into a new mindset. And I realized that for over 30 years, for over 30 years, I've been in the health trenches with people. And the rules of health that I have put forward, do this, don't do that, this is the length fast you wanna do, this is the length fast you shouldn't do, all the have tos, I am an unwinding. And I really feel like the rules of health that are being poured out on platforms, like I'm giving this to you right now, are actually blocking our health. And so what I wanna do in this video is I'm gonna call it AI want to do in this video is I want to talk about the five things that I am not doing in my personal life for 2026. And I'm hoping that these five things will free you from any guilt or shame or have tos that you have changed yourself to that is spiking your cortisol. And yes, you're going to find some things in here are contradictions to what I have taught you for over 30 years. I know some of my patients still follow me on all of my socials. But in this day and age where we are right now in 2026, I strongly feel that we need a new approach to health. And so this is to deliver to you the new approach that I am taking. So are you ready? Here I go. Let's dive in. So I started watching over the last couple of years, so many health influencers creating more and more have tos specifically for menopausal women. So much so that I know you all saw this, I have really seen that people making fun of like, oh, I'm 45. Now I need to eat 30 grams of protein with every single meal. I need to be drinking creatine three times a day. I need to go outside and get sunlight. I need to not drink alcohol. I shouldn't be drinking caffeine. I need to make a dose on magnesium. I need to get to the right OB so that I can find the right HRT path like enough, enough. Enough. This has gone way too far. I'm calling this the great unlearning for me. I actually the other day said to myself, I think I'm in rewirement. I'm rewiring the way I look at my life, the way I look at my health, and so that it can start to flow with ease and joy. And I can be with the experience of a healthy lifestyle, not trying to manipulate my body with a healthy lifestyle. So here are the five things that I am not doing anymore in 2026. Okay, you ready for number one? I am done counting. Now for years, I told you stop counting calories. Now my younger version did that, but what I did is I said, count macros. All over Fast Like a Girl are macros. And do you know how many questions I've answered in three years after over a million, we're at like a million five of those books have gone out into the world? So many people start to live their life by, oh, I got 60 grams. Is that going to, am I going to gain weight? Is that going to kick me out of ketosis? Oh wait, I only got 75 grams of protein. Are my muscles going to fatigue? Like we have to stop the counting. And for me, what I've decided to move into and to transition to is more of intuition. And it's really interesting because I watched people over the years. I would always put on a continuous glucose monitor on all the patients that I worked with. Before we had those, we had the pinprick. And it was really exciting to be able to see what your blood was doing in relationship to your food and your stress and your workouts. And we became so obsessed with counting blood sugar in my clinic. We had literally a little strips of, for ketones and blood sugar and meters. When you checked in, you could actually count and see what your blood sugar and ketone levels were like. That's how obsessed with counting I was. And then I started to see a pattern for myself. And I started to see a pattern for my patients. And that is that people knew when they went into ketosis. People knew when their blood sugar was too high or too low. Once they counted for a while, they could stop the counting. So some of you that are brand new, the continuous glucose monitor is still a very valuable tool. But I look at it as metabolic training wheels. Those tools are great. Even counting your macros on an app like carb manager that I taught you in Fast Like a Girl are great as training wheels. But for many of us, now is the time to take the training wheels off and go into an intuitive state. So for me, what I started to notice was when I looked at my continuous glucose monitor and I looked at my blood sugar reader, that somewhere around nine or 10 o'clock in the morning, I wasn't in ketosis. And I was starting to feel a little hypoglycemic. And I would then check in an hour later, I became so obsessed with checking it. And I finally realized that there is a click that happens when you go into ketosis. And that click is one of those scenarios where you can feel the ketones come in because your mental clarity goes up and your hunger goes away. And I know many of you know what I'm talking about. So I started to feel this click. And what I would tell myself is ketones are coming, ketones are coming, put the darn reader down. And so one of the things that I could discover is I could feel when I went into ketosis. And I knew and it was like a beautiful relationship with me and my body. So some of us need to stop counting macros and stop counting blood sugar and ketones and go into the intuitive experience. I've taught many times in the past about how why I stopped the scale. Because every time I get up in the morning and I got on that scale, if that number wasn't what I liked, it set a bad tone for the whole day. I wanted to go into an intuitive experience with myself. Like what weight do I want to be? What weight is comfortable? Do I need to let a number on the scale tell me what I am? So I dropped the scale. One of the other things I dropped was all the biometric readers like the Oura Ring and Whoop Band. This is not to say those aren't great companies. But after I wore it for a while, I realized I don't want a darn ring to tell me if I had a good night's sleep or not. I want my own intuitive sense to know if I was well rested or not. Whenever we count, we start to compare and we start to judge. I'll tell you again, since this is a very personal podcast and video, another thing I'm not counting anymore are subscribers and followers and how many posts I do. I want to go into an intuitive experience with delivering information. So a lot of you have heard that I'm now over on Substack having conversations with people so that we can all experience information. And maybe the only five people will be over there having conversations with me and that is okay. I have found counting has led me to comparison, which has led me to suffer. So I am giving up counting in 2026 of all kinds. And this is an incredibly, I want to point out, this is an incredibly hard thing for an ex-competitive athlete to do. I spent my whole life counting because that's how I knew if I was winning the game or not, but not in 26, the counting is done. Number two, I am breaking up with the gym. So when I started seeing all the incredible benefits of strength training, my motivation was a little bit of low. I was working a lot. And so I thought I got to hire a trainer because that's the only way I need an accountability bunny. And so I started going into the gym and lifting weights. And I did this for about two years. And I'll tell you that I noticed some minor muscle growth. I didn't, it wasn't like all of a sudden I was going to be walking around in a bikini showing off my muscles. I felt a little bit stronger, but I hated going to the gym. I am a nature person that needs to be out in the open. Now I know some of you love going to the gym, but what I decided to do was to go more into sync with what, where do I want to go? What do I want to do to enjoy my workout? The younger version of me was like, what do I need to do to look good? I think the menopausal conversation has so many women going, you got to lift weights or you're going to become osteoporotic and your brain, your cognitive abilities are going to go down. And what I want us all to get to is a place of functional fitness. What can you do functionally with your fitness to make you succeed in your everyday activities? I'll tell you an interesting example. I remember when my dad was in his early eighties, he had to have knee replacement surgery. And as I was helping him with the recovery process, I noticed that he couldn't use his hands to get out of the chair. Like he had trouble pushing down on the chair to get up. And I told him, I said, hey dad, when you recover from this knee surgery, we need to get your triceps stronger so you can get up off the floor. You can get in and out of a chair. Um, I wrote in age like a girl. I didn't want to put a bunch of half twos on fitness in this book. So I started to look at that. What kind of activities do we need as we age? One of those activities is squatting. We need to be able to squat and get back up and down. So I spend a lot of time just squatting throughout the day to loosen my hips up. Another big functional fitness measurement is grip strength. Longevity and grip strength have gone hand in hand forever. And so I want to focus on better grip strength. On my Resetter podcast, I brought you a great guest. It was one of my favorite podcasts. It was Katie Bowman that talked about creating a movement diet. And one of the things she educated us all on was how important like cooking is, like whisking strengthens your muscles, chopping strengthens your hand muscles so that you have good grip strength for when you're 70, 80, and 90 years old. One thing I do is hang from a hanging bar that I have here at my house, one to two minutes a day. I try to time myself to see, you know, how long I can stay on there. But I'm looking for ways to strengthen my grip strength because I know I'm going to need that down the road. I also know if I go out into nature and I exercise, I bring cortisol down. I know that if I'm out in the water surfing, which has become my new passion, that I'm getting a good surge of dopamine and my eyes are seeing, turning light into serotonin. So I started to look at my fitness through the lens of what do I enjoy doing and how can I have a neurochemical experience with my fitness that makes me want to keep coming back to it. Surfing is a great example. I'm getting great upper body strength and ab strength from surfing. And I want to keep doing it. All the paddling, all the extension, the whole backside of surfing is a lot of extension. My back of my neck, my lower back, my upper back are all getting tremendously strong, which is so important for posture as I age. And I'm enjoying the activity while I'm getting the result. So I'm sorry, Jim. I know we have some Jim Hounds over there, out there, but I'm broken up with the Jim. And I'm using things I enjoy to increase my fitness level. Okay, number three. Oh, I love this one. I'm not in anybody else's hurry anymore. So let me explain what that means. I, when I, many of you, if you've read Age Like a Girl, you know that I was in the neighborhood where the LA fires were. And I was in the middle of writing Age Like a Girl. So I came to Santa Cruz, California, found an Airbnb to sit down and rest and recover and finish the book. And if any of you know Santa Cruz, this should be named the town of bumper stickers. Because everybody has a bumper sticker, if not 20, on the back of their cars. And I pull into yoga class. That's the only Jim I haven't broken up with. I love my yoga class. And I pull into yoga class and I pull right next to a car that has a bumper sticker on it that says, I am not in your hurry. And I was like, oh my God. I have lived my life by other people's hurry so much. Hurry can be other people's deadline. You've got to have it done by this time. Other people's agenda for you, whether it's travel, whether it's social, whether it's work. Think about the phone. Oh my God, I've thought about this so much. Like, if I'm having a conversation with somebody and I get a text, who's the priority? In my book, the person I am talking to is the priority. Does that mean I need to go and immediately answer the person who has texted? I can tell you right now, sitting on my phone are about five texts. And if you're one of them, you now know why. I have about five texts that I have not responded to. I will respond to it. But one day I looked down and I was like, shoot, I got so many emails. I have so many texts, so many slacks that I got to answer all these people. I'm not doing other people's timelines anymore. I am doing everything on my timeline. And so this even goes with chasing the next shiny new object, trying to get the fastest weight loss result. The chronic urgency kept my nervous system in fight or flight. And those of you that are trying to lose weight, it halts you from weight loss. And so I am moving into radical presence. And I am going into what's here now philosophy. And if those of you that are friends of mine are trying to get a hold of me and you're wondering why, it's because I am staying in a present time moment and I am not living by anyone else's time agenda anymore. And I will tell you that that has been the number one thing that I have found on a day to day that has calmed my nervous system. I even have caught myself in traffic and feeling like, oh, I'm in traffic. I got to get home. I got to get home. And then I think, why do I not? Why do I have to get home? I'm not in a hurry. I literally rewired my brain to start saying, I'm not in a hurry anymore. I'm not in a hurry. Over and over again. I'm not overworking. I'm not in a hurry. That is not who Mindy is anymore. Okay. Quick pause in the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl, is out? It's a trilogy now. It's Fast Like a Girl, Eat Like a Girl, and Age Like a Girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself so you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer-reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book, and I can't wait for you to get it. Okay. The fourth thing that I am giving up is prioritizing productivity over my health. So what my schedule looks like now is my workouts, the things that bring me joy, are all put in my calendar first. And then work is backfilled in around that. And I'm going to share a really potent story that I think a lot of you will recognize. I spent a large part of my 40s prioritizing my work over relationships. I have prioritized work over workouts. I have prioritized work over healthy eating. I'm here teaching you how to healthy eat. But then tomorrow, if I have five Zoom calls and I don't get to healthy eat, I become a hypocrite. That's the way I become incongruent. So at 56 years old, I have put work above everything else. It has challenged some of my relationships. It has challenged my sleep. It has challenged the healthy body I want to live in. And I have decided I am not prioritizing work anymore. And I know a lot of you don't have that luxury. And some of you do have that luxury. But for me, work was an addiction. It was an addiction to productivity. Because I felt so good when I could produce a big day. And I could watch how it had an impact in the culture. But it caused parts of my life to fall apart. So in 2026, my health is the top priority. This means I need to get out into the sunlight so that I can reset my circadian rhythm. I need to start moving slowly so I can reset my parasympathetic nervous system. I need to prioritize friendships that bring me joy so I can get more oxytocin to balance my hormones. I need to slow down and take time to have hour-long conversations with my aging parents. Because I don't know how much longer they're going to be here. I have flipped the priority of work and have made the holistic health lens in which I choose to live my life a priority. And wow. And we're only to the end of January. It's a hard one to do. But I can tell you it's incredibly rewarding. So while I might be saying no to late night events, I am saying yes to more morning time. Because my morning time fuels me between meditation and reading and sunlight. I'm working on resetting my circadian rhythm. I'm working on resetting my nervous system. But I am not putting productivity ahead of my health anymore. Number five. This one is also a challenge for me. I am not over-consuming information anymore. I'm a highly curious human. And I'm fascinated by the human body and brain. And I find the fact that we can get so much information at our fingertips, that's like a dopamine hit for me. So what that might look like for me is I go on a walk with my dog and I put a podcast on. And now all of a sudden I'm like hearing that podcast. Or I'm sitting at a stoplight and I reach down for my phone and I start to look at my social media. Or I have an hour between Zoom calls and I start to research down PubMed. It's the constant overstimulation shoving information into our brain. And why I'm giving that up is I started to notice that in the quiet moments, my brain's like, what else? What else? Give me something else. Tell me something else. This was happening to me in my sleep where all of a sudden I started to realize that my brain didn't have enough stimulation. So if I woke up at 2 in the morning, it was like, hey, let me give you a problem to fix. And then I couldn't fall back to sleep. So I have chosen to slow down the amount of information that goes in my brain. I spend a lot of time looking at trees in the forest and looking at the ocean. I ask myself how many rounds of boredom did I get that day? I am not over-consuming information. Now with that comes the way in which I am consuming information because I still love to learn. But I'm doing it through books. I'm doing it through long format. So yes, podcasts are great. Just not every single moment of the day. And I am going back to what I call old school learning. I actually live really close to a community college. And I've already been taking some classes there just for the fun of it. Get off my computer. Get in front of somebody who can teach me how to do something. I'm going back to the way we used to bring information into our brains. The amount of information that we are exposed to every single day is a large reason we are cognitively overloaded. And so what I have chosen, and you've heard me say this before here, is I want to go vertical and deep on a topic. We have become a horizontal learning environment in this culture. By that I mean we know a lot of people know a lot on the surface. But they don't know the depth of a subject. This is one of the things that is driving me crazy in the health world. Is that I see a 90 second reel. The person tells me I should eat breakfast. I shouldn't skip breakfast. And then I see another 90 second reel. And the person says skip breakfast and you'll lose 20 pounds. And you are bouncing from thing to thing to thing. Trying to find the next piece of information that's going to change your life. It's all done on a superficial level. I am choosing to go extremely deep into one subject that I'm interested in. So you're going to see that actually in my content. For example, I just did a master class on creatine. And it was really fun to just look at creatine from as many angles as possible. And I'm bringing it to you here on my podcast. I'm bringing it to you on YouTube. And then if you want to talk to me about creatine, come over to my Substack. I've started something called the Health Incubator over in Substack. Where you can have conversation with me and other people on a topic. But the problem with health right now is we have shiny object syndrome. And we are staying on the surface. Nobody knows how to critically think through health. The only way we can start to learn to critically think is if we go deep into a topic. And we look at it from as many angles as possible. And try to understand if it's right for us. So in order to best teach this, I'm getting off the addiction to more, more, more information. And I'm wanting to go subject by subject. And if you want to join me in that, please join me over in my Substack. As we start to look at topic by topic and critically think this through. So there you go. My new health strategy in 2026. It's not about doing more. It's about removing the noise. It's about training my brain for presence and patience and joy in the individual moment. It's about shutting down the FOMO brain that has a fear of missing out. Or the achiever brain that wants to consume more and do more. I am moving into radical presence. And staying with even the discomfort that shows up in that moment. So that my brain can come out of this modern world. And can start to be a more joyful, a more cognitively flexible human. And I think right now in a world where we are all pointing fingers at each other. And reacting left and right to each other's opinions. It's time for us to each go inward. And learn how to critically think about information. And how to be in the present moment. And how to be in a place of compassion and love with the people that are in the room. The people that are in the room. Not the people that are one of your Facebook friends that are on social media. I am coming back to falling in love with the way we used to do it. Back in the 70s. Before the phones. Before the internet. Before we had all of the noise. I am coming back to old school living. So that I can find the happiest version of me. So there you go. 2026. Let me know what you respond to. And what you are giving up this year. If you like this video. You are definitely going to want to check out the next one. After the tour.