 Okay, in this video, we've got to talk about the quickest hack I know to stop brain fog. And I'm not joking, like, and I'm not trying to overhype something. This is how in love with this hack I am because you can change the fuel source of your brain within hours and have your brain back online. And in this video, I want to show you not only the science behind it, but I want to show you how you go about that. Ready? Let's dive in. Okay, first, there's, you know, brain fog obviously happens to many people, not just menopausal women, although I understand that it is the worst in that menopausal transition. So, when we're addressing brain fog, I am on this video going to do it largely through the lens of the menopausal brain and the woman over 40. But I realize that we have men here and we have women that are in their 30s that are also getting brain fog. So, stick with me as I give you an understanding of what is happening when our brain can't focus. Because there's a reason behind it. Once you get it, you can turn around quick. So, here's what you need to know. First, for women over 40, at 40, as your hormones decline, and you will lose, by the way, about 90% of your estrogen and progesterone throughout your menopausal experience. So, going from your 30s to your 50s, in that time period, you're losing about 90% of your estrogen source in your body. Which has a large impact on your brain because your brain was fueled by estrogen. So, in your brain, those of you who read Age Like a Girl, know that your brain actually created, estrogen created all kinds of neurochemicals like dopamine and serotonin and acetylcholine, glutamate that keeps you focused and GABA that keeps you calm and BDNF. There's so many brain neurochemicals that estrogen brought with it. So, but as estrogen declined, now, I want you to think about this through your brain's perspective. Your brain is missing a major fuel source. It's missing a major nourishment to be able to function normally. So, we've got to start to backfill in with other nutrients. And this is where your diet and when you eat really come into play. So, for starters, let's just say it like it is. The menopausal brain loves ketones. You have two fuel sources. It doesn't matter what age or what sex you are. Your brain will be energized by glucose, which is what happens when we eat, and ketones, which is what happens when we fast. Now, there is a ketogenic diet you can access as well to help your brain, but we'll talk about that later in this video. So, if I only have two choices of a fuel source, and it's 50-50, they say your brain needs about 50% glucose and 50% ketones, then in any 24-hour period, I need to make sure that I give my brain both fuel sources. And if I don't give my brain both fuel sources, my brain will be agitated. And when my brain is agitated, it inflames. And when my brain is inflamed, that is brain fog. That is where we can't think straight. We don't know what we're doing. We don't have any focus. We can't remember because the brain is inflamed. Very much like if you sprained your ankle, and you couldn't walk on it because of all the inflammation, you can't use your brain when it's inflamed because it's missing these key fuel sources. So, for women over 40, one of the things we have to realize is that as we lose estrogen, 90% of it is going away by the time we get into our 50s and 60s, we, our brain also loses its ability to use glucose. So, it can't use this fuel source that it has used for the majority of your life. So, when you eat a meal, all of a sudden you might get sleepy. When you eat a meal, all of a sudden you can't think straight afterwards. That's because your brain became less efficient at using glucose. But good news, you've got a whole other fuel source and it's called a ketone. Now, before you click off and you're like, Oh, does that mean I'm going to have to cut back on my carbs and I'm going to have to start fasting? I want to show you how easy this is to tap into this ketogenic energy system to fuel your brain. But you first have to understand that if you're a woman over 40, bye-bye, this fuel source is no longer works for you. We've got to go into ketones. Now, if I put an HRT patch on, if I rub creams or gels on me, does that bring this fuel source back? Not to its full capacity. Which is why a lot of you are still experiencing brain fog despite using hormone replacement therapy. So, what do we do? Well, first, we've got to understand that the menopause is a neurological transition state. So, this is an interesting, this was a 2015 study in Nature Reviews Endocrinology and it calls perimenopause the start of a neurological transition state. Now, for the men listening, if you're still listening, I'm super happy you're here. You also have neurological transition states. They just may not be hormone dependent. You could have them after a car accident. You could have it after a trauma, like a divorce or the loss of a loved one. You can have it with a TBI, like you maybe were out playing sports and you banged your head into a wall. Neurological transition states don't just happen when hormones go down, like in perimenopause. They can also happen from traumas and emotional states. And whenever this happens, this is what I want you to understand, whenever this happens, whenever there's this neurological transition state, your brain is going to go, Er, we prefer ketones. And it's going to become less efficient at using glucose. So you're eating the same meal, but you're getting a different brain response because your brain doesn't know how to use the fuel source you gave it. So now, also, one of the biggest changes that happens in these neurological transition states is how your brain makes energy. So when you were younger, your brain preferred carbohydrates as its main energy source. Bola pasta kept you fueled for a workout, kept you going for studying for a test in college, like that worked. But it doesn't work as we age and go into neurological transition states. So it's not going to work when you go through menopause. It's not going to work when you have a TBI. It's not going to work when you're under a chronically stressed state. Your brain, in order to adapt to that new neurological state, switches from using carbohydrates as a main energy source into ketones. So when estrogen falls, your ability to use carbs as a fuel goes out the window. So, but this is where it switches to ketones. And I did this on a live for you all that I hope you caught. And if you didn't catch it, I need to say this. Your brain is so smart. I know that sounds funny. But your brain is so smart that when a woman goes through menopause and she loses white matter, they say around 10% of her white matter is gone, that the brain prunes that away. What ends up happening is there's a byproduct your brain makes, which is called a ketone. Like, I am not joking. Like, literally the science shows that during menopause your brain's energy metabolism shifts. Your brain can't use carbs. Your brain can't use carbs. The white matter is breaking down. But your brain knows what kind of fuel it needs. So it makes little micro doses of ketones so that it can keep the brain sharp. If I'm a 45 year old woman and I'm still eating a ton of carbs and I'm not talking nature's carbs, I'm talking cereals and cakes and cookies and ultra processed foods. My brain doesn't know what to do with all that glucose and so it causes the brain to swell and it will be inflamed and you're not going to think straight. But if I change my diet and I'll explain what kind of diet is great here in a second and I start tacking on some fasting windows where I may be going 13 to 15 hours of fasting every day. Now I've brought down my glucose level so the brain isn't swimming in glucose and I brought up my ketones levels and now I'm giving my brain the fuel source it needs to be able to function right. So it's not like brain fog is just a curse of the experience. It's actually you control the brain fog lever but you control it through what you eat and when you eat. There was a groundbreaking to 2015 study that found during menopause that all of a sudden your brain cells drop the carbs and they begin burning fat for fuel. And in that process they break down white matter and the fat coating that insulates the brain's nerves all of a sudden convert that fat around the brain cells and neurons that are being broken down. There is a fat lipid layer over that and your brain actually breaks that fat down and it makes you a ketone. Just like I taught you that when you go into a fasted state your liver breaks down the fat around your belly and turns it into a ketone. This is why fasting is so incredible. So how do you get these ketones? Well first let's just say that there are three ways to get ketones. And I and I if those of you wanting by the way more information on this my new book age like a girl has a whole chapter on how to fuel your brain after 40. I can't recommend it enough. It's based off of years of clinical experience and a decade of research. I'm super proud of this book. So in in there I explain even more about this fuel change. But what I want you to know for this video is that there are three ways you can get ketones. First is you can get it by fasting. 14 to 18 hours. 13 to 15 hours. Somewhere in that range. You got to play with it and see what works best for you. And one of the things you'll notice is you might wake up. You're hungry. You have your cup of coffee. Maybe put a little cream and MCT oil in it will help you make more ketones. Maybe nine or 10 o'clock in the morning you might be like oh I'm feeling a little ugly. Oh I'm feeling a little low in energy. And then boom all of a sudden your brain and your body and your liver register that glucose has gone down and a ketone will be made. And you'll go in a matter of one hour in a matter of 10 minutes. I put in the comments if you've noticed this from your brain maybe being a little bit hypoglycemic maybe a little brain foggy to boop. Okay the ketones are here. I used to do this in clinical practice all the time. I used to like I'd be seeing patients in the morning feeling like a little woozy because I hadn't eaten. And then all of a sudden I could just feel the click. And I used to tell my brain all the time don't worry ketones are coming. Ketones are coming. The liver's on it. The liver's going to figure out how to make ketones. So fasting is your number one. Second way you can get ketones is through the ketogenic diet. Now those of you that are not menopausal women thank you again for hanging into the video this long. But understand the ketogenic diet was originally made for people who originally tested on people who had epilepsy. Seizures. And what they found is that if they gave somebody who had seizures ketones it stopped the seizure. Because the brain got a fuel source that it needs. We also have seen some really interesting research on dementia and Alzheimer's. Give the brain ketones and all of a sudden it has the fuel source that it is preferring. And so when we look at the keto diet originally the keto diet was like 10 grams. That's kind of what they were focused on. I like to go more with what I call a ketobiotic diet. I mapped that out for you in fast like a girl. Which is basically you're eating a higher carb diet but you're still getting the ketones. Okay how do you do that? You do that by eating only nature's carbs. Getting off the breads getting off the pastas the cakes the cookies. And eating fruits and vegetables potatoes. Sweet potatoes tubers all of that that I've taught you here. Those because nature's carbs by the way have fiber in it. And that fiber slows the spike of glucose. And so it can keep you in a ketogenic state. Now the third way you can get ketones is through exogenous ketones like through a drink. And we're testing a bunch out. Some of them don't taste that good. I'll be stay tuned. I'll be bringing you some that I feel are really great. And you can put in a drink and you drink it and you get ketones. But you're not burning fat to get that ketone. So it does fuel the brain. It gives you more mental clarity. It can help you give you brain energy. So it's great for that. But you didn't make it yourself. So you won't burn the fat to make that happen. And it's interesting. I don't know if you all remember. There was a big trend like 10 years ago where these little, it was like a network marketing company that had these little packets of ketone esters. And you put them in your water and you're supposed to drink it and everybody lost weight. But the only problem was nobody lost weight. And the reason nobody lost weight was because when you go on the ketogenic diet or when you go into a state of ketosis on your own, your body has to burn fat to make that exogenous ketones. So you can't just put an exogenous ketone in your mouth and have the fat burn. You actually have to make that by going a certain period without food or by keeping your carbs down. Now, this ketobiotic diet that I wrote about in Fast Like a Girl, I want to point out that instead of 10 grams of net carbs every day, I give you 50 grams. And I want you to eat your carbs from veggies and from low sugared fruits. And why I really find this so important, especially for menopausal women, is there is a strong link between carbohydrate quality, I've done videos on this, and menopausal symptoms. So this was a recent review. So this is a 2025 study from the BMC Women's Health. And this is what they said, that the title of the study says the impact of carbohydrate quality index on menopausal symptoms with the quality of life in post-menopausal women. So this was done on post-menopausal women. The majority of the participants of the study were between 40 and 50. And they looked at the quality of carbs that women ate. And it rated from complex, high-fiber carb sources like vegetables and legumes. And that was their focus as that is the highest quality that you can eat. And here's what they found. That when women ate higher-quality carbs, more fiber-y carbs is really what quality means. They had far fewer hot flashes, night sweats, memory issues, mood swings, and other symptoms. Okay, why is that? When we eat a fiber-y meal, you slow down the absorption of glucose. So you're getting all the benefits of carbohydrates. Like a lot of carbohydrates have tryptophan in them. Tryptophan converts to serotonin. You need serotonin as you go through menopause. So there's a lot of evidence that we need carbs in order to make serotonin, which is a key neurotransmitter that brightens our moods. So, but if we eat, we can get the nutrients of carbs without spiking the blood sugar so high if we eat those carbs with fiber. So that's why fiber is so important. So when I put together the ketobiotic diet in Fast Like a Girl, it was really an incredible modification of keto. It wasn't low-carb. It gave you enough carbs. But I really wanted you to eat those carbs rich in fiber. So for me, I would say most of my day, I'm eating protein and I'm eating carrots. I'm eating microgreens. I just got done eating a big apple. I eat fruits and vegetables as my snack throughout the day. I also eat a lot of turkey jerky, beef jerky to try to get protein throughout my day. I've been drinking a lot of bone broth throughout my day. So I always have a cup of bone broth sitting next to me as I'm working. So I'm keeping my protein source up and I'm keeping my fiber source up when I open up my eating window. And that way, I know my brain is being fueled with the right fuel source. I know I'm keeping glucose low because I ate all the fiber. I know I'm getting the amino acids because I had the protein. And if I tack on a 15-hour fasting window, I know I'm getting a good dose of ketones. So that's what it looks like in action. What I really wanted to bring forward in Age Like a Girl, and those of you who have read it, I know if this hit home. But there's been so much controversy over fasting for post-menopausal women. And I think we need to start getting into the nuance of that conversation because the nuance says that, and the science says, that the ketone is the brain fog hero for the menopausal woman. So go get more ketones. Your body and brain knows it by making its own ketones. Let's help it make more. And you can do that through longer fasting. You can do that by eating nature's carbs and keeping those carbohydrate low, but not too low. And by just observing, the last thing I want to say is observe when you eat and when you fast and how your brain functions. I have my heaviest meal at the end of the day if it's a work day because I don't want to eat a ton of food and then go into brain fog. So I'll have it at the end of the day so I can stay in a performative state throughout the day. So, but I am, I'm really passionate about this topic right now because if the menopausal brain is making its own ketone in the breakdown of white matter, that gives you an indication right there what the brain is asking for. It's making the fuel source in the menopausal experience that it needs. So let's give it that. And if you give it that, I promise you, your brain fog will be gone in hours. Promise. Put in the comments if you've noticed being in a state of ketosis causes your brain clarity to go through the roof. It may even give you some happiness, may even cut off your hunger hormone, and it might even motivate you because it brings dopamine and serotonin. The ketone is the hero brain molecule for menopause. And anybody who's had a TBI, anybody who's going through a chronic state, go find yourself some ketones. Go make yourself some ketones and then watch how your brain operates. So, as always, I hope that helps. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.