 If you've spent the last several years skipping carbs, avoiding the bread, looking at the rice, and wishing you could have a spoonful, and you're still fatigued, you still can't seem to lose weight, then I've got a great video for you here, because carbs are not the enemy. In fact, what I'm going to show you in this video is that it's not carbohydrates that are the problem. We have to start looking at the quality of carbohydrate. So in this video, I'm going to show you in this video, I'm going to show you what the science is saying about carbohydrates. I'm also going to dive in to why women over 40 specifically need more carbohydrates. I'm going to talk about carbs that harm and carbs that heal, and then as always, I'm going to give you five action steps that you can take away from this video and start to apply to your life immediately so you can bring the right carb back into the picture to help your health. Sound good? Let's dive in. So for some reason, I feel like the carbohydrate PR person, like I'm over here rehabbing the carbohydrate reputation, but unfortunately carbs got a really bad reputation, and largely because the ketogenic diet became so helpful for so many people, and we're seeing a real obesity problem with ultra-processed foods that are very carb-heavy. So let's start by defining carbohydrates. There are two types of carbohydrates. One is refined carbohydrates. This is what you're going to find in the middle aisles of your store. These are your cakes, your cookies, some of your breads. We'll talk about bread in a moment. Your pastas, your pastas, things that have been made perhaps in a lab. They haven't been pulled from the earth or from a tree, which leads me to the second type of carbohydrate, which is complex carbohydrates. And complex carbohydrates are really intriguing because they have a lot of fiber in it. So complex carbohydrates are your fruits, your vegetables, your potatoes, certain breads, we'll talk about it in a moment, that actually have more fiber in them. And remember fiber acts like a net. So when carbohydrates go into your system, it slows down the glucose spike. So we like these types of carbs. And what's important to know is that as you age, especially if you are a woman, I think this happens to men too, but mostly to women, as you age, your relationship to these carbohydrates really change. And your body is not able to handle those refined carbohydrates as well. So for those of you that were like, I could eat whatever I wanted at 30, but at 45, I'm not doing so well. I look at a carbohydrate and gain weight. That's not your fault. It's because your body changed specifically around the relationship to your carbohydrates. So your carbohydrates have to change. So let me explain. So there was a 2021 review in the American Journal of Pathology that found that estrogen, our wonderful diva estrogen, who was just so present for us in our 20s and 30s and starts to slip away in our 40s, estrogen really was a metabolic hormone. We tend to think of it as a reproductive hormone. But no, it was really a metabolic hormone. And this is what this review found, is that estrogen helped muscles absorb glucose. So you would eat a carbohydrate, it would cause glucose to go up into your bloodstream, and your muscles would grab it and use it for energy. But as estrogen went down, it doesn't do that anymore. It also minimized glucose production in the liver. So this is really important because as women age, the chances of fatty liver disease go up because the liver isn't able to handle that glucose metabolism anymore. And the third thing this review found is that estrogen really helped with insulin sensitivity. So as estrogen declines, what we see is your blood sugar is going to spike a lot higher from the same carbohydrate. So you've been eating cupcakes your whole life, you've had no problem. Now you hit your 40s and you're gaining weight left and right, you have brain fog, that's because of the decline, or it could be because of the decline in estrogen. So we also know that your body takes a lot longer to clear glucose. So if you eat something with a lot of sugar in it, instead of taking maybe 90 minutes to get through your system, it could take three or four hours. And in that time period that your body is clearing glucose, you're going to feel brain fog, you're going to feel sluggish, you might even feel like you need to take a nap. This is also, I've done videos on caffeine, that as women go over 40, there's a tendency to not be able to clear caffeine as easily. So you're laying awake at night more. We know this about alcohol, that a lot of women aren't able to clear and metabolize alcohol as well. So this whole shift in estrogen changes our relationship to some of these foods. And we also know that the risk of type 2 diabetes dramatically goes up for women specifically as we age. In fact, there was a 2025 review in endocrine research that describes menopause and diabetes as closely linked with menopause associated changes in insulin sensitivity, blood composition, and metabolic health. The research is very clear that you've got to metabolically be careful, which is why a conversation like this could be a little confusing, because many of you, and put in the comments, fear carbs as you move into your 50s, 60s, and 70s, because metabolically you changed. So what do you need to know? Well, the new science on carb quality is really interesting, because what I love about what I'm about to bring you is that it really has to do with your mental health. And as we know, as women go into their perimenopausal years, there's a lot of mental turbulence. You're happy one day, you're unhappy the next, you're kind of all over the place. So let's talk about what the research says. There is a new study. This was a BMC Women's Health study done in 2025, and it tracks 604 women. And what they did is they tracked women's menopausal symptoms, and they created something called a carb quality index. Now, this part is really important, because this is what I want you to start creating for yourself. A carb quality index is they took the glycemic index of a food, they took the fiber intake, they took if it was solid versus a liquid, and they looked at whole grain consumption. Okay, whole grain consumption, stick with me, this is important. And what they found in this research was that if women had a higher carb quality, meaning glycemic index on the carb was low, fiber intake was high, it was in a solid versus a liquid, so solid is a healthier carb. I'll talk about that in a moment, too. And they had some whole grain consumption, that when those four things were lined up, and women were taking in carbs that met these four things, their menopause symptoms were better. They improved, specifically when it came to mood. So it wasn't about eating fewer carbs, it was about eating better carbs. So let's talk first about what I call the gut connection. Because remember that you have bacteria in your gut that are making really powerful neurotransmitters like serotonin and dopamine. So when you're over 40 and you're in those perimenopausal years or those menopausal years, what we know is as estrogen goes down, I wrote, by the way, about this in Age Like a Girl, for those of you who have that book, when the estrogen goes away, so does serotonin and dopamine. So if you're not eating something that has this high carb quality, then you're not feeding the microbes in your gut that make you serotonin and dopamine. You are losing serotonin and dopamine because of estrogen, and you're losing it because of your diet. And what a 2019 review found in the Journal of Nutrition is that the higher your fiber intake, the better your weight loss. So we want to be carb smart. We want a carb that is really high in fiber. Now, the mood connection is also interesting because, as I said, if you're not bringing in carbohydrates feeding those microbes that make these neurotransmitters, then you could be lower in serotonin. And if you're low in serotonin, you kind of walk around just feeling like bleh. You don't feel like your normal self. Nothing excites you. Put in the comments if that's you. I have experienced that myself over and over and over again. So bringing carbs back in feeds those microbes that are going to support better serotonin production. And the third thing that carbs are doing based off of science that is really important to women is something I personally have experienced recently, and that's if you aren't eating whole grains. So follow me here. If you are not eating whole grains, specifically wheat, rye, and barley, then you may be low in minerals. And if you are low in minerals, you need those minerals for brain function. You need those minerals to be able to make neurotransmitters. You need those minerals to be able to even make hormones. So these grains can be really key for bringing in better mineral production. Now, little interesting fact is one of the key minerals is lithium. And lithium is a nervous system regulator. So it helps to support dopamine and serotonin. I recently had this experience where I have a history of restless legs in my family, and I was looking for a food solution for it. And I stumbled upon a study showing that as women go through menopause, the loss of estrogen causes an excess excretion of lithium. And lithium regulates the nervous system, helps us make dopamine and serotonin, and contributes to restless legs. So I looked up, where is lithium? Top three grains or foods in general that provide us with lithium are wheat, rye, and barley. I've been wheat-free since I was 20. I'm 56 now. So even when I go to eat gluten-free grains, I'm not getting lithium in my diet. So I had to supplement with lithium because I'm not going back to wheat because that doesn't make me feel very well. This was an example of where I needed to supplement. And low dietary lithium has been known for a while. It can increase depression, anxiety, and it can accelerate cognitive decline. So those of you who are going through the perimenopausal experience, you're celiacs, you're gluten-free, or maybe you've been keto for a really long time, this is super important for you because some of those mood changes that we make, we say are menopausal, may actually be because you didn't get enough lithium. So super important to know. Now, the carbs that harm versus the carbs that heal are very clear. So let's create a list for you. Let's start with the carbs I want you to bring back in. So sweet potatoes, you know I love those. All of the squashes. Sweet potato, squash, pumpkin. Those are acorn squash, honey nut. Those are incredible. Those of you that need recipes on all these foods I'm about to tell you about, I hired two professional chefs to write this book. One was a plant-based chef. These recipes are incredible. We had great reviews. So I just want you to know that there's a resource there for you. But we also need to look at things like legumes. So lentils, beans, chickpeas, soybeans. These are powerful carbohydrates that have protein and they have fiber. And they meet, like literally that carb index I talked about, they are like score really, really high. And remember when you bring these legumes in and you get this high score on this carbohydrate index, your menopause symptoms go down. So this is why what you eat is really important. Quinoa is really high in protein. I love Anfiber. Oats, as long as it's not the instant oatmeal that you're actually cooking it yourself. Carrots and beets are phenomenal. Those root vegetables are great for hormones and fresh berries and apples and those lower sugar fruits. So not necessarily the bananas and the papayas and the pineapples. Now, the carbs I really want you to keep out, unfortunately, are the yummiest ones for a lot of us, which are the sugar ones. So this is your white bread, your pasta, your crackers, your chips, the packaged foods, the cakes, the pastries, the sweetened drinks. These are the bad carbs that are going to make you gain weight and make any menopausal symptoms even worse. There was a 2025 study done in Redox Biology that found that fructose in the processed foods and sweetened drinks triggers a very strong inflammatory response. And whenever your body goes into an inflammatory response, not only are you going to risk symptoms like bloating, weight gain, but you get a lot of that brain fog. It's not just your body that inflames. It's your brain that inflames as well. So when we're looking at some of the symptoms that show up with menopause, like focus and mood and recall, memory recall, sometimes that's just because you're eating the wrong carbohydrate, causing your brain to inflame. In fact, we also know, again, going back to these complex carbohydrates, there's something called the fiber factor, which is the more fiber a carbohydrate has, the better it is for you. And a 2016 study in the American Journal of Lifestyle Medicine found that only 5% of Americans are getting enough fiber. I've brought you before, 25 grams of fiber a day is what you're shooting for. So here are your five action steps. First, I want you to do a carb audit. Right after you watch this video, go into your kitchen, do a carb audit. Go through your pantry, go through your refrigerator, and ask yourself, is this a refined carbohydrate or is this a complex carbohydrate? One simple rule that I follow on packages is if the ingredient label has five or more ingredients, so over five ingredients, there are most likely going to be the wrong kind of carb because good carbs don't need a lot of extra ingredients. So look at your ingredient list when you're doing these carb audits. Okay, step number two, add one complex carbohydrate to every meal. This is easy. You can, with breakfast, you might just add some berries to your oatmeal. With lunch, I love, I just had this, just now, before I came over here to, into my studio to record for you all, lentils and chickpeas. I put it on a salad and then I had, with microgreens, and then I had two duck eggs with it, and then I took this beautiful gluten-free black bread that I get from a local store here, and I put two pieces of black bread with all of that together. That is a healthy meal. So everything in there is packed with fiber. And then dinner, you know, dinner you can add in those roasted potatoes. Again, I usually have salad with every meal to make sure I'm getting the fiber in, but we really want to make sure you get that carb content up. So you might need to do squash. I love honey nut squash. Or you might need to do more sweet potatoes. Big fan. But we really want to bring those carbs up, especially at night. And I'll tell you why. There's pros and cons to night and during the day. But if you're having trouble sleeping, I highly recommend that you use those carbs at night so that it will help to sort of calm you and move you more towards sleeping. Okay, step number three is you're going to hit 25 grams daily of fiber. So most women are getting about 10 to 15 grams of fiber a day. Start tracking it. I'll give you examples of easy high fiber additions. One cup of raspberry is 8 grams of fiber. One cup of cooked lentils is 15 grams of fiber. Two tablespoons of psyllium husks is 7 to 10 grams of fiber. So every day, look to hit those 25 grams of fiber. And I've said this before on other videos. Fiber is like nature's ozempic. Stop spending $800 to $1,000 on a medication that nature is providing you the free resource for. So, and those of you that are on ozempic, this is a great way to start to get off ozempic and is really to look at adding fiber in. Step four, we are going to cut liquid carbs first. You really got to start looking at how you're drinking carbs. So that can be in soda. That can be in alcohol. That could even be in smoothies. That can be in fruit juice. Yes, it's way better to eat solid carbohydrates than to have it in liquid form. Now, there are so many good ways to make a beautiful smoothie. And so some of really good plant-based smoothie proteins can have a lot of fiber. So just check the fiber on your protein powder if you're a smoothie lover. Make sure you add a lot of berries in there. I usually add water so that I don't add the added juice that would increase the glycemic expense of that food. So you can make smoothies fiber-filled and more of a healthy carb, but most people don't make smoothies right. They put juice in it. They use protein powders that are low in fiber. They're highly refined. So let's not do that. If you want me to do a whole video on how to make smoothies, let me know. Put it in the comments, and I'll do a whole smoothie video. Okay, step number five is time your carbs strategically. Now, I'll give you a couple ways to look at this. If I eat a carb earlier in the day, and like my meal I just had now, and I'm gonna go for a walk, I've got a lot of activity, you are more insulin sensitive during the day. So from a weight loss standpoint, it makes sense to go ahead and have your carbs in the middle of the day if weight loss is your goal, because you're gonna use that glucose, not store that glucose. But if you're having trouble sleeping at night, you might start to think about carbs as your last meal. Now, keep in mind that when it goes dark out, I've shared this with you all before, when it's dark out, you've got more melatonin, and with more melatonin, you're gonna have a pancreas that's going to sleep, just like your body goes to sleep, the pancreas goes to sleep, and you're a lot more insulin resistant. So we wanna make sure that if you are trying to lose weight, you're gonna keep those carbs earlier in the day. If you're trying to get a better night's sleep, have your carbs a little bit later. If you want both, then just make sure your last meal, you're eating it in the light, because the minute it goes dark, melatonin makes her appearance. So really simple, easy rules. I hope this video excites you. Put in the comments if you've brought carbs back. I'll tell you, when I discovered this lithium situation, I have been bringing some fermented carbs back in, like fermented rye, because when you ferment a grain, you don't have as much gluten, and I tend to be gluten sensitive. So there's a lot of creative ways you can do this. But more importantly, yeah, the keto diet, the way I explain it in all my books, I call it ketobiotic, because I want you to use the carbs that have the most fiber that nature has provided for you for your own benefit. If you walked into my pantry in my house right now, you would see that most everything is a nature carb. I really shy away from the other carbs, with the exception of a potato chip. Those of you who are on Substack with me, I've been doing some ingredient reading, and I just did a whole potato chip reading of my favorite potato chips. So yeah, there's a few moments where you lean into some of the other carbs, but always trying to make the smartest choice as possible. So let me know. Have you added carbs back in? How did it change you? I think that's going to be really helpful for me to hear. And if you need more information on carbohydrates or the smoothie video, put that in the comment. I'm here to give you the information that works for you. And most importantly, don't give up on yourself because sometimes our mood went off and we want to blame everybody around us, but it's just because we didn't have enough bread. We eat a little more bread and the mood goes up. Okay, enjoy your carbs. If you like this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.