номуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуномуному get your body to release weight and after 40 you have to do it differently. So I want to walk you through exactly why this happens. So let's dive in. So first there are two major issues that are going on that cause women over 40 to start to gain weight. One of them is a loss of estrogen and the second one is a lack of movement or mobility and we'll talk why those two go hand in hand. But first I want you to understand that if you're gaining weight, you're a woman gaining weight after 40, like you're not alone. Like that's pretty much the norm. So the first thing I want to do is relieve you from the fact that you might think it's your fault. Most women over 40 are discovering some kind of hurdle with weight loss as they move through that transition into their postmenopausal years. Now statistically 60 to 70 percent of women start gaining weight during perimenopause and they continue all the way till they get to postmenopause which can be 10 to 15 years. And on average women gain 1.5 pounds per year as they go through this experience. So again, you are not alone. So let's break down how these two major shifts in your body and in your lifestyle are causing you to put on weight and let's talk about what you can do about it. So first I want to start with estrogen. Remember that at 40, estrogen goes on a wild ride. So you're going to have some days where your estrogen is high, other days where estrogen is low. By the time you get to the back half of your 40s, your estrogen is pretty much the lowest it's ever been in your life and it'll continue to go lower and lower. So that transition time, that perimenopausal transition time is a really strong initiator of weight gain. And there's a study that was done in 2022 in the frontiers of endocrinology. It was a hallmark study that was titled the importance of estradiol for body weight and regulation. And what they found was that when a woman had estrogen in her system that it helped her lose weight in three ways. One is it sped up her metabolism. So estrogen increases your basal metabolic rate so that you burn more energy throughout the day when estrogen is high. For those of you who are cycling, that means like ovulation, day 10 to day 15. When we go into our 50s and 60s and we don't have as much estrogen, then we're going to see that metabolic cost. We're going to see that our metabolism isn't as high as it used to be, but that doesn't mean you're doomed. So stick with me here. Second thing that estrogen does is it's an appetite suppressant. So when estrogen comes into your body, it hits your hypothalamus, which is the part of the brain that controls hunger and controls the satiety hormones. So there is specifically a hormone called ghrelin. Ghrelin is what will initiate to tell your body it's hungry or it's full. The most common thing that we know about ghrelin is that the GLP-1 hormones and all the weight loss drugs are actually stimulating this hormone and making it so that your appetite goes down. Well, estrogen used to do that a lot. And now she's gone down as you're aging and so that you might find yourself more hungry. The third thing that happens when estrogen goes down that I also think is important for you to understand is estrogen browned fat. This is really critical because white fat is visceral fat. This is the fat that you see like around the belly that's hard. It's also the fat that you're going to find around your organs that it leads to chronic disease. Well, estrogen would convert white fat into brown fat. And then once it's in brown fat, your body can actually burn it easier. Well, now estrogen is gone. And so you don't have that. You don't have a higher metabolic rate. Your appetite is through the roof and the fat that you have accumulated feels like it's stuck and it's never going to burn because it's in white form, white fat form. And so when we get it into brown fat form, then we can start to burn it a lot easier. And I'll show you how to do that really easy today. When we look at estrogen as the catalyst to this metabolic mess that happens to us, I think then the most logical thing would be to say, well, how do we keep estrogen high? And you're keep in mind at 48, you're not supposed to have the same amount of estrogen that you have at 28. But you can use your lifestyle to create an environment inside your body where your body will make the most amount of estrogen that is age appropriate. It's never going to make you more estrogen than you need, but it can actually create an environment that helps your body naturally make estrogen because just because you went into menopause doesn't mean you're not making any estrogen. You're just making less estrogen. So let's go into what we know about how do I get my body to make its age appropriate amount of estrogen. So the first thing is that estrogen likes low glycemic living. So you want to keep your glycemic load down. So this means we want to be eating nature's carbs, not manmade carbs. I'm not afraid of carbs. I think carbs are really healthy for the female body. But when we're trying to cater to estrogen, we want to keep our carbs in the low glycemic range, which means that this is going to be your fruits and your vegetables and specifically the fruits like berries and green apples. And you're going to want to shy away from the bread, the cakes, the cookies, the pastas, the bad oils like canola oil, cotton seed oil. Those are going to really tank your estrogen levels, which is going to make it so that your metabolism slows down, your appetite goes up and your fat stays in this white rigid type fat that's hard to burn. So let's get off those ultra processed foods and let's bring in lower glycemic foods. A good measurement I want everyone to be focused on is hemoglobin A1c, which is a measurement of your metabolic health. You want that it's on your blood work. Go look it up. It says HbA1c. It's on your blood work. I promise you go look it up. After your doctor does your yearly exam, go look it up. And you want yours to hover around five. If you're hovering around five, your body's going to naturally make its age appropriate estrogen more efficiently. Okay, second thing I want you to think about when we're looking at catering to estrogen so she can help us lose weight is you want to eat a lot of fiber. So fiber is like every all the vegetables, all the fruit, which goes hand in hand with what I just said. Eat more of what I pointed out in Fast Like a Girl, a ketobiotic diet. The ketobiotic diet is basically plants, low glycemic fruits and animal meat if you eat animal meat. So but in the second one, I really want you to think about fiber because fiber is will help you break estrogen down so it's more usable for your cells which is going to help with the appetite suppression. It's going to speed up your metabolism and it's going to help with the browning of fat. So it's not like we just want you to make estrogen, we also want you to break it down. So that's fibery foods. The other thing I want you to think about when it comes to food in supporting estrogen are our phytoestrogens. And there's so much evidence, like there's this incredible, I mean study after study, I've been doing so many videos on phytoestrogens. A 2020 study found that eating phytoestrogens from soy speeds up metabolism, leading women to burn more total calories throughout the day. A 2017 study shows from an obesity review found that eating at least 30 grams of phytoestrogen rich flaxseed daily helped women lose weight. So and some of the phytoestrogen foods are easy. They are like soy and sesame seeds, flax seeds, lentils, broccoli. They're yummy. If you haven't gotten to eat like a girl, I have tons of recipes in here for phytoestrogen rich foods. So you just want to make sure that if you're frustrated with how quickly or not quickly you're losing weight, ask yourself, am I catering to estrogen's needs? Estrogen needs me to keep hemoglobin A1c down. Estrogen needs me to keep my glucose levels down. Estrogen needs more phytoestrogens in my diet. And estrogen needs me to be more lower glucose levels, like more insulin sensitive, which leads me to my third catering of estrogen. And that is intermittent fasting. We have seen with this book over a million copies were sold. And one of the things we've seen in all the responses we've gotten is how many women started to lose weight with something as simple as a 13 hour fast. And in losing weight, they brought their hemoglobin A1c down and they started to lose weight and they started to balance their hormones, didn't need as much HRT. Lifestyle is so miraculous once you start to understand it. So we've got to cater to estrogen so we get her working for our metabolism again. Okay, the second part that is causing women over 40 to gain weight is that we're not exercising. And you know, part of that is because we're tired, we're moody, we're not sleeping, we're overwhelmed, our nervous systems are frazzled. And the way we used to exercise was go to the gym, pound the pavement, you know, work our fanny off, we didn't necessarily think about exercise as a way to elevate joy. We looked at exercises that have to for many people to that we needed to do in order to stay skinny. So I want to re-configure how you think about exercise after 40. So first thing to note is that if you're not feeling like you want to exercise, that there are, there's a lot of evidence showing that in the 40s most women will decrease their exercise. And part of it is because exercise gets harder. So what we found in looking at all the research is that a lot of women report that their muscles are a lot more sore as they go after 40 when they work out. Like they're not recovering as quick, quickly, put in the comments if that's you. Some women are finding they just don't have that muscle power that they used to. It's just like lifting weights is just not fun. Well, I talk a lot about creatine in age like a girl and why it's so important for women over 40 to bring in creatine so that we can power up the muscle, our muscles. A lot of women are getting injured after 40 because of the lack of collagen. So it might be that you need to bring in some more collagen. I put collagen and creatine in my coffee every morning. So again, not hard things to do. I just want you to realize that after 40, if you're not feeling like exercising or you're more sore or you're struggling with it, you're not alone. There is this neurochemical change that's happening. And two of the major issues that science has found, I found a 2024 study in Cell, found that protein synthesis, the process that repairs your muscles after a workout slows down after 40 and you get more sore. And I found another study, a 2025 study in the Orthopedic Journal of Sports Medicine showing that your risk of injury goes up after 40 and that the increase of injury risk is 2.7 times greater for women than men as we go in after 40, as we begin to age. So what can you do about the exercise thing? So I want to give you a couple really interesting ideas. One of my favorite chapters in Age Like a Girl, by the way, is exercise. I did a whole chapter called Exercising the Menopausal Way. So a lot of detail in there. I also in the back give you protocols, weekly protocols. So if you're wanting to just make sure that you are getting in a really good amount of exercise, then I have like weekly protocols for you in there. So for those of you who want more detail. But here's what I want to kind of high level is you need exercise variation. And when you're looking at your week, you want to think about are you doing activities that are improving balance? So this could be like yoga. Are you doing activities that are improving flexibility? This could also be yoga. Are you strength training? This too could be yoga if you're doing a lot of resistance, body weight resistance, but it might be time to pick up some weights. Are you doing a HIIT type of training? Where you're doing like 30 seconds on of really hard activity and 30 seconds off. We've done, I've done a lot of videos here on that. And are you doing stress relieving exercise like walking? That right foot, left foot walking starts to pull you out of a chronic stress state, which also will help you lose weight. So let's put this all together here. We know that we need to help you with your age appropriate estrogen. So we are going to keep our glucose levels low. We are going to eat more fiber. We're going to bring in more phytoestrogens and foods that support a natural lift in estrogen. We also know that things like intermittent fasting are going to help your body create more estrogen. Then we go to look at exercise and we're like, okay, we need to be doing something for balance, something for flexibility, something for strength, something for cardiovascular health and something for stress. Five different types. So I mapped them all out. What I do is I don't do the same exercise every week. I do yoga one day. I hike the next. I lift weights another day. I'm starting to surf all the time. So surfing is another form. It's actually a form of HIIT training. The way you paddle out, the way I do it, very quickly you'll start to get the heart rate up. And then I go hiking a couple of times a week to be able to bring stress levels down. So we want to look at it in a more holistic picture here. This isn't just a moment of, oh, every woman's got to lift weights. No, we got to look at this more holistically. There's a lifestyle that matches weight loss after 40. And those are two of the big key pieces that I gave you. Okay. Quick pause of the video. Do you know that my new book, Age Like a Girl is out? It's a trilogy now. It's fast like a girl, eat like a girl and age like a girl. And I am so proud of this book because I show you why menopause rewires your brain for the better. It is how your brain starts to change itself. So you finally put yourself first. And for the science hounds, I have over 450 peer reviewed citations proving everything I wrote in this book. And I can't wait for you to get it. Now, interesting enough, there's some more studies here. I just want to point out because there was a 2022 meta analysis that looked at 58 different studies. And they concluded after looking at 58 different studies, the authors concluded that lifting weights was the most effective for long term weight loss and decreasing body fat. So those of you who are not excited about lifting weights, you know, you either muscle through it, no pun intended, or we try to find something that makes you excited about it. So a lot of women are turning to rucking, putting a weighted vest on and going walking. That would be a way to strengthen your bones and your muscles while you're out walking. That could be amazing as well. The other cool thing about lifting weights is that there was a 22 study that found weight lifting increases estrogen and testosterone in women of all ages, especially, especially helpful for women over 40. Really cool. A huge 2023 study found that weight lifting improves virtually every symptom of menopause. So more stability and reduces hot flashes. It gives you better bone density, fewer sexual symptoms, better sleep, more energy. So it's not hard. You just got to be intentional. And I think what I see here on this channel, what I see with the way you guys like to watch the different videos that I put out, that you're struggling with weight loss after 40. And part of it is because the game changed. And your body responds to your lifestyle different. And now you need a new set of tools. And this video hopefully was the beginning of giving you those tools. The last thing I want you to do is to feel completely stressed out and overwhelmed and think it's your fault. What's happening is your body is shifting. And in that shift, your lifestyle needs to match it. So let me know if that helps. If any of these tools you've lost a tremendous amount of weight with, share your story in the comments. We're a community here and we all get inspiration from each other. So we want to hear your win. But most of all, don't give up on yourself. Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't give your power away to a doctor. Don't give your power away to a health influencer. Don't give your power away over to a supplement or a medication. You have the power to heal you. You just need the information on how to take the right steps so that your body can start working for you. So as always, I hope that helps. Okay. You're not losing belly fat. I get it. Watch this video. So you know exactly how to get rid of your belly fat. I really want you to remember that cortisol and belly fat, those go hand in hand. So as your belly is growing, it's not always diet related. It can also be stress related. It can also be stress related. It can also be stress related.