! U1stinh1, connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected connected was released around weight gain and our environment. This one is going to blow your mind because it's so subtle and sneaky, but if you understand how your environment, meaning the everyday activities you do, relate to weight gain, and this isn't even talking about foods you eat, this is about the environment and the rituals you do, if we can stop some of those rituals, we, you, you will have a better stab at losing weight. This is so cool. I really want you to understand this, so let's dive in. So think about it like this. Whatever environment you put yourself in, it will shape your behavior. So if you put yourself around people that complain all the time, you're going to start complaining. If you keep yourself inside all the time and, and, and getting tons of blue light, you're going to mess up your circadian rhythm. So we know that where we put this human body, the body will adapt to that environment. But let's talk about the research on how your environment affects your behavior around weight loss and some really simple changes that you can do to change some little micro habits that all of a sudden make your food choices, your exercise choices, your fasting choices so much easier. So here we go. Let's dive in. And, and I want to start off by introducing you to a concept that I think a lot of us know, but not in relationship to weight loss. And it's called Pavlovian conditioning. Pavlovian conditioning is how we associate cues in our environment with a rewarding stimuli. So if you go back to Pavlovian dogs, right? This was way back in 1897. He discovered, Pavlov did, that if he fed his dogs and he would ring a bell at the same time, that whenever he rang the bell, the dogs would start to salivate. And what he came out of his study and said that is if you pair two unrelated stimuli together, like a bell and food, and you do it over and over again, our brain will link those two. So all of a sudden that becomes tied together. So let's think about this in terms of food. Let's think about this in terms of fasting. How many of us have linked our morning routine to a cup of coffee and maybe a donut? I know for me, I know I'm not a donut lover, but when I first started to learn fasting, I had a breakfast I really loved. It was a cup of coffee and a smoothie, or it was a cup of coffee and a toast with some peanut butter and jam on it. And I had a ritual where every morning I would have these two and then I would go off to my practice. So when I decided to start skipping breakfast, it felt really awkward at first because my brain was like, it's morning time. I had linked it this way. You need coffee and you need a smoothie or you need your piece of toast. So in the beginning, I had to stop doing that if I wanted to fast longer, which felt really difficult. And that's why Pavlovian conditioning, if you're at least aware of it, and I'm going to give you some solutions for it, you can start to see how you've linked those things together. So like I even, again, full transparency, you know what I have linked to the morning and you put in the comments, if this is you, I have linked coffee in the morning. So when I get up and I'm like thinking about my morning, one of the things that propels me out of bed in the morning is coffee. So when I've gone to give up coffee before, getting out of bed becomes difficult because I don't have anything to get out of bed to. So I had to go find something else enjoyable to do in the morning to link my brain to that to get me out of bed. That's Pavlovian conditioning. So a classic example that they use outside of dogs is the crinkle of cellophane. And they used it in the terms of smokers. I've never smoked, but I guess when you open up a cigarette box and there's a crinkling of that, that crinkling noise actually created a dopamine response in the smoker before they even lit the cigarette. So all of a sudden, they started to associate the unwrapping of a new pack of cigarettes and their brain started to expect an incoming nicotine high. And sometimes even years after quitting smoking, they would have that reaction. So again, we are constantly linking these things together, which makes food changes so hard. Can you see where I'm going with this? So this environmental conditioning that we have put ourselves in with our food choices makes it really hard to overcome food. And there was a 2018 review that found that it only takes as little as three to six events for us to start pairing delicious food with an environmental cue. So that's good news because let's say you're trying to get rid of your morning activity, like you're not going to eat breakfast. It's only going to take three to six days of that repetitive, not eating breakfast and your brain will start to link things differently. And once that association has formed, our body responds to the environmental clues differently. And here are some of the environmental clues that our body has linked to ritualistic behavior, hunger, food cravings, desire to eat, increase impulsivity, over consumption, and even salivation. I don't know, put in the comments if you all ever saw that movie, What the Bleep Do You Know? It was a great visual and it was a really at the beginning of us all geeking out on neuroscience. And it showed one of the things that like really hit me in understanding dopamine is this movie showed how when when somebody who's an overeater goes to grab a piece of cake or goes to have their favorite food, they haven't even put their favorite food in their mouth, they haven't even tasted it. And just by seeing it and telling themselves, I'm going to eat that, and they haven't even eaten it, the dopamine response in the brain happens. And what's even more interesting is that the the cues, these environmental cues that cause hunger and cravings can vary really wide. So some examples that this study used about the environmental connection to our habits are like the smell of fresh bakery, the smell of fried foods, foods, even advertisements for highly rewarding foods, the sight of a rewarding food in the fridge or the cupboard, like I said in the movie, food packaging, negative emotions. I've talked a lot about how I was trained by a mom that if I was having a bad day, I could sit down with my mom as a little kid and I could get food. So I got mother's love and a food. So when I first started learning how to fast, I really had when things got difficult in a fast, I really started to feel like somehow I was missing out on love. And I started to realize, oh, that came from this linking it to my mom who get who associated food with mother's love and comfort. You see how this works. So watching TV, you sit down, how many of you need popcorn when you watch a movie? And even hormonal states like low estrogen toward the end of your cycle, the week before your cycle, where you're like, oh my God, I always need chocolate the week before my cycle. These are habitual links we have created. So when you tell yourself, I can't overcome eating breakfast, I can't get off my sugar habit. I can't stop eating. I just eat all day long. I want you to stop beating yourself up and actually repattern that and go, okay, what habitual thought patterns, routines have I in place that has completely solidified that food gives me whatever emotional experience that it gives you. This is why I love the three day water fast because the three day water fast gives you three days to completely reset all of these ritual behaviors. And it acts like a mirror so you can start to see which ones you're linked to because the habitual stuff is really hard for us to see. So the other interesting thing and kind of sad, but here it is, a 2011 study in the Journal of Obesity said that this reaction, this environmental Q reaction is actually stronger in people who are overweight. And the study was titled, I Just Can't Help Myself. We'll leave a link here so you can see it. And it exposed both overweight people and lean people to the smell and sight of pizza for 60 seconds. And what they found is that the overweight group reported a much greater desire to eat the pizza, as well as a greater desire to eat other unrelated foods than the lean group. And that the overweight participants had a significantly greater increase in even their salivatory response. They were salivating more than the lean people. And this isn't a diss on people who are overweight. They actually went on to say, the study went on to say, we don't understand why, but we're thinking it has something to do with genetics. Okay, let's pause there for a moment. Because there is something called an obesity gene. And I've talked about it here before. And there's a study, a very famous study done on it around an agouti mouse. And they had a mouse that actually had two, they were twins, and they both had this obesity gene. And one mouse was fed plastic, or exposed to plastic, and the other mouse wasn't. They were both given the same amount of food, they were both given the same kinds of exercise, the only difference was one had plastic, and that mouse actually started to gain weight. And I've done this, I've talked about this study when it comes to toxins. But what we're saying here is that if you have the obesity gene, you may be even more, more susceptible to environmental clues. Now, how would you know if you have the obesity gene, and I'm going to be really careful how I say this, but you could look around at your family. And you could see, you know, I think we have a tendency to be like, oh, I'm overweight, just because my family is overweight. But one of the things we know is that a gene has to be triggered and that a gene can be turned off. And if we can start to link these environmental clues to your overeating, now we start to make lasting change. So there was a 2025 study in the Journal of Neuroscience that found some of us have a harder time breaking these environmental clues. And what the study looked at was how quickly people could stop an environmental cue. And they actually call it behavioral extinction. And what they noticed is that some participants of the study were being affected by environmental cues more quickly than others. And other people just had a hard time. Like, I mean, let's go back to the guy looking at the cake. You know, he's at a buffet at a party, and he sees his favorite chocolate cake. And there's some of us that could resist that. And there's some of us, according to the study, that just have a harder time with that. And they believe that genetics are a piece of this. So what does this mean for you? And what does this mean for weight loss? So let's do this. I want to create a checklist for you. How can we make your environment less obesogenic? So we have obesogen additives into our foods. Plastics is an obesogen. Let's not make your environment obesogenic. So if you're trying to lose weight, let's look at the rituals you have linked together. So pay attention to the moment you get the most food cravings. I just went through a three-day water fast, and we're leading 100,000 people through a water fast right now. And I was sharing with them this morning that I noticed, I wanted to understand my pattern to hunger over this last three-day water fast. And so I started to notice at three o'clock every afternoon, I got hungry. Well, that's the time I like to eat. I normally fast in the morning, and I'll start to eat at two or three. So I had a ritual of, yeah, two or three I eat. So of course, my hunger would hit. This is a case for constantly changing when we eat. So we don't always hook a time to actually eating. So pay attention. I can tell you when I started to really try to unwind my emotional eating behaviors, I started to see that whenever I had a bad day or I was really upset about something, I would go to the pantry and I would just open the pantry and I would just look at what was in there, open the refrigerator. I wasn't hungry, I was looking for a dopamine shift. So just knowing that's what you're doing, you're linking stress to food is really important. So start looking for patterns. And here are some common examples that you might find. So some of it, like I said, is you're just opening the pantry. Now, a goal to the pantry and the refrigerator, and it's a food rule that I highly recommend, is just don't have the foods in your house that are triggers for you. That way you, I mean, I don't know about you, but I've opened that pantry many times and been like, there's nothing in here that I want. Well, that's probably a good thing. If all my favorite foods were in there that were unhealthy for me, and I was upset, and I opened the pantry and there they were, now the discipline becomes so much harder. What if you pass a bakery or a pizza shop or a cafe or a grocery store, and you're every day, you're like, every day I go and get a cup of coffee and a donut, and I have the same place I go. And now you're like, well, I'm not gonna get the donut. So don't go to that coffee shop. You've already linked the donut there. So how about you go get coffee somewhere else? How about you change your route? Don't even drive past the coffee shop, because what this research is saying is once you see it, you've now linked it in your brain to the donut. And we want to avoid that. Eat well during the week, but indulge on the weekends. Make healthy weekend plans. You know, those of you who eat are like, I'm great during the week, but then all of a sudden I just binge on the weekends. Okay, what behaviors are we doing there? Because it's a very, it's a routine that we may be spontaneously attaching some poor habits to, whereas Monday through Friday, you have much more of a rhythm. So you can, do you see where I'm going with this? They're, they seem small, but I can tell you I've watched millions of people lose weight. And if you put yourself in an environment that you have connected dopamine, that you have connected oxytocin, these are powerful neurochemicals. And once your brain identifies that you're going to get a dopamine hit, and you're going to get the love of oxytocin, which is what happened with my mom always feeding me, I got mother's love, which is oxytocin. Now, now even the most disciplined human is going to struggle. So let's unlink that. So really cool. Let me know if you've thought about weight loss from this perspective, just so we can all heal here together. Put it, put in the comments, tell me what you've linked. I shared with you some of the things I've linked. What have you linked food to that you've would like to unlink? When you write it out, you express it to the world, we can all be there to cheer you on and help you be a better version of you. But I think the, the, after helping so many people lose weight over the years, I just want to say that one of the more frustrating things is when a person would come to me and they would say, I don't know why I keep doing this. I don't know why. It's because you have linked a behavior and an environment to a food that is not serving you. And let's unlink those. Okay. Pretty cool. Right. Fun way to approach weight loss. Let me know if you need help with it. Let me know if you have more questions on it. I just want to point out, I am reading all of your comments. I see them. So let me, what you know, what you need. Let me know what you like about these. And I am now it's 2026. I am doing videos every day. So come back tomorrow. I got something new for you. We have a team of researchers looking through all kinds of science. We have stepped up our video game and we are excited to bring you new information. Let me know what you need. And I'll see you tomorrow.