 So can we start off with just the concept of focus, distraction? How do we know, how do we know if we're overwhelmed, if we're overscheduled, if we're just on socials too much? How do we start to weed this apart? I think one of the biggest misconceptions that we have about focus in general is that we've always sort of been taught that focus is a character trait, it's something that we have to really learn and be disciplined about, and we have to be more organized, and, you know, if only I could be less distracted and turn off this app or whatever, I'd be able to focus. And what we really miss about focus is that it actually is a biological state. Because for our brain to sustain attention, as you know, we need to feel safe, we need to have energy, and we need to have cognitive bandwidth, right? We need to have all those things, and most of us, if not, I would say probably all of us, are missing all three. Because our nervous system is chronically activated, we have just an onslaught of content that we're consuming all the time, and don't ever really get a break. So we're cognitively overloaded, emotionally overloaded, and then we find ourselves living in constant survival mode, because we're always standing versus being present in whatever we're doing. And so that's really where we're at. And I think because our nervous system is constantly on alert, constantly switching tasks, refreshing, checking, thinking, da-da-da-da-da, we can't force focus when our brain thinks we're under threat, right? And so what looks like distraction, I find is often dysregulation. Ooh, yeah, I can see that. Yeah, which that ties into menopause, because I really, after all the research I've done on hormonal changes and brain changes that happen through the menopause experience, I actually think as we age, our nervous system becomes more sensitive, because it's an evolutionary concept where, you know, it's called, it's something I wrote about in Age Like a Girl called the Grandmother Hypothesis, where the men would go off and hunt, and it was the grandmothers that had to be the protectors. And the protectors at that point was making sure a tiger wasn't going to come eat the clan. So I have a feeling that our nervous systems are so much more tuned in to our environment as we age, and especially as we go through menopause, which makes the news, makes social media, makes everything going on right now so much more acute. Yeah, so much more acute. And also, I mean, listen, we, I just read the statistic yesterday. I mean, I want to, I want to make sure I'm being really accurate about this, because it was a study, but it was so profound. I feel like they, there was something to the effect of, like, we used to make about, you know, 2,000, 3,000 decisions a day, and now we make, like, 5,000 decisions or more. Wow. And so our cognitive load, starting at a very young age, especially as women, in this generation, in this world, is unbelievably high. And then you stack that into midlife, right? And we've been caring so much. And in addition to the, you know, the families we've cared for, the work we've done, you know, the children we've brought, like, all the things, right? We have, like, aging parents on top of that. We have major and life transitions. Most of us are looking at our partners thinking, like, is this really my life? Like, what am I doing here? You know, it's like, there's, like, all these things that really stack up. And I, and I, we sort of call this, and I'm sure you've heard of this, like, the cognitive load stacking. And so now it's like women are so obscenely overloaded that when we approach midlife and our estrogen drops and all the hormones that you know so much about, so much more than I should start, you know, dropping and going haywire. On top of that, we have all of these tabs open and we're just exhausted. So what we often call brain fog and we, like you, always blame our hormones. Honestly, it's, it's really just, I think so much of it is decision fatigue and sort of this, like, emotional, attentional fragmentation that we've been dealing with most of our lives. Yes, yes, yes, agreed, agreed. Do we have any kind of understanding of what a normal cognitive load would look like in a day? For the current? Yeah, for this modern world, yeah. I mean, there's, there's not really science, but I would say, you know, from a, just a clinical standpoint, like from my work, I mean, I think what's normal is very different than what most people have. So normal and common are very, very different things these days. You know, and I think, I think it really depends on life and, you know, all the things that we're juggling. I mean, a woman who has, you know, three young children is, has a very different cognitive load than is someone who's not. So I think that's where, you know, what we're looking at. And I think it's very personal. It's very different. I think the most important thing is that to anticipate a high cognitive load. And this is where it's tricky with content, because when you have a high, right, you have to manage. You have, you know that you're in a season of life where your work is peaking. Your, your caretaking is also peaking at the same time. You also have to take care of yourself at the same time. Right? Like, of course, self-care. What is that? Right? Like, and so you have all these demands, visible load of being a woman generally period. And you're functioning, you're over functioning, anticipating that, knowing that on top of that stack consumption. And when I say that, I mean, we're listening to music, to podcasts, to audio books, love podcasts, love audio books. But our brain, as you know, isn't meant to consume so much all at one time. And what's happening is throughout the normal vicissitudes of a very full life. We just don't give ourselves recovery. That's the problem. And then we think recovery is triple screening and binge watching Netflix while sitting next to our partners and buying groceries at the same time on our computer and scrolling through Instagram on our phone. Right? So true. Like, let's be real. Yeah. We think that's a break. And we often say it to each other. Like, how many friends, I'm just going to chill tonight and watch, you know, the reruns of da-da-da. Okay. You might be zoning out a little bit and numbing out, but you're not actually recovering. You're not giving your brain the space it needs to reboot, to then come back online at an energetic level where you can really contain everything that's on your plate. Yeah. So do we have any kind of gold standard for what, how much recovery? I understand we all live into, you know, very different lives, but let's, I'm just going to go back to, you know, the 1970s when I grew up. You know, it was like Monday through Friday was work. Saturday and Sunday was the day off. And I never saw my parents work on Saturday and Sunday. And my dad worked long hours Monday through Friday. We literally had a weekend. Now, fast forward to this time. So many people are expected to work on the weekends. So many people choose to work on the weekends. Like, is there any kind of gold standard for here's what we need for recovery in this modern day? So I think that's a beautiful question. And I think we need to rethink what, when we think about recovery, what that actually means. Because. Yeah, good point. Our brain doesn't actually need full chunks of weekend recovery. What our brain actually needs is rhythm between engagement and recovery. So we need the micro resets throughout our days. Because our brain and focus actually only work in cycles. So we can't just, like, sustain all this content and sustain focus and be available and be present and whatever all week. And then all of a sudden just reboot on the weekend and then come back online for a week at a time. Our break cycles are 60 to 90 minutes or so before we need a reset. And so with that, and so when we don't take those five to 20 minute recovery periods within our days, that's when our rhythms become completely dysfunctional and our mental accuracy declines, our emotional ability to regulate, like errors increase, all the things, right? So what is, you know, so it's the micro recovery that's really, really, really critical within our days. Okay, so 60 to 90 minutes would be like a sprint, like a work sprint. That's like, yeah, or anything you're doing. Like, even if you're, let's say you're not working, working, but you're with your kids or something. Or you're, you know, whatever it is that you define as something that you have to be present for to focus on. After about, I mean, listen, most of us can't even do it for more than five to 10 minutes without needing a distraction to self-soothe. Yeah. Right? I mean, the reality is if we're really thinking about this, we reach for our phones, not because it's just a habit, but because it's become our emotional pacifier. Like, we just, we just want to press eject. We're just like, oh, this is uncomfortable. I don't know how to deal with discomfort. I haven't trained my brain to do this enough. I need, I need to go scroll up videos. Right? Yes. So. So true. So, so, so yes, I think that we really, we need to start small. So when I, when, when I say 60 to 90 minutes, like for a true ultradian rhythm, like a beautiful thing. Yes. You could work up to that, but don't expect yourself to be there like immediately. But yes, within those 60 minute windows, you need about five to 20 minutes to recover. After that. Right. And when I say recover, again, we're talking about something that is actual recovery. So you can step outside in nature. You could go for a walk. You could kind of like de-dream a little bit. Yes. You can breathe or meditate or whatever or stretch, but it doesn't mean consuming more content. Right. Yes. And even five minutes helps, right? Like five minutes can help so much as a reset. Yeah. I had early on in my podcast career, I had a brain expert that came on and said that after every interview, whether he's doing the interview or he's being interviewed, he lived down in San Diego. He would go and look out his window and take an ocean break where he would just let his brain, he goes, I take, he said about a half hour and I just let my mind wander and look out at the view. And, and what I've been telling my audience is if you don't have an ocean view, you, you, you, you, you know, that you could put on like, there's, I love what went around socials recently about, uh, bird sounds and how even just bird noises or, or some kind of sense of nature around you can be calming. It actually, you know, synthetic nervous system immediately. And just this beautiful cocktail of corn is released and it will just totally deescalate you. Our thing really needs idle time. Okay. To grow, to regulate, to, and we're just not giving ourselves that anymore. Right. Cause the minute we feel bored, like this negative thing, and we have to self-soothe, we cannot deal with bored anymore. And that's a major problem because when we're bored, when we go into this like network, which you've heard about, when we activate that, when we're bored, that's when our brain starts to integrate information and we regulate, process all our emotional experiences and do the real work. That's where we get creative, that's where we generate ideas. Um, and we're just not gifting ourselves that anymore. And that's a real problem. Yeah. You know, one of my, um, uh, favorite people for many years was Sarah Blakely. You know who Sarah Blakely is? Yes. Yes. And, um, so I used to give these, um, a bunch of talks in Silicon Valley to corporations around stress management and nutrition. And it was a really fun time. And I would always quote Sarah and what Sarah's concept about failing forward. And anyway, she was a Shiro of mine. And then I ended up being a part of her husband's mastermind. He had asked for some fasting help and I, I know, and I got brought into his world. And so I got to meet her and, um, I was at a small intimate gathering with her. And one of the things he said is now, if people don't know who Sarah Blakely is, I just want to point out, she created Spanx. Yeah. And she is like one of the rare here in America, you know, billionaires, women, women own, you know, women started billionaires. She came from nothing. And, um, and so what he, what he said that was so interesting is he said, when I met Sarah, I had never seen a CEO that took so much time off. And she said, the reason I take so much time off is because I need to daydream that exactly what you just said. I need to daydream so that that's where I get my ideas. And our culture trains us for something exactly the opposite. We're taught to grind that productivity and success means, you know, working yourself to the bone without all at all hours. And the biggest misconception is that we have to multitask in order to do that. Right. That we have to do multiple at once. And now we know, and we have very clear research that shows every time we task switch, we lose about 23 minutes, not seconds. Ooh. So our brain takes about 23-ish minutes to get back to whatever we were thinking about or focusing on before. That's a lot of lost time. That's a lot. So what's a task? Tell me like a task switch. What does that look like? I mean, it could be like, I'm writing an email to my son's teacher about something. And then, oh, my husband is texting me about the groceries and I forgot the milk. That's a task. It's everything. It's what we do all the time, all day long. And so imagine how exhausted our brain is from all of that. Right? Yeah. And we're taught that that's what success is. And especially as women, there's a cultural expectation that we have to multitask in order to sustain our lives and our families and that we're particularly good at it. But we now know that there's no gender difference whatsoever between our multitask. Our brain just can't and shouldn't. Yeah. But we've been culturally expected to. Yeah. So true. And hence, brain fog during menopause. It's like, yes, hormones. And also, the cultural expectation and multitask is through the root for us. And by the time we reach 50s, we're like, what? Like, what did we just do with our whole life? Yeah. We, I actually, in the research I did for Age Like a Girl, I really think that what happens when you go through menopause is you're not just losing estrogen and progesterone and testosterone. You're losing dopamine and serotonin and oxytocin and GABA and BDNF. Yes. You're losing a whole array of neurochemicals. Correct. And I call it the neurochemical armor. It's like the armor comes down and all of a sudden you see things in your life so much differently. And sometimes you look and you go, oh, my God, anxiety. Like, I get anxious every time I do this or I get depressed every time I do this. And so one of my rally cries to women has been stop and ask yourself, what is it that's making you anxious? What is it that's making you depressed? Like, look at your day to day because you don't have the same neurochemical buffer that allowed you to take on a thousand tasks and do everything for everybody else. You've lost that neurochemical buffer. And so you're getting a real glimpse of what your true self wants. That's so true. And that's why, honestly, too, I mean, I just I feel like the divorce rate skyrockets around this phase as well because, like, say the buffer is lowered and you just have a much shorter bandwidth for the things you used to manage or put up with or whatever it is. Right. I mean, I think that you've hit the nail on the head and we think of estrogen as like a reproductive hormone, but it actually is such a major, like, neuromodulator in the brain. Right. It actually supports, like you said, dopamine, the motivation, the focus that we need, the drive and the serotonin are our mood. And so when we lose that support, everything just feels a lot harder. Yeah. You know, one of the gifts for me from the fire is my nervous system completely shut down and I literally couldn't barely function as a human anymore. And it was on the heels of, you know, two years of launching a book, writing books, like the pace that came with all of that. And so one of the things I did is isolate myself and I went to and lived by myself for four months. I was writing Age Like a Girl, but I just had to slow it all down because my nervous system could not take it anymore. I just it was not it was like completely frozen and intolerant. And it was so beautiful because that in that four month period, I got to regulate myself. And then when I came out of that, I could add one thing at a time back in. And then all of a sudden I could start to see like I can see now when the pace speeds up, I can feel that anxiety. And I'm like, hey, I call it the fire anxiety. The fire anxiety is back. OK, what am I doing that my nervous system is not happy with? So not every woman can isolate herself for four months. But is there a way to start to unwind ourself from this kind of frenzied pace? Yeah, I mean, I think I think this pace and I think what this and so we've lived through the fire and that's obviously a big dramatic grief. And when people lose other people or relationships, that's a big dramatic grief. But I think what we're missing a lot in this culture and the load we carry is what I call like micro griefs throughout the day. And it can be as simple as, you know, like our I don't know, our partner talking to us in a way that we don't really love or our kid like snapping at us or ignoring us or a friend not calling back when you expect to. Those are little things that we often don't even really like think about or notice. We just push it away and then they just become bigger over time. And so I think what what these griefs and big griefs do really is it's it's really about putting the brain and our nervous system in a state of processing change that we just did not choose. And our modern life is full of that all the time. And so I think that we have these like micro losses, even if it's like the human a human being needs to be present in order to co-regulate with each other. That's how we regulate our nervous system. And we've completely plugged out of that matrix. So we lose we lose those moments as well. And so I think that we have so much unprocessed grief layered with chronic stimulation that we just our nervous system just can't keep up. And so when you're able to plug out of all of that and slow down, which is what grief does, right? Like you were able to just go be with yourself, slow it down, literally one foot in front of the other. We're able to reboot our system in a way where we can now allow entry of the other things in a very, you know, intentional, beautiful way. Not all of us have the ability to do that. And so that's why those micro moments of recovery are so critical because not all of us have the ability to just be by ourselves for a while. That's right. Yeah, exactly. And I didn't, you know, my kids are grown and, you know, it just, you know, there were a lot of scenarios that really helped that allowed me to do that. Right. But I think that's the beautiful thing. And I think that, you know, I, I think that that's something that you really, we need to really think about, about sort of like what else is eating away at our nervous system throughout the day? Because all of these micro losses are severe disruptors. And then these helps move with, you know, our devices or whatever it is, because we don't want to deal with the friction of being human and interacting with each other and actually confronting each other. Yeah. Right. Wow. And so. Yes. And we've also trained our brain not to communicate. Like we've gotten really good at plugging out and calling it self-care. Yeah. You know, it's, I'm so happy you brought this up because, I mean, we're in a unique moment in history right now. And, you know, I, I, one of the things I want to talk about is how do we digest the news and take that in and stay informed if we choose to stay informed. And, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and instant answer at AI we have constant comfort like we don't have to do anything or be uncomfortable ever but the problem is that our brain was designed to grow through friction right because you know you know that yeah and activates neuroplasticity which is our brain ability to grow and sustain change and when the brain encounters challenge those neurotransmitters like dopamine and or whatever strength and the learning pathways and we become we become better at dealing with the challenge right and so we have now given ourselves we've lost our opportunity to build any resilience right and and so I often say like you know discomfort is our entry point to growth it's not that it's the enemy we've we've now positioned as the enemy right like oh right bottom line like I don't want to feel any discomfort you know but that's how we become strong by moving through the support and the recovery that comes from the discomfort yeah right and so we've eliminated that and that's really yeah you know I found some interesting research um and I quote it in in my book age like a girl um that was and it was based off of happiness that they actually can measure the brains of people that are you know statistically the happiest and I'm sure they did some kind of test or something that that showed that but what they found is that it was a very balanced brain and I started to work back from that idea I was like well what makes a balanced brain and I then took uh Joseph Campbell's hero's journey and I looked at the different stages of the hero's journey and and everything that you go through in a hero's journey which is our classic something went wrong you handled it you became different and I I focused in specifically on resilience and resilience activates a part of the prefrontal cortex that is really unique for happiness and you can only activate it through resilience and I was like wait a second here we are trying to avoid difficulty but if you want a happy brain you need to grow this part of your prefrontal cortex and you're only going to grow it by coming up against something difficult and and overcoming that yes I mean it really does strengthen all those pathways because effort essentially increases your adaptation to do the hard things and then you see yeah improvement and that activates those pathways in your brain that basically are trust yourself you know that you can and so next time when you have our difficulty brain immediately goes back to that like oh I got this like I I can do hard things right right right and so it just it just builds the the pathways for you know optimism and hopefulness and and and so it's our it's almost like our brain's ability to reinterpret stress because once you've done the hard stuff you build those neural pathways your prefrontal cortex is strengthened and then you have that plasticity to then go back and say you can maintain better perspective right you're like oh that that's stressful but I got this like I know who to call I know what to do about it like I you know and then you're also honestly operating from a place of safety and when you're when you feel safe your nervous system can can regulate much better and you'll have better focus and sustain attention and I talk a lot about that in the book yeah is there is there it's I love that you bring up safety because I I always say that the male both the men and women have when you look at it from a physiological level that the number one priority of the human body is survival but women have a second priority which is reproduction and in reproduction the key to a healthy reproductive system regardless of your age is safety yes and I've thought a lot about this because I notice it when I go to socials I notice it in conversations I notice it when I'm over scheduled that there I've trained my brain to start to go are you safe here are you not safe here yes because historically women were child rearing requires vigilance right and so like just historically hormonally we're standing we're kind of always standing and we're we're attuned to I mean I think and you know this better than I do probably but like you know depending we we we have to detect threat and we have to detect threat at an early level and you know obviously our lives have adapted to that but because but what's left the remnant of that is that as women we are highly attuned to social cues and relational dynamics and we are aware of like environmental safety right and signals and so neurologically we are constantly activated and and scanning and that's why I see like we have a heightened survival mode right and and I think that's really important to understand that's taxing it's beneficial it's evolutionary but it's also exhausting especially in a world that has stripped us so much of the circles that have always helped women through the ages survive and function and thrive we've lost you know each other and we need to find our way back to each other yeah that's so true it's so true I researched in my I won't go into all the details because my um my audience has heard it but I got obsessed with this concept of a lime tree and it was in a Trevor Hall song and the it's if you can go look it up it's called the lime tree and it basically the words of the song were there you are I found you there up above the city streets you were always hiding in the lime tree and I started to geek out on this song I was like what is it about is it is it about a person finding themselves do they find a romantic partner so I did a ton of research on the lime tree and the lime tree back in the medieval days was a gathering place for women and women came together they cried they raged they supported each other in the healing process and everybody in the village knew that the women under the lime tree were healing and I I wrote about it in age like a girl and I keep bringing it into my community we need to create lime trees where we can come together and step out of the madness of the world and start to heal each other totally and we have to remember that emotional processing happens in relation to others yes it's great to on your own to process and whatever but talking and reflecting to others is actually scientifically so critical and activates brain regions that you know are all about meaning making and emotional integration and you know we we release women release oxytocin at a very high level which is a bonding hormone and so when we're together in response to whatever stressors we're dealing with just our cortisol is lowered when we're together like that's why you know even just forcing yourself to meet up with your friends or women is feels so good after even if you don't have the time it's yet one more thing to fit into your your calendar right like you can always you know there's never time but it's honestly it's medicine it's nice agreed yeah agreed right and what do we but what what do we do as women I mean I did this I've had this conversation with so many friends where I'm like oh my god I'm so sorry we haven't talked I've been so busy I've been so busy I've been so busy and we wear busy like a badge of honor and then you stop and you realize oh my god wait a second busy is keeping me out of relationship with really special humans yeah it's it's like we got to drop that badge of honor yeah I mean that's like a whole other podcast episode on like our definition of and how broken that is um and how we use it as a mask for everything that is um if if something matters if something's meaningful you'll make time for it here right um and I think we're also so numb like we've numbed ourselves with the prolific use of all these devices and tech and our dopamine is completely hijacked we're just it's we're so spent we're so we've like run out at such a high level that the thought of even like to see people is is just you just don't you just don't want to do it right but you're exhausted yeah yeah and and so we have to really lower our threshold for connection to start it doesn't always have to be a dinner out or you know drinks or a big plan or or all child care like you could literally just you know after a drop off during eating like go for a walk and talk or like sit even if you're sitting at your practice and you just turn to the woman next to you even if it's uncomfortable even if you don't know her just start talking like it doesn't have to be a big thing and I think we need to be really specific about what it means like when you say like we shouldn't eat up or whatever like should we do a walk Friday morning like hey how about 10 minutes after pickup or like whatever it is we need to it doesn't have to be perfectly hosted and you don't have to be you know 100% engaged like you could even be like cooking to get whatever doing life to get like just being in each other's presence is so critical and we also speaking of the word busy have to recognize that when someone says they're busy that often is like a signal like red flag undercurrent like I'm depleted right right and so right so when you when when they're when they're rejecting connection and there's a stable bond already there it's not personal it's generally like I'm exhausted and overstimulated and as a good friend as a fellow woman you can reflect that back if you're like hey I get it and also this is really important to help you with that exhaustion you'll be less exhausted after you see me yeah right yeah you know I have I have a good friend who she and her mom get on on uh zoom together and they fold laundry together they be so that they're in isn't that sweet so that they're in relationship with each other in a simple task like folding laundry yes we didn't evolve to be isolated units sitting up like being like this is why I have a big thing with when people say like I'm just an introvert like I don't think that's a thing like you yes we need reboots we need time by ourselves but we don't need to pretend that we have a certain personality type just so we don't have to feel the discomfort of engaging with other humans oh that's well said well said right what do you think about yeah what do you think about social media I mean you and I are both on social media yeah um is there a way to do it gently um is there a way to put some boundaries around it is it even good for us right now I mean listen I think there I always I have such a love-hate relationship with social media right yeah I've formed a beautiful community there I have a subscription yeah service there where like people get more of me and it's a beautiful thing um I you know I also it's like really cathartic to me like all my writings that you would you've read about grief and the fire and all of that like that was a beautiful space for me to to sort of express my creativity in a way that I probably couldn't do otherwise but I think that we have to be very intentional about use and we have to know it's not meant like social media and tech in general was not meant to be a constant stream it's meant to be a container it's meant to be a dose right and so you have to be very conscious about resisting the scroll that they want you to do right that's like the whole point is just to get you to scroll that's how they have you that's how they make money so yeah that's what you have to really be cognizant of be very careful about who you follow edit edit edit right and give yourself a lot more yeah give yourself pockets of time you could literally I have clients who schedule it into their calendars like you know find a social media break and they'll just scroll for five minutes but then when the timer goes off they're done so you actually schedule it in even knowing that it's maybe not the best thing but it's like worry time like you can schedule worry like for people who are very yes right you schedule it in you worry worry worry worry but then when the timer I love that on right yeah and I think you can you can do social media but you've got pair it with some sort of regulation because you're going to be exposed to distressing events you're going to be exposed to someone's highlight reel you know are filtered women who don't even look like right full right so yeah in addition to cognitively being aware of that you pair it with a regulatory event that that promotes recovery like taking a walk after or like you know looking at a tree in the wind like it doesn't have to be major but you just have to get out of the vortex yeah I I love that idea of scheduling it yeah I even love the idea of scheduling worry that you know I did this um after the fires um because I had lost a good friend before that of one of my closest friends he just at 52 laid down and died of a heart attack and uh that happened two months before the palisades fire and I was in so much grief and uh somebody said make a date with grief yeah sit with grief and so every morning I would literally make a date and I would think about him I would think about the palisades I'd think about my childhood neighborhood that was completely gone and I sometimes I would put sappy music on and I would cry I would just cry and cry it felt and I looked forward to it and what I love about I'm going to start doing this with worry because what ended up happening for me is let's say later in the day my friend would come into my mind and I'd just be like oh you know I talk to him all the time I'm like TJ where why where did why did you have to go and then I would remind myself oh tomorrow morning I can I can sit and really think about him and it allowed me to move forward in the day knowing that I had a space holder for that emotion exactly it doesn't mean that you could only experience the big feelings like during those pockets but what it does right that sort of structures your time in a way that's very soothing so it's almost like giving your nervous system a break and a rest knowing something something consistent to go to to express yourself and yes you're going to feel sadness throughout the day but then you could still be a functional human and move through your life yeah without it really sort of um paralyzing you constantly yeah yeah yeah yeah what about you know what about in we have a worldwide audience um and you know unfortunately what's going on in the U.S. has now bled into all over the world but what about news I've been really surprised in my community and um how many people put the freaking news on in the background all day long and many of us wake up every morning we're like what's going to happen today is there any technique for this historic moment and how do we stay informed but don't get completely consumed by the news so we we've never so the human brain and the human system is meant to contain news from just our closest friends and family like we're yeah to live in these very very small pockets we've never been we've never had the ability to hear and know every little thing that's happening and have it sensationalized yes so honestly so true so much of the overload we feel and deal with every day and our inability to focus is coming from our news consumption and I'm just shocked by the amount of people who leave the tv on I can't I can't imagine I I would absolutely go insane if I did that I don't even look I can't even I have almost like PTSD when it even comes to the newspaper but we make a very concerted effort to buy peaker sources of news even knowing where it comes from and you know I think news consumption can be done but at a very very small amount and you have to be very very clear on your source highly vetted and I think what happens is when you always have news on or you're consuming content you're just continuing low-grade stress perpetually like you're just always going to be in fight or flight because your amygdala which is our our the center of our brain that's always processing stress and reacting is constantly scanning so words like attack crisis war like emergency yeah you're just constantly in this triggered state and you're in vigilance mode so even if you do take a walk or a break and you're still listening on your earpods to something like you are your cortisol is going to be consistently elevated and you are just going to be exhausted so I always recommend for sure never having tv on or news on all the time intentional news windows very short maybe once maybe twice a day max choose one trusted source one or two sources and make sure you're living in a world where there are news free cycles and you're not consuming stuff yeah and I like what you said um about maybe going back to some paper sources yeah uh my parents my mom my dad's 89 and my mom's 86 and they were over recently and we were I was reminiscing with them where the LA times would be on our breakfast table every morning and everybody would grab a section and we would eat and read and then we would go about our day and then at night when we gathered as a family we would talk about the current events in the in the morning that's how we got our news my parents were anti-tv we didn't really have tv on at all um and it was a really enjoyable enjoyable might be strong but a really helpful way to take in the current events and my mom told me that what she does now is she gets the sunday new york times and she's like I spend a whole week reading this she just gets the sunday and she spends the whole week reading it and that's how our brain can slow drip information and process it well without triggering our nervous system to constantly live in this fight or flight mode that's how it's meant to evolve we are not meant to you know I mean I know people who literally have the tv news on while scrolling news sites while also reading on their ipad like news what oh I'm just trying to get yeah different sources no you are literally overwhelming your nervous system you can't actually take this in yes either right and so everything just becomes so much bigger and so much sensationalized and then you find yourself snapping on people you love a little more easily and you wonder why yeah yeah it's so true because you're right at that edge you're just right like oh my god this is uh this is an emergency because other people's urgency and sensationalism becomes ours we take that in yes and now we're functioning in a world that literally feels like life or death even if it's not yeah so true you brought up you just brought up an interesting thing that I've been re-patterning and I'm curious if you've done some research on this is um other people's urgency you know one of the benefits of living here in Santa Cruz is it's a slow town and I saw a bum and everybody's got bumper stickers and I saw a bumper sticker the other day that's that said I'm not in your hurry yeah and I have used that as a mantra when I get texts when I get calls I used to feel like I needed to respond to everybody so quickly and I've just I continue to remind myself I'm not in your hurry if I don't get back to you for a week I don't get back to you for a week I'm no longer in anybody else's hurry well because we also we have highly social brains we have mirror neurons that want to mirror other people's and other people around us are stressed or anxious or whatever it is nervous system wants to synchronize with theirs like that's just evolutionary it's something we call emotional contagion and so that's that's just that's just right now on top of that modern communication has amplified this exponentially only are we just you know constantly carrying these signals like we always text like asap or rapid fire messages or escalate whatever it is we have 50 different ways of communicating in one second like and we have text we have like slack what's that like we have to just I mean after the fire all those group whatsapp texts like it's lovely like for our communities but yeah whoa right like so yeah yeah I was on a few of those it was like oh my god what's and then you go what's happening now what's happening now and it's yeah it's so overwhelming honestly one of the most important sort of modern skills is learning to separate someone else's activation from our own oh and how do you do that I mean their urgency doesn't equal you can do that you have to set boundaries you have to constantly be intentional you have to pause and really ask yourself is this my emergency is this urgent for me right or is this just their nervous system trying to like my nervous system trying to mirror theirs right yeah we have to set boundaries with your time and and and it's just it's it's it's and your emotional energy yeah have you done any research on uh and this is a you know really something i've spent a lot of time studying is ultra processed foods you know when we everything is fast now so we want our food to be fast we want uh dopamine hits from our food just like we want dopamine hits from our phone um and one of the things that we know about ultra processed foods that a lot of them have monosodium glutamate in it and glutamate is is an agitator and i've often wondered like in this day and age i'm like how are people even functioning if they're eating horrible food they're the news is on all day they're on their phone they're doing all the things we're talking about like how can they even function as a human they can't so if yeah they can and then they reach for all these hacks right and they they wonder nothing's working right and right like oh my to-do list like i had do the sauna i do the red light i drink green juices but i don't know why like i'm not really you know i just have this like my life is broken yeah they're not so i talk about all the foundational skills in my book a lot right i think we miss that right i already when we when we talk about mental health we have to go back to the fundamentals proper nutrition proper sleep routines and hygiene like the base for human function i mean i have um a friend who's uh who does a lot of neuropsych assessments for children and i can't even tell you how many parents come in there with adhd children who are symptomatic this is not to say that adhd or neurodivergence doesn't exist it's a very real thing etc but what i what my point here is that so many of these cases are just undernourished dehydrated kids the minute they elevate their hydration levels they're getting enough water and they're actually eating properly so many of their symptoms that they thought were adhd dissipate that's not to say most adhd is just a food thing but right food sleep hydration you guys this is critical regulates our blood sugar or information like we cannot function in this state and when we do eat ultra processed foods our blood sugar is constantly swinging which just stops our attention and then all of a sudden we're like why are we so irritable and why why do we have brain fog and then not to mention the gut brain connection that i'm sure i mean you know so much about but it's like when we just regulate that microbiome that's now we're finding in the research that like 90 of our serotonin is built in there right and comes from there so our food and focus is regulated so much by what's produced in our gut yes and so when we're eating all the processed food and all these high sugars and whatever we're just disrupting all of that and so of course we're more reactive to stress yeah so if if you're listening you know as people are listening to this they're like oh wow here's why my anxiety is through the roof here's why i can't sleep i mean sleeping is a really big one for my community um can we create some kind of checklist you talked about the foundational ideas like where where do you move from the awareness that we have given people today to actually starting yeah to re-pattern your life yes that's a great question and i talk a lot about this in the book like actual what do we do with this i think the first thing we have to do before we focus even on sleep or anything else is we have to stabilize our nervous system and that requires little things because your body right now isn't a threat response most likely daily movement um time outside in sunlight like various it doesn't have to be long small increments but consistency is what matters slow breath breaths like breathing out longer than breathing in occasionally and amplify your social connection most people will be struggling right now are very much alone and they're lonely but they're only creating that world for themselves and don't totally realize it right so we try to actively reach out to your social connections and amplify those and you you move towards sleep right because we need to really protect our sleep very aggressively yeah that's how like morning sunlight exposure is critical try not to grab the minute you wake up because our brain wakes up kind of like wet cement and it takes 45 minutes to settle we don't want to wake up in someone else's life right or someone else's avoid you know you know avoid the news or screams late at night you need consistent sleep and wake times help a lot with your rhythms um and then you know then you move so once you've had your sleep handle the constant input you take your ear pods out when you're on a walk and actually you're the bird when you try to doom scroll you drive home and you're actually where you're going versus on autopilot and you're not listening to music or an auto book that's and you sort of let your brain wander right like you're giving yourself a space to reboot to recover um and then i yeah i think you mentioned stabilizing your blood sugar like staying away from ultra processed foods i think that's really important eating protein early in the day will help with your focus um if you're going to eat carbs with fat like healthy fats um i think we have really glamorized like windows of not eating and giving whatever like i i think for focus in your nervous system and your mental health it's really important that we avoid really long periods without eating food is fuel and so you know needs steady fuel for attention um and i think that's where you start the right fuel the right fuel and what i want to just point out about what you just said is that's not hard it doesn't cost a lot of money i mean this is the thing there's no money it costs you nothing nothing yeah right it's like you do not have to spend money this is there's a billion dollar industry that is that is created to try to give us these like magical tools to be human again that's that's not real it doesn't exist if they make up for the people pitching them to us oh i used to be i used to be heavy in the biohacking world and then one one day it like hit me and i was like what are we doing like why would you buy a red light bulb or machine if you could just go out to the sunrise and sunset like it's already there yeah um and you know i just start seeing that you could do everything that you're trying to spend all this money on you could actually do on your own you yeah and like great red light sure get a red light if you want like do whatever but if you're not doing the basics if you're not prioritizing the four things safety sleep stable fuel and recovery basic recovery none of it is going to matter none of the other stuff is going to make any impact whatsoever you're you're literally putting money down right like it doesn't it just won't work yep and though i love this i yeah i i taught i i'm like now on all my youtube videos i'm literally talking people out of supplements i'm talking them out of products i'm just like and stop it stop it let's and same kind of thing let's go back to the basics people are going to keep giving you what i call shiny object syndrome they're just going to give you a little shiny object that you're going to go up i want that and then you're going to think it's going to save you and you didn't even realize that the only person saving you is you and it starts with a really basic routine like what you just mentioned right and it starts with prioritizing your nervous system but not in isolation and it's not to say some supplements don't work really well or teas or whatever it is like that yeah that's great but stop looking for that one quick fix that magical potion like that doesn't exist you have to create a life that is supportive of of of you and that is really basic and doesn't cost much yeah so so well said how do people find you and your book i think when i saw your i actually found you before i saw that you had a book coming out and when i when i saw the title of the book i was like that's brilliant thank god somebody wrote that book oh thank you yeah i know finding focus is found you know anywhere books are sold and then um i have a vibrant community on instagram dr dr dot zelana and um i have a subscription as well where you know for just like the cost of a coffee or something a month but you get more access to you get tools you get resources you get lives um i just wanted to give people more you know um and so yeah that's that's how you can find me and then and then my website as well has different tons of free resources um that digs deeper into all of this well i'll tell you when i'm scrolling through my instagram and i come to your posts what it does because you're so poetic and your words i have to think about them for a moment and like really sit and marinate on on them they make me stop scrolling and i sit there with your posts and then they're all carousels right most of them or many of them are so there's even like i can't whittle it yeah no but it's beautiful i've sent so many of them to friends i've told so many people you gotta go follow this woman like she's on to a frequency that we're not seeing coming out of other creators so i just i really appreciate what you're doing and um i'm sending you so much um you know happiness for rebuilding your your house and your family and the palisades and cheering you on and thank you so much for joining me today thank you mindy thank you for your important critical work i mean what you do is is is necessary and and you do it with such grace and i think you know we both want to speak in the truths that are you know plating us in this time and things that might talk about that's so important and so necessary so i love your voice as well and i'm just grateful for your support yeah thank you