 l- grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grandshe grands give you a little bit of a background on where I've come with my understanding about toxins. My clinic was a lifestyle medicine clinic. I rolled up my sleeves and taught lifestyle to all of my patients. I took them to the store. I showed them how to read labels. We had, I'll never forget this one time, I took all these toxins, like toxic beauty products, and I hung them from the ceiling so people could see, they could find their toxic deodorant or their toxic shampoo. So I was always working on educating. And I really came across the understanding that you can eat right, you can move right, you can think right, but if your toxic load is high, every aspect of your health will fall apart. And the big reason for that is because toxins will start to block receptor sites. Now think about this for a second, a cell, if I blew up a cell, you have 72 trillion cells. On the outside of that cell are these little openings that let the good things into the cell to activate the cell. So the cell will do what it's, it'll fulfill its mission, its biological mission. So some of the things that try to get into the cell, vitamin D is a really interesting one. So I don't know about you all. But a lot of people that I saw my clinic, I've seen it online as well, they're trying to raise their vitamin D, trying to raise their vitamin D, and they cannot raise their vitamin D. Put in the comments if that's you. Well, a lot of times what I found with those patients was that they had a high toxic load. So there were toxins blocking those receptor sites. So the vitamin D couldn't get into the cell to activate it. This is my major concern with hormone replacement therapy right now, is that if you are putting a hormone, an exogenous hormone into your body, it still has to get into the cell. And if we're eating a horribly processed diet, if we're lathering ourselves with endocrine disrupting chemicals, these are units of molecular structure that will block those receptor sites. So it messes up your whole system. Second thing that toxins will do outside of not allowing the good things to come into the cells, is that they will block the end of your neurons. So stick with me here for a moment. You have one neuron that's sending information, neurons are in your brain, they're also in your heart, sending information across to the other neuron in your brain. And there's a little piece, they call it the synaptic gap, that's in between these dendrites of the end of the neuron. These neurons also have receptor sites. So we saw a lot of this in my clinic that heavy metals like lead and mercury and aluminum, they would block the receptor sites that were on the ends of these dendrites of your neurons and make it so that you couldn't get information from neuron to neuron. If you think about what Alzheimer's is, it's when these neurons, they call them tau proteins, they become so toxified, they have so much glucose in them that they shrivel up and degenerate. So when our body doesn't know what to do with the toxin, it starts storing it in really interesting places. And when it stores these toxins, all of a sudden you can affect how your brain functions, you can affect the good nutrients trying to get into your cell. I've taught you all here that the more toxic load you have, the more your body will store that as fat. So anybody trying to lose weight, please listen to this new science that I'm bringing you today. Because when the body doesn't know what to do with a toxin, it'll store it in these places that start to affect your moods, your cravings, your immune system, your hormonal landscape, it affects everything in your body. So in my clinic, what I would do is I would we go through these extensive detox protocols, I would spend six months to a year detoxing people. And it was crazy because all of a sudden they drop weight, all of a sudden they'd start to their mood would improve, their memory would improve, their immune system would go up. It was like, it was like magic. It was so unbelievable. So when I read to you this new study that came out in the frontiers of aging about one specific chemical, I want you to understand that the name of the detox game is we need to bring down our toxic load because the more our body stores these toxins, the more we move away from our natural healing state. So just I want to set that and preface that. So here's what the study said. The study was in the frontiers of aging and it looked at the health effects of what we call PFAS. It is pearl fluoroalkali substances and we call them in the detox world forever chemicals. And what we mean by that is it forever chemicals never leave the environment. They, this is why they're so harmful to the environment. They never leave the environment. And if they don't leave the environment very well, they don't leave your body very well. We don't have any specific measurement of the half-life of these PFAS, which is how long it takes to get out of your system. I just want you to know they stick around for a really long time, which is why you want to avoid them. So here's what we have found through this, this new study in frontiers of aging. They found that PFAS affect aging. They actually accelerate aging. So they measured PFAS levels in 326 US adults over the age of 50. And they assigned each participant a biological age that by measuring changes in our, in their DNA. So you have a chronological age. That's the age you know yourself as that's the age that you were born with. And you, what we're now seeing in the longevity movement is that your biological age is how old your body appears to be based on markers that they can find in your DNA. Now, and, and specifically in the way your DNA, which is your genetic material, the way that it mutates and changes. So let me give you an example. If you're a 55 year old, um, but you smoke a pack a day and you've never exercised in you, in your life, you might have a biological age of 75, even though your chronological age is 55 because of your health habits and how they are mutating your genetic expression. You are aging faster than your, than your chronological age. Now, if you take amazing care of yourself, you exercise, you fast, you're watching your blood sugar, you're eating a healthy diet, you might be 55 and have a biological age of 40. So when we look at aging, what's really important is that we start to look at biological age more than chronological age. I can tell you that my chronological age is 56 years old, but I, my biological age, I used to say for years felt like I was 25. I think lately I've been feeling a little more like my early forties, but I've never felt my age. Uh, I S I've spoken a lot to you all about my parents. My parents have, um, are 89 and 86. And for years I would ask them, how old do you feel that you are? And they were like, we feel like we're in our sixties. So I do think there's also a feeling state that you can have. I think when we're looking at functionality, we need to think more about our biological age. Now, here's what they found is that there is a very, very strong relationship between your PFA exposure and how fast you age. So this is what the authors of the study came out and said is that people with more forever chemicals in their system were aging rapidly as if so much so it was that they were becoming older. They were exhibiting genetic profile. They were looking at other biomarkers, um, and that they were older than their actual age. So what does that mean? It means that these synthetic chemicals, so let's go back to this, to the cell, you have the receptor sites on the outside, the chemicals block the nutrients and the hormones and all the good stuff from coming in, but they also can affect toxins getting out of your cells. And when toxins stay inside the cell, there is a nucleus of the cell where all the genetic profile, uh, all your genetic material lives. And if you have a cell that has all these toxins inside of it, eventually it will start to infiltrate into your DNA and change your genetic expression. Sometimes it can trigger things like cancer or thyroid problems. How many of you watched my video on glyphosate that I did? That's my biggest complaint about glyphosate is we know it can trigger cancer genes. I saw in my clinic glyphosate levels absolutely destroy somebody's thyroid and, and many times it was more of a Hashimoto's thyroid because there was a genetic predisposition for Hashimoto's. So we want to avoid these chemicals and I'm going to give you three ways that you can go about avoiding these chemicals. And these three ways I want you to really seriously think about. Um, some of the things I'm going to tell you, I feel like you should leave this, this video and you should go and throw away immediately. So let's start with number one. Number one is ditch the non-stick cookware. Okay. How many of you are still in love with your non-stick cookware and no judgment here? Just love my, love my Teflon pan. Go ahead, put it in the comments. And how many of you have already made this change that just, I'm just curious. So a non-stick cookware is this cookware that you don't need to use butter, you don't need to use oil. It was like this fancy cool thing that you could actually start to, um, you could cook without adding extra oil. Now I want to remind you that those, the non-stick cookware became very popular, um, back in the time that we were going low fat. So people didn't want to put all this fat on their, on their cookware. So they came up with this non-stick cookware. Well, what that smooth coating on the outside is made up of is forever chemicals. So Teflon is extremely, extremely toxic. And the government banned it in 2013 after it leached into groundwater and caused cancer, hormone problems and birth, birth defects. But it made a resurgence and modern Teflon uses a new type of, uh, PFA, not any better, but they found a workaround and the manufacturer claims it's safe, but they said that about the old Teflon as well. So non-stick cookware can flake into your food. You are literally heating up a chemical and that chemical can go into your food. If you have any of the, of on your cookware, you have any scratches in it, get rid of it. So the first thing you want to do is get rid of your non-stick cookware. That is the biggest source of these forever chemicals. Okay. Second thing I want you to think about, and I've said this over and over again, and I'll just keep reminding you, eat fewer packaged, processed foods. So you know, the potato chips, even your healthy potato chips, maybe your Jackson owned sweet potato chip with, with avocado oil or coconut oil, like the ones I eat, they still are in a bag, a plastic crinkly bag. And that coating that's on the inside of the packaging of our food or in the inside linings of your cans. I really try to do glass a lot. They can leach these PFAs into these packaged foods. And so you're, you're eating it. I'll tell you another place I've thought a lot about this is how many of us take those little pods and they have plastic on the outside and then you put it into your dishwasher. Well, and then it dissolves. What's in that thing? Have you ever asked yourself that? Like what's in there? It's something, I don't know if it's PFAs in that particular thing, but I know that there's BPA plastics in there. It heats up and now it's going on to all of your plates. So we want to make sure that we are doing less processed foods that are in packaging. A workaround that I like for this one, this is why I go to the farmer's market. I'm a huge fan of farmer's market. If you, buying your food there, you get to know your farmer, you get to understand their practices. And most of them don't come in some kind of packaging. So you're just going to take your fruits and vegetables. We put ours in a cloth bag and leave with that. Okay. Third way that you can get rid of these PFAs. And this one is really interesting. So the third way is donate blood. So there was this interesting story that I found that firefighters are exposed to high levels of PFAs because that foam that they spray on fires is some of the highest levels of PFAs have been found in there. So there was a 22 study in the Journal of American Medicine that found a great solution for firefighters. And it was to donate blood on a regular basis. What they found in this firefighter study was that when firefighters donated blood or plasma, we'll talk about the difference here, every six weeks for a year, the blood donors saw a 10% decrease in PFA levels after only eight donations. So this is a really, really fascinating thing to think about. Some of you have heard me talk about, or maybe followed me on socials. I have been experimenting with a new detox called therapeutic plasma exchange. And I'm doing it in conjunction with a integrative health center called Next Health. And I just want to, I'm always wanting to see what it feels like on me first before I go and, and bring it to you. And it's been really incredible. We've done pre and post toxic tests. This plasma exchange absolutely takes the toxic load down, but it doesn't keep it down. So I'm still, I'm still in an evaluation phase, but it's a $10,000 treatment. This is not accessible to most people, but donating blood is accessible to most people. And if you donate blood once a month for eight months, you can decrease your PFA level by 10%. The other thing they did in this firefighter study is that they donated the plasma donors that, or they had them dominate plasma. Very different than just blood. Plasma is a little trickier to donate. It's, you don't just typically walk into your red cross and donate plasma. But what was interesting is that the plasma donors, after eight donations, they saw a 30% decrease in PFAs. So if you're trying to bring that load down and you don't want to spend $10,000 on therapeutic plasma exchange, donating blood and building that into your regular lifestyle to bring your toxic load down, personally, I think that is a really interesting free option. And some people, we might even get plasma donation. I think they actually don't want to pay you. And think about it, you're pulling out that toxicity and then your blood is replenishing itself. So as we're here on YouTube, really working on dialing in your lifestyle, I think it would be very interesting to bring donating blood into a healthy lifestyle. So just bringing that forward to you. I really want to point out that this is not a joke. Like we are living in the most toxic time in human history. And so many of you are frustrated because you can't lose weight and your memories off and your moods off and you can't sleep. And you're being told, oh, maybe you just need another, you got the wrong doctor or the wrong hormone replacement therapy, or maybe it's food dyes, or maybe you didn't get out into the sun, like whatever your algorithm on your newsfeed is showing you. And I want to keep being that voice of reason for you to give you a more holistic point of view. And here is what you need to know about toxins. First, everybody is born with a different toxic bucket size. So your bucket size of how many toxins you can handle comes from your genetics. This is why you can have a family in a moldy house and two of the members are completely symptomatic and two of the members don't feel anything. So this is why it's very difficult to figure out if, and I'm not to create a controversial statement, but I'm going to say it because it's a good example is this is why we will never be able to say vaccines cause autism because it depends on your toxic bucket size and your toxic bucket size is determined by your genetics. So that's the first thing I want you to know. Second thing I want you to know is that you come into this world with a toxic load already. So if your mom, you know, had a lot of exposure to toxins and your grandmother or your mom has a lot of autoimmune problems, a lot of thyroid problems. If she had cancer, all of that can be indicators of toxic, the toxins in her body got too big and a part of her toxic load goes into you. So we all are born with a different bucket size and we all are born with a different toxic bucket load. And then we create our own load as we get more and more exposure to toxins. So the most important thing you can do in when it comes to detoxing is stop toxifying yourself before you spend money on a fancy supplement or a big treatment like therapeutic plasma exchange. Look at your environment and say, you know, have I moved from plastics to glass? Have I gotten rid of my Teflon pans and I'm using like we use cast iron in ours, but don't get the coated cast iron because that's the PFAs. You want it non, you don't, you want it without the, the, the coating on it. Have you looked at your beauty products? Like take a toxic inventory first before you go off to buy some fancy, some fancy supplement or treatment. Also look at your siblings, look at your mother. What are the conditions they have? If there's cancer, if there's autoimmune problems, if there's weight loss resistance, if there's thyroid problems, it's a good chance that there is a toxic thread that's going through your family line. I used to sit with patients and say, tell me about your sister and brother's health. Tell me about your children's health. Tell me about your mother's health. Because it's mostly the mother that determines this because you cook, you grow inside her womb. So there's a lot to this conversation. But what I really want those of you to know who are so committed to your fasting lifestyle is that sometimes it's very difficult to get over into this fat burning place that I've been teaching you about into this, this, this, this metabolism that's going to give you energy and give you ketones and brighten your, your, your brain and help you lose weight. Sometimes that switch is, it won't happen because of toxins. So those of you are like, I can't make ketones. I can't lose weight. I'm doing whatever I pop everything you say. I want you to really think about your toxic load. So that's, that's, that's a key concept that is really hard to explain. I can tell you in my Reset Academy, I have one of my top health coaches, her name is Paige. She, she and I used to detox, I mean hundreds of people virtually, and she's put together a course over there. So join our academy if you want or need that information. But what I don't want you all to do, and I really want you to understand this is why I'm sitting here over and over and over again saying you are built brilliantly. You are meant to lose weight. You, your mood is meant to be high. Your memory is meant to be on point until the day you die. And one of the things that we know is the more the toxins fill up in our body, the more we move away from our own healing perfection. So don't blame yourself. Start looking at the environment that you're living in because it's the most toxic one that we have ever seen for humans. If you liked this video, you're definitely going to want to check out the next one.