ambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambambamb only become obese but are now affecting our brain from a cognitive level and also these foods have hijacked our taste buds and have us food addicted. On this video, I want to talk about a current meta-analysis. It's a 2024 meta-analysis where they looked at the connection between diet and dementia and the findings will rock you. I want to talk about what ultra-processed foods are leading to dementia and I want to talk about what you can replace them with. But first, let's talk about what's happening with ultra-processed foods and dementia. So let's dive in. This, by the way, is one of those videos you're going to want to send to maybe an elderly parent that has dementia or somebody who is worried about dementia. Send this video out. I can tell you right now, Dad, if you're listening to this video, yes, we are sending you to this video because we need you to hear this. Ready? Okay. So here we go. Here's what the 2024 meta-analysis said is that for every 10% increase in an ultra-processed food, the risk of dementia went up by 14%. So for every increase in potato chips, and I'm going to go through these in a moment, in soda, in white bread, hot dogs, for every 10% increase of your diet in these toxic foods, you have a 14% increase of getting dementia. Now, let's break this down. So this is really good. I love so you can see this. If that, if you eat the standard diet of 2,000 calories a day, just 400 of those calories coming from processed foods. So that is about a slice and a half of pizza, and you would increase your risk of dementia by 28% from one slice and a half of pizza. Every single day, you increase your chance of dementia by 28%. Now, it's not just pizza. It's potato chips. It is these highly processed, chemicalized hot dogs. It is white bread. It is cereal, Dad. It's cereal. The cereal you're having for breakfast. The cereal with the orange juice for breakfast that we think is healthy is causing dementia. So we have to... Oh, this is another one. Another one. Things like our salad dressings and ketchups. These are ultra-processed foods that have so many chemicals in it, have so much sugar in it that it is literally affecting our cognitive brain. So, and by a large amount, 28%, if just 400 of your calories every day comes from this crap, that affects how you think. There is no worthy exchange. There is no delight in a potato chip that would allow me to lose my cognitive abilities by 28%. Here's another thing, a way of looking at this, is that the authors of this meta-analysis, they estimated that for every 50 grams of processed foods, if you replace with unprocessed foods, you would reduce your risk of dementia by 3%. So 50 grams, by the way, is an apple. It's also 20 cashews, or it's one egg. So let's say, like some of you might be surprised to see that we have a juice, naked juice in here, because a lot of these juices have a lot, or packed with sugar, processed pasteurized orange juice, and they just spike your blood sugar. So if you were to replace this every day, and maybe you do an egg, or maybe you take your breakfast sausage that has nitrites in it, and you replace that with an egg. Maybe you take your juice, and instead of drinking the juice, you actually have the actual fruit itself. Then, now, you have lowered your chances of dementia by 3%. I cannot emphasize this enough. I know these might be your favorite food, but they are causing cognitive decline, and they are causing obesity, and this has to stop. So here's the thing. I always say that this may not be your fault, but it is your responsibility. So what do we do about it? Well, the first thing we know, by the way, is that these foods increase your blood pressure. And when blood pressure goes up, yes, we can increase cognitive decline. So, yes, you go on a blood pressure medication, but that doesn't help the systemic inflammation that's happening from these toxic foods. And that systemic inflammation, that inflammation on your brain, actually is one of those things that causes these tau protein tangles that affect Alzheimer's. So the first step is get this out of your house. I'm sorry to swear, but I'm mad, and I know my dad's listening right now, and I know he's listening and he's laughing at the same time, but, Dad, I'm talking to you. So let's get this out. Let's get the Cokes out, the Coke Zero, the Diet Cokes, also chemical laden. Let's get them out so we can get cognitive health back to you and your loved ones. Then let's load up our diet with things like lots of vegetables. They're full of fiber. Fiber will help make sure that your glucose doesn't get too high. So think lots of fiber. Let's think lots of healthy fats. So this is your olive oils and your avocado oils and your grass-fed butter. I know for somebody who's been using margarine, which also is an ultra-processed food, it's maybe a far cry to go into grass-fed butter. But we've got to look at going back to the real, authentic food. Get out of your grocery store. Go to your farmer's market. The grocery store is where the more mainstream grocery stores is where all of this crap lives. So we also know, check this out, I'm such a fan of the keto diet. And I know the keto diet has kind of come and gone, and there's been some people who say, well, you know, I want my carbs. Have nature's carbs. The keto diet is a healing diet. It will help you lose weight. It will help you lose body fat. It will bring your blood sugar down, and it will help dementia. So if you don't believe me, let me tell you a beautiful study. A 2022 study found that the keto diet reduced brain inflammation and lowered the risk of neurodegenerative disease in aging people with the signs of early dementia. There was a study that was done before that. A 2016 study found that ketones. So remember, when you go into this keto diet, you're actually switching over into another fuel source. You're switching over into your fat burning fuel source. And when you sit over there, or you hang out over there, and you make ketones, that these ketones actually act as an alternative fuel for your aging brain cells. So this is something, especially for the women listening. As you age, when you go through menopause, this brain inside your skull is less receptive to glucose. So the diet that you ate at 40 and 30 is affecting your brain incredibly different in your 50s, 60s, 70s, and 80s, because your menopausal brain isn't as receptive to glucose. Go listen to the beautiful podcast interview I did with Lisa Moscone. She's the number one female brain expert. It's on the Resetter podcast. We'll leave it as a link in here. And she talks specifically about how we become less sensitive to glucose. So we have to, as we age, we have to rely on ketones. And you're not getting any ketones when you eat this ultra-processed foods. So the best way to get ketones is to build a fasting lifestyle. And I've explained this in this study is that it talks a lot about how brain cells, as they age, they don't know what to do with glucose, but they do know what to do with ketones. So if we take an elderly person, let me give you something you can actually do and put into action right now. After this video, tomorrow, when you wake up, here's what you're going to do. You're not going to eat first thing in the morning. You're going to push back your breakfast about an hour. It may be hard, but in that metabolic switch, what you're doing is that you're asking your body to go over and start to make ketones. Burn fat and make ketones. That's a really beautiful fuel source for your brain. Then when you eat your breakfast, you're not eating cereal and you're not drinking orange juice and you're not eating oatmeal. You're not eating these highly processed foods. Have some scrambled eggs. Have some bacon without all the chemicals in them, like a night tart, trite free bacon. And have a protein shake without juice in it. Like maybe you have it with raw kefir or maybe you even have it with, you know, some kind of plant-based milk that's not ultra processed. So you're going to have a good breakfast an hour afterwards. And then throughout your day, you're going to focus on two foods specifically. Lots of vegetables because they have all kinds of fiber. If you get a sweet tooth, you could maybe throw in some fruit and protein. You're going to eat tons of protein and you're going to put the bread, the crackers, you're going to get off the Cokes, even the diet Cokes and the Coke Zero. And you're going to put those away. And you're going to eat mostly protein, vegetables, and a little bit of fruit. And that's what you're going to eat for the day. And what I would like you to challenge you on is that you do that every day. Just push your breakfast back. And you do that every single day for a week. And then see how this works. See how this changes. Now, I also want to say that one of the most dangerous times for this kind of stuff isn't just breakfast. It's often at night. So what you eat, it's your brain is actually healing when you sleep. So remember, it'll detoxify itself. So if you're eating a bunch of these ultra-processed foods before you go to bed, a lot of people are just mindlessly eating as they're watching TV. Now you go to bed and your brain is trying to clean up the mess that you created in that last meal. If you wake up in the morning and you're hungry and pushing your breakfast back in hours really hard, then know that you've got to work with not eating these at night as well. So when we start to create this fasting lifestyle, we pull the ultra-processed foods out. In the beginning, it can be hard. I know. But you know what's harder? It's dementia. It's cognitive decline. Now, you might not notice it depending on how far along you are. You go, but your loved ones care. So this stuff was made to keep you addicted to it. It is not food even though it's in the grocery store. It is a toxin. So when you pick this up, I want you to say to yourself, I am toxifying myself. And then look at what nature provided. Nature provided us animal meat. Nature provided us lots of plant-based foods that are high in protein. Let's go back to real food and attach some short fasting windows like 12, 13 hours onto that. And now you are in the ballpark of creating a healthy brain. So this is really important because we have a tendency to think that food doesn't affect our mind, but it does. And I hope this video shows you. If you're like, well, I don't know what food to eat. I've got for my gals out there, I've got a book coming to you. Eat Like a Girl is a companion manual for Fast Like a Girl. The two together will show you how to eat to not only burn fat and balance hormones, but to overcome dementia. Eat Like a Girl is out for pre-order and depending on when you're watching this and Fast Like a Girl is out available. But this stuff is killing us. And it is killing the neurons in your brain. And it matters not only to you. And this is what I really want to say about dementia is that it matters not only to you, but it matters to the people that love you. So getting over the addiction of this takes a little bit of time, but I promise you as your brain comes back online, you will get momentum. And when you have momentum with your health, these changes become easier and easier and easier. So pass this on to anybody you know that has dementia. I apologize for swearing, but I'm really passionate about this because I'm really tired of big food, creating all these health problems in our culture. And then big pharma coming in behind it and trying to create solutions for the chronic diseases. And as you heard in here, Dad, I love you. And I want your brain to be the brain that I know it can be. And it matters to all of us. So with that in mind, please pass this on. If you have someone you love that you know can benefit from this video, please pass it on to them. On this video, we're going to talk about your brain and specifically the three worst foods that you can eat for this miraculous organ that serves you in so many ways. So let's dive into these three because there's some interesting research I want to show you and I want to give you some alternatives. So I'm not just here to give you the doomsday. I'm also here to give you some of the solutions. So ready? Here we go. Let's dive in. So first, I just want to help you remember that each organ has a primary job. So like when I've done videos for you all on the liver, the liver has a primary job of detox. It also has a primary job of metabolically switching you from sugar burner to fat burner. Your brain's primary job is to not only keep you alive, but to carry information through what we call a set of neurons. So think of your brain like an informational highway. So just like when you get any of you live in a big city and you get on the highway and there's, you know, you've seen those overpasses where like one crosses over the next one and there's like tons of traffic going in a lot of different directions. That's what's going on in your brain all day long. And if there any of these highways are congested or any of these highways are blocked and you can't get information across, then your brain won't function well. And these three foods are what stop these highways from being able to be accessible to information. Now when we talk about brain health, to me there are four stages of brain health or where your brain will go if you're not careful. The first is where a lot of us live, which is, wait, we just want to keep our brains alert and working well. I know for me as I age, the brain has become the most important organ in my body. So put it, if that's you, put it in the comments because I don't think I'm alone on that. Like I want to be able to hold on to information. I want to be able to have the neurotransmitters that keep me happy and thinking right. Like that's why I do everything possible to keep my brain healthy and I avoid these things I'm about to tell you. Then there's cognitive decline. And cognitive decline can look like you walk into a room, you don't really know where your keys are at. You're in the middle of a sentence and you don't know what you were talking about. Cognitive decline, there's a lot in there. Many menopausal women have temporary cognitive decline. But it's that moment where you're just not remembering things the way you used to. And then there's full blooded dementia and Alzheimer's where the memory is completely going away. When we look at those stages of your brain, what we have to say is that what progresses you along those stages is chronic inflammation. The more your brain stays inflamed, the more you will progress along that path. And there are three major foods that you're going to want to avoid so that chronic inflammation doesn't destroy these neuronal highways. So food group number one, ultra processed foods. So there is, I hope, hope, hope, hope, hope you're getting this message right now. It's not just coming from me. I see a lot of people in the health space really crying out loud like stop toxifying us with these ultra processed foods. And we can only at this point vote with our dollars and stay away from these foods. So if you're not clear what an ultra processed food is, it's all your fast foods. It's anytime you're in that drive through going into a fast food restaurant, that's ultra processed foods. It is potato chips, it is soft drinks, it's deep fried processed meals or any of the processed meats like that show. Look on the ingredient label, it says nitrites on it. All of that is processed, highly processed. Bottled condiments, this is the mustard and the ketchup that has tons of sugar in it and is highly processed. Desserts, if you want better brain health, skip dessert unless you're doing one from my new cookbook. Eat like a girl, there's some really healthy desserts in there. So desserts, prepackaged bread and breakfast cereals. All of these are what we consider ultra processed foods and for every 10% increase in calories from ultra processed foods, your dementia risk goes up by 14%. Okay, let me put this into a daily formula for you. On a day when which you have 2000 calories, just 400 of those coming from fast food, potato chips, soft drinks, deep fried, bottled condiments. If only 400 of those calories come from processed foods, that would equal by the way, 400 calories is a slice of pizza, slice and a half of pizza. That would increase your risk of dementia by 28%. So if every single day you are eating 400 calories from processed, these ultra processed foods, you are increasing dementia by 28%. That is why this is number one, please get off this. Get off these foods. They are destroying you and they have hijacked your taste buds. Now, this study that found this increase in ultra processed foods contributing to dementia also found that if you can lower dementia by taking 50 grams of processed foods and replacing them with unprocessed foods. So if all you did, let's say you ate 100 grams of food that day or 150 grams, if you took 50 of those ultra processed grams of food out and replaced them with healthy food, you would lower your risk of dementia by 3%. Now, what if you just take all the ultra processed foods out, what would happen in your risks of dementia? The author of this study actually went on, which this is really fascinating to me, and said that one of the challenges with ultra processed foods is that because it is so inflammatory, it's like every time you're eating that bowl of cereal or you're drinking that soda, the body's like, no, here it comes. I don't know what to do with this. This is toxic. And so it creates this immune response of inflammation to try to create some blocking out of those toxins. And that chronic inflammation increases blood pressure. And the more your blood pressure goes up, the more your risk for cognitive decline goes up. And they even have gone on, this author went on to say that when we have chronic inflammation in our brain from all these foods, that you are actually creating these tau proteins that contribute to Alzheimer's. I can't say this enough. I wish the food industries were listening to this video because take it out of the supermarkets for God's sake. Like we can't just look at statistics like 50% of Americans are going to have non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and we've got a massive dementia and Alzheimer's problems. We can't look at those statistics and look away from what the food industry is doing to our bodies. Just because it's in your grocery store doesn't mean it's safe. So your responsibility is to know what these processed foods are. If you choose to eat them, just know those are the risks. And that would be my other piece to you. If you're like, I don't care, I just want to eat them, just know the risks then. And I think that then at least you've been informed. Okay, number two, after we look at ultra-processed foods, we then have to look at something else, another chemical that goes into our foods, which is aspartame. Now aspartame is really fascinating because aspartame is also known as NutraSweet and a few other things. It's not limited to that, but a lot of people know it as that. And aspartame is composed of two quality, or three ingredients really, but I'm going to highlight two. Phenylalanine makes up about 50% of it. And methanol makes up about 10%. The other is aspartic acid, but not necessarily important for the sake of this conversation. But here's what I want you to know about phenylalanine, which makes up 50% of aspartame. It destroys your neurotransmitter production. A 2007 study found that high doses of phenylalanine can disrupt production of dopamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine. Okay, dopamine. Dopamine. My God, protect your dopamine system. We have enough dopamine saturation between our phones, between the foods that are hijacking our taste buds and making us come back for more. Those are hijacking our dopamine system. You need to protect your dopamine. And aspartame has this phenylalanine in it that is going to lower your dopamine response to everything. So if you're feeling blue, you're feeling depressed, you're not excited anymore, get the diet drinks out. That diet drinks are not helping you with keeping you happy. Okay, second thing that I want to say that I thought was really fascinating about aspartame is that the methanol, the 10% methanol, it is not only a potent toxin that we should be aware of, but when it gets into your body, it metabolizes into formaldehyde. Now, if you're not familiar with formaldehyde, that's what they use to embalm dead bodies. So it's a preservative that it gets put in a dead body to keep it from decaying quickly. So it's also carcinogenic. And so when we are drinking aspartame, we're not only killing our dopamine system, but we are slowly freezing our body, like toxifying our body, and you're increasing your risk of cancer. Okay, then there was another study. I'm not done with aspartame. We're taking down aspartame on this video. But there was a 2014 study that showed that people who consumed either a placebo or the equivalent of several diet sodas of aspartame a day for eight days had a higher rate of depression, and they performed worse on memory and cognition tests. So let's just go back to like the typical daily lifestyle that, by the way, a lot of our younger women are eating. And we got to get this message out to the 20 year old women and the teenage year old girls, please, let's get this out. Because that ultra processed food is causing more cognitive decline and causing weight gain. And then we think, oh my God, I don't want to gain any more weight, so I better do some diet sodas. I better do some diet drinks that are packed with aspartame. And now that's creating depression because it's ruining our neurotransmitter system. And it's carcinogenic and increasing our chance of getting things like breast cancer and other hormonal cancers. So one little drink that you drink every single day is contributing to a massive chronic health problem. And you think you're doing it because you're trying to keep yourself thin. And what we're, I just want to go back and just point out that they didn't say how many, but several diet sodas. So I'm thinking several is like two or three for eight days had saw a higher rate of depression and worse on memory and cognitive decline. Okay. Last one. The third thing I want to talk about, and that is high mercury seafood. So this is one that I is near and dear to my heart because my clinic for over 15 years, we detoxified heavy metals out of people. It is, it's a, it's a passion of mine and per specifically lead and mercury. We detoxified all the time in my clinic and mercury doesn't go out of the system very easily. Mercury is increases anxiety. Mercury increases ADHD. So my menopausal women, they're having trouble focusing. Mercury really increases that, you know, inability to, to stay focused on one task. And in seafood, what is presumably a healthy, healthy food. If you're not careful, certain fish have higher levels of mercury and mercury is hard to get out of the system. So one of the ways I want you to look at fish is look at their size. Larger fish have more mercury, smaller fish, less mercury. So there actually is a really interesting acronym that I found that will help you remember which fish are okay so that you stay in the low mercury, high omega-3 fatty acids fish. These are the fish that you want to stay focused on and they all fall under an acronym called SMASH. Fun. I love this. So S stands for salmon. We love salmon. Make sure you get it wild, not farm fresh. M stands for mackerel. You get mackerel's of real fatty fish. So you're getting all those omega-3s which are great for hormonal production, great anti-inflammatory. A stands for anchovies. S stands for sardines. And H stands for herring. So that's SMASH. Now you're probably like, well I don't really like those fish. Well this is the moment that you either make a decision to not eat fish or you focus in on the SMASH fish. Because the SMASH fish are the ones that give you all those juicy nutrients. By the way, the herring, the mackerel, the anchovies also give you vitamin D. So start to get, it's like fermented foods. Like if you don't love them, eat them anyways because they're so powerful for your body. So when we're looking at this beautiful brain that you've been given and you're looking at nourishing it, I think we have to start with what not to put in. Ultra processed foods, aspartame, and high mercury fish are my three for you all. And then we can look at what we do add in. And I've done a lot of videos here for you on that. I have a great podcast. My team I'm sure will link down here that I did with Jim Quick who is a brain expert. And he went through 10 super foods. I have a lot of those super foods are in my new cookbook called Eat Like a Girl. But the most important thing coming out of a video like this is that you get off these processed foods. You get off the high mercury fish and you throw the diet sodas away. So again, I hope that helps. What I would love because we're a community here. I'd love for you to put in the comments like if you got off those, what did you notice about your cognition and your memory? So other people can learn. Because I understand those foods have you addicted to them. It's one of those things that if I could come into your house and change it out, you would probably be suffering for about a week. And then you'd be like, oh my God, my brain is working well. My energy is up and my joints don't ache and I'm losing weight. And all the things you're trying to do with your health would quickly happen in a very short period of time. But yeah, when you first switch off, it can be hard. But stick with it because the health comes quickly once you get off of them. Okay, YouTube, we are back with Chef Leslie. She is one of the amazing chefs that contributed to Eat Like a Girl. And when we went to go put this book together, we really looked at it through the lens of using food as medicine. And one of the things that we know about food is it can really make or break how you think. And so what you don't probably know is that I actually did a video last week, which is already out on YouTube, about the foods you should avoid that actually are causing your brain to degenerate quicker. Oh, I can't wait to watch that. Yeah, do you know what those foods were? Tell me. They really fall under the ultra processed foods. Yeah, that's what I would think. I would think like high sugar, high processed. Yeah. Which is really sad. And I hate to start this video off on like a downer. But literally, the foods that are in your supermarket that are what we call ultra processed. So highly refined flours, highly refined sugars with all of the bad oils, they are actually accelerating dementia and Alzheimer's rates right now, which are skyrocketing. And I'll give you a little behind the scenes just because I love showing up as my authentic self, that when we look at what trends and what people want to hear about on YouTube, dementia is quickly becoming the most popular topic. Wow. So put it in the comments if you're like, yes, please help me understand that. And then the other thing that I really want to be transparent about, and I mentioned it on the last video, is we're dealing with this subtle changes in my 88 year old father. So, and this is really near and dear to my heart. And he's a beautiful man. And if you're watching this dad, I love you. But I, we have also been really working with him to get the junk food out. Good. And the more he eats the junk food, the more we see changes in his brain. So. The more you take the junk food out, the more you see the changes. The bad. Oh no, the more we take it out, the better changes in his brain. Yeah. But the more he's left to his own devices. The worse it gets. Yeah. So it can be a matter of like a week where we're actually like, see a big difference. My sister and I, if we haven't been monitoring his food. Yeah. And it's like, he starts to forget where he is in a conversation and it's, it's hard. So if you have a loved one that's suffering with dementia, like I get you, like I'm there. I do as well. I've actually had two family members, um, suffer through it and both eventually pass away. Wow. And it is, is one of the hardest things to watch someone that you love go through. Yeah. Because it changes your connection to them. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. It's hard too, cause there's different kinds, but when you can look into their eyes and you see them and they don't know how to express themselves. It's just, it's, it's one of the most heartbreaking diseases out there. Yeah. Yeah. So with that in mind, let's talk about what we can add in and you, and we'll link the video where I talked about what you need to take out to improve and slow down dementia and even prevent it. This video, I wanted to go to what you add in. And what's interesting is I actually brought Jim quick. So those of you that know Jim quick, he's really considered one of the top experts on brain health. I brought him to the resetter podcast and we went through this whole process of the top 10 super foods. Amazing. Um, that help your brain. And one of them was what we're going to talk about today, which is walnuts. So, um, and you know, I don't know if you all know this, but I really do like that idea that when you look at a plant, like, like broccoli, even cauliflower, lion's mane, mushrooms, walnuts, what do they look like? They look like the brain and they all help the brain. Like, like nature did that? Yeah. Like I feel like nature's like, hello, I'm going to make this really easy for you. I'm going to make this thing look like the organ. It heals. Yes, I know. And it does that all over nature. Like all of the foods that are naturally red or all the ones that are really good for your blood. I mean, it's, they literally, nature just gave us the key to how to optimize our bodies. And we just have to open the door and let in that information. So cool. So with that in mind, I want to tell you some cool things about walnuts. And what I love the most about them is because they're high in fatty acids, this actually brings up a really interesting topic, which is we want to get a good ratio of omega-3, 6 and 9. So what on the last video on dementia, I talked a lot about how a lot of people who are eating these highly processed, highly inflammatory diets, they're actually bringing up the toxic omega-6s. Oh, interesting. So when they come in with an omega-3, so let's use my dad as an example. When he's left to his own devices, he eats these ultra processed foods. They bring up the omega-6. So in order to bring that 3, 6, 9 balance back, I need to get in more omega-3s. Oh, that's so interesting. So you need all three of them to be balanced at all times. That's right. So if one gets out of whack, that's when you get into a danger zone. That's right. Which is why, actually check this out, this is probably one of the most unknown pieces of advice that we just need to talk more about, which is if I'm not eating an ultra processed meal or diet, then supplementing with a fish oil that's high in omega-3 is actually throwing meat out of balance and actually creating an inflammatory response. I'm so glad that you're addressing this because I don't think this is something that a lot of people know and understand. Right. Is there anything on earth that contains all three omegas that would raise it together? Oh, we've got to figure that out. Yeah. I don't know the answer. I don't know the answer either. Oh my gosh. I'm going to figure that out, but I will tell you that is such a good question. So in case you don't know, Chef Leslie and I are on a quest to find how to use, well, she came up with this, 23,000 edible plants and how they support health. And then I'm bringing hormonal health to that. And then also just, you know, how do we look at food as medicine for God's sake? It is not to be dismissed. So we'll find the answer to that. We will. Okay. So here's what is especially interesting. And this is just straight from research is that one of the reasons they believe walnuts are so good for dementia is because it's neuroprotective. So I want to talk about neuroprotective for a moment. So when we are constantly bombarded with toxins, we have these neurons in our brain that are carrying information. And when the ultra processed foods, when a lot of the chemicals in our environment hit us or, or, you know, we all know, hopefully you know this, that Alzheimer's is considered diabetes of the brain. And then we're going to talk about the brain. What happens to those neurons is they start to shrivel up and degenerate. And now they can't carry information across. That's why dementia is like a stop of thought because there's no neurons connecting each other. So what walnuts do and their specific omega three profile is they really help to protect those neurons. So it could be a really good add in. If you have a loved one who's like my dad, who's not always going down the right nutritional path. Yeah. So we need to think of it as neuroprotective. The other thing is that it supports neurotransmitters. We could do a whole series on neurotransmitters because neurotransmitters, what they do is they're the chemicals that allow the thoughts to cross. So if dopamine, for example, is when you have a thought that makes you happy, dopamine get released and it goes through the neuronal highways and you're like, this is amazing. This is exciting. Well, walnuts will help you make serotonin, make dopamine so that you get that boost of enthusiasm, which might be why we're so happy. I was going to say, is that why when you're going to eat this, you're going to be so happy? You're going to be on like the highway of dopamine. It's really good. So with that in mind, with walnut as the dimension Alzheimer's hero, what Chef Leslie did and put in Eat Like a Girl was a walnut pate. So talk about this. Well, I love walnuts and I love cooking with walnuts because they are a great foundation and they're really easy to put in lots of different foods. And again, like Mindy is saying, they are a mega powerhouse of nutrition. And so this walnut pate recipe is just a fun dip. It's basically a lot of my favorite ingredients put together and then made into this kind of pate like mold. And so it's got walnuts in it. It's got sundried tomatoes in it. It's got mushrooms in it. Me too. That was, by the way, tomatoes was another one that Dr. Lee taught me is, they call it anti-angiogenesis, meaning it stops blood supply to tumors. Which is so incredible. So, I mean, I know there's a video on dementia and Alzheimer's, but with sun-dried tomatoes, you really are upping those qualities that stop tumor growth. That's amazing. So cool. That's amazing. Okay. What else is happening? Okay. It also, if we go to the recipe, it's got shallots in it. It's got a little bit of tamari, which is a gluten-free soy sauce, but it's a pretty simple recipe. And then we're just serving it with some seed crackers. So I'm dying for you to try that. Okay. Okay. So here you go. I wish you could try it. They will try it. Get the book and you'll try it. I feel like you need to eat with me. Okay. I'll eat with you. What do you think? Oh my God. Oh my God. Okay. Let's talk about pate. So I'm sorry if you're plant-based. We just have to point out that liver pate is usually what everybody goes to. I don't really love liver. So I don't love, I don't gravitate to those pates, but this I gravitate to. It is savory. It has some, what's that sun-dried tomato taste? It has like a- It's sun-dried tomatoes. That it is. No, but what's the quality? It's a very strong- It's a very umami. It has the sweetness condensed in the tomato and then it dries out and so it's just got this nice earthy sweet flavor. Yeah. Oh my gosh. Okay. This is like what I would bring, like I would bring this to like a potluck. And I do. I'd like put it down and I'd be like, boom. I might put my name next to it and be like, okay, Mindy made this so that I can get credit for it. Yeah, you should because this is a great dish to bring to people because it's just delicious. And again, it's not, it's one of my accidentally vegan recipes. It's not setting out to be like, ooh, have this weird vegan version of pate. It's just have a delicious spread and anybody's going to love it. So there you go. I, I, and the purpose of this video I really want is to help us understand that brain, that brain food, a lot of it, most of it comes from the earth. Yeah. And so what's happening right now, why we're seeing these dementia and Alzheimer's rates go up is because we're eating manmade food. Yes. But the minute we go to what mother earth created for us, now we're nourishing the brain. And so many of you have loved ones like we have that are dealing with dementia and, you know, make them, make them some of this and just put it in front of them. And it's a good counterbalance to that ultra processed foods. So eat like a girl. It's out and it is a hell of a cookbook. There's so much in it and you can get this walnut pate in there ready for order now. Yes. And let me know what you think of the recipes. As always, hope that helps. Guess what? In my next video, I'm going to show you the amazing benefits of honey. So make sure you stick through and watch that video. What is interesting is honey, even though it's a sweetener, there's some really cool qualities to it that you want to know about and make you change your mind if you've kept it out of your diet. But we also mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned that we mentioned