 pulgggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg that top five spot. He's not going to be up there. The top four right now, based on prejudging comparisons, looks to be Quinton Uria and Jordan Hutchinson for first place, with John Jewett and Joseph Palacios rounding out that top four. Quinton Uria and Jordan Hutchinson look very close. Jordan looks a little bit tighter, a little bit more muscular and harder, so he might be getting the nod. Jordan was in second place last year to Andrew Jack at the Texas Pro. I don't think Jordan has ever had a pro win, so this should be interesting. This might be his first win, but Quinton looks very impressive. Definitely the best physique on the stage as far as structure goes. Very tall, wide shoulders, small waist. We've all been waiting for Quinton to really hit his peak. It could have been a little bit harder, but he might have enough here to win the contest. Joseph Palacios was very impressive to my eyes. Very, very thick, muscular physique, shredded glutes. He was letting the stomach hang out a little bit, so he had that stomach distension. So he looks to be fighting for that top three spot. And John Jewett, very impressive. Looks to be in either third or fourth place, but he hit his peak, and he also looked really good. So we've got a really, really big show coming here at the Tampa Pro. Tonight, they're going to have a Ben Weider Lifetime Achievement Award for Kevin Lavroni, so that should be very exciting. The Maryland Muscle Machine in the house tonight. So we'll be back later for an update on the finals of the Tampa Pro out here in Tampa, Florida. This is John Hanson for Old School Labs. with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with anyone with