 and alimptial. All right. Welcome to another episode of the Muscle Maturity Podcast. I'm here with Mr. Olympia 1983 Samir Vanhut. I am John Hansen and we have a special guest with us today. Two time Mr. Olympia, Arnold Classic Champion, Pittsburgh Pro Champion, Derek Lunsford right here from Tampa, Florida. Derek, thanks for joining us on the show today. Hey man. Thanks for having me. I appreciate you guys bringing me on. Thanks for your time. Absolutely. We're happy to have you. We always talk about you here on the podcast. So finally, I'm glad John made the effort to get you on board. So we're really happy because seriously, it's been like you've been the man on our podcast always amongst the absolute favorite. So you know, and that's the truth, right? You can go back and check. So we're happy to have you. Well, you said I've been the topic of your YouTube. I was like, I hope, hopefully it's mostly good stuff. Yeah. Always, always good stuff. Derek listens to the show. So you can't just, you know, you know, you know, Joe, first I have to start again since we didn't get you a hug in person. Congratulations. You're awesome. And you know, I don't think you were 100%, but you still did it. Well, imagine when you were 100% is going to be like, honestly, from my perspective, when you're 100%, we'd be walking apart. Yeah. Well, you know what? Some people may take offense to that, right? Some people that are the champion and say, well, why are you saying that I'm not 100% well, you know what? When I hear that, I say, okay, good, I can win with this physique, but I can have room for improvement. So you know, it kind of reminds me of like the stock market, right? When the stocks go down, oh, that's a terrible stock. Let's sell it off. No good. Has no value. Me, I say, oh, this is the time to buy in. I have to jump in. Good analogy, good analogy, bro. Well, it was awesome. I mean, I was just sitting in the forethrow. I don't know exactly what went on, but you know, John and I were like checking you out from close up really close. I think we don't know exactly what happened. The evening show, you went back slightly, you know, your condition went off slightly. And like you said, who cares? The win is a win. That's what I tell people. Well, I think I was just talking to somebody today in the gym and they were discussing that. The finals was a much closer, you know, than prejudging. Prejudging, it was a bit further spread. And I would agree. I would say that, you know, potty was more off on Friday pre-judging. And he wasn't like off. Like he was peeled to the bone, you know what I mean? But just the package that he brought was less on Friday than on Saturday. Mine, I would say, was like as good as it can be for that show on Friday. And maybe just slightly less on Saturday or the same. Like, you know, it's hard to kind of tell because you look at it and you go, wow, these guys got better from one day to the next tremendously. Derek kind of stayed the same or if anything, not as much. Wow. So I think, yeah, Friday was a lot more convincing than Saturday, but still. Right. Yeah. Yeah, that's what I thought. I thought Hottie and Andrew were a little flat on Friday. And you were very full. And I thought you were convincing winter on Friday. And then I thought they improved on Saturday, but I still thought you should have won the show. So. I think that can be the challenging thing, you know, you don't really want to come in too full the first day because it's a two day show. You don't want to come in too full on the first day because if you do that, you know, you've already maxed out and it's kind of hard to replicate that on the second day. Yeah. Well, we chose to kind of take that gamble and be much fuller and better on that first day and kind of hold that into the second day. Yeah. Whereas a lot of guys, they come in a little bit flatter to be able to fill up for the finals. So I've had that strategy myself in the past with my previous coach and it worked. We had a win in 2023. I won the, my first Mr. Olympia title in the open and so, you know, it's a successful strategy, but you got to also see who you're going up against and you got to play your own strength. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So the goal this year, Derek, was to come in fuller because you were flatter the year before when you lost. You got third, right? Well, it wasn't just based off the year before. It was a collective collective of things, right? So, you know, I think the sharpest look was at the Arnold last year, you know, this year at 2025 and I'm very proud of that look. And I think that that's what I needed to go up against the competition that was at that show, right? You have taller guys at that show placing second and third, or at least we knew they were probably going to be the front runner and they ended up being, you know, second and third taller guys. And so we said, we're not going to, you know, come in here and try to match the size and the mass. We're going to come in here and be a lot more conditioned and sharper than these guys. And that's going to create more of an illusion that you might actually even look bigger because you're more peeled. You know, let's let's skip Pittsburgh because Pittsburgh, I think was, it was a good showing, but we're kind of talking about the Olympia right now. So the Olympia, I came in, yeah, I was much fuller. We thought to ourselves, okay, you know, Hottie comes in shredded, peeled from the front, not so much from the back, but still he's shredded, peeled, right? He's very balanced. Yeah. And so we need to still come in with good conditioning because conditioning is important. That's part of the judging criteria. But if we come in a little bit fuller, I think what we can, we can show a physique that is superior than Hottie's because you'll have the likes of Samson and Andrew, like, like at the Arnold, but also, you know, we're thinking Nick Walker, we're thinking, you know, maybe Maureen and we're thinking these other guys too, that are kind of like the next tier. And when you stand people up in a line like that, you got to go, okay, this is my competition, right? And how do you bring the most balanced physique of the judging criteria to the show? You know, you might have one guy that has a stellar arms or one shot, like a front last foot or something that might look just absolutely nuts, you know, but overall, the most balanced, I believe is what's winning shows right now. And so that's what we wanted to do. You know, it's interesting. You kind of played into your competition. You kind of figured out your strategy based on the competition that you were going to be up against. Because man, everybody wants to like put each other up against each other, right? I have respect for the competition. I know looking at these guys, they're incredible, man. Yeah. So these top 10 guys are absolutely incredible bodybuilders. This is tough, man. So you just kind of got to look and say, okay, what's my strategy to bring my best physique to this show with this lineup? That's going to be the physique I bring that argues I'm the best in the world or best at this show. Yeah. After 50 years of experience, Derek, I'll tell you one thing. You're about my pound, you know, height and weight. You're the biggest on stage. Don't even think that you need to be bigger. In my opinion, the more peeled you are, the bigger you're going to look. So honestly, I know something is huge. You know, you know, they're all big guys, but you flow is that mass that you have. So as far as I'm concerned, when you have that onion skin and that harder look, honestly, it's going to be very, very tough to beat to be beaten. You cannot lose when you're in that condition. That's how I see it because that your frame, your shoulders, the chest, the roundness, everything flows perfectly. So for you, it should be easy to get ultra shredded every time that you do that. You get that quality. I'll tell you one thing. You will beat them all. No, I mean, you already did, but you will beat them without any speculation. So Derek has the best body. I'm telling you your arm, your shoulder, your chest, your back, everything is important size-wide. The harder you will get shredded, the more you get shredded, the easier for you to be on the very top. Thank you, man. Yeah, I think that's the focus right now. The goal this year is to refine the physique. Let the muscle mature more and get a seasoned muscle. So if I'm someone that's trying to pack on as much size as possible to next year, I think that's the wrong strategy for me. Maybe it's the right strategy for somebody else. But I think for me, I need to just keep doing what I've been doing. Don't try to get too heavy. Don't try to get too bulked up this offseason and just come back with a sharper look the same size. 100%. This is exactly how I feel. Even if you come in five pounds lighter, who cares? Your size is perfect. Perfect. Everything is there. I don't find weaknesses. All I would say exactly what you said. Focus on detail, more detail, more hardness. And you know what? That should be easy because you already built that house. Your house is built. All you got to do is, well, you know what? A little more decoration. This is it. And so, you know. I love it. I love your analogy to this. That's, yeah. There's more color. It's called body building. You build it and you build it right. There is no obvious weaknesses whatsoever. And look at me. At 196, 196, I was shredded, lean, separated, and I was confident. You know? And that was it. You beat guys like Haney and Frank Zane and Berko Fock. I couldn't beat him if I wasn't really cut to the bone. So for you to say that to Andrew Jacques and Samson, Nick Walker, you have advantage in the overall beauty of the shape, which is a blessing. It's a blessing. Hey, Derek, I want to talk about your mental attitude. If you look at all the multiple Mr. Olympias or any Mr. Olympia, really, we've got definitely mental strength. And you really show how strong you are when you come back from a defeat, not from a victory. And you lost in 2024. You got third place after you won it the year before. And then you came back and you not only came back, but you said, I'm going to do the triple crown. I remember you said that at the beginning of the year. And I said, no way. You're not going to win three shows in a row. Three shows in a row. Times in a row. And you did it. I mean, you won the Arnold, you won the Pittsburgh, and then you won the Olympia. It all three. And I was so impressed, not only that you did it, which was impressive enough, but also that you said you were going to do it at the beginning of the year. So talk a little bit about that. Talk about not only the mental strength you had, but also projecting that victory and believing in that throughout the whole year. You know, I don't know what it is, man, but before I ever competed, before I ever did a bodybuilding show, I was telling people in the gym, like my friends that like I want to be a bodybuilder and I'm weighing like 150 pounds, right? And they're like, okay, like good luck. You know, and I said, no, no, like you don't understand. Like I want to be Mr. Olympia. Wow. And like I'm going to be Mr. Olympia one day. And it was kind of like a, okay, like we're not going to argue with you, but like good luck, you know? And I've just had these like crazy, crazy like dreams and goals and visions, whatever, you know, that I just think like, you know, somebody's got to do it. Somebody has to be great. Somebody has to be the best in the world. Like why not me? You know? And some people may take that the wrong way and think that that's arrogant, but it's just, I know from my wrestling and sports background, how much I was dedicated to those sports, especially wrestling. Like I was so incredibly dedicated and disciplined to that. Yeah. That like I just believed if I could take that same passion and dedication and discipline that I had for wrestling and put it into bodybuilding, I was like, I don't think there's anybody out there that has this level of standard for themselves like I do. And if I just keep going, I'm going to start catching people. I'm going to start beating the guys that are in front of me and anyone that's behind me is going to be hard to catch me. So I had this mentality right away that like, okay, three years from now, you know, from doing my first show, three years, I want to be a pro five years. I want to win the Mr. Olympia. I was close in the two 12 didn't quite happen on that timeline, but I had this vision of like, I want to do this outrageous thing that I'm so far away from that people like don't believe I can do. I want to do it. Like I want to go at least try, man. I have one life to live and one opportunity. Like I just want to go for it. So, you know, going into this year, I have felt the feeling and the high of success and I have felt the feeling of failure or setback. And after the 2024 Olympia being a two division Mr. Olympia champion first to do it, I felt like, you know, like I've already become Mr. Olympia once. I can do it again. But now I have the experience of losing and I know what losing feels like and it sucks. But now I'm not afraid to fail and lose because I know that feeling. I've experienced it. I'm not afraid to put myself in a position to potentially feel that feeling again. Does that make sense? Yeah. So it kind of alleviated my, my fear of failure. And I said, okay, now I'm more dangerous than ever because I don't have fear to win. Like thinking, oh, this anxiety, am I going to win? Am I going to be the champion? I don't have that now. I know I can do it. I'm confident. I also don't have the fear of, oh my gosh, am I going to lose the title? I've felt it. Yeah. So I said, all right, okay, what can I do now? That is just like over the top, like crazy. Like what is the next thing that like maybe nobody's ever done or people say can't be done? Like what is it? Oh, wait a minute. People have done the Arnold and the Olympia and won that in the same year, but nobody's won the three biggest shows in one calendar year. And the, and Pittsburgh pro being that show, I was like, I want to be the first Pittsburgh pro champion because this is going to be a legacy show. Like this is a title like the Arnold classic that you're going to want to have. Like New York, like New York pro, like I don't have the New York pro title, but that would be like a title that you're like, man, that's a, that's a strong title that I'm proud to have. Right. And so I was like, okay, I want to be the first to be the first Pittsburgh pro champion and I want to be the only person to ever do this triple crown one full count a year, the three biggest, hardest shows of the year spread out from start to finish. I want to do it all. I'm going to go, this is the one year that I'm just going to, I'm going to go for the biggest crown possible and then be the second person to ever lose a title and then get it back. Yeah. I don't know, man. Like I just had it in me that like I love, love, love having these crazy, crazy goals that people say that can't be done. It just like, it fires me up. Like you wouldn't believe. Like I just love it. Like tell me it's impossible. Tell me nobody can do it and I want to try it. You know, like, yeah. Yeah. I think when you know, when you know that you're going to do something and you have that big goal, it's like a scale, like you said, it's a scary goal. And then that's what, you know, that's what really kind of motivated you like more than ever. I mean, the motivation had to be through the roof all year. Right. Yeah. What I was saying, nobody, nobody hit that grand slam and bodybuilding. Right. And, and, you know, honestly, you are one of the very few that have the capability to go boom, boom, boom. You could. I mean, all it needs is more intelligent maneuvering and that overtexts the body. And you know, it's kid, I think you could do it. And yeah, I mean, you know, I'm thankful. I was working with Chris Isido this year and I feel like, I feel like he's experienced and working with people that do a lot of shows throughout the year. And so I felt pretty comfortable that we could, we could nail this working together. You know, he works with my friend, Matt Grego, who's in the class of physique division. And this guy has just continuously made progress. And, and so I watching, you know, Chris Isido and Matt Grego work together the last couple years also gave me confidence knowing that like I could do these multiple shows throughout the year, you know, and like another thing too, man is, um, but I think it's a little back whenever I did turn pro in 2017, I won the title of Mr. USA. And then I went straight to Tampa. The neck, I literally, I canceled my flight to go back to Indiana because that's where I was living at the time. And I decided to book a new flight from Las Vegas to Tampa. And I booked my hotel booked everything that the very night that I won the USA's. And that was like, if I, if I, if I win the USA's, if I win the title of Mr. USA, Tampa's the next weekend, I want to go and do it. And if I do that and I win at that time, nobody had ever won their pro card and pro debut that quickly. Yeah. And I thought, well, this is, this is going to give a lot of like, well, first of all, this has never been done. And also it's going to give a lot of like encouragement for other people to go and do the same thing. Yeah. And so that's kind of like also my mission too, with all of this is like, I want to go do something that's like crazy and, you know, two division, Olympia champion and, you know, blah, blah, all the stuff I just mentioned, but like now people can look at that and go like, well, if Derek can do it, like it can be done. Maybe I can do something even crazier. Well, you know, the thing is Chris Acido, in my opinion, he's one of the safest coaches out there. He's a great, he's a great coach. He do it safe. He doesn't abuse. I know one thing. And so when you have that experience, I mean, to me, I've always said, honey, my butt and Chris Acido, these are really the two coaches that actually play safe. None of their clients had never heard anybody got hurt under their supervision. So you know, I have great respect for Chris. Chris and I have been friends forever. Forever. Yeah. So great. I think you guys are awesome. Yeah, yeah, like definitely making sure that like health is at the forefront, you know, that's when I first started working with Hany, that was a discussion that he and I had, like you want it to be like, you know, very, very healthy in our approach, you know, as healthy as we can be in our, in what we were doing. And same thing with, with Chris, you know, like there's some things you, you're not willing to do because it's not needed, you know, and so, you know, I'm a, I'm a family man too. I got my second child on the way. She'll be here like within a few weeks. Also, I'm a house full. You know, you know what you're having? You know what you're having? Yeah. Yeah. We're having another, another girl. Uh-oh. No, no, no, no, I'm excited. I'm excited. But also that's what I keep hearing. Uh-oh. I started with girl, I got three girls in a row, then I got two boys and the girls said that you're not going to get a boy. You're not going to get a boy. And I had to change, but it would be good to have two girls and a boy. That would be good. Yes. And you know, I was excited. I was, I was really hoping we were going to have another girl, to be honest. That's beautiful. Maybe I'm crazy, but I, I, I did. I wanted another girl. Yeah. Yeah. But no, that's what we were saying was like, you know, like I'm a family man too, you know, and I, there's life after bodybuilding, you know, and we want to be able to do bodybuilding for a long time. Right. So yeah. Exactly. Yeah. I definitely don't want to be stupid. Health as well, in my opinion. A lot of people, they're getting there. Derek, and you know them well, like some of those guys really, they don't give a shit sometime about their health and wellbeing. They go all out and I know some of the coaches that actually push into the limit in this department. And I think it's really not necessary because I know I was at the one point where I didn't have used it or wonder Olympia. And the people say, oh, oh, Samir, what will you were using like Robbie Robinson? What I mean, oh, Samir, he came in from the 80s, if you're a little like it was lasered and he was like shredded. And I know he discovered you as a driver. I did not even touch energy age at the time. You know, it's just, we are passionate. That's about it. We are passionate. We are relentless and we want to win it. We'll try and try and nothing stop it up. And this is my attitude. When I left LA, went to Germany, I had it in my head that I am going to win because in 82, a lot of people thought it could have gone either way between me and Chris. But you know, it's just you're going to stay driven. And that's what I like about you because you are passionate and you want to do that triple what you call it, leg wrestling. Hopefully you'll do it one of these days. It's hard to break that record. I'll tell you that a three championship. Fantastic. So I'm going to tell you this, man, you know, I definitely hope that somebody does big things, you know, following me, but anybody that wants to try to do something like that, it's very challenging, man. Like I'm saying it very lightly, but it challenges every part of you all throughout the year. And then that's not even say that you're going to win. Like I showed up in these shows believing I could win, but the winning is not in my control, man. Yeah. Bodybuilding is different than basketball, different than football. I mean, the body, let's face it, the body kind of burned out when you die, die, truly killer killer. It's always good to give your body a break right after very intense preparation. I really believe in that. But I mean, you could not abuse what you're doing and then you can come back easily. I think it's doable. What was the hardest part of the year, Derek? I mean, was it getting ready for a certain show? Was it after the show? Like what was the, what was some of the harder parts? Looking back at the physical. The physical and the mental of doing a bodybuilding show, especially at this level is, is immense. Yeah. Um, in all reality, it's more of like the life stuff that happens to you along the way. So, you know, I've mentioned it plenty of times, but my, uh, my grandmother passed away 20 minutes before prejudging Pittsburgh. And she was in hospice that week. And I did a lot of me doing the Arnold and Pittsburgh too was because we found out, um, this time last year or like through the holidays, uh, 2024, uh, that she had stage four cancer and likely not a lot of time to live. And, and you could see it happening more and more week to week month to month. Like she was getting worse and worse pretty rapidly. So I was like, okay, like I asked her. I was like, what do you think about me doing the Arnold? And she was like, Oh, I think you can do it. And I think you can win. And I said, all right, like I'm going to do it, you know, and I want you to be there. And so, you know, some people, uh, some people want more when they do a show. I just asked like if I could get some tickets for my grandparents to have the best. I just said, can, can my, my grandparents one way or another, like, I don't care. Like, can they just have the best seats in the house at the Arnold, you know, and they said, no problem. We understand. We want to make sure that they're right there. And so they were ready and willing to accommodate to my grandparents, but unfortunately she didn't like, she wasn't able to actually make it to Ohio from Indiana. Now she got the pay-per-view. She watched online and I saw a video of her just going crazy. I got that say, like she was going nuts, you know, for me, because she was my number one fan, but that's very nice of you. Very nice. I dedicated my posing routine to her. Like the whole time I was doing the posing routine, I was just thinking about her the whole time. Immediately when I stepped off stage, I was just balling crying because she wasn't there. And I just, I knew she probably was never going to see me compete again in person, which keep in mind, man, like she had been to every sporting event and bodybuilding show ever in my life. Wow. That was the first one that she didn't make it to. I would get her a hotel room whenever she would come to the Olympian stuff. And like she was just always there for me. And like, yeah. Very big man. So long story short, you know, it was extremely challenging knowing that she was going downhill quickly, especially going into the Pittsburgh pro. And then, you know, the Pittsburgh pro, like I said, that, that day, that morning she passed away right before prejudging. And then while that following Wednesday, she was buried, which was on my birthday. So like that was a really, really, really rough time for me. And then I was kicking myself because I wanted to go to the New York pro not to compete necessarily, but I wanted to go there and watch the show and support the athletes and just be there. And I, I missed that. But like, I was just such a mess, man. Like a real emotional mess. How old was she? Like 75, I believe. So not even really that old. I mean, she lived a good life, but she, you know, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I saw that. There's other stuff that there's other things that come up in life that really weighs you down. And that's it's those things added on to already what we're doing. Yeah. And so it's so important that you have like people around you, like we just talked about coach, right? Maybe you have a friend and training partner. Maybe you have a wife or girlfriend, boyfriend, whatever. And like those people around you, like keep your head on straight. If you're emotional or maybe you're spiritually off or like, I don't know, whatever it is, like that team keeps you together. Yeah. And the things like they are sacrificing with you. You know, there's so much that they're sacrificing as you're sacrificing. It just doesn't look the same. Yeah. So like, I think that's what needs to be known going into these bodybuilding shows so that these bodybuilding shows can not only strengthen a person, but it actually can strengthen relationships. It can definitely hinder relationships, but it can also strengthen relationships if like you are communicating going into these things. Like I had to ask my wife, I said, are you okay with me doing this? Like these three shows, it's going to be a long year. Yeah. And I said, if you're not okay with it, then I won't do it, but I really want to do this and I really feel in my heart I should do this. Like, are you, will you support me? And she said, absolutely. So it was challenging. Like it's not just like, here you go, go do it. And that's now it's easy. It's like, it's very challenging, man. Yeah. But you know, you remember John Arnold Arnold was preparing for one of the Olympia and his father died. Yeah. You remember that? Yeah. And Arnold Arnold says, oh, Arnold says, well, you know, he's dead now and nothing I can do. I got to do the show. And for me, I would say, fuck the show. I'm going to go see my dad. So yeah, my time. So my grandmother, she told me, she goes, no matter what happens, do these.  and so on. So, I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. I'm going to talk about the show. It was amazing andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx I did a like full style wrestling for school and then I did freestyle and Greco and like the offseason. Yeah. You know, it was good at Greco Tyler Tyler, mainly into no Tyler was a collegiate wrestler also. Yeah. He was pretty good at it too. It was really bad. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was very good. He would honestly, man, I'm not just saying this. I hate them going on records saying this, but he, I'm sure he would have like wiped the floor with me back in the day because he, yeah, he wrestled 165 pounds. I'm pretty sure. And I wrestled 141. Wow. Trust me when I tell you that's a big gap in the weight classes. Yeah. Yeah. Like that's a big difference. What Tyler is what five, seven, five, eight, right? I'm about five, eight. Yeah. And you like to go five, four. No, no, I'm five, six. I'm five, six. Everybody says I'm shorter, but I'm five, six. It is so big. That's why. What was your weight, Derek, at the all? At the Olympia. This year's Olympia, I was significantly heavier. I was like 242. Wow. You imagine even Arnold at his best. He was like 222, 226. And Arnold was almost six, two. He's a hair away from six, two. And when you say like there's love for it at five, six is 242. That's so much bigger than I was my life. I mean, look at it, John, 242. I mean, I tell people that I bulked up one to two, fifty, two, fifty four. Like, you know, I'm not going to mention his name right now. They don't believe me that I bulked up to that much. It's easy to bulk up, but it's not easy to get shredded and ripped to shred. So what what how do you feel about this year? Do you visualize yourself before the contest? Do you feel you will be concrete, harder than ever before? And I think it's doable to be harder and more ripped than ever. And I think that should be the main focus. So I have to be the like this is like bodybuilding. So you want to keep improving. If I brought the same physique against the same competition, the same thing would happen. But I can only assume that the competition is focused on improving. I have to do the same. You know, and so we're constantly trying to achieve better, better, better, better, to become exactly almost flawless. You know, I have to. Derek, you wasted. You should wipe shoulder to waist ratio is incredible. Back is amazing. The lake, you have it all. And I tell you, in my opinion, more is less at this point. More is less. So coming in harder than ever. And I know most time you end up dropping weight and you get lean, lean, lean. But I think the beacon has to be more. I don't know. I don't ask you another personal question. I know like most bodybuilder, Derek, like the last couple of days when you start loading and, you know, finding two and things, are you one of those guys that be hyper and you want to you want it now, etc. tomorrow, or are you calm? I mean, well, I can't I can't deny that I like I'm anxious at wanting to see my physique improve. I am. I think we I think to deny that would be silly. Well, that's awesome. It totally goes back to the circle around you. Like there's that's a reason you have a coach. That's a reason why my wife is in the room looking at me while he's looking at me. There's a reason why I have Matt and other guys that I'm friends with that have been in my corner, you know, week to week day to day, like to the show. Like we're taking like taking note meal to meal, hour to hour. Day to day, like, of course, we're wanting to see the physique improve. But I have to I have to shut this off. Yes. For the most for the most part, shut this off. Give some give give minimal feedback and just OK. All right. Treat it like there's no content. I've seen you training. We saw some video on Instagram like holy shit. Look at how great you look. You sometimes I see you way better than stage. Look, I'm not joking. I'm telling you the truth. Like John and I would talk about it. Holy look how shredded is already. So, you know, you know, very well, I mean, you miss a lift twice already. The water fluctuation is affected by the hormonal function. So your thoughts on time. It treated like no contest. Don't get excited over. You already miss a lift. So what the words can happen? And you've been one in third and fourth place one time. So I think I think that what's responsible somewhat for the changes of your placing because coming in hard like rock. I doubted you could be out of the, you know, number one. And in my opinion, I see it happen every time. But there is a reason. No people thought, oh, you know, Derek wasn't there. Well, I'm like, I tell people, excuse me, I'm not here to just because I don't shut the fuck up. You know, I did that on Facebook and other places. And I say, when Derek, when Derek doesn't miss his fee and come in 100%, they'll be unbeatable. So you have all these idiots that don't know bodybuilding. They want to shut the open their mouths are talking. I must say, like, sometimes I hate to read these idiots. You know, they say things without knowledge, right? I thought I was passionate. Well, look, look, I even heard it from another champion or missile and get it. Don't talk too much. You're not better than Derek. You're not more blessed than Derek. You don't have a better physique than Derek. So set it up and let Derek Derek is human. Only God is perfect. And so if they're coming at 95, still one, but when Derek is 100%, he will kick your ass for Mr. Oh, and I don't want to say what it is. I'm saying it like it is. I don't, you know, I've always done it. I think I know who you're talking about, but I don't dare. Yeah, dude, I just hate it when someone run their mouth in a negative way. There's always no man is like, I never wanted to compare myself with former champions. Like I have nothing but respect for them. This is not me being diplomatic or P. You know, like throw that out the window, man. Like I just respect the people that came before me. Like they're champions for a reason. Right. They're incredible. You know, they're inspired to need to be where I am today. I don't understand. I don't understand. Like I'm not trying to compare myself to someone else. That's very nice of you. You're good sport. You you're good sport, but they should have a different analogy. And that's saying, you know, Derek was slightly off. But don't say Derek is not your better than there, because you're not fucking better than Derek and I know them well. You have built a better house. OK, thank you. So your declaration could be a little bit better. That's right. I mean, I'm 100 percent. I'm saying it because I mean it. One thousand percent. Thank you, man. Yeah, I mean, first of all, that means more than you know. Trust me. I I don't know how everybody feels about it. But I know you don't be as. And so that means that means a lot, a lot, a lot to me. I've been in this for a long time. My my my mentality is like as the generations go on, you can only hope that they get better. Because then guess what? Your legacy actually means more as the sport grows bigger. And I can only hope that the that the generations get better and evolve into something better than what we are. Yeah, but I I hate negative talk. And I hate someone to judge you or judge me for. You know, just the Chris Dickerson. Look like Dickerson, the worst miscellaneous. Hey, wait a minute. Dickerson is that is a fantastic champion. You can prepare. He posed with mastery. He's confident for me. He's a great miscellaneous. But when you have kids there, they always look if your arms are about 25 inches, then you're good. They don't understand the overall balance, the size that comes in with all this muscle. Yeah, you work your ass off to do it. And you know what? You did awesome job. We already took two times to Olympia. And I tell you one thing on the next Mr. Olympia, I'm going to bet on you again. But don't let me down. Come in more red, please. Let's go. I'm telling you, that's a mirror when we get closer to the most. Olympia. John, seriously, am I am I saying it like it is or what? We always talked about it like that. Just not because they're here. John, they keep. Yeah, we'll clip this. Yes, it's public record. Yeah. No, I mean, that's the love it. Well, now, now that you have plenty of red. The thing is, man, we need we need more champions like you speaking like that. That's how you build community and you keep the sport thriving. You know, like when you want to call it called jealousy. It's just we we just we just give our best man. Like we have a dream that we dream of to do this. We give our all to it. Even our family members and friends sacrifice with us. Like we're doing this, of course, we're doing it for ourselves, but we're doing it for the passion and love to build the community. And we everybody wins when we're talking positive. You know, well, I would think with you, I never see you trash talking. I I haven't with this. You're trash talking to do a champion. You're making them. They talk negative. You talk positive. You know, I like that. You know, here's the thing. I might say something funny and like like a ball buster to like because honestly, we're brothers and iron, right? Like, come on, man. The the the judging is out of our hands. Yeah, I might say something that's like ball busting to someone while the public or private or whatever. Look, but I never disrespect their physique or their character. Leigh Haney and I are good friends and I love Leigh Haney. And I used to say Leigh Haney animal kingdom is going to be ruled by lion. I'm going to attack. We say things like that, but we don't mean it. We don't mean it in a derogatory way. We don't mean it in a hateful way. You know what I mean? Come on, give people the credit that they deserve. You already miss Olympia twice. So don't be jealous and act like you miss the perfect. Who's out to talk to you? They're not miss the perfect. Leigh said some nice words about you recently, too, didn't. Oh, yeah. Yeah. He said you were getting a lot of criticism and he said it was undeserving and, you know, he was standing up. I saw that, you know, I'm totally OK with people having their favorites. Like, I don't have to be everybody's favorite bodybuilder or even favorite personality or person like that's fine, man. That's you have your opinion. That's cool. That's what keeps us for exciting. But when it becomes like like tearing down the athletes and our community and the whole sport as a whole, it's like, I don't know. I don't know why people want to bring everyone down if they say that their fans, especially, hold on, like, you know, why? Because if you're such a if you're such a fan of an athlete, then why do you say that the guy that beat him sucks? Because you're perfect because they're perfect and we're not. Well, what I've noticed with this, you know, the Internet age that we're living in is these people aren't at the shows number one. And they're just there's posts and they'll have just pictures, you know, one picture and then another picture of the other guy. You don't know where these pictures were taking or what time, you know, I mean, it's just it's totally biased. And then somebody goes up and like, like, the lighting and the angle of the photo. Whether the person was in the in the pose or not. Yeah, yeah, there was some some photos like this is why the throwback to previous areas. And today it's totally different. Yeah, it's like the lighting is different. The angles are different. The quality of the cameras. They like everything's different. And even when you start to try to match them up, say, OK, this is a side by side. It's like, well, is one person a little bit more zoomed in or zoomed out? Yeah, yeah. It's just whatever. Whatever you can call it, whatever pictures you compare them to, I mean, you can decide, you know, you can try to win your own argument, but it's not reality. It's not being at the show. When you're at the show, it's a different story. And I know that everybody says that. And like if previous champions, you know, uplift the guys of today. And again, it doesn't have to be me, man. Like you don't have to just like uplift Derek. Like it's not like that. But if you uplift, like in general today, the next generation, like I'm the type of person, I want to show you the utmost respect. Yeah, I'm going to show you respect anyway, but I want to show you the utmost respect. If you're here to tear us down, why do I even want to acknowledge you? I'm not going to acknowledge you at all. Like I would I would love to talk about these guys from my perspective and tell them how many weaknesses they have. OK, they did not build a better house than we did. OK. So just because you are ripped one time or two time, it doesn't make you better. You know, I mean, like, look, when you have a body like, for example, Sergio Oliva, Sergio Oliva was complete. He's missing nothing. And when he's off, he loses. But he's still the mid, he's still the greatest. You know, from my perspective, and I'll tell you the truth, Derek. I believe that was slight improvement to positioning because I am a little bit technical about presentation, too. And I think it would be in your best interest to actually connect with. Lila Brada, Frank Zane. I'm not saying me, but I'd be happy to always be there on your side. I think with a little little adjustment to every pole in the transition, I tell you, this is going to add up more, you know, point to I tell you, it will make Derek Lansford looks more professional to the team. We thought I focus. I think presentation is very important, very important. Absolutely. No, no, no. I'm totally open, open to I'm open to constructive criticism. Oh, thank you. That's always the way. I mean, look, I mean, Frank Zane told me one time that he offered Dexter Jackson to help him in his presentation. He said, to me, what do you think? I said, oh, my God. It's like beautiful. I mean, Derek should really take this opportunity immediately. Even I'm as a Mr. Olympian, have in my eyes and two other eyes like Frank Zane, who was totally masterful. You know, that was no one I was thinking. You know, I was just thinking, Samir, there's this pretty awesome gym in Tampa you need to check out sometime. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. OK. We'll come down and spend the week and trade with you and hang out. OK. Seriously? I love it. OK. All right. Let's start by the gym. When did it start, Derek? When did you finish the gym? It took us quite a while to get the permits for this gym to open. But we opened right after the Tampa Pro this past year. So past this past August. And we had a bunch of Brazilian teams come up here and train. I was working with one of the trainers from Brazil and we had Ramon Dino up here. We had Eduardo, who is the wellness champion, Arnold and Olympia champion. We had Zama, who placed third in the women's physique. She looks incredible, too. Ali Balol was here for a little bit, who was men's physique second place. We had a bunch of top five, top 10, top 15 Olympian training between like August and the show, you know. And so, yeah, we went from not being open to having a bunch of Olympia champions and top Olympians. So it was great. And we have our. Yeah. So I don't know when this is coming out, but this is Saturday or next Saturday, the January 17th. We are having our grand opening celebration. Oh, beautiful. We're going to have. Wonderful. Yeah. We're going to have more than 50 vendors that are going to be here giving out free stuff. We're going to have Ronnie Coleman, Ronnie Coleman, J Cutler, Flex Lewis, Wow. Ty, Smeon, Sean Clarita, Matt Grego, Eric, I mean, we have a wonderful list goes on and on. Who all is going to be here? As far as I have to be pros, Olympians, champions. We have a bunch of influencers. We have a eating competition with extreme eating championships. Bart Lee Weaver. We have a bunch of pro eaters coming to take on the mega fit muffins. So it's going to be it's going to be a crazy time, man. I'm sure there's all kind of food. I know John is going to show up right away. Yeah. Right. Go come up and go load up. All right. Wow. That's so cool. Yeah. That was closer. This is a thing where like, you know, like this gym just opened and, you know, we've been blessed to work with New Tech. New Tech has the absolute best equipment. If you were trained. Yeah, it's the best equipment in the world. So yeah, they're great. Good equipment. They're very passionate of of continuing to engineer and innovate the equipment to know the muscle. Right. So I love it. I'm passionate about the new tech equipment and like people are loving the equipment. The members here are like, it's a good environment. It's a semi private gym. So there's not too many people here that are training at one time. And like we're going to work on building this recovery center now. So that way we can have their recovery center with the training, beautiful supplements, meals, everything that you would need all in one. Exactly. Traveling from around the world. Everything you need is here. If you're a member, everything you need is here. So it's not always about square footage is about the quality. That's what I tell people. I don't need to have a 10,000 square feet home. I think I could have the best 35,000, 3500 square feet. Look better than you know, it's not always about the size. It's what's in the account, you know, beautiful. We're really looking forward to coming with you. Yeah, we try to have mostly duplicate equipment. So that way most people aren't waiting on any machine ever. That's cool. And yeah, it's like close to 15,000 square foot. I would say like 12,000 in four space. So we have a pretty nice, tons of parking. And then like, yeah, with this event, man, it's like we didn't charge anyone to be here. We didn't like any of the vendors. We just said, hey, let's make this a complete like community builder in our body building thing. Everybody just come, you know, and we're going to we're going to have to kind of limit it now because I think we're going to have quite a few people here. That's are you going to have the miss? Are you going to have a miss Olympia wall? Um, well, I think having this, I think having the trophies in here is a little dangerous. No, I mean, the Olympia wall, like they did in New Tech and Vegas. They painted all the Olympias. Yeah, nice. I mean, we have a little yeah, we have a space that we want to do that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I was out there about a month ago and it's an awesome gym. Equipment is amazing. Thanks, John. Yeah, great. If you wasn't as far as you are, I'd love to have you more often, but I get out. Definitely come by more. You're over there at the powerhouse and, you know, good, good owners over there too. So yeah, oh yeah, we love Matt midget. Matt midget and I've been friends forever. Really, really great people. Matt and his brother. Um, what I get. Um, yeah. Yeah, they're I miss them. Matt brother. What I tell them. Eddie and Eddie, Matt and Eddie. Sorry. Yeah, no, we, uh, we put our, our gym a little bit more towards the beach. It's a little bit closer to the same. Yeah, yeah. I'm not to be mistaken with the Tampa airport. It's the St. Peter. So it's away from the powerhouse. It's away from like MI 40 and all the other gyms that are in Tampa. You can walk to the beach. You could walk to the beach. No, it's probably like a 10, 15, I'd say maybe 15 minute drive to the beach. Oh, that's not bad. No, yeah, that remind me of World Gym. When the World Gym was like only a hundred yards from the beach. No, no, no, maybe we need to train. Maybe that's location too. I wish I wish you witnessed that era, man. Well, you know, like what World Gym started, you know, Joe Gold started Gold Gym and then he sold it. Then he opened up World Gym. So World Gym, the second World Gym was literally on the beach. We trained. Really? And then we will walk to the beach. I'm like about 15 champion, you know, it's like Mr. Olympia on the beach. People, people won't walk. They look at us like, oh my God, Tom Platt, Pete Gubkowski, Andres, Colin B Dickerson. We all go down, Mike Mansur. It's like awesome, awesome. We're all on the beach. And people like go like they can't even what's going on here. You know, it's a great time. I wish, you know, that would be repeated. Have a gym ride on the beach. Wouldn't that be cool? Yeah. You know, I made my I made my way out. This is like probably 2016 or something. Made my way out to Venice Beach. I trained at Muscle Beach. Did you? And it was cool until I got the worst sunburn of my life. Yeah, that was not smart. Yeah, it's cold right now. Today was sunny, but we have been having a cold weather for the past week, approximately, even in Las Vegas, it was cold. Yeah, we spent it in the hotel. Yeah, yeah, it's been cold. It's the lady out here in Tampa. What's the temperature? 80 every day. What's the temperature like in Florida right now in 80 degrees? Yeah, 80. Wow. It's a lot better than here. Well, tomorrow we're going to have all the midwesterners are going to be hating us right now, John. Yeah. For sure. Yes, yes. Oh, man. You know, all right. You know, I'll tell you later off the record. So so awesome. That we have the grand openings next week here. And, you know, can't wait to see the new Mr. Olympia, really. And now in my head, I visualize, I visualize the new look of Derek Claesford. I'm going to close my eyes. It's like, that's what I used to do. I dream about my look. I dream of what's going on here. I'm telling you, dreaming about it, visualizing it really helps makes it even better. Yeah, I'm not being silly. You know, no, I get it. I totally get it. Derek, we're even when I was overseas, when I was in Lebanon and before I went to the universe in Verona, I used to dream about it. I like dreaming like Ben Weeder, Joe Weeder, lifting my arms and I'm going to win and I'm posing and I have like all the audience looking at me. It's crazy. It's crazy that you're you're you're I mean, whatever you really see in your mind, in my mind, you know, in your, you know, and visualize and see it, it's really more likely to happen. And I really believe in visualization, you know. How about you, John? Do you ever dream about your goal? Yeah. And we know Derek has because he did it last year. OK, let's dream. Let's dream of Derek Claesford at two thirty five beyond shredded to the bone. Beyond shredded. Remember, beyond shredded, not shredded beyond. So yeah, I just want I just want you to prove me right. And I want those big mouse people to shut their crap and, you know, show them that you would never. Yes. Yes. Oh, man. I love the beer comes to my defense. I love it. I love you, bro. Well, you know, but I just take trash talk in and think, yeah, I'm better. I'm better. You're not better. Just because you were like a little bit more cut up. It doesn't make you a better bodybuilder. OK. You you build a better half. OK. You by far. And even size wise, they're not bigger than you either. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I'm not being I'm not being too mean there, but I'm defending Derek because every time we spoke about it and I voted and I show you all. I'll show you all on the record that I put Derek Claesford always. You know, but I say that look when you change. Listen, which when you talk about. Always we felt that Samsung could also take you if he comes into push red it, but I don't see anybody. Other than you two have the complete muscle for. OK, I don't know what to do with Samson. He hasn't been sliced to the bone. Yeah, you know, if he does, it's going to be very close. Do you feel about your competition, your opponent in the next Olympia? Who do you feel is going to be the closest? Um, based on what we've seen so far, I still think that Hottie has the most balanced physique at the moment. Now, I'm interested, like all of us to see what Andrew does, because I definitely think there's a lot of room for improvement on him. Yeah. Yes. I think that like when you look at like the side shots and the back shots, it's a lot more challenging for Andrew going up against a guy like Hottie. You know, yeah. Now, Samson, you know, he downsized for this Olympia. And I've been there. I've been I've been there where I I took a different strategy and I came in downsized and then I said, OK, I got to come back with a different approach and I came back better. You know, I can imagine that that's what the mindset of Samson is having. But right now, I don't know what he's doing.  but it seems to be on a mission of just grow, grow, grow. No, he looked nice. I just saw some video. Yeah, sometimes that can work out good, and sometimes not always the best strategy. So at the end of the day, I think we're gonna definitely see a different Samson than we just saw, and I would like to think it's gonna be much improved, but his criticism was always like coming in conditioned, and some of the back, as well as like some of the back shots, too, but he's challenging because he's very balanced. That's how he won the 2024 Olympia. He was very balanced. Of course he is. Connie and I were off. He was the most balanced at the time. Let's put it that way. To me, it's really important for Mr. Olympia to have Saran wrap skin, like onion skin, and see deep separation. And I tell you what, when Samson get that paper, and skin, you see striation separation, I'm gonna say it, Lord have mercy. It's gonna be very hard. And for you, too, when you shred it to the bone, you're gonna be the man to be. That's the truth. It's so important. Hardy is beautiful. Hardy is beautiful. Hardy comes in shredded. His chest is in ab separation. His thighs are always cut, and he brings in energy on stage. He's like, for sure of himself. I know Hardy's always gonna be in the winter circle without a doubt. Right. Yeah, he's definitely gonna be a threat on everybody's side, always. So, I'm not one that likes to sit here and point out the weaknesses. I know where they need to improve. I would like to think they'd probably know this too, but you asked me the challenges. I think that Hardy and the best version of Samson are the most balanced along with myself. So, that's why I think that it's a safe bet to keep me, Hardy, and Samson at the top in terms of your overall pick. But like I said, we have the guys that you don't know what Andrew's gonna do. How much improvement is he gonna make? Andrew's very, very dangerous, man. Andrew's very, very dangerous. And I thought he could have even done better last year. Seriously. He definitely looked, from my opinion, he definitely looked incredible. Like, I'm not just saying that to be diplomatic. He looked like awesome. But I definitely don't think he was gonna be Hardy. On day two, he was fantastic. Like, he was pretty close on day two. I mean, because you were better on day one, you went back slightly on day two. They improved, and that's why people start saying, talking like, he was this and he was that. But I go to the IFBB rule, I mean, whatever you did on day one, it counted four. So, that's how they do things. And so, anyway, congratulations. You have a way to see when. I think pre-judging was very convincing that this year's Olympia, whereas finals was a little bit, sorry, I should say a lot closer. But I think pre-judging was very convincing. I agree. Yeah, yes, yes. Pre-judging was really, you walked in, you were like, right on. Yeah. You know, whatever happened on day two was slightly back down slightly. So. I even had someone, it was actually at finals on day two that this person said this, but one of my competitors on stage, nice guy, I won't say who it is, but he goes, man, do you feel as on as you look? And I said, yeah, I feel pretty good today. Well, I'm sure it's gonna be your best year ever. Now that you have enough time, then you have your new daughter coming up. And you handle that right now, wait ahead of time. You can sleep better later on. So, you know, they keep you up when they first, more night than the first like months or two. It's not gonna be easy to sleep. Hopefully she's not one of those. Compete in three shows, compete in three shows, show up to FIBO and other events and conceive another child all in one year. How about that? No, no days off. That's it, I know that. All right, Derek, well thanks for joining us on the show. And I'll look forward to seeing you next weekend on January 17th at your chance to meet you. I wish I was nearby. I'm going to the LA. We have also something going on here at the LA expo. Yeah. Yes, I'm meeting some people there, leisure nutrition and a couple of my friends. So, I guess, Spira is gonna be there too. So, wonderful, wonderful seeing you buddy. Really great that we discussed that, discussed your victory and we got to tell you, congratulations as we're gonna get to catch you last time. What means a lot coming from a Mr. Olympia? Yeah. Thank you. It's an honor and it seems that the good things yet to come. Yeah, thank you man. Nice to see you guys and catch up, thank you. All right, thank you. Thanks for coming up. Next weekend, yep. All right, take care guys. Bye bye. Thank you.