 100, four-time Mr. Olympia himself, Jay Cutler. Jay, thanks for coming on the show, buddy. I appreciate it. Great to be here. A huge milestone for you guys. Congratulations. Yeah, we finally made it. It's awesome when it's a number 100. We have one of my favorite people, Jay Cutler. It's really great. Great having you here, Jay. Really. When John told me yesterday, I said, oh, wonderful. Great. It's about time. I was just talking about, I just had a podcast with Breon, and we were just talking about the old school podcast and about you, and I said, I've got to rush home and I've got to do this. Usually I don't use a lot of outside podcasts, but for John's celebration and, of course, to see you, Samir, man, of course I had to come on here. And, you know, this is a huge, huge episode because John has stepped himself into the big leagues now. Not that he wasn't there already. I feel like he's done a lot of great achievements in bodybuilding, you know, on both sides between journalism and history and everything. But, man, to be an IFBB professional bodybuilder actually means something, doesn't it, John? Yeah, it sure does. Jay texted me that night and he said, welcome to the big leagues. That was awesome. I'm so proud of you, John, honestly. I mean, I have to give it to you a lot, give you a huge amount of credit because, really, in your last show, I'm not going to, no disrespect now, I think you looked your best even, you know, in all these years. I just love the quality. You peaked. You were popping. You know, what do you think, John? I mean, Jay, what do you think? Looked incredible, man. I mean, listen, it's, you know, to get up on that stage and compete, I mean, listen, John's done great things. I mean, he's won a lot of titles. But, you know, to have that mindset, you know, I watched him win Mel Chansey's show last, you know, last December. Yeah. And I couldn't believe it. Like, I was like, man, you know, the package that he brings, you know, and represents and, you know, for him to come forward now. And, of course, you know, being, falling a little short at the U and now, of course, to win this bad boy, right? It's crazy. Yeah. Goes to show that it's truly never too late, you know, to keep grinding. And he's still going. That's the crazy part. I can't wait to hear. I wonder what Jay Cutler's going to look like at 62. Well, I don't know. John's setting the bar pretty high, but I know he has. I can't wait to hear what his future plans are now that the dust has settled and, you know, now realization. You probably wake up every morning, John, and say, man, I can't believe I did it. Right? Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of like when, like you said, when you won the Olympia the first time, like that first week, you couldn't even sleep. Right? Every day. Real bodybuilding. Real bodybuilding like that. Passionate even forever. I mean, this has become like a, it's your life, you know. Bodybuilding is what we love. And to be in that condition at over 60, I have to tell you, man, I'm proud of you. And you really came out with quality. You were like 24K. Which is what we always talk about, you know. You peak like a real good girl. That's the nearest favorite thing. It's really crazy, too, because I really didn't plan it. You know, like last year, I was just dieting. I wanted to do some videos or photo shoots, you know, just for my online training business. And then, you know, like a month before, I just decided to do Mel's show. And I was like, man, I hope I don't embarrass myself. And then I won that pretty convincingly. And then Steve Weinberger was the head judge. So I asked him what he thought. He's like, man, you should keep going. And I said, well, maybe I'll do your show in the summertime. So then I trained hard in the offseason. I watched my macros. I didn't gain too much weight. I kept pretty lean. But I kept pushing the poundages. I kept trying to train heavier. I wanted to bring my legs up a little bit. And then dieted plenty of time, like 13 weeks out from the show. And did a warm-up show in St. Pete, Florida. And I won that. Then I went to the universe. And I think because the universe was a week after that other show, I flattened out. Because it was just two shows in a row. And I went in flat. And then me and my girlfriend went to New York the day after. And we were eating like crazy. And I think that cheat meal, like for two days, filled me out. And then when I decided to do the other one, which was like two weeks later, I was much fuller. And I think that's really what it was. I was just fuller. And then I looked harder. You know, when you're fuller, you look harder. That's one thing I noticed. So your legs still look incredible. And I know when I saw Jay on stage with Regan, and the legs were looking incredible. So what is something that you guys have changed? And obviously getting older in the sport of bodybuilding has helped keep that size and keeping that mass on the legs, which obviously a lot saved the first to go. Well, Jay's always had the good legs, right? Yeah, Marcus, listen, you're talking about a guy that had crazy genetics. I mean, Samir met me when I was like 21, Samir, or 22. And you remember the legs. I mean, I didn't train my legs for years. So to be able to hold on to that, you know, I probably wouldn't be as much. John would probably have to tell you. But listen, man, I still train. I still do a lot of volume. I still eat the meals. I stay really consistent. I mean, I've held on to some decent size. I mean, once you stop eating and training, that's when you lose the size. So, I mean, I don't think the cardio necessarily affects you. You get a little older because I do cardio every day, but that's more for heart health. But you just have to work with what made you get there. And I think, you know, I have no restrictions with that. So, like, I can still get under a squat bar. You know, I can still get under some decently heavyweight leg presses. And, you know, you just tend to hold on to that muscle. As long as you can train, you know, consistently and with enough efficiency, I think there's nothing. There's no limitations. Like John said, he still improved. I mean, his body parts improved from the Mel Chansey show, right? I mean, isn't that surprising, John? Yeah, it really was. Your body is responsive, you know, Jay. His body is responsive. Because, you know, let's be honest. I mean, John never abused anything. He was always on the natural side. And he did, which is, he said he didn't do anything. And I believe him. But, you know, he kept that healthy look. And when you, I mean, the proof is right there. When your body is responsive at over 60, that tells you that everything in his body is working properly. So, you know, and like you said, in between show one and show three, you made a huge difference. You changed it. You look great. Yeah, when I talked to Steve in December at Mel's show, you know, I said, I think I'm going to keep going. I want to do another show. And I said, what do you think I need to work on? And he's like, oh, you look great, man. He goes, your skin's tight. He goes, a lot of guys over 60, they don't have the tight skin. And I said, well, I think I need to bring my legs up a little more to match my upper body. What do you think? And he's like, well, I could tell you to bring your legs up. But at 61, you know, you're not going to bring your legs up. So I made sure that I was like heavier. And I pushed it. You know, I really pushed it. Even when I was dieting, I was pushing the poundages. Even if I was like lightheaded during the workout, I just kept pushing it. I was training heavier and heavier. And I think I really did bring them up. So, you know, I think if everything's working as far as your diet and training, I mean, you can still make improvements. Oh, yeah. I mean, I saw pictures of you at like 23 compared to now. And it's just like, you look better, which is mind boggling and awesome in itself. And it just goes to show the grit. You legit look better now. Thank you. No, definitely, man. You know, Jay, I'm almost 70. I'm 69. I'll be 70 in November. And you know what? You'll be 70 this November, Smith? November 7th. Wow. I'm getting 70. Okay. And so, you know, Tom Plath was just like two months older than me. And, you know, we were both hanging in. We're training. We're staying in decent shape. And then, you know, it makes me happy when I see a guy who won the Olympia four times, Jay. And the way he looks right now, knock on wood, he's staying healthy. He's looking awesome. He's got that charming personality. Everybody loves him. You know, that's what bodybuilding is all about. You know, you can become Mr. Olympia four times, five times, and really stay healthy if you do your job properly. And so this is some of the questions I want to ask Jay about some of the things that he does. I mean, you know, I tell you, I followed in Jay. You know, I was more on his corner. Really, I was so much on his corner. And, you know, a couple of times I felt like he should have won over, you know, I don't want to say it. I mean, the great Ron Coleman, it was unbeatable. And to see guys like Jay Cutler pushing the envelope, pushing the envelope. He was after Jay Cutler. You know how many people try so hard to get to Lee Haney, and most of us fail. But to go against Ron Coleman, you have to be a badass. I mean, you know, Jay Cutler took it from the great Ron Coleman. And what I love about Jay, he gives Ronnie so much credit for pushing him, for being there to make him a better champion. Such a driving force. Really, I was following so much in Jay Cutler. I got to tell you, Jay, I was always checking with Chris Asino. And Chris would send me a phone and say, hey, man, you got to see the new Jay. He sent me a phone and said, Samir, but don't post it. I'm like, okay, don't worry. I'm like, wow, he looks great. Yeah, man. You know, Samir, like I said, we met at a young age. You know, Chris Asino always talked very highly. You know, at one point, I used to ask him who was the most impressive guy in Gold's Gym, Venice. And he would mention your name over, you know, a lot of the big, big names at that point. And you were, you know, I think you were almost, I think you were retired by that point. You remember, I didn't start training until 91, Samir. So, you know, he talked about how impressive you were. But, you know, listen, Ronnie Coleman was great. And sometimes I feel like I'm a little disrespectful to the Haney's and Arnold's and, you know, even some of the, I just, I hate to say who is the greatest of all time. I just realized that Coleman took the physique to like the biggest muscular level that I think any Mr. Olympia, even to this day and era, has taken it. I think we all can agree on that. And he had the conditioning and the size. But, you know, listen, Haney was, he was retiring when I started training in 91. So I did pick up the magazines with him and Rich Gasparri and, you know, Francis Benfato and you, Samir. I mean, so all you guys inspired me. But I never imagined that I would ever get to that level. I mean, I remember I was a fan of Ronnie Coleman's. I mean, Ronnie Coleman called me. I won the night of champions, my first professional win in 2000. And Ronnie Coleman was the first one. He called me after prejudging and said, congratulations, you won. And back in that era, you didn't know, like it wasn't known because I felt like, you know, you don't know until the night show. And he says, no, no, you won it. You know, so it was kind of, it was kind of like, man, you know, I was relieved because he told me I won. But I respected him so much and I didn't beat Ronnie Coleman at his best. Like, that's a thousand percent. You know, he was a little older and it does get harder as you get older. That's why, respectfully, John, you know, you're, you know, you still having the fire and competing at that level. I'm 51. I just don't have that fire. I lost it. After 40, I stopped and I focused more on the social media, the traveling, the business and then just being someone that did it at that level. But, you know, you just you need that. You need to be go to that dark place, especially those last weeks to train. Like you said, like Steve Weinberg are telling you can't improve your legs and then you improving it. You know, that's that's a huge I mean, that's like I'm going to prove them wrong. Right. So I feel like you have to put yourself in a different perspective a lot in the gym. It's not always fun. But Samir, you know, being Mr. Olympia, like you have to have a stronger head almost in the physical challenge, because yes, to look at yourself and critique all the way around between the front and back and side poses. Like you have to have the ability to to realize what level you need to go to. Right. And I know you're thinking right now, as I say this, Samir, like how deep in your head can you go? And and John, the same thing, like it's never good enough. Any Mr. Olympia would tell you, I mean, what if I would have done this or if I could have changed this? And you try to duplicate sometimes. It's really hard to do. Right. I mean, I had a different look every time I went on stage. Fortunately, four times, four times, it was the chosen by the judges. And, you know, Samir, we can talk about the losses, but maybe there's a couple that I could have, you know, Victor Martinez pushed me in 2007. John, you know the history. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I remember. So I'm blessed. I'm blessed. Like you said, man, I'm living the lifestyle every single day, but I absolutely love it. The best part of my day is the training. I love getting up and doing my cardio fast in the morning. I do it seven days a week. I cook my egg whites in the morning. How long is session? I do 20 minutes, just, you know, 20 minutes high intensity. And then I hit another 20 after the workouts with weights, which I do almost seven days a week. I don't train for size. I train just a lot of volume. I do a lot of, you know, everything's 12 reps. And I feel like I'm 20 years old when I get under those weights. And I love it. That's awesome. And no eight meals, right? No, I'm done. I'm done with that. No buying a cow at a time. No 30 dozen eggs at a time when I purchase them at the farm stand, all that. I do have about, I probably still have eight egg whites in the morning, though. Yeah, yeah. Hey, Jay, is there anything that you've kind of, throughout your years, that you've kind of taken on in your career that has helped as far as just being where you are now? Just one thing that's like, maybe if it was trial and error or something that took a while, obviously you have so much passion. But just something that's maybe more behind the scenes that you can speak on. You know what? The sleep pattern is important. You know, I was always, you know, I always believed in at least five hours at night in one stint, right? And I used to get up and train in the middle of the night. And I used to do things to kind of toy with the people that I competed with, if that made sense. So I'd make sure people knew I was training in the middle of the night. And I felt like I was the only one doing that. And I wanted people to think, like, man, Jay's getting up in the middle of the night. That's why he's winning. So I had to learn to adapt to just like, hey, I'm not a full-time bodybuilder anymore. Like, no matter what, like, it took me a long time to step out of the routine of, like, eat, sleep, train and, you know, play those kind of games. Because, you know, you're traveling worldwide. You're doing events. You're spending time. But the reaction of people when they meet you, especially when you reach a certain caliber. And Samir, you know what I'm talking about. So sometimes people are just very shy. They don't know what to say. So as an introvert, which made me a great bodybuilder, being introverted made me super. Because I could go in the gym and I could spend all that alone time. And it made me great. But I had to learn to come out of the shell a lot and be open. So if someone walks up and they're nervous, I create that conversation, which sometimes is difficult. Especially with a lot of the youth today. Because they, you know, a lot of them are just not as social. It's a little different now. And as you see, John, I mean, you were at the show. I mean, there were three teenage bodybuilders in the whole show. And one of them was Chris Aceto's son. Right. Yeah. That is so disappointing to me. Because, you know, I mean, John, you can talk about the greats of teenage bodybuilders between Eddie Robinson, Sean Ray. All these guys. Lee Haney. Jeff King. I mean, the list goes on and on. Think about that. Think about three kids in the whole best show in the world. Right. Right. Crazy. Yeah, it is. They're just not into competing anymore. I think they're into the Instagram and, you know, taking the pictures at the gym. But they just don't want to get on stage, you know. What does that spell for discipline? Because, you know, the training. John, you were doing this when you were 14, 15. I mean, think about the discipline. And, Samir, I don't know what age you started. What age? I started around 17. Yeah. I was 18 when I joined. You know, late 16, early 17. And then, you know, a year and a half later, I was so passionate. That was total tunnel vision. That's what Chris and I talk about Farid and how he is. He compared Farid to me, kind of. And, you know, new kids on the block. And he's doing things right. I mean, he's blessed to be with someone that I've ever experienced. I wasn't. I didn't have anybody. Yeah. But, you know, I had that deep passion in me. And I wanted to. I opened the magazine. I buy all the American magazine even back in Lebanon and checking everybody and how they pose. And I used to, like, they get the dictionary to find out what the hell is carbohydrate. Yeah. No, really. I mean, I'm educated in French. And so, for me to go to English, you know, I used to get Muscle Builder Power, which is Joe Weaver's magazine, Muscle Fitness. At the time, it was by Muscle Builder Power. He had Shape magazine. Not Shape. I mean, Mr. America. Those are the names before they become Muscle. You know, I used to get an article, look at Zane, look at Arnold, and try to, you know, you read an article by Armand Taney, try to find out what the hell is that, you know. So, I was passionate to the point where I really wanted to get there. And really, that's, you know, Jay, it's not like because you're here. I'm telling you, I have a lot of respect for people like you after winning for Mr. Olympia. And now you are into health. You practice health. And you're good to your fan. You're great social media guys. I have to hand it to you, man. And you really, it's amazing. But I do have some question to ask you about your championship. I know you won four. And which is your best one? Which was your best look out of the four? 2001 when I should have won and they took it from me. And then I got in trouble for it, too. So, I don't want to go into detail on that. Yeah. Okay, Marcus, I'm going to ask John. How close was it in 2001, John? Oh, it was real close. Yeah, I thought you had it. Well, that was, I think, correct me if I'm wrong, Jay, but wasn't that the first time they called a two-man comparison at the very end of the prejudging? Wow. I remember how excited you were. And then you killed Ronnie in that ab pose, man. That was the last pose. The last pose of the ab pose. I was vocal about it. That goes to show how close it was. Everybody. Yeah. I don't say anything in the derogatory way. I love Ronnie Coleman. I'll be honest with you. But, you know, when it comes to bodybuilding and judging, that's okay. You can say it like it is without, you know, it's not in a derogatory or in a terrible style. I felt that, you know, you should have won. And I voiced my opinion. And, you know, even Ronnie got mad at me. So what do you say? No, no, no. Ronnie, I love you, man. But weren't you like eight people? You had that edge. Six points, John. Six points. Six ahead after prejudging. Since if a guy's ahead, okay, just by the scores, okay, this isn't about our feelings here. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. This is based on the scorecards, which God knows how everyone knew I was ahead by six points. I don't even know. But it seemed like everyone knew. So rolling into the night show for Ronnie to win by three, he gains nine points at the night show. And I fell back. It was kind of a travesty a little bit. But you know what? I was blessed. I was blessed I didn't win then because the underdog challenge, it just made me a people's champ. Yeah. And it groomed me to be a better person when I was able to win it in 2006. So Samir, great moments. 2006, you know, it became like a size thing. It probably wasn't my best condition, but I held a lot of size. I was comparable to Coleman. 2007, obviously, was a little stumble with Victor. You know, I had an infection that year. And then I lost to Dexter in 08. 09, coming back. Like, I did that quad stomp. It's kind of legendary now. So I think that was pretty good. I was a lighter body weight. You know, my best was in the mid-250s. And I won my first Olympia 273. It's too big. It was too big. I said over and over, I got way too big, way bigger than I wanted to be. The body got a little distorted. I was my best, you know, and I was 240, 250. But, you know, I won the Nationals 248 when I was 23 years old. So for me, you know, I don't really – I mean, 01 was great. 03, Ironman was great. Samir, so when you talk about Olympia wins, probably 09 is probably the most memorable one because that's what people remember because of the quad stomp. And I came back and beat Dexter and changed the history that year. It seems like so long ago now and we still talk about that because we haven't seen anyone come back to be able to, you know, lose the title and come back to win it again. And, you know, as you've got more and more guys now that have changed hands over the last few years, including Brandon Curry, there is that opportunity now that we are going to see history repeat itself and someone is going to come back and win that title after losing it. I mean, Samson's a great competitor. There's so many great guys to talk about. The Olympia – the depth is just crazy at this point. But, you know, we still talk about the old school times of me and Ronnie and, you know, before that, you know, the Sean Ray and Kevin and, you know, Paul DeLette and, you know, Flex Wheeler, all these great guys. I mean, you trained amongst those guys, Samir. And in Gold's Venice, you got to witness a lot of these guys firsthand. So I'm just so happy to be part of history. But if you ask me, I mean, 01 was great. 06 was a great turning point for me because I won. But 09, probably coming back to win it, that was probably one of the most historic. What did you weigh in 01? 255. 255. 254 and 09. Okay. Here's my question I'll follow. I mean, I'm like following everything you did during your winning and losing too. And you came back with vengeance every time. And I have to hand it to you because this is what a true champion do. And you have the heart of the lion. You came back. And I know you were so focused. This is what separates the man from the boys. But I have a question to ask. I know. And to be honest with you, I love your first two, three look. And the last one, as you got bigger. I didn't think, even though you won deservingly, but I like your look earlier at a bit lighter weight. Do you agree on that? Or what do you say? I mean, I just said that. I think everyone, if you look at the history, fell victim of what the standard became by the judging procedure. So if you look at, I'm just going to throw out names. And you guys are going to nod your head exactly. Flex Wheeler got too big. Yeah. Ronnie Coleman got too big. Phil Heath got too big. I got too big. You know who did not get too big? Dexter Jackson, Chris Cormier, Sean Ray, Lee Labrada. The consistency. Yeah. That consistency showed, too. Especially in 2008. I thought Sean Ray did get big at some point. And he didn't look as bad. He didn't look as bad. He still was. I don't consider him big. He was always big. He was the top five at the Olympia 12 years old. Oh, yeah. I feel like a great example of that is Dexter Jackson in the sense of that. Of, like, staying consistent. And then 2008 came. And it was his for the taking. It was that consistency. He didn't chase his eyes. He just waited, Marcus, on the sidelines to be like, let these guys play that game. Yeah. And listen, he went a lot longer. I mean, he still looks tremendous now. But we talk about the greats. And this is what I want to circle back to when I started. Dexter Jackson belongs on the Mount Olympus of great bodybuilders. Because if you look at his career and how many winnings he had. And I mean, it's just like Beckles, Samir, you know. Yes. But Dexter won a lot, man. So we leave him out of the conversation very disrespectfully, I feel like. Because if you look at the epitome of bodybuilding, Dexter Jackson, the story is just incredible. Beautiful body. I love his muscle roundness. And he's like so balanced. I tell you what, Dexter is one of my favorite. One of my favorite, Mr. Olympia, without a doubt. And listen, I mean, I would say that Phil Heath is, I mean, seven-time champ. But realistically, Phil Heath at 90%, 85% still beats almost everybody. So that kid, that kid had the genes he had when he went in the gym and put the work in and put the diet together. Granted, he had crazy genetics. That kid put together a physique that is going to be recognized in 10 or 20 years a lot greater than it is today. I can promise you that. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know you were like pushing him as he was your buddy. And, you know, he came back to really challenge you. He beat me. I'll tell you what, Phil Heath, without a doubt, was the most complete, beautiful bodybuilder all around, without a doubt. And, you know, yes, also for Heath, I like him in the first five, six years. And the last couple of years, he's got a little bit not as sharp and a little blocky. Yeah. Yeah, we all did. And I think, as Jay Cutler, I like Jay Cutler the first two, three years. Well, like to me, that's the look. It was like beautiful, more wasted. You weren't as huge, but you were perfect. I think that was the look for Jay Cutler, honestly. And, you know, I was going to ask you, because I know in the final year, you didn't work, you and Chris. You and Chris didn't work together. So I want to know, what have you done in that year different? I know you packed on a lot of beef. What was the difference that you did for that prep? Well, just to put a little insight there. So Chris and I worked, and I lost in 2008 to Dexter. I hired Hani Rambod, which kind of was just a weird situation, because I had asked him just to give me a little eye, because things just weren't aligning, I felt like, with Chris and I. We worked together so long. And I think that we got a little complacent, and that was partly because of me. You know, I'm like, hey, I'm Mr. Olympia. You know, I really couldn't really take necessarily criticism on a sense, because I felt like I was still superior to a lot of the guys. I never thought Dexter would come up and beat me, I'll be honest. I mean, he was a smaller stature bodybuilder, but it was still a big man's game. So, you know, when I brought Hani on for 9 and 10 and 11, I lost to Phil in 11, because I tore the bicep that year. But, you know, we had some pretty good results. He put me on a step mill for the first time. I never really, you know, that became a thing now. And the old school guys, you know, they wouldn't recognize that. But the glutes and hamstrings, it became such an importance of conditioning. And I really wasn't getting that from the treadmill. And maybe it was just the diet technique. But, you know, I did, you know, bulk up in the offseason very heavy and get a lot bigger. But when I dialed down, you know, it was all about water retention and adding in, you know, trying to lose the water a little earlier, that was kind of the secret to what I needed to do. So I was a lot drier leading into the show. So the manipulation wasn't so rugged on my body. Because the thing is, is I would hold such a big body weight. And then I'd have to suck down like 20 pounds of water the last like three days before a show. And, you know, it's like trying to land a plane, you know, without, you know, having a tower to land that plane when you're that big. And you have to manipulate that so much. John, you just went through this, right? Yeah. I just talked about this. So a lot of times I'd flatten out. I didn't have the pop. So when I was able to really tie it together, granted, 09 was the best out of the 10 or the 11th. The 11th just, I was leading into 11th, actually my best. But, you know, I tore my bicep three weeks out. It just totally sidelined me and just, it caused a lot of inflammation. But, and then I came back with Chris in 13. Samir, I came back in 13 when I did my comeback and I finished six. It was my worst, worst placing in 10 years. But at last, I finished with Chris. I talked, I just talked to Chris an hour ago. You know, we're still really close. Obviously, we just, you know, I wanted to try some different things. You know, he's my coach since I was 19 years old. He taught me everything. He taught me everything, not about bodybuilding also, but about business and building, you know, the brand. And I tend to talk about, people talk about, you know, my success patterns outside of the gym. And Chris Aceto molded me to be that person. You know, that's the one thing that I have to give Chris credit for is he taught me how to purchase a home for the first time and to build my mail order. And to travel to events and, you know, speak to people. He put my name in front of people, greatness like yourself, Samir, you know, to say, hey, this kid's got the tools. And everyone doubted him. But look where it ended up. I mean, he introduced me to Joe Weider, Ed Connors. I mean, all these guys that impacted my life. And, I mean, you know, Joe Weider offered me a contract when I was 22 years old. And I knew I had something because Chris gave me the confidence. Exactly the same reason why I knew in 2000 I went on the tour with Chris Aceto. I stood next to Ronnie Coleman on the tour there and placed second to him. And Chris Aceto came backstage and said, you will beat Ronnie Coleman. Just give it a year. And I took the whole year off and I trained for 01. And when I came off stage in 01, he said, I told you you were going to win because he was crying after prejudging like you just won this show. Like, hands down. So, it's crazy. Like, our relationship goes deeper than a coach or anything like that. We became brothers. I mean, he slept on my couch. I mean, we were a few years apart. But, you know, Chris mentored me more than people could ever imagine. I, you know, I have to credit him much more than a bodybuilding coach. People see him as that. That guy is just, when he's in your corner. Yes, when he's in your corner. He's a real guy, man. There's no one better to be in your corner than Chris Aceto. Yeah, he cares. He cares. He, you know, he's like one of, I think he's one of the most, the safest coach out there. Seriously. No disrespect to anyone. But, you know, he's more rational. He cares. And he does things from the heart. I'm not saying that everyone, they all do. But I think Chris have extensive experience. And I know Chris very well. We still talk all the time. I mean, you know, during the years where you came back and, like, I was following, you know, like, oh, yeah, watch the new Jay Cutler, man. He sent me a photo. I still have some of them on my phone from back in the day. I'm like, wow, wow, man. Oh, wow, Jay. Hey, Jay, I wanted to ask you, you were talking about the early days. And I saw that interview you did with that Overcome podcast. Yes. That was a really good interview. And you were talking about this one contest. I think it was the Tournament of Champions. And you said that was the one that you knew that you were going to be a great bodybuilder. And it's interesting because I talk to a lot of bodybuilders on my Bodybuilding Legends show. And it seems like there's always one contest early in the career. Like, with Dorian Yates, I think it was when he won his first novice contest. It wasn't the Mr. Olympia. But he knew that that was the one that changed his mindset, you know, where he knew he was going to become a champion. August 19th, 1995. Was that day of that contest. Samir, you might have been there. It was in L.A., right? I have been. I saw you in all your ways. It was in Redondo Beach Performing Arts Theater. Okay. And I showed up there. I flew out. Chris Aceto flew out with me. And that was my first lead-up show after the T Nationals. I remember, you know, Connors, Irv Gelb, all those guys told me, if you want to get the publicity, do a show in California. It will get you the publicity. And we can probably get you a muscle and fitness cover shoot. And that was the whole goal was to walk away from, you know, that contest to be in front of the magazines. As you know, it's not like today. You had to be in California to make it happen. Yes, yes. So I flew out there competing in the show, one hands down. I mean, people laughed when I came out on stage. That's what it was like. Because at 22, I mean, it was crazy. I mean, I was huge. I remember what you look like even now. I could just close my eyes, rewind and replay. I know exactly what you look like back in the day. I remember, you know, like many people don't know who Jay, you know, Connor. And Connor is really one of the most passionate people. He's really a good guy. And, you know, Jay surrounded himself with good people. When you have Ed Connor, what you said, Irving Gelt, Chris Asido. And you yourself, you have that deep passion. And so, you know, I mean, you have all the nucleus, all the necessary stuff. That's why you went all the way, man. That's why you got four. You probably could have got more, you know. Yeah, and I got my first muscle and fitness photo shoot. I remember I got introduced to Joe Weider. So I went up there in a white T-shirt and these plaid shorts. And I walked in. I literally was so nervous to meet Joe Weider. And I remember they opened the door. And I walked in and Joe was sitting there. And I remember seeing he was like he was like he had on a tie and slacks and sneakers, like white tennis shoes. So I was kind of like I looked at that and I'm like, wow, this is a little different, you know. And he says the first thing he says to me goes, hey, he said, who'd you shoot with? And I said, Irving Gelb. And that's the first thing he said to me. Who'd you take pictures with? I said, Irving Gelb. And he goes, OK, because I want to sign you to a contract. That's it. First thing he said to me. That's awesome. I walked in in the T-shirt and I was jacked. You know, I was young and I had the blonde hair. And he he said he referred to me, he said to Chris, because Chris Isito was with me. He's like he's like a Dave Draper with something. Chris Isito will probably tell you what it is. But he said you're the next blonde bomber. Yes. He's like a Dave Draper with bigger muscles or something like that. That's a compliment right there. Yes. So and I'm like, wow, like this is Joe Weider. Did he tell you to take your shirt off and pose a little bit? He didn't even have to because he already knew. I mean, it had been the show had already happened. So I shot the muscle and fitness the next day was my first. I'm looking at it right now on my wall. And I was 20. I was just turned 22 years old. And man, I mean, to go back to Boston, go back to Boston and my mom to walk around every grocery store and buy every magazine. I mean, John, you remember if you were on muscle and fitness, you are on every magazine rack. When you walked checked out at the grocery store, that was that was like winning the Mr. Olympia. Oh, yeah. Muscle and fitness had worldwide recognition. It was in all these different languages. So I was like, man, I am going to do this. I'm definitely going to chase this career. And, you know, I refused the contract from Joe Weider because it was only like it was only a two grand a month at the time. And, you know, the next year I won the Nationals and I doubled that contract. I signed for like 50 grand was my first Weider contract. I was on top of the world, man. Oh, yeah. I was getting paid to be a bodybuilder. And, you know, I was able to travel to California and and just be mixing up with the with the greats like yourself, Samir, and like training the legendary Gold's Gym. And my dream was to look at that wall and say, I want to be on that wall next to Doreen Yates and all you guys, you know, you always speak on so much humility. Right. And like there's one moment in particular, like I loved recently with Samson and William Bonick, whenever Samson won, William Bonick ran on stage and just embraced him. Right. Yeah. And you're big on humility. And I remember, you know, for 2001, you were looking at Phil and, you know, you were pretty much eyeing to him. You got this. That showed so much humility. And even though it was a moment where you were like you lost. Right. However, to me, it was such a big win as far as from the fan perspective, just about you and the real human that you are. It's one of my favorite moments to see somebody on that level and just still be so just a human. Yeah, man. I've had a lot of like mental, mental conversations with Phil saying, you have to believe you're the champion. You have to believe you're greater than the next. And you know what? Like, I know he respected me and he never wanted to show the disrespect because he pushed me hard in 2010. I mean, there were a lot of people that thought it was, you know, and I told him, I said, Phil, you need to stop looking at me as like the teacher of all this, you know, and it's time for you to step up and be like, I'm coming. I'm winning. It doesn't matter who, if it's my best friend or not. Like, you need to be prepared to win this thing and have a speech ready. Like, you know, you need to be able to take that microphone and run with it. So that's what I always had those conversations. Jay, I have watched you since day one, ever since you came down to California. I know what you look like. And I knew in my, in my heart that you are driven. I know. I said, man, that Jay Cutler, he's driven. You could see him like every year is climbing, climbing. You know what? All of a sudden for Mr. Olympia, it's unbelievable. But anyway, uh, big Jay, while we add it here, I have some other question now regarding bodybuilding because we know when you win Mr. Olympia four times, man, come on. It's like, to me, this is like beyond, beyond unbelievable. Even I won one and I'm like, wow, it's aesthetic. I can't believe that. You know, one Mr. Olympia is, is good win, but to win it four times. And that's unbelievable, man. Honestly. And to come back at that pressure, you'd only want to come back. You know, that's, that just goes to show. Unbelievable. Now, Jay, I have some questions and I'm sure John probably have tons of questions, but I wanted to ask you about, you know, lately we've been seeing some guys going up on stage and doing all the funky chicken stuff, dancing, you know, I want to say, honestly, it's like, you know, we're not a hater. We love bodybuilding. We want bodybuilding to be the most recognized sport and we want it to be respected worldwide, everywhere. But sometimes you see some people get on stage and do some weird things. You know, you have some people say, oh, it is okay. Some say, the majority say it's not okay. For me, you know, recently they showed a guy who went up and screaming and shouting and his body is like not even belonging to Mr. Venice Beach. I mean, what do you think about that? Should that, should there be a boundary and some of those guys should not allow to create, to do these kind of act on stage? You know, the thing is, is we used to have a rule book, right? I know in the pros, we had like an actual rule book that we would get. But the truth is, is, you know, as you build more competitions, you know, the IFBB has expanded tremendously, right? So as you expand and you get more people participating, you're always going to have some standouts that, that don't, that walk into a show, probably never watched one. You know, maybe they didn't work with a coach or opposing, you know, someone in the gym that, that said, hey, these are the kind of the restrictions or this is, this is protocol. And as you expand division, Samir, we came from strictly bodybuilding. Okay. Now you have every division in the world, whether it's classic physique, men's physique, women's physique, figure, bikini. And, you know, listen, the men's physique guys are always looking for something to do other than a front and back pose. There's a lot of transitional things going on and, you know, but as the expansion happens and more and more people participate and they don't have the knowledge or the experience, you're going to have a couple of standouts come out there and look for that attention, Samir. Like they don't know, but that's where, you know, that's where it's important when you, when you open, you know, I promote four amateur contests myself. So when we do our meeting, we explain like, guys, we don't, we don't need this kind of stuff going on. And it may or may not been said. And I'm not saying like someone messed up on, on that side, but you can't control every single person when they get on that stage. Unfortunately, or fortunately for a lot of people, it's individual. You can do whatever you want. You've seen people get disappointed and smash their trophies and walk out on stage. I mean, the water aqua stage, it's, it's similar to that. You're it's, it's one in a, like, this is the first time we're talking about it, Samir. And out of how many contests have we seen? Yes. There's some stuff going on, but in the end, I'm never going to discredit someone that gets on stage. You don't know what those people went through to get on that stage. They could have lost 300 pounds to get there. You don't know. And that could be their Olympia. You know what I mean? So, so I'll never look at someone's conditioning because listen, man, I used to walk around the gym and ask people, how do you diet for a contest? You just said, Samir, you know, you being in Lebanon, studying what a protein and a carb is like, we don't have the knowledge because it's something we're not taught when we're young in school. No one taught you that deep about nutrition. And that's why I think that today, like, like I said, it goes back to like, it makes me, it makes me really sad that the teenage nationals has three kids in it. I don't understand it. What are the kids doing? That's the question. What are they doing? Are they sitting on their phones and like playing video games? Are they just social media? Are they saying, okay, well, listen, the stage is a great platform. Even if you're not, if you're trying to build your social media, it gives you the exposure, but it also gives you that discipline that that led to my success in business and the relationships and all the great things that that have happened in my life. We're structured by eat, sleep, train, build your body, you know, feel good about yourself, you know, have that confidence. Yeah. So you walk in a room, you're not like that hidden guy in the corner. Like I'm the guy that grabs the seat when you, when you go to church or whatever, I'm in the front row, you know, I'm not that guy sitting 10 rows back because I don't want to be, you know, I'll go to a show in Vegas. I don't care. I'll sit in the front row. I want to see the best seat in the house. Right. Because I have the confidence to sit there. So if I'm asked a question or if I'm put on the spot, I'm prepared all the time. Yeah. It's amazing too, Jay, when you, when you look back at the teenagers, like I started my first teenage show with December of 79. So in the early 1980s, I was competing in teenage shows. And I remember doing the Teenage Mr. Illinois. There was 85 teenagers in that show, a state teenage show, 40 guys in my class. And that was right after a couple of years after Pumping Iron came out. And I'm convinced that that movie influenced so many young kids to want to be bodybuilders because that movie was so positive about bodybuilding. And, you know, Arnold was so charismatic. I think a lot of people want to look like Arnold. And it's just amazing where it's come from, from 85 teenagers in a state level show to three teenagers at the Teenage Nationals. So what is, what are we doing wrong, John? John, something is wrong with what we're, our message. So if you said to me, it's a huge eye opener for me. I mean, me being A-50 plus old man, but I, how can we get the youth involved deeper? You know, every national champion, John, they were in their early twenties. If, you know, if they were barely 20, you remember I was 23. I mean, Sean, Kevin, Chris Cormier, all these guys were under 25 years old. Lee Haney was what, 20, 21? I mean, 22. I mean, he was 22 when he won his first Olympia. I feel like we kind of need like another pumping iron. Like I see, I think we kind of saw that a little bit with like Bumstead, right? As far as like social media, it got so big. TikTok, everybody was wanting to be Bumstead. But I feel like it stopped at TikTok. It stopped at social media to where like that respect was never gained to get on stage. It seems like, Mark, they never, they never get to the stage. Like they're happy to just stay in the gym, take the pictures and then post it. And then they just never really want to go on stage. You know, maybe it's a drug tested show, Jay. Was it drug tested? No, it's no, it wasn't. But the point is Lee Haney hit it on the head. He said bodybuilding when he said it needed a reset. People had their arms up in the air saying he's insulting bodybuilding. He's talking about this. And that's the point that people missed. The generations that is under what we're seeing now. What is the future? What is the future? That's where he's talking about that the younger generation are not getting on stage and competing like he was season two. And the greats around him were season to do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Things have changed a lot. Yeah. I remember Casey Vieter. It's got to be social media, I think. When he won the Teenage Mr. America. I remember back in the days, Casey Vieter was only like 17 years old when he won the America. Casey was 19 when he won the Mr. America. Yeah. He won the National when he was 19, right? Mr. America. He was a teenager. John, how about Victor Terra? Think about Victor Terra. Yeah. Yeah. How great he was. He was from my area. Unbelievable. Massachusetts. Right. Great body. Yeah. Whatever happened to him? I just interviewed him last year. He's doing good. John sends me every episode and I enjoy it. I listen to every single one. And John, I appreciate that. That's why I'm on this show. Thank you. I feel like you're in such a cool area because I feel like, Jay, you're in this position to where you're right in the middle. There's the golden era and I feel like you truly ushered in the new era of bodybuilding. I think that's why so many guys today, the real guys, once you are getting that respect, getting you on stage, have the utmost respect for you. So I feel like your position is almost, it's needed because you're right there in the middle to where you know the Samir's. You have all the respect. However, you also kind of helped usher in this new era of bodybuilding. You know, so like, I feel like your voice is so important with this in this topic. And that's why you see me at every expo. I'm in Anaheim next week and I have these kids that come up. I encourage these kids to try getting on a bodybuilding show. And listen, I don't say, you know, hey, bodybuilding. I say, you know, whether it's classic or even men's physique, because I want people to go through the trial and error of putting their body into the best condition, because the discipline of the nutrition, the training aspect, and having the balance, you know, to be able to put your personal time and dedicate yourself to something, to put your work ethic, because it will give you, incentivize you to be better and continue to do things at the best of your ability. And, you know, John's right in the middle of that right now. I mean, he's probably more motivated than ever. And what else? What else is more motivating than success? That's where I love. I love the success when you get on stage and you look at your body and you're like, it doesn't matter. Sometimes you don't win. Yeah. But the transition you go through, Marcus, there's nothing that replaces that self-satisfaction. It builds your confidence. Yeah. Yeah. And you can look at yourself and, you know, you're just, I say these people all the time, like, I lost 100 pounds. I said, first question I ask is, how do you look at yourself in the mirror now? And it's like, it's life changing for people. Yeah. Yeah. And it's crazy because you speak on that and there's a duality that's needed there as far as like, you know, you're, you're somebody who has, you know, that passion, but you were also introverted. Right. So I feel like that confidence that Chris and Cito helped build in you and, you know, the introvertness is what kind of helped bring this, you know, the Jay Cutler and the person that's so well-respected by everybody alive. So I feel like I always wanted to, I wanted to ask you like, out of the new people, you're, cause I think you are the true, like the best ambassador for the sport. I'm not just saying that cause you're here. I think you are. You've showcased that now out of the a hundred percent out of the newer people and not Mr. Olympia winners, but that's a cop out. But if you can name a couple of people who you feel like, you know, who have that duality that you showcase, who would be really good ambassadors for the sport today? You know? I mean, listen, I, I, I think Phil represents that. I think Samson's doing a wonderful job. I mean, he's getting out there, he's networking. He gets on his social media. He's a guy that he probably never imagined he'd ever be in this position. I think he's a tremendous Mr. Olympia. I think Brandon Curry was a tremendous Mr. Olympia, not to say like the hotties and, um, uh, big Rami. I just like, they just, they didn't have the ability to travel extensively like these guys. Derek Lunsford does a great job. Derek Lunsford puts himself in front of people. And, and I mean, he's a very pot when someone's a positive person and even when they win and lose, they come back and they just show the perseverance. And the consistency. And that's what you look for. Social media is consistency. Just like this podcast. And like, you guys have to show up every week. You have to get behind a camera. You have to have conversation. Okay. Sometimes it's not easy because we have a lot of personal things that go on. Right. There's a lot of, a lot of things pulling us left and right. John, you've been dieting for God knows how long. I mean, probably since last year, but you still have to turn, turn that switch on and be able to say, Hey, you know what? I want to give, you know, you want to present yourself. So all those champions, and I don't want to discredit any of these guys because they're all great. I mean, listen, if Hadi was able to, if he didn't have the hearing issue and what, everything else, like he's a, he's a mega star. And is look at, have you seen a lot of personality too? Yeah. But when he comes back to Iran, have you ever seen a crowd like that? I mean, we saw him and Ron Rami being like national celebrities. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Can you imagine? I remember getting off the, you know, I would leave the gym, you know, in Vegas and leave the, you know, the place in Vegas. Of course, the crowd's outside. Samir was usually one of those people sitting outside the venue. But after that, it's like, it's like no one cares, you know, I can't get on the news station or anything else. And I watched these guys jump off the plane and it's like the president's there. You know what I mean? It's like a motorcade and shit. It's crazy. Man, you know, it's a shame that Hadi have an always problem traveling, you know, because you know, he's Persian. I mean, I just hate the fact when you mix up politics with athletic, you know, I mean, come on, you know, for me, for me, it's always been live and let live, you know, God. I mean, you know, Hadi, Hadi's problem is can't travel a lot. So he can't be as a good ambassador because he's not traveling. He's always limited in his traveling and stuff like that. Yeah. But speaking of quality here and bodybuilding, and I know, you know, when we talk about Olympia, you know, do you feel like the quality has kind of went down a little bit nowadays? Like than it used to be, you know, I'm talking about that, you know, that edge quality, that edge physique, like the one I saw in Ronnie Coleman, for example, in 2000, was it 2001 with Ronnie was at his all time best? Was it 2000 or 2001? I would say 99, 98, 99. Well, 01 Arnold, he was completely shredded, right? Yeah. 248. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you know, Samir, the quality is not the same. You know what it is? I'm going to tell you what it is. Okay. It's tell me, I want to hear it from you. It's the judging. There is something. It's the judging. It's the judging because, and I'm not saying that it's a bad thing. Okay. But when you're judging the bigger body parts and this stemmed from when I was doing it. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. They, they're just rewarding, you know, the massive guys. Well, massive with enough condition, but you're also the film, the film is different. But when you have Samson as Mr. Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I was thinking. Which he has a hell of a body, right? I mean, he's like, he's like Lee, Lee, Lee Haney, but a bigger version, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yes. What are the guys going to do to, to take him down? I mean, they better hope he's off condition, but if he's on enough condition, who's going to beat him and who's going to beat Hadi Chupin with his razor condition in that sense? I mean, Hadi arguably could have won a lot of years, Samir. Yeah. A lot of years that he did not win. But anyway, I'm thinking Jay, why some of those guys are not like, I know you came in to show super shredded few times and I know Ron Coleman came in super shredded. And I talk about that quality. For example, Samson has the body without a doubt. And I think he needed an additional 5% of sharpness. Do you think that is needed? I mean, I'm not disrespecting him here. He deserved what he did, what he got. He deserved what he got. But I think he's going to be deadly dangerous with additional 5% more quality. It's going to be hard to beat. Well, we always say could have, should have, whatever. But the truth is, it all comes down to when they line him up, who's the best? Who do you see? Yeah. And it's very unpredictable. And I think that these guys are getting criticized way too much. I think that the, I mean, building this year's Olympia, if you have, if you have Hadi, if he can get here, you've got Hadi, Samson, Derek, Andrew Jacked, Brandon Curry, I assume he's going to do it. Brandon, yeah. Who am I leaving? Nick Walker. Nick Walker. Dude, that's a hell of a top 5 or 6. I don't even know how many I mentioned. Yeah, anybody so. I mean, you're going to tell me you're going to criticize those guys aren't comparable to a lot of the guys back in the era? I mean, granted, you're talking Ronnie Coleman. You're talking Flex Wheeler. Just, you're talking about the greatest bodies of all time, Samir. I mean, arguably, right? Is Flex Wheeler the best built human ever? Flex Wheeler? I mean, 93. Incredible genetic. That 93 Arnold. So, you know, it's a shame that Flex Wheeler is not an Olympia-less, you know. He could have been Mr. Olympia. I know, but. What happened? I mean, Doreen Yates, like, you know, winning the Olympia as many times as he did. I mean, who had a back like Doreen Yates besides Derek Lunsford, who's 5'6", compared to Doreen Yates, who's 5'10"? It makes a difference. So, when you talk about the quality, I think these guys get shit on way too much. I still think the quality is there. But the judging procedures, okay, they're looking for the, you know, the size has gotten, and it started with Doreen, and it went through me and Ronnie, where we got way too big. And now, you know, you see the guys, they're just expansive in a sense, which the bigger you are and the fuller you are, you're going to lose some of that detail. And we talked about Dexter Jackson. He was way more shredded early in his career than when he got blown up a little more. And he had, like, rounder, fuller muscles. They start losing that detail that they had in the early stages of, like, you know, from your era, Samir. Like, the guys were in the 200 teens. Now, if you're not 250, you're not competing on Olympia stage in the top five. It's ridiculous, you know. But that's what it's come to. That's progression. That's evolution. It's what it is. So don't shit on the guys today because it's only because they have to be at that level to compete. And the money, Samir, the money is massive. I hear you. I mean, $600,000. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about this, like, you know, when you talk about something, you're talking about a great, I mean, unbelievably gifted guy. He's, like, gifted as much as Phil Heath. I mean, the guy's got everything. And I'm just saying, what the reason why we're not getting that really paper, saran-wrapped onion skin. This is what I wanted to do. Because they carry. That's disrespectful. They carry way more size than the guys ever did. Right. That's why. So it's a balance. Are you going to go for the most shredded guy or the roundest, fullest? It's still bodybuilding. If you can have round, crazy, full muscle, it's just like this. Hottie Chupin shredded to the bone. Samson, you say, needs to be 5% better. But he has better shape when you look at the silhouette. Nope. So that's where the judging has to determine, do we go for this or do we go for this? And that's where the audience is inexperienced because they look at a guy and say, that guy's the most shredded. He should win. No, that's not what it's about. If the guy doesn't have the physique, Samson is the best. Yeah, I mean. Samson's physique is the best physique in the IFBB right now. Definitely. Zero question. Definitely. I don't think any of us would disagree with him. Totally agree. Totally agree. He's got a beautiful body and he can pose really, really well. I'm just, in my head, I'm still thinking it's possible to be super massive and super shredded simultaneously. I mean, to get that paper thin skin. I mean, look, because I saw that on Ronnie Coleman. You're talking about, dude, you're talking about Ronnie Coleman. He's a goat for a reason. Yeah, but. You're talking about a guy from Mars. I don't mean. I mean, he was pinching his back and still winning shots, man. No, I'm not being disrespectful. I know. I know you're not. And listen, I'm not even. I'm telling you. Ronnie Coleman is. You're never going to see Ronnie Coleman again. I don't give. I don't give a shit what anyone says. John, Marcus, you can disagree with me. I'm not disagreeing. I don't think we're seeing another Ronnie Coleman. I'm not, John, I'm not disagreeing with mass and class and beauty. I'm disagreeing. I'm just talking about, you know, how striated, the separation, the additional. That's at a lighter body weight place. That's what I'm trying to say. You can. Your muscles. Your muscles are how much water. When your muscles have that much expansion. Think about how round these guys are. How many fibers can you see when the muscles that full and round? Yeah. Well, you know, we should call that a water war to Jay. The water war. It's what. Sometimes when you, you know, Jay, I tell people once you shred it to the bone, you get no subcutaneous fat. It's better to be full. And that little bit of water is not going to harm you. Most people, what they end up doing is losing excessive amount of water. They end up to be like they cannot differentiate between flat and holden water. And so sometimes when they need to drink water, they actually lose water. And this is where it takes, you know, superior knowledge in this area. And I'm pretty sure you're more aware of it than anyone, you know. I feel like that's where it becomes like a sweet science to where I feel like in today's bodybuilding, we have like we have the Tony O'Burton's. We have a Nick Walker. We have a Samson. We have a shredded to the bone hottie to where that's why I truly need. I know I'm from the new era. I love this era of bodybuilding because we have someone like an Andrew Jack, someone like a Samson, someone like a Tony O'Burton, who literally these bodies are so different from one extreme to the other. One has the silhouette, one has the compact, cool look like Tony O. We got Samson with the silhouette. Brandon still carries that silhouette coming back. And I feel like it's one of the coolest eras because how do you judge that? I think that's why everybody's so boggled immensely. It's like how do you judge that? It is exciting. But listen, man, people might knock Nick Walker, but that mother is shredded and big and round. Yeah. I mean, he's bringing a lot. He's checking a lot of those boxes, if you ask me. A lot of the boxes are being checked by Nick today. The early Nick Walker, as of five years ago, I wasn't impressed. But right now, he brought in that quality. And this is what we're talking about here. I'm talking about that onion skin muscularity. 2021, he was very impressive. The Tampa Pro in 2021, I thought he was very impressive. But Pittsburgh was the most impressed. I wasn't a big fan of Nick Walker about five, six years ago. But right now, I am. Why? For the simple reason. He brought in the quality. So he knew. He knows now that it takes additional quality. They stop being massive. And this is what I'm saying. Yeah. He needs to also continue to improve that middle part of his body, too. I mean, no. I'm always talking the truth, not just kissing ass. I'll be honest with you. I feel like he's definitely showcased that he's a true student of the game. He's literally changed up. He's full range of motion now, doing a lot of different things that I've seen where he's showing he's a true student of the game. And that's why I feel like his body has become what it is now. Like, dude, this Olivia is going to be crazy. Because seeing him at Pittsburgh, it's arguably one of the best backs we've seen in a long time. And that's going up against Derek Lunsford, who has one of the best backs. I mean, but Samir, you know, Derek beat, you know, Samson at the Arnold. I was in the third row. And he clearly won that. So when you start talking about those fine details, Derek pulled that down. You know, but like you said, if Samson came, you know, a little sharper, I don't know if Derek's body can beat Samson at his best. You know, but that's what makes bodybuilding fun. I mean, think about, I mean, when you won the Mr. Olympian 83, Samir, why did you win? Well, let's put it this way. The total package and that separation and the striation. Like, for example, not just talking about myself, but I did the right things. I peaked the right way. I mean, I was like, you know, I didn't look even big in my clothes. When I went backstage, everybody, like, Dennis and Reno, rest in peace, they looked at me and said, oh, my face was like that. I looked like a tennis player in my clothes. When the shirt came off, everything came out. With 196 at my height, you know, Jay, I'm like only 5'6". Being 196 pounds back then was plenty of beef. You know, Frank Zane at his best was like, what, 185? And he's like 5'10". So the thing is, what helped me win, honestly, if I didn't have that superior quality? And this is why I always focus on that topic. And, John, you know, I mean, look, I told that to John as of last week. He came in more shredded than he was the two show before. You know, so it does really make the difference when you have that pop in, which you have, Jay. I've seen you looking super etched, shredded. It's not being disrespectful. Look, I think Derek and, you know, Derek, he's got the body that is unbelievable too. So him and Samson really is kind of unpredictable. Whoever brings that onion skin, etch muscularity is going to take it. I do think that's why it's such a beautiful Tottenham sport. It's pretty complete, you know. And, you know, like you said, Hadi Chopin, what Hadi Chopin stand out? Hadi Chopin comes in shredded in the middle. Shredded. Shredded upper thighs. And guess what? He probably doesn't have the best frame out there, but that etch muscularity, boom. It cannot take his eyes off of him. Best midsection in the whole show. That's where Hadi is so dangerous because it's still mid-range of the body, Samir. Like, we don't see that as much, you know, with the guys these days, you know. And that's where, listen, I totally, Samir, if I was in your era and witnessed way more than what I ever witnessed, I 100% agree with your, with what your perception is of what greatness is. Okay, you've seen so many great bodies, but what I'm saying is we can't, evolution is just something we can't all, we can't fight it. And the evolution of body, but if we like it or hate it, this is what it is. So we have to stop trying to compare the eras. The past to the present. Yeah, because, listen, Samir, I wasn't, I was too big. I said it. I think, like I said, I think you said the early Phil Heath. 2011 Phil Heath, when he beat me, was his best ever. After that, he got bigger and bigger and bigger. He was phenomenal. Yeah. But he was his best in 2011. John, agree with me. Yeah, absolutely. Jay, I'm with you, but also, no disrespect, the size is matter, does matter nowadays. The overall beauty to the body, which is Samson does have with Derek completion. But I am pretty sure, and I believe in my heart, that the more quality you bring to the stage, the chance is going to improve vastly. I mean, I tell you what, like you said, Samson comes in ultra shredded. Guess what? It's over. Nobody's taken it yet at that point. I mean, the guy has. Samson knows that. The shoulder to waist ratio is unbelievable. I mean, he's wasted, too. That's a good thing. And this is what I think Nick Walker would want to also be tighter in the middle. I love Nick is a warrior. I've defended him. I defended him when Sean Ray and Bob Shokarello were saying things about, no, I would never take anyone cut to a spirit and discourage them. I think he's a warrior. I think he's belong. But, I mean, to be Mr. Olympia, you've got to be, and you know it. Jay Cutler didn't win Mr. Olympia, which was, you had that 24K, and that's what won you the title. And, you know, one time I went with you against Ron Coleman, you know. And so, to me, you could see the difference. And that additional quality does matter, you know, to me. These guys, between Samson, Hottie, Derek, and Nick Walker, I know, personally, those guys train harder than you can ever imagine those guys. Yes, yes, yes. Those guys are all dangerous. Yeah. And there's a lot of other guys, too. But that's four guys that I can name just thinking. Easily. That are machines. Yeah. Machines. Jay, do you think there is a mastery in peaking between you and me? No, no. No one's ever done it perfectly every single time. There's never been a perfect Mr. Olympia ever. So there's, like, you cannot be 100% precise right on the money. You could be, like, 99%. You could be 95%. But 100% is almost impossible. Well, no. I think someone can peak what they think their perception tells you is 100%. But what I'm saying is no one can ever get progressively better and better and better without a stumble at some point. You're always going to have a little sway from here to there. I think Phil Heath peaked the best of anyone I've ever seen. I mean, Dorian Yates was pretty solid, too. But no, Phil Heath. I'm going to say Phil Heath. Phil Heath was probably the best in peaking we've ever witnessed on the Olympia stage. Well, you know, Hani Rombo is a masterful when it comes to peaking. And this is what I think this would be a longer topic, too, talking about who is the most masterful coaches out there. You know, I've always felt like Asido and Hani, you know, to me, they're the frontrunner in coaching. These are the best two. It comes down to eyes. It comes down to eyes, Samir. Like, if you have a great set of eyes. I mean, Samson's wife trains him. I mean, he's won a lot of contests and been in the top two or three. He's doing great with his wife. So, like, it's not about – it's just having a great set of eyes and someone being critical of what someone looks like because we're never looking at our backsides. But, you know, arguably there's a lot of great what we call coaches out now. But I just hate that the athletes don't get the credibility. It's the coaches that are getting more credibility than the athletes themselves because they're the ones putting in the work. And a lot of times I know in collaboration I worked with Coach, whether it's Hani or Chris, they would say, what do you think? And I would give my opinion. And I said that's why, you know, Chris and I, we just weren't aligning in that sense. And maybe my ego got too big. But I can admit that as I'm mature. No, it's the truth. It's the truth. When you win – It's the hunger of winning to you. I want to go to that. You want to be super perfect. I know you. That's the truth. This is what you had. But you start to lose the fire, you know, when things become more apparent to you and more of importance to your life because we all mature. Every decade is a maturance level, especially in the males. I think the females mature a little quicker than we do. Yeah. But – You become doubtful, Chris? No. You become doubtful about – because you know your body by then after three, four years on stage and you know how you want. So any changes of your body, you can sense it more than anything. Yeah. The problem is, Samir, is the weight building year after year, me coming in bigger and bigger, it caused havoc in my preparation. Wow. Because you put on three pounds of muscle from the year prior, throw anything you took out the window because you can't go back to just – it's like I can look back at the notebooks because I journaled everything. I have it all. Everything is different. A lot of circumstances, whether it's relationship, your travel schedule, your sleep patterns because you're stressed out. You know, I had bigger contracts. The money changes the game. And that's the only thing that these guys have to find the balance now is because the checks are big. Arnold pumping 750 for first next year. Crazy. Whoever the hell doesn't line up for that check in the open division is out of their minds. Yeah. Yeah. Make it come back, Jay. Let's come back. Hey, you know, I feel like you made a good point because like those fresh out of the eyes giving so much plight to a coach where like in today's bodybuilding, Samson, Mr. Olympia, his woman trains him. Keon, Keon's woman, I mean, they're literally their coach. And it's the people who are going to be the most honest with you, like your woman. And I mean, I feel like that has to help their overall career as well because this is somebody who sees them day in and day out and will be the harshest critic, you know? Jake, Jake, could you rewind me to be 40 again? Could you rewind me to be 40? I would like to get that check, bro. I would destroy the gym. How much did you win for Mr. Olympia in 83, Samir? Oh, 50 grand. It was like probably a lot of money back. Probably a lot of money back. Yeah. Back then, 50 grand. My rent was $275 a month, including utility. Now the same place right now is $5,000 a rent. You know, you know, I'll be honest with everyone sitting in this room with me. If I never made a dollar from bodybuilding, I still would have chosen it. It was never. It was never on my mind until I started getting the checks. Yeah. I loved it. I loved it. If I got enough to afford my chicken breasts and got the sponsors and all I cared about. And to this day, like I tell you guys, like the gym time is so precious to me. And people say, nah, you know, Jay, you've made a lot of money doing it. But you know what? I made money outside. Yes, bodybuilding created this opportunity. So I'll never go against bodybuilding. But yeah, I truly loved it. And John, you can and Samir, you know, Marcus, I'm not sure about your background, how much you love bodybuilding. I mean, obviously, like we've taken it to this platform that we have. But I loved it, man. And I still I love it like I'm 18 today. Yeah, that's great. Unbelievable. I guess one thing you said is the fact that you're like you go into the gym and you still love it. And it's that I'm excited. I'm still excited when I wake up in the morning and say, I got arms today or I got back today. And I'm like, I haven't trained yet today. So it's this striation in your side, bro. You got abs. I mean, come on. I'm going to train tonight. Samir, I'm going to think about you tonight. I'm going to do some back. I'm going to think about that Christmas tree when you did that Christmas tree. Dude, that's unbelievable. It's crazy, man. You know what, Austin? It's a way of life. We enjoy it. And you know what? Really, after all that, health is wealth. Yeah, right. Health is wealth. It's a true undying passion. Samir, I know you're still mentoring all those young kids. You don't know how many kids I run into. Yeah, Samir trains at the gym and he's telling me this and telling me that. So you're still hanging around the gyms being a gym rat, Samir. I know you are. I mean, honestly, to me, it's my lifestyle. You know, I like to. I train seriously three good times a week. I don't train every day. Yeah. Three good workouts. I kick ass in the gym and sometimes I go just to do cardio, a little bit of cardio, like you're doing it, just for your heart. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Conditioning. John, John, are you full tilt still or did you take a little break and get back to normalcy after this whole phase you've been through? Well, I've been eating a lot, you know, last week, you know, but still training a little bit, you know, but I'm planning on doing some Masters Pro shows next year. So I'm nice. You know, I'm doing it again. You're enough for for another year. Yeah. Next year. Do you have do you know what their first pro contest is going to be yet or do you not want to announce it yet? Well, at the Tampa Pro, they have a Masters Pro show. So I think I'll do that one. August next year. Yeah. Yeah. That's your turf too. Yeah. And then Gary Udit does a Masters World, I think, Masters Bodybuilding World show with his North America. So I'll probably do that one too. Are you thinking about any money, John? With the contest, I don't think there's I don't think there's much money, but I'm thinking about opportunities, you know, outside, like, you know, promoting my my coaching and working for other companies, you know, or being an example from, you know, some guy over 60 who can tell people what's possible. Dude, your video showed up on my brother and my brother's father in law's YouTube. Like he was looking at his search history and you're, you know, bodybuilding over 60 or, you know, keeping muscle over 60 to one day, you know, I think 300,000 plus use right now. That was all it was watch. It was all read. Like he wants the whole thing. So, you know, it's that message. I think it's really important. Jay, there's a lot of topic. I know it's that take a lot of time. There's a lot of topic about bodybuilding that can be discussed. Really? You know, I know we love the game. We're being passionate. We need to practice safety and really give good advice to people out there, for the kids out there. And this is really my intention. I never do anything in a derogatory way. Sometimes I say things and I talk too fast, but some people say, oh, yeah, Samir is a hater. I'm not a hater. Never a hater, man. I like, you know, I say it like it is. You're passionate. You have a lot of passion, man. Yeah. I'm passionate, but I really like to see more safety out there. I like for people to do things and pay attention to health. Because really, nowadays, you find the kids like just came out of the high school. They take a shit amount of drugs. So you need to tell people and create more awareness. And I know you're doing that, Jay. And then people love you for the way you are. You know, you're a people person. You know, people listen to your podcast. You know, this is what we need. We need positive energy. Yeah. It's honestly, Samir, you know, honesty. And listen, you know, I never claimed that I did, you know, that I did anything correctly. You know, I abused, you know, anabolics when I was trying to chase the top. Okay. Because that's, I was one of these guys that looked at it and said, you know, I'll do anything to win in a sense, you know, but I did have enough sense. And I did think about what would be after. Right. And that's what I'm trying to say is like, you know, listen, bodybuilding is never looked upon as being a healthy thing because anytime you dehydrate yourself to that point, that's the most dangerous part. I mean, they talked about the dehydration process, right? Which I think in your era, like guys, I think you had less guys that would push the envelope on complete dehydration. I mean, look at even Arnold in these, in those eras. But remember, in Arnold's era, there were one or two guys or three guys or Arnold was by himself winning that Olympia, right? People forget about that. And John, as a historian, you need to remind people a lot, like seven Mr. Olympias. I mean, was Arnold not challenged on several of those? Yeah. He was the only one. Well, yeah. Well, you know, when he competed against Sergio in Essen, Germany, and it was like, even Arnold told me he thought Sergio would have won that show. You know, he had some good competition. Three to five guys. And most of the... I have talked to Arnold quite a bit about his speaking and how he did his things. And it was really pretty safe. I mean, right now, really, Jay, when I ask you the final question, I know because everybody wants to go now, you're probably getting tired of talking. Jay, do you believe that is it possible to have a Mr. Olympia champion and walk out healthy and feel good and live heavily without the abuse? You think, is it doable without the abuse? No. It's not. Not in the open. Not in today's era. Yeah. And listen, do you want me to be... Do you want me to be politically correct? Or do you want me to be Jay Cutler, you know? No, no. Let's be honest with me because I know you are truthful to what you do. I know, but I'm going to ask... I'm going to turn the tables a little bit and people can view this as different things. Is anyone walking out on a field or, you know, when you compete in sports, if you're a swimmer, if you're playing basketball every other day, and is anyone healthy at that point? You know, everyone's pushing the envelope to be the best at what they do. Right. So, is bodybuilding worse than cycling or, you know, listen, playing football, you know, listen to me, or how many injuries do you see? Yeah. Sure. It's the envelope of being great, okay? So, we get in a car. I mean, car accidents, people are afraid to fly, but you drive down the street. I mean, how many people have we known get into car accidents? Like, we're all... There's a risk factor in everything you would do, and people say, well, you have a choice, and then they turn around and smoke a cigarette. They drink three beers at night. And, you know, there's a lot... There's a difference, okay? Yeah. What we do. So, is it healthy? I don't know what's healthy these days. You know, they say not to use Splenda in your coffee because it's cancer-causing. It's... Yeah. You know, they say not to eat too many eggs. Hey, what about the eggs and too much cholesterol eating whole eggs? Like, all that. Well, that's... We've heard the farce about testosterone. Now, they're taking a step back and saying, hey, you know, taking testosterone... It's healthy. It's healthy, okay? So... Yes, yes. So, you're asking me a question that I can have rebuttal, but I'm going to tell you that you asked me a question and said, is it healthy? No, it's not. But it's a choice. Okay. And it's a competition. It's a career for a lot of people. It's inspiring for a lot of people when they get on that stage. And you know what? If someone enjoys doing it, who gives a shit what anyone says? Yeah. I don't. We all have personal choice. And there's always going to be people on the outside. But all that matters is what you want to do. That's it. Just keep that thick skin and keep going. I'm not saying avoid things like the gear. I'm not saying that. I'm saying there is a way, in my opinion, that, you know, like guys like yourself. I mean, you're probably... You said you abused at a certain point. And I... 100%. I'm not familiar. I am not familiar. But honestly, I can speak about myself. And honestly, I never abused. Never abused. And I mean, Chris will tell you. I tell Chris exactly what I've used. But I think you can actually reach a level. Look, you can't tell me guys like Sergio Oliva who reached that quality, huge mass. And, you know, I don't think Sergio Oliva passed away because of sudden abuse of diuretic. Or he took like 5, 10 anadrol at the end. And I know I heard some people like Nasser Al-Sambadi got to the point where taking 10 anadrol is actually committing suicide. It's like shooting yourself in the foot. Do I think you can take 2 anadrol and get away with it? Of course you can. But I'm not saying... I said drink. Have a cup of drink. But don't get drunk. The problem is everybody getting drunk now, Jay. And that's why we see a lot of casualties. We see like health issue. And thank God, Jay. And may God bless you, bro. You're doing what you're doing. Thank God you look healthy. You look great. And you stay in shape. And this is to me what bodybuilding is all about. I'm not saying, oh, don't touch anything. No, no. But I think it's doable. You can take a little bit without going overboard and tax your liver and kidney. You know, many of them have kidney, you know, transplant. And I think that is preventable. Why? It's like, you know... It's cycle on. That's another topic. It's cycle on, cycle off. And that's the truth. You know, and one thing I can tell you, and I've been ridiculed for this. It's... We cycled and we cold turkey, stopped everything. There was nothing else. We didn't take anything for periods of time. And those days are few and far between for a lot of people. I can tell you from being in the industry and hearing and this whole, you know, stay on. It's... That's where the problem lies. Yeah. I agree. Okay. Well, Jay, I want to thank you very much for coming on the show. I want to appreciate your time for... But this is one of our better podcasts. And I'm really appreciative of you coming on our 100th episode. It's truly awesome to talk to you. It's a blessing, man. We'll do it again. Samir, I loved having these conversations with you. John, you know, no one's more prouder than I am for you, bro. You did it. Thank you. I appreciate that. You know, I can't wait to watch, man. You're going to keep inspiring me that, you know, these... You know, you sending me these videos and then me and me able to see your success. You don't understand it. It motivates someone like me who you might look upon as someone of, you know, the caliber that I got to. But you're inspiring me. And that is going to give me incentive. It's going to incentivize me to train a little harder, diet a little harder. And I can't wait to see your success. I'll be applauding. Oh, it's great to hear. Thank you, Jay. You know, so... Thank you. I challenge you, Jay. I challenge you to break John's record at 62. Hey, I can probably... I can't go to the dark places I used to go anymore. And I know, John, you have to go to those places. So... Hey, no more... You're doing great as is. And thank God you are healthy and looking awesome. And, you know, people love you. And we love you, too, Jay. Are these the trophies? John, are these the trophies back here? Or what's this? No, no. Those are just some other ones. Put it in the back. We need to bring it up there. So we haven't hung up the trophies yet, or what's up? No, here. Hold on. I'll show it to you. Where is it? I see, Samir. Samir, I see your Sandow trophy. But you know what? What people don't realize is not every Sandow trophy is the same. You know that, right? At least from our eras. Well, I like the older one. I know. But everyone in my stack behind me is different. Like, it's a different color. They're bent different. I know. Okay. Well, Joe Weider, actually... All right. We've got done that. And those are the original... Oh, look at that, John. John, I'm so proud of you. Oh, look at that. Don't forget the program. Honestly, John, I am really proud of you, bro. And John shows off his hardware of his year-long journey. It'll probably take us a few minutes to see your hardware, Jay. All your hardware right behind you. I've got a whole room. Hey, Jay. Hey, Jay. Let's see it. That's it. Oh! There we go. Arno trochies in here. Oh, my God. Oh, there we go. Oh, my. Hey, man. Hey, Jay, I got a quick question. Jay, you speak of not being able to go to that dark place anymore, right? Now, how much of that is because of the puppies, man? How much is that because of the dogs? I know I love pets. I know you love pets. It changes you, man. The pets, man. It brings this side out of you. I know. I know. You know, we just lost one a few months ago, like our female. She was 14 and a half. And we just got a puppy within three weeks of that. Her name is Nix. And she's amazing. Like, we've been training her. And, you know, my dogs, you know, I don't have children. So my dogs are like everything to me. They're babies. Yeah. We take them everywhere. Like, when we go to the expos, like, I'll be in Anaheim next week. And the dogs will be there with us, you know. So we travel with them pretty extensively. But, you know, listen, man. Like I said, life is blessed. And I just don't. How can I say this without disappointing people? I just, I'm not that hardcore anymore. I don't know. There's not a word you can say that could disappoint anybody, man. You're doing it perfectly, Jay, in all honesty. And, you know, hey, the proof is in the pudding. I mean, we saw what you look like. I mean, it's cross-cut in the thighs, good abs, and you're healthy. You've still got your hair. Still look good. I've got to keep up to John, man. John, what's up, man? What do I have to do to keep that at 60-something years old, man? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, man. That's so good. Yeah. Yeah. You truly are a great ambassador for the sport, my brother. John, I wanted to ask you. So if I had to ask you out of all those years, I know you went to a lot of these early shows. Yeah. Who impressed you the most? I mean, was Sergio Oliva, like, way ahead of his time, you think? Yeah, I grew up in Chicago, so I got to see Sergio when I was a teenager. He'd come to the contest, and, man, he was just unbelievable to see in person. And he died in on, like, Coca-Cola and stuff, didn't he? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, Twinkies and Coca-Cola. You know something, Jay? I was talking to Boyer Cole one time, and he said, Samir, you won't believe it. The night before Essen, I saw Sergio in my own eyes eating a hot dog. I said, well, maybe it worked perfectly. Maybe he needed that additional sodium, and it worked perfectly because the next day, Arnold said, he walked backstage and looked at Sergio and said, oh, my God, Samir. Yeah, I felt like that's it. I'm lost. Yeah, I mean, come on. I love, I love, John. John, I loved, I mean, I got to meet Sergio when he was a lot smaller. You know, I met him in 2010. He was with Joe Weider for, they had this thing at Weider's house here at Turnberry, and he was there before he passed, you know. But I love the story how you went to Universal Studios, and you ran into Arnold and Frigno. And you have the picture with Frigno. So did Arnold not come over and say hello, John, or? Yeah, we were waving to him, and he just, like, looked at us. He would come over. That's crazy. And then Frigno came over, and he signed an autograph for us. So were you, like, more pro-Frigno for a while because of that experience? I mean, you're a kid, right? Yeah, well, Arnold was always, you know, the king. And finally, we jumped the rope, me and my brother, and we walked over to Arnold, and I took a picture with him and stuff. Or I took a picture of him, and he's like, you guys can't do this. I'm in the union, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's always making jokes, right? Yeah, always making jokes. You know? Yeah. Samir, when you come into California, are you going to come to Gold? Next weekend. Yeah, but I'll be at Gold's. I'm going for their 60th anniversary on the 25th. It's a Monday night. They have a party. I'm going to be there. Yeah, so I'll be there. But, you know, Samir, you got to train at the original Gold's gym, right? Yes. And, John, did you visit the original Gold's, like, on Ocean? No. The first one I saw, I think, was in Venice when Ed Connors owned it. Okay. Probably in 1990. Which Gold did you visit, Jay? Did you go to one in Santa Monica? 1993. That was the first time I went. So I got to see the one when they had the – I didn't get to see the original. Obviously, I drove – like, when I stayed at Connor's house, I would ride the bike by the original Gold's gym. But you got to – that was a smaller one, obviously. But I couldn't – like, if I could go back in time, people always ask, like, what I would enjoy the most. And, like, I'm a true bodybuilder at heart. Like, I wish I could go back and just be a fly on the wall and witness those guys training in that smaller, old gym. Yeah. The first one. Yeah. And rewind replay. I was thinking about that earlier. Yeah, man. All the talent in there would be crazy. Yeah. Like, those guys training with only free weights. Like, with the bench that had the – like, when the bar sits, it's, like, on that skinny. So it took the weight off it. It fell off the end. Like, we had cement weights in our basement. You know, my brothers had them. And, like, I remember getting on and trying to bench press when I was, like, super young. You know, I was, like, 9 or 10. Yeah. And I just – like, I see, though, the equipment and what these guys – the size that they were able to put on and the lack of nutrition – like, you just said, this guy's eating a hot dog, you know, Sergio. But, like, they dieted on milk and, like – and they trained for hours on end, man. Like, the whole progression of everything. Like, I trained twice a day. That was my secret of success. Like, I had to do less cardio because of that. But no one trains twice a day anymore. Why? No. Yeah. I did – I did – I used to train hamstrings and calves AM. Yeah, but – But, Samir, no – not one single pro I know trains twice a day now. And maybe this podcast, they see it and someone can hit me up and say, Jay, I trained twice a day. But everyone trained twice a day when I went to Gold's Venice. Everybody. Wheeler, Cormier, everybody was training twice. Why is no one doing twice a day anymore? Well, before competition, I did, Jay. I, like, you know, I literally lived the sport, you know. Like, for example, I could do chest shoulders AM and do, like, you know – you know, I was doing, like, pulling muscle, pushing muscle groove, legs. Like, my legs I'll do – in the morning, maybe I'll do squat and quad. And PM, I'll do hamstring and calves and abs. So, that was, like, the competition with total tunnel vision. And, like you said, we were fortunate. I was getting paid from Joe Weider for making a couple of interviews with Bill Reynolds. And I get my $500 a week from Joe, which I have to pay my $275 rent. And I lived right on the beach in Santa Monica. You know, Chris Asidu gave it to my place. That's even before you connected with Chris. He brags about it, Samir. He told me how nice it was. But that's what I mean. Like, that's – so, like, the styles have changed so much. And, like, the – you know, everyone has their theories. So, I mean, I would love to be – go be able to go back to the old days and be able to see really what went on, man. Because, John, just – I love listening to your stories because you got to witness a lot of the early years and, like, before. And I'm sure you're still a fan of these guys. But, you know, now with social media and, Marcus, you watch, obviously, what's going on. But this Olympia is going to be a hell of a lineup this year, guys. Like, it's very hard to predict. And I'm looking forward to it a lot, actually. Top three before you leave, Jay. Your top three. I mean, I got to go with Hottie, Samson, Derek or – you know, Hottie, Samson, Nick Walker or Derek. I don't – those are – I can't say – that's my four. I got to – those are my guys, you know. Yeah. Okay. I'll say Samson, Nick and Derek. Or Hottie. You can interchange them. Samson, Nick. I mean, the question is, is Hottie going to be able to come? And there's this guy, Betrouz, that's phenomenal. He'd be possibly in the top six. Goodness, yeah. Man. You know, if he could come, that could shake things up. Definitely. So – and we don't know what Andrew Jackson looked like, right? But, you know, all those – we have to go with what – you know, and listen, we're disrespectfully leaving out Brandon Curry, who has been fourth. I mean, why aren't we talking about him, right? Yep. So let's say it's unpredictable 100 percent because you never know. Maybe another Jay Cutler who have that crazy mentality coming from behind and like, boom. I think they all have that mentality, man. Okay. Onion skin shredded to the bone, pose with mastery. And you know what? Who knows? Well – Out of those guys we're talking about, I'm with you too. As we get closer, we'll see, guys. But I appreciate the time. And it's great catching up. And I'll be following along to see what – to watch each episode. It's been a pleasure meeting you, man. Truly. Thank you. Thank you, Jay. Appreciate you coming out. As always, buddy. Hopefully. Look forward to see you at the 60th anniversary at Gold Gym. I'll see you soon, man. All right.