 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx past and you know happy birthday happy birthday Marcus not dancing singing of that John I want to thank you very much for the nice surprise yeah I was I was out of town for like almost five days when I came back I got this from Big John guys check it out oh that's awesome one of my favorite pictures of your thing the old school beach pictures are probably like the best thanks to you and Stephanie and on top of that I'm gonna thank your mom and dad for sending me a beautiful postcard very funny so I want to say Terry and Jerry and Don thank you very much I really appreciate your thoughtful this card was funny make me left my butt off look at it look at it when your knees are cracking pull up the rest okay here we go got it yeah okay here we go okay here's the end of it not yet we're not there yet 25 years to go some good dark humor I like 80s and they're still going strong so hey knock on what I know what it's all about that's why yeah that's why you're good looking John you got a good genetic right there that's right well John so you were busy over the weekend man how was the I saw you at Derrick's gym how was that how was the training session well it was good I went last Thursday so I went with Paul the guy who owns a pro physique and we had a couple people up there but awesome Jim man he's got a great gym in St. Pete Florida all Latin that new tech equipment all just really really nice and it was way bigger and I thought it was like I think it's like 12,000 feet 12,000 square feet so it's it's pretty big 4,000 yeah that's small 12,000 yeah 4,000 is small 12 it's gonna be over there 12,000 yeah oh 12 is good yeah yeah yeah I was expecting it to be a little smaller and when I walked in I was like whoa it was all the way down here all the way over here but now I got to go back for the leg equipment because I did shoulders but the leg equipment looks amazing like you could be like a kid in a candy store was when we're at the Pittsburgh Pro remember how they had the new tech equipment was that some of the equipment that was there that they were promoting yeah yeah it felt so smooth Olympia too they had a whole remember that Samir they had that whole big area great great equipment you got to see that Marcus yeah we tried I was trying the equipment me and Stephanie and John we like very nice very very nice yeah John North Korea North Korea yeah yeah they done those were in kilograms not so that's right that's what they use I guess metrics yeah yeah but I was doing shoulders they had this really cool rear delt machine so you you sit down on a bench and you bend over and it had like a bar that goes against your lower back so it keeps you down and you grab the handles between your legs and raise them up but it was really smooth really nice yeah see I always look at it I have like a gym that has like very old-school equipment but then like when you compare it to some of the new stuff like obviously there's those like just you know just golden equipments out there however a lot of the new things we're seeing it's the smoothness of it like just the capabilities you have it's just like a lot smoother and better on the body afterwards and he's like you got to come back for like legs and back like those are the like feel like back with Derek makes you know make sense one of this one of the strongest company in equipment right now is Panata yeah 1985 1986 around this time I visited Rudy Panata at home and that bureau and at the time Rudy was building his equipment and like a garage like a garage it's like double-car garage like you know and before you know he's very very smart Rudy is very intelligent and he loved designing and stuff so he made some incredible equipment you know I mean I'm not giving him an advertisement but I know the quality of equipment is excellent and you know now that we saw a new tech very very good I mean that gym in Las Vegas all the equipment look very nice yeah you got to go to the gym I didn't go to the gym but yeah you left early that day so we wouldn't entrain it's very very good atmosphere at that Las Vegas new tech right yeah speaking of equipment and Panata equipment I feel like somebody who's been you know getting their dues and all of them Andrew Jacks just won Romania Pro this weekend I'm sure if you've seen that I'm pretty sure he's been on you know quite a few Panata machines at this point so we're y'all able to catch that how'd you feel I thought it was like one of his best looks yet and I'm on that hype train right now so how'd you guys feel about Andrew Jack that Romania Pro we're able to see him yeah I thought he looked amazing I think he looked a little maybe a little fuller than he did at the Olympia but I mean it just he really showed you know the potential this guy's got I mean the height the width the structure we've been waiting for him to put it all together and he finally did it this year so I this was great though because I think after the Olympia where you got a really strong third a lot of people had him higher I think now this win of course I think he's just got a lot of confidence and I think that's what he needed he did the mental the mental part of it he always had the physical part but he just needed to feel like you know he could be a winner and he could really believe it and now I think he believes it so he's going in the Arnold in March so yeah he's got to be the favorite for that it definitely translates to the stage like that confidence you could see it you could see it and I feel like for this this look was like the a mix of that Texas pro show that he won about two years ago at this point I guess and then all Olympia the perfect mix of those two brought that fullness Samir were you able to see how did you feel about it I think Andrew could have been acceptable mr. Olympia that year this year you know yeah a few weeks ago to me the way he showed up the next day it was worthy of the title to be honest I mean not to say you know every podcast every time we talk I always felt Derek would be the frontrunner because Derek have the body and if you ask me who would be the frontrunner next year I would say Derek again but in all honesty it's not guaranteed for anyone and if Derek wants to win the Olympia he has to come in hard like a rock in not to dwell on the size forget about size you're already massive so look at the difference John and I we you know we're like sitting there watching at prejudging and we thought Andrew didn't look as good but he came in next day oh my god next day he was like another 10 percent sharper for sure he was fuller he was fuller bigger the same the same thing Hadi Hadi was super sharp and honestly it could have gone either way on second on day two so let's let's think quality no more mass guys like Derek he is massive I think pound to pound Derek is the biggest yeah what Derek what Derek is missing nothing Derek missing nothing now we're talking about Andrew Jack he won another show and I know he's have the confidence he needs that mental confidence now one advice for Andrew Jack Andrew Jack has to be a little more professional presentation okay doing all the split and stuff that don't mean anything you have to strike every pose in transition he need to pose better he got all the tools to be honest to be anyone so Derek have all the tools to be anyone Samson have all the tools to be anyone Samson trying to get big I don't think that's the answer the answer is be at least as ripped as you were when you won with that size similar size or maybe slightly more size but improve that quality even improve it five percent he would be very very dangerous so it's really hard next time I don't want to bet anymore because anything could happen anything could happen you know last but we have a three guys that have a perfect body markers we have a three guys yeah Derek is a perfect he's got everything but I'm disappointed and you can argue I mean it's four guys realistically well who's the four guy hardy you know howdy as a slam dunk guaranteed he's gonna come in and yeah that's the no hardy is always coming in and shape and honestly I mean I don't want to be negative toward anybody because the way I see things like I said even if John was on set he's my buddy I won't help him I said like it is you know Derek didn't look enough didn't look sharp enough for me on day two but based on the criteria and the IBB judging system usually in most cases whatever happened if we judge it carry on all the way to the final and give you an advantage in the final right John yeah seems that way yeah yeah well I think howdy howdy did beat him Saturday you beat him at one point yeah and so again I have to go back and say I have my own way of putting things if you're doing a marathon at the 10 miles you are fifth place who cares it doesn't matter who crossed the line first and that's how it should be in mr. Olympia I have to look perfect on day one and day two yeah I would say we just put it on one day it would be just be so much easier for the competitors and then we wouldn't have this you know every year like oh well he's look this guy looked better on day one this guy looked better on day two you know exactly better on one day you know what but John whatever happened I don't know exactly what happened I didn't really go backstage this year I think he you know Derek went back down at least by 7 8% maybe 10% quality wise he just wasn't the the Marcus I want to see do I bet my money on him again of course I will but he has to come and shred it and you know what I will vote I will say he could pull it off easier than anybody yeah but again Andrew Jack could do it Marcus I think Andrew Jack have all the weapon for sure you know it's interesting it's interesting because we talk about size a lot and I do think that that is one of the things that helped Derek at this year's Olympia it definitely wasn't the quality especially on night two the size that was very shocking to me legs looked a lot bigger chest even you know had a little bit you know more umph to it now do you think that this is something that could possibly hurt some of these you know these top people the people who we know can be the Olympia winners coming into next year or will it you know harm them Derek included Derek Andrew you know these people who are you know chasing size or whatever it be is the quality more important or is it the sweet science in the middle you know how do you feel about them getting bigger uh similar I could let you go ahead and start with this one go ahead John John I'll let you start no I'm sorry I didn't really hear it no it's all good it's all good so I was pretty much saying like so when it comes to like um a lot of these top competitors right so one thing I feel like helped Derek was the fact that he put on some size legs looked a lot bigger he had the biggest legs on stage at the very least night one so I want to know how you feel about these guys putting on size do you think that it is hurting their quality or what like how do you feel about it moving forward uh John I'll let you start it all depends on the the competitor but I mean at this at this level where these guys are at they're all huge um so it's it's really about the quality I think I think they're all big enough I mean Andrew was probably the only one that maybe could have filled out even more it was unbelievable that sounds because he's so huge but he's just so big and his arms and legs are so long he could probably still put on some more beef but you know I think Derek is like huge and I think he made the right move for this Olympia because you know when he lost the year before he was a little flat his legs were down and he wanted I think they wanted to make sure I don't know what their strategy was but I think they wanted to make sure that that didn't happen this year so he just came in like thick and like a lot of people said he looked like a little bit like Jay Collar he's like massive you know but I think Derek's best look last year was the Arnold and I think next year he'll probably try to you know duplicate that look where he's not only big but also really really hard and in good condition and I think that that's what put him way ahead of Samson at the Arnold this year so I think he'll try to replicate that because I think he's just going to shoot for the Olympia next year he did a lot this year we're doing those three shows so I think he's just going to spend all the time just getting ready for the Olympia yeah well you know anything could happen I mean sometimes a little bit of size can could help you but at the end of the day is how you show up the dryness I think some of them don't understand the nerve impact your nervous system the tension the water fluctuation okay this is very important if you have to understand you have to understand deeply fluid and electrolyte management that is the most important part because none of those guys is fat Marcus none of those guys have fat on them trust me all of them are in condition to win but the water war if you don't understand the water war then you're not a good coach you have to understand how to keep the intercellular space full and keep the intersubcutaneous area minimized and minimize and sometimes if people don't understand I talk about it so much from lots of experience you do have two type of fluid a hormonal fluid can kill you sodium related fluid which is just caused by sodium and minor water retention that is really not gonna hurt you as much okay because all your body your body is 80 whatever or more percent water in the carb loading all that stuff we take is just to put more fluid in the cell even if you spill over a little bit it's not gonna harm you that is if you have very low low body fat percentage but what hurts you the most when you sit stay up and panic and worry and you're nervous that's different kind of that's adrenal fluid these this water will kill you will kick your ass so you need to be with someone heavily experienced that understand how to manage this specific area and believe me that's what separates the man from the boys at the high level of competition so being dry full and dry that's the key and I think having that eye around them rather it's you know obviously their coach someone like a CEDAW a wife even a lot of these guys you know the other wives coach him Keon Samson I think you need that eye that kind of you know professionalism around you but you know if you had to give you know Andrew obviously moving up into this year's you know season what's one word of advice you would give him moving forward let me tell you something not all coaches even the one we know are masterful in this area yeah okay not there's only a couple people who is masterful that understand the type of fluid that goes in and out and how to prevent intracellular fluid to secrete it to the end to some days this is something that can be controlled whether you can control it naturally or you could control it with drugs I'm aware of both way but it could be done naturally and it could be done by taking certain things and by it's nothing dangerous actually to be honest with you and there's a dangerous way of course good luck on who's coaching you okay now you have dangerous coaches that will play kind of Russian roulette and this is something you don't want to be with okay and then they have other problem you have the coaches that actually I don't want to name anyone in particular they have coaches that actually big on diuretic and that's the stupidest thing you could have a coach that always lived by the sword and they will die by the sword you do not miss giving your athlete the wrong diuretic you do not sometimes you don't need to at all and if you do you have to be a masterful and unfortunately most of them aren't masterful and they can destroy you losing water from the cell is like set your back up forget about it you're done you lose fluid from the cell you flatten out and you look like you are fat yeah and you cannot treat hormonal fluid by the justice any diuretic there is way for that we don't want to talk about it because we're not a doctor I'm not a doctor but you could say I'm experienced yes I know this area upside down and side out why I only spent 50 years doing fucking bodybuilding so I know what I'm doing here that's it but when you spend 50 years of your life doing this you understand how to manage it safely remember that safety is first that's what we need to do first sometime your athlete is at 95 condition and you look at him and you go well maybe I should give him a little diuretic and you know what I know some coaches do that and guess what happened they sent the guy back 10 10 quality a lot worse quality so don't play with diuretic that is the ultimate answer right John yeah some diuretic can make you or break you but don't take your chances if you don't know what the fuck you're doing yeah yeah so John what would your advice be to Andrew for him to beat Derek next year and be you know become you de-thrown to mr. Olympia winner and become the new champion well I mean after the if he's going to do the Arnold after the Arnold I would just say you know put in some really good months of training and just keep making improvements I think like I said he's always had the physique he's just the mental part of it and I think if he believes now especially if he wins the Arnold you know I mean look at where he's placed in the Olympia the last few years he's always been like four fifth he's never been in the top three this is the first time he's ever made the top three so I think this was a big game changer for him and I remember Peter McGuff when he was around he told me that uh like Ronnie Ronnie was never placing high in the art in the Olympia like the year the year Ronnie won the Olympian in 98 he had never even made the top six he went from I think ninth the year before to winning it so I think the highest he ever placed was like seventh and so when he won that year it just totally changed him as a person he just really believed he had the confidence and then he became King Coleman you know I mean to him he was the he was Ronnie the king you know and nobody could beat him but before that he was very humble he didn't have that kind of confidence so I think that can happen with Andrew and he places the top three in the Olympia he wins the Romania if he goes to the Arnold and wins like the biggest prize money ever in bodybuilding 750 000 I think that's going to really blow up his confidence and if he can just take that hunger and that confidence and go all the way to the Olympia and keep training hard and then just him and a CEDO can nail it like they did this year yeah he could definitely be a top you can remember Ron uh John do you remember when Ronnie Coleman was not even placed in the top six he was doing like eight and nine remember yeah all time okay when you know um when he connected with Chad yeah okay Chad believe it or not I don't want to say what kind of coach he is but he know what the hell is going on Chad he knows and he comes sometime according to what I hear that he have a harsh way of drying you up but he understand the harsh way too so you know once he got Ronnie Coleman shredded to the bone and they did the same with uh was uh what's the Rami remember yeah Chad and um and who else uh yeah just Chad work on Ronnie and on um um what's his name Ronnie Coleman and um what's his name again Rami yeah Rami and Ronnie most of them similar name but but anyhow you know you understand that when you have a coach that is capable understand the drying up process remember that you know like one time I remember I went to um to Ron's Ron Coleman room at I think 2001 and I had with me Prince Josson Ben Abdul Aziz which Prince Josson want to go and they had a special surprise for Ronnie and they gave him a crystal tiger and some present but believe it or not Ronnie has about 25 gallon of water all around his room so you know most people they're so stupid out there well they cut water but sometimes you can dry more by having water this is what separates the man from the boys that's what I'm telling you you have to understand how to deal with water you don't go to just idiot that would send you to the graveyard okay so evidently Chad understand the game very well and he did it and when his athlete like Rami and and um Ronnie came in an east condition were like easily boom they won I mean nobody with a touch Ronnie Coleman 2001 impossible you cannot up till now nobody's been drier than Ron Coleman at 2001 was it John or 2002 I don't really remember exactly what year it was but I tell you one thing I've never seen anybody so massive and shredded stuff oh at the same time when it was 2007 I think 2001 I think his Ronnie's best condition he was dry like a desert sand and he was massive but I know he was kind of like tired when winter's room was like not he wasn't that energized I mean you know they were like going through the peeking process and so you wouldn't miss that and when you see all these gallon of water you understand and water is life you don't dry the body forcefully but you there's ways there is way and only capable coach you understand these these things there's a million way to do it there's a several way to do it yeah but never leave the water never stay without water it's very stupid when someone says oh I'm gonna cut the water you can cut the water but only for maybe a few hours but not for days okay that I know Muhammad bin Aziz I was cut the water for days that was also dangerous I don't want to talk about these things I don't want to put any idea yeah in the kids had you know Ben Aziz a Marcus say it again do I know Muhammad all the one who passed away yeah yeah yeah no yeah no he yeah Muhammad bin Aziz was one of those guys that actually Muhammad rest in peace he was he was like he so like he wanted so bad he tried everything in the book and I know some of the practices I did I don't approve it it's scary it's very scary and because it was scary and I knew it was scary and so that's why he ended up killing himself by following this guy and crazy practices I mean insane yeah I'm at Muhammad was healthy with abuse was Moscow like he gets in condition that you won't believe it I saw Muhammad the year in Germany he was was Kevin LeVron in the competition Muhammad was backstage was like that he could not even walk backstage and when his name came out to be on stage he woke himself up and he posed was once he's behind the curtain he's like he almost dropped dead I mean that's not the way to do things no you force somebody you kill yourself and rest in peace I love Muhammad I mean I'm hanging out with him in Spain here in LA I was before a friend but you know live and learn live and learn yeah I think it's interesting that this sport and I mean this in a good way actually it it kind of you know you notice the people who surround themselves in this sport and who take it to the next level or people who are just you know borderline insane and I mean it in the best way possible like they are obsessive they are compulsive like you know their whole lifestyle becomes this and this passion just fuels so bright with them it's honestly kind of like interesting now more than ever Marcus is going to be tougher than ever because now you got more money prizes yeah you're going to see more kamikaze stuff which is I think John you know I feel bad for these guys that's not in safe hand it gotta back you gotta be safe you gotta be safe there's only handful you see one hand handful of coaches that understand safety okay and I know quite a bit of coaches that gamble that play Russian roulette and in the past three years we lost some champion because of that stuff and now with the money prices Arnold's putting like so much more and and Jake is live they like increase in the prices you know make it more interesting you know and we want that yeah but when the competition is so tough and there's a lot of money these guys will gamble they want to compete more often like you know you just enter Jean told us that Derek decided not to do the Arnold Classic but the money still on the back of his head if I went there and grab another 600,000 he's thinking about it 750 but you gotta think no I gotta I got my health first I gotta relax I got a wife and daughter I have family I gotta be healthy for them taxing my body with more entry it's only gonna harm me you gotta really understand that kind of stuff and you know you remember the money money is all the root of all evil remember yeah you know that definitely made a million last year just in prize money yes wow that's why become most winning is the one year listen to this why do you Martin Fitzwater did very  andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx you don't need mass. I my advice to Derek no more worrying about size. He's the biggest. Even if you lose 10 pounds, you still is the biggest. Imagine he's super shredded separation and detail everywhere. No, come on. Who's going to beat that? Nobody. But this year, I didn't see even now I'm not dieting the separation between the biceps and triceps. He didn't have it on Saturday night. You know, John, what why I don't want to go into more detail about what what happened, but no more size. No more size. You got all the size necessary. You're like a big bulldozer. You just go in there and run them over and win. Take your 600 or whatever a million dollars. But do it right. You don't panic. Don't over try it. Well, you know, he did what he said he was going to do. And I told him, you know, when I talked to him, I said, man, you're an inspiration to me because how many people have a goal, a big goal, like a scary goal that like nobody thinks is going to make it. Nobody nobody believes in it. And he said that goal at the beginning of the year and he believed in it all year. And he did it. It's amazing. Yeah. I mean, you gotta give it to you. You say big stuff. A lot of people go, yeah, yeah, that's not going to happen. I even said he's not going to win the Olympia. You can't win the first two shows and then still peak for the Olympia. And he did it. So what he's a warrior. He loved this game and he tried but sometimes remember, sometimes trying too hard, not necessarily is the right thing to do. Sometimes you push yourself when you don't need to push yourself. Right. And whatever happened, whatever tension he was under, and then you hear all kind of rumor, and that probably played a role why his condition wasn't better on day two. I don't know. I never really talked with Chris Assito on that. We talked about a million things, but you know, whatever happened, I have no idea. But I think his condition should be better the following day. Or like I said, John, let's do the whole show in one day and get it over with. Yeah. I think that in today's world, I think that in today's world, I think the judges are definitely they have their ear to the sport. So I do think that at next year's Olympia, it is going to be vital that part of it. I feel like it's the same thing with Samson. We've seen the mistakes that are made and how they fix it. And I feel like at this point, you know, we've talked about Martin, we've talked about Andrew Derrick speaking and putting on size. Next topic, you know, going to Samson and the fact that he said during this offseason, he's planning on putting on some size, getting even bigger, really pushing limits with the size game. So, you know, John, how do you feel about that statement? What do you think Samson needs to do moving forward? And, you know, just that that sentence alone, putting on more size as Samson, the size that he is. Well, I think he's still kind of reacting to what happened at the Olympia where he tried to come in leaner and he overshot it. And then he came in, he lost too much muscle or flattened out too much. And now he's going the opposite way. I mean, obviously, if he gets too big, he's not going to win, you know, and if he comes in like he did at the Olympia, he's not going to win. He's got to come in full and big, but he's got to come in hard. And that was his, even when he won the Olympia in 2024, you know, I didn't think he was going to win on Friday, but he did come back a lot better on Saturday. But that's always been his problem. The last few years since he turned pro was the conditioning, you know, he's got to come in, he's got the body, he's got the symmetry, he's got the shape, he's got the fullness, he's got the mass, he's just got to come in harder. So, I have the other way and saying, I'm just going to get huge now. That's not going to work, you know. I have the recipe for Samson. I have the recipe. It's very, very difficult sometime. You know, when you're doing a growing process sometime, and some guys, they are not as fortunate where they develop a thicker skin, okay? Some people have thinner skin. Whatever happened in, you know, look, I saw how Samson was training and him and his wife were like really going at it. And I figured, oh my God, this is the year he's definitely going to be better than ever. But it's not about really losing size or gaining size. It's how much, how polished you're going to be. I mean, the more separation and detail, every little thing, when you have detail, if you don't have detail and separation in the shoulders and striated, this is what's needed today. And you know, honestly, John, no disrespect, but the majority didn't have those finger detail in the shoulders. The only guy that have it is Crisso. But Crisso, this year, whatever he did, his torso is too big. So he have a void area from here to here. There's void. And so that shoulder is unbelievable. Chest is unbelievable. Quality is incredible. He have so much detail. Let's say, let's put it this way. If Samson have Crisso's quality, everyone will be demolished. Who would have taken it for sure? So his skin has to be thinner. Remember, that's why we call it onion skin. And we say 24K quality. But 24K quality is doable. But to some people, it's more difficult than other, due to that one issue with the skin density is sickness. You know, I mean, like, some people are a little bit unfortunate, you know, for example, let's talk about it nice, kindly, in a nice way. I'm talking to one of the most intelligent endocrinologists. He told me years ago, that anytime anybody will use more GH than need to, it have definite connection between the skin thickness and the skin density. I mean, there's more, it causes create more volume, but it has impact on your visceral fat, and then your skin gets slightly thicker. It's not unhealthy. Most, the average Joe who seek and help and do anti-Asian, they like to have a slightly healthier skin. But for bodybuilders, we don't need to, I don't think anybody take more than three IU. And Chris Acido and I were talking about it. He said, GH sucks. GH is ruining bodybuilding. Nobody should be taking more than three, four IU. Nobody. And I know that for a fact. I mean, we know like, if you know, there's book about using GH, which is okay, it's healthier and safer, but you're not supposed to take 10 and 12 IU, John. It's healthy when you take one and a half to two IU. That's for the average Joe. When you start taking 10 and 11, 12, and I know some people took more than that. It's backfiring on the inside. That's what creates problem in the visceral fat area. That's right. That's exactly the cause. It's not the food you eat. It's that excessive. It's not working like insulin kind of have similar effect like insulin when it's above the recommended dose. I mean, we know all the gay guys who have AIDS, they have a stomach too. Did you know that? I'm not joking. All the gay guys that all the gay guys in Hollywood Hills, what they say, like, all like they were given serastim by the governor or by the FDA, whoever, they recommended to the 660 and IU a day. 16. This I'm taking 9 IU twice a day or every day. And all these gays have a big tummy. I'm not joking. Go look into it. Research it. I'm serious. I just thought it was poor posture. I mean, no disrespect. I don't mean it in a derogatory way to make in front. It's true. It is true, John. So anybody that takes excessive amount of GH is very unintelligent. It's not right, especially when we know the fact that it's causing that. All right. It's very hard to say. That's when the worst in your went for his birthday. Don't worry. You're not a rump ranger. Don't worry about it. Oh my God. But I feel like I'm one of those people and I know I stand alone probably with this, but I like the fact that Samson is kind of just maybe in his own head now rather than trying to listen to everybody else. I think it's really smart when the competitors win their race. So I'm really hoping that this won't backfire on him at all. And we can really see an upgraded Samson cut. I think we kind of see Andrew now on that same trajectory as well that Samson was on. Okay. Can I say something really quick? Really quick. I don't recommend GH for the following athlete. Okay. Samson dropped the GH. Nick Walker dropped the GH. If you're using it, I'm just saying it. These guys taking GH because you know, oh, it's safe and it's healthy. Yes, GH is not dangerous. It's not going to kill you, but it does ruin that area and it does affect skin sickness. I swear. I swear. You guys don't want to believe me. That's too bad. I know I made my research years ago and I talked to people who know the damn thing upside down and side out. Do not use them more than two and a half to three IU if you want. And before context, drop it all together. Because this is what's kind of caused the dilemma of the fullness and kind of give you that full muscle. I know this guy who took and been taking GH for a while and I looked at his body, beautiful body. And at the, I don't know, I can't really think of his name, but I think Kevin LeVarone was coaching him toward the end. The guy died at his athelves and he looked good, but he could not get the paper since skin. And he's been trying for years. You cannot get the paper since skin when you take in outrageous amount of IU. So listen, you want to listen, listen, you don't want to listen. That's too bad. This is your golden opportunity to hear from someone that been there, done not. Yeah, I think that's the importance. And, you know, picking a coach, one that suits you, getting all the knowledge you need to as a as a competitor, you know, kind of running your reigns. A lot of people get a lot of flak for changing coaches and things that nature. And I understand there might be an issue with that, but it's also intelligent too. So I think finding a good coach, obviously, a Cito. And I understand hormonal function that understand fluid electrolyte to the T. That's what you need. Not a coach that's taken that went over row and do this and do that. You need a masterful coach that understand nutrition deeply, that understand how to resolve problem naturally, that understand to solve problem with drugs if needed safely, which is, I'm just saying it like it is, we're not hiding from the fact that most of the athletes out there using the whatever supplement we call it, the heart, the dark side supplement. So, you know, but we're just trying. I'm here, you know, after all these years, I like to give advice. I really like to do it in a constructive criticism. Not, I never really hate to look again, we always talk and we have actually no favorite, whether Derek when Heidi when Nick when we support all of them, right? We always have. But sometimes take advice from someone been there done not. Trust me, do that. Well, speaking of good advice, and I feel like, you know, good coaching advice at that both you guys have been here generation after generation long enough in this sport to be able to do that. So we have a question from a viewer, what's the smartest way to rebound after a show and start offseason the right way? And what should the real goals be heading into an all season? If you guys want to, you know, rather from a natural standpoint or, you know, with a little bit of the dark side, you're going to rebound anyway. I mean, when you're dieting hard, somehow you're more on a depleted side. Okay, so right away after the show, you're going to rebound and you regain all your muscle fullness. And so after that, I mean, you have to be smart in many area to first of all, you need to lay off whatever medication if you were one of those drug users because your receptor, your muscle receptor is saturated. So if you got to stay away from that medication, you would take it. And you can go like that's another issue, which is also there'll be some medical advice. And then I don't like to talk about that one part, but your body will load up quickly the first week after competition. We know John did it. I did it with I explode right after the show. But you don't need to do that. You do it for three, four days, and then you go back to wash your food. And then you train you want to gain mass, you train no more than four times a week. Honestly, four times a week, if you want to gain mass, you train four times a week every other day, eight, four workout in eight days. This is the way to build muscle mass, men and women. Without a doubt. And then, you know, you've got to be smart. I mean, really, I'm to the point where watch everything I eat. And I try to go as healthy as possible. And you can do it. You can do it by stopping all these crazy self inflammation and what your liver enzyme, what your kidney, what what you eat. And you can grow whether you could, you know, control your Eucloric intake. You want to go up increase your color intake, you want to say where you at, cut it down a little bit, stay active. And you know, you can control it. It's simple. Really bodybuilding is not a rocket science. John will tell you, I mean, John and I together, we have about, I think about 100 years of experience. Well, you know, I have over 50 years. And I'm sure John have over 40 years. So together, we have about 90 years. So you know, guys, my best advice to you, when you have 90 years right in the front of you, open your ears. Okay. And open, install the good stuff in your hard drive up there. Don't be foolish. It's not what you see on Instagram daily, or you can Google out information. You Google John, Samir, Platte, these people that have been there, done that. And I'm not not bragging, but we really been there. And we want to help. That's why we do this on all school. And anyone who have a question, they're welcome to ask. So John, what do you think about what Marcus says? So you were asking about the rebound, Marcus? Yeah, yeah. And honestly, like, I think, you know, Samir definitely, you know, hit the nail, but just pretty much, I mean, you can even give, you know, a perspective on like a natural athlete. Obviously, it's going to be strikingly similar, both, but there is maybe some differences. And maybe if you can, you know, touch based on, you know, what it should look like for that athlete, you know, if there's any differences, just key points that you can put out there. Yeah, well, for the natural bodybuilders, I mean, they don't have to worry about the side effects from the drugs, like, you know, Samir was talking about diuretics. I know a lot of people want to take diuretics once they start eating, they blow up, you know, and it's not even that they're eating that much, it's just the side effects of the drugs that they just blow up. Natural bodybuilders don't have that. They don't have the rebound, you know, that, you know, and another thing is that from what I remember, when I was in the 80s and stuff, when the guys were taking drugs up to the show, and then they would come off and they would start, you know, scaling down on the drugs after the show was over, then their body would respond by, you know, releasing a lot of natural testosterone too, because now you're coming off the drugs. So then they would get that rebound effect and they would blow up, you know, and put on like 15, 20 pounds in a week, and they would all go in the muscles. It was all like water in the muscles and stuff, you know, so the natural bodybuilders don't have that. So as far as like, what I would recommend for somebody like who just competed, you know, I just competed in three shows, my training partner just competed like a month ago, and basically what I do is I'll take like a week off after the show's over, I won't train at all, no cardio, just, and then just eat, but not like pig out, you know, the guy, people who have never competed before, and have never dieted before, they tend to sometimes go crazy. Yeah, it's like, you know, they, they want food so bad that they eat everything they were dreaming about while they were dieting, and then they put on way too much. But after you've had some experience with dieting, you don't do that. But you can relax, you know, and eat what you want, and then just not train for a week. And then when you come back, I think you should start slow. You know, like when I came back, I didn't start training heavy right away, like, okay, gotta get ready for next year. I took it like probably a month of just really like easy workouts, you know, not pushing it, just giving my body a wrap. Because when you get ready for a show, and you got the pedal to the metal, and you're dieting hard, and you're training hard, even if you're not feeling good, you're still training hard, you know, you still training heavy. When that's over with, you got to give your body a break, you know, you can't just keep going. And I, I got injured before by trying to train too hard after a show, you got to listen to your body and give it a break, you know, and I remember, like in Samir's day, you know, the golden age bodybuilders, those guys would like take it easy for months after a show, you know, some guys, right, Samir, some guys wouldn't even train for a few months after a contest. Yeah, I mean, I'm like, I take a few days off, but then you're not, you're not training as insanity, you train hard, and it's easy to grow. It's the easiest part when you train less, you know, I mean, I grow like crazy. I grow like crazy offseason, you know, yeah, but again, you have to be smart about many things too. You've got to listen to your body, you know, always talk about that. Listen to your body, try to rejuvenate you, you know, you put your body under a lot of stress. So you need to sometimes I'll see people compete and I'll see them in the gym the next day and the next morning on the treadmill. What are you doing? You got to get it right. I know now, you know, like the guy Julian right now, he's going to compete and you know how he got sick before the competition, it was during the amateur Olympia. So right now he went back up to 218 and he had to change all the stuff that he was using, not the same. And he told me want to compete, I said, you know what, if you want to compete, you have to put everything you use before up. So we had to change things. And his body is responsive again. Because this is very important not to over tax your body because you're taking this stuff over and over and over you hurt yourself. So I'm going to see him tomorrow, tomorrow back to gold at gold gym, do some coaching and when I train there, I'm going to see Todd and Dave again, workout. And that's it man, you know, trying to stay, you know, John, I ate a lot this past five days. And you know what, I went from 194 back to 200 like three four days. Yeah, I did the John Hansen principle. I saw the cake you're eating, Samir, with your picture on it. I wish that was the case. I ate a lot of things, man. They have an Armenian store near me here. Oh my God, the best cake and cookies. Oh my God. But I don't, I'm not, I'm not big on junk, you know, but I just ate more. I have a place near me now that's opened up. They have hamburger and the french fries is cooked with rice bran, no stupid corn and all this stupid oil, you know, like in and out you go, you could eat the hamburger, but french fries don't touch it, you know, and like, you gotta be smart what you put in your body. There's always a lot of toxic crap out there. Yeah, you want to get old quick, just eat whatever you like. True. If you pay attention to what you eat, that will, you could add more mileage on yourself. You could stretch it a little bit longer. Yeah. Yeah. I think a really good takeaway is the fact of like what you said about dialing it back, like the not even stat, to put on muscle the four days, that's a really, that like something that I kind of struggle with. I think a lot of people who have this insanity mindset with this struggle with is, you know, less actually more. Yeah. Okay, let me ask you, how many more than you eat, Marcus, how many meals? At least five, I try to, but like at least one extra one will be like a protein shake or two. You know, people won't believe me when I say it. I don't eat more than three meals. But for a couple of days, I ate a little bit more. And guess what? So I always function as half flat, maybe 60% full. And then every now and then I can afford it. And I've been eating for like, how many days now for a few days, but I still got abs, you look off here. But I need to shave. Look, that's, that's more of a flex when you can see the ad through the, through the hair. It's even more impressive. I mean, I need to shave. That's it. But it's there. It's there. You know, all I need is some Roy, which is I don't touch it. You know, I'm clean because I took a shower this morning. I'm clean every morning. But honestly, I don't know. I don't touch any anabolic for a long time. I even forgot when the last time I've taken anything. So just a little replacement in a small, small, small baby amount. That's all. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's not a rocket science. You know, be good for the big seven. Oh, Samir. Yeah, not bad at all. Not bad. Not bad. You know, it's all there, you know, I keep thinking somebody made me this nice shirt that remind me of me. I don't see why. You see it? I like the gold writing on it. The picture. The picture I got you. It looks like the picture on the beach, right? Yeah, the picture I got you on the beach. What year was that? That's not the same spot. Yeah. What year was that picture that I got you, Samir? This one, you know what's funny? Oh my God, John, you're not going to believe this. What? You're not going to believe it. Right behind this picture, I was on the beach three days ago. Oh, yeah. Right behind this picture. And you could see the mountain and you see the Santa Monica here. And I think this was John Baylick. Oh, really? Okay. What year was that? That was 82. Oh, 82. Okay. All right. I was a Mr. Olympia here. Yeah, fourth place. But I was wasted. Look at, look at the offseason. Oh, yeah. That's what I like about that picture is you're wasting your time. Even offseason, you could see, you know, look at that separation. I'm like, within striking distance. I think right now these guys don't look good on stage. They don't get this sharp on stage. Right. I'm telling you, I think the old school way, no disrespect. No disrespect. I know all these guys work their ass off and they all want to get better. But in all honesty, the old school way is the best way to go. Yeah. It's healthier. You may not be bigger, but who cares? Austin Martin, baby, you can keep the Hummer. I don't care. I'll take the Austin Martin. I think that's a good point. Old school way with the, you know, the new school equipment and then you're set. The old school way, there's muscle separation. There's a smaller waist. There's a tighter abs. You know, the whole body is get like, you get that quality. Yeah. It's right now, everybody chasing mass, mass, mass. I mean, who got super shredded? I only see like striation on guys like Hardy and he is so shredded. Look at Martin Fitzwater was hard like a rock. He was, he was improved. And you know what? I was asking Martin to speak about conditioning. And you know, John and I were like going to the room and then we run into Martin and he flexed his legs to us and his legs were really good. Went out here. Incredible. Yeah. He was very, very, he looks really good. He looks ready. And then Martin told me that one of the judges told him that his legs were too small. And I'm like, Oh my God, your legs were not small. Your legs were just fine. Just perfect matching your body. And this is why he's in the winter circle and he will continue to be in the winter circle was that mentality. And I mean, whenever Martin I talk, we always talk about quality says the minute don't worry a man. I'm just keeping my eye on the ball. He's not chasing freaky mass was our class. So it's okay. It's better to gain seven, eight or even 10 pound of muscle a year quality muscle, then better than explode and gain like 40 pound of potato. Yeah. You don't want that. It's if you want to be a champion in the long run, you just do it in portion. You know, you get out like first base, second base, third base, and then get a home run, then you can get a grand slam. I mean, just we know when you try to the chasing size, you end up paying the price. Yeah. And all honesty. That's why the difference between all. I mean, even Mike months are back in the days used to say recipes. Sameer, even if I gain seven, eight pounds a year, and I'm very happy because that's the way to do it. Yeah. Or take 10 IU and gain 40 pounds. It's not looking like a box. You look like a box. Forget about it. It's just gonna backfire. Well, I think I think this episode was filled with like a lot of very solid ways for every type of literature to so I'm happy about that. Listen, that's again, I'm going to touch down on that one again. Just pictures Nick Walker with 30 inch waist in no fullness and his tummy. Oh, it's automatically he will destroy everyone the upper body, maybe in overall symmetry, he probably will have some difficulty, but he's easily right up there. He will look like a different person. So I think, I think Nick right now, his main goal to fix that area and do I think it's fixable? I think it is. Yeah. And so look out when he's stayed this massive and honestly, I think the enemy is growth hormone. I mean, not to say, Oh, you know what, I took growth hormone. I'm not saying, but I didn't take it when I won 88 and 82 and 83 and I didn't touch it for years. At my best, I didn't touch growth hormone. So I'm not saying, Oh, I never use it. I use it, but I never abuse it. That's why I still have a tiny waist overall, you know, I show you. I size 31 my waist. You know, well, I guess we can, we can cut it there and I will say that for anybody who is watching, please.  leave your questions in the comments, send it direct, RiverBee on YouTube, because obviously there's decades and decades of some knowledge here, so please do that and appreciate you guys tuning in. It was fun. All right guys. Keep it all cool, good to see you guys, happy birthday again, John. John, say else. Happy birthday, Marcus, happy birthday, Samir. All right you guys, take care. Thank you very much. Thank you.