 o fibrin, night pre-judging. I'm here with Marcus Guerrero. Samir, we miss you. All right, let's talk about the pre-judging for the men's open. We thought it comes out to Andrew Jack. Looks like him and Hadi Chopin. I thought Andrew had the lead. He looks huge. He looks bigger than he did at the Olympia, but he's still in great condition. I thought Hadi was bigger than the Olympia. He looked fuller and bigger to me. Not quite as hard, at least from where I was sitting. What do you think? To me, this might be Andrew's show. Kind of how we felt going into it. Andrew looked incredible, brought the size. Doesn't look like he missed a beat since the Olympia. And Hadi brought that fullness. That was probably one of the most impressive things to me at this show was the fullness that Hadi was able to bring, which I'm very curious how that's going to transfer over tonight too. We don't know how that's going to be that transition for him. Yeah, tomorrow night. But I mean, hey man, the other two, Martin, looked pretty good. Nick, I was very impressed with the size of Nick. How do you feel about Nick? Yeah, it looks like third and fourth is Nick and Martin, as we again predicted. I thought Nick was in really good shape. He kept the stomach under control much better than the Olympia. Yeah. I thought his side tricep looked really good. He was doing that like twisting and his waist looked small. Yeah. From the back, I thought he looked really good. He's got a really good rear double bicep. I thought Martin looked a little off. I don't know if he's just not hard enough or he's not full enough. I thought his tan was light. Yeah. Yeah. He didn't look as good as he did at the Olympia, not even close. So I think Nick's going to place higher than him. I thought from the back, if we look at like the rear double bicep, which is an important shot, you know, looking at him from the back, I thought Andrew looked really good, really strong. And I thought Nick looked really strong. I think Andrew beats Hadi from the back. I think that's a big part, like his rear double bicep. Which is crazy when you think about that. Yeah. You really actually dissect that. And I think Martin was a little weak from the back too. Yeah. Somebody who showed out. Out of those four, I thought Martin looked the weakest from the back. How do you feel about Nick from the back? Because to me, size, overall, mass. Nick's got a really good rear double bicep. Rear double is incredible. For me, the one thing I like is Hadi brought the fullness. And I think Nick brought a package that was just, honestly, I think this might be up there with the fullness. I don't know if the judges, how they're going to feel about it, because it was a lot of mass. And to take, Samir, we do miss you, mass with that class. I think there was some class there. I just hope the judges do give him the just due, because I really do think he looked good. Yeah. But so did Andrew. I think Andrew looked good. You saw they kind of played with us a little bit with the rearranging the gentleman on stage. You saw that. What do you think is going to place higher? Andrew and Nick. Andrew. No, I'm sorry. Not Andrew. Martin. Martin and Nick. I think Nick's going to place higher. I think Nick actually has a chance to be in that third, second area tomorrow, depending on how they show up tomorrow. Like I said, Hadi bringing that fullness again. I want to see it. I want to see how it's going to look tomorrow at the finals. I hope he can. I mean, shoot, credit where credit's due. Everything he's going through and the fact that he was still able to bring the package he did and a different package at that. That's the thing that's, you know, pretty mind boggling to me is he brought a different package that was still just as successful as some of his older ones. Yeah. Hadi is very mentally strong no matter what he goes through. He had this happen a couple of years ago, too, with some political turmoil going on and he still came in in great shape. He's never off. The guy's always super consistent. I just think he was harder at the Olympia, but not as big. He looks bigger here, but not quite as shredded, not quite as hard. And Andrew is in great shape. Yeah, I think he's going to pull ahead. Kind of sacrificed, you know, some of that conditioning for the fullness that he brought. I mean, it happens to the best of them. I do think that I like the fullness he brought, but I think at this point, Andrew's looking good to me. My favorites on that stage bias, unbiased, whatever you want to call it. Yeah, it is what it is. Andrew and Nick stood out to me for different reasons, as did Hadi with the fullness. But I love the overall package Nick brought and I love what Andrew brought to the table, man. Just overall fullness. The legs is just positive, man. Sweet. Oh, yeah. Incredible shots. Front lat spread. One of my first shots from like Andrew's front lat spread. Yeah. Came in condition. I mean, and when I see, I saw some of the, what the others posted out there, like the, you know, spectators, the screen, that's going to be something that's going to make a difference in all of this, what people are watching on that live stream. You know what I'm saying? It's going to, that's going to dictate what everybody's talking about, things that we were here. So we see it live in action. But I do think that when you see some of these still shots, shot for shot, someone like Andrew in a front lat is going to look incredible. Oh, hands down, him. Nick's going to look good in another one. Just with his overall structure, Andrew is just unbelievable. Yeah. Yeah. So as long as, you know, we just, we were waiting for him to come in bigger and fill that frame out. And he did. I know you've been, that's one thing you've been itching for. I've been talking about that for years. At this point, I can say years. Yeah. I've been with you on the muscle maturity show and it's just been years. You've been liking Andrew's physique. We all like his physique. And I think now he's, he's reaching his potential. A hundred percent. I think that the Olympia stage, that's the one thing I was scared of is if he was going to come back after the Olympia stage and be able to continue on his trajectory. That's something I feared. You know, sometimes the bigger you are, the higher you are, the higher you are, the higher you fall, man. Yeah. So it's like, I don't know. And I feared that for Andrew because we see it happen. I mean, this is really a sweet science for all of them. It's a sweet science. What they're doing, the peaking, the protocols, everything. So the fact that he was able to kind of replicate even a better package, we heard that's been great, that fine tuning that he did. You got to give a shout out to one Andrew and his coach. Yeah. I know that's your boy, Chris Aceto. Yeah. I mean, it just goes to show you need a team. Yep. Yep. All right. Well, we will be here tomorrow for day two of the finals. We'll see what happens. I can't wait for y'all to join us again. Take care.