 On today's episode of the Muscle Maturity Show, we will be talking about Hadi finally making it to the U.S., our Arnold predictions, our top underrated bodybuilders of all time, and much, much more. So make sure to stay tuned. Welcome to the Muscle Maturity Show, where we bring the Muscle Maturity to bodybuilding. Hopefully after a few episodes, you all don't end up hating us. Marcus, if I were anybody watching this show, I would hate us already. But, but I think we're going to have a very exciting show. So we've been talking about this for a while, and it's something that I was on board with from the beginning. So I think, I think we could bring something special, new, fresh, honestly, though, maybe even a bit retro, maybe even technically dated. Hey. Don't act like it wasn't our intention, though. It, you know, you brought the special. But let's, let's get into it. We do have a major update. I'm glad to see this come across my feed this morning. Hottie Choupin has officially arrived in the United States. That boy, Hottie. A little controversy. Controversy. It was just up in the air. I mean, like the airplane. He made it. Real. Real. With even foreign relations, foreign policy-wise, things might be happening soon. So I, I got to be honest. We talked about this backstage. Um, I didn't expect Hottie to make it, quite frankly. After all the reasons. Yeah. I mean, with that said, though, um, do you think his, his turmoil before he got here will affect him in either way? I think Hottie's someone that operates well under stress. I'd have to agree. And I think that he's showing up at the one show where I don't think any of that stuff matters. I think you take all the, I think Arnold, ironically, being a politician at one point, I think that this is the show that no matter what's going on in the world, the Ferris man will win. And I think that's going to be, you know, the Ferris. Nah, Andrew's coming. Andrew's coming. We are, that's, that's my, that's my, that's my pick, but it's not my real pick. Now that we know he's for sure here, I think the predictions, especially, I mean, we're less than two weeks out now are they're really going to start coming together. Now it gives us those four that we're probably thinking of Nick Hottie, Martin, Andrew. We'll give you the order, but then who's going to make it to that fifth spot. And then when we do make our final predictions, we can do a full top 10 list. So, like I said, there's going to be those four. It's going to be those four Martin, Nick, Andrew Hottie. The top four seems like a lock. Maybe not. Do you have any of those four outside of your top four? There's no. Personally, I don't. We're really just looking for who's going to be in that fifth spot. At this point, what's in my brain is, all right, I have Hottie and Andrew kind of itching for that number one spot. Martin and Nick following. But, I mean, being the fan that I am, oh, I'd be so happy if it was Martin or Nick that took this W. I mean, we got Brandeo who can, you know, hey, he has that shot. Have you seen his updates? I'm still a believer. Hey, I think it's going to look great when he does compete at the Arnold 2027. But I'm anticipating that. I think you're forgetting one name, and I think he's going to be my fifth place. I do think MoFoto is the dark horse. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Hold on. Don't jump the gun. Don't jump the gun. And I'm not talking about Akeem. I'm not talking about your boy Akeem. No, no, no. All right, shout out to Akeem. Shout out to Akeem. But, you know, sneak peek on the underrated. I think we have the same person in mind. In fifth place, I'm going Brandon Curry. Brandon Curry. Guess what? I think Brandon Curry might jump up a spot. I can see Brandon making it to that top four. He would be the one to do it. He has to be. He's the only one who I think can really do it. One at twice. One at Olympia. In a different era, so sure. But, I mean, I've said this. I'm done trying to count or to predict the day Brandon finally does succumb to father time. I've been trying to do that for the past two years. You've been itching for that downfall for far too long. Yeah, I've been itching for that day. It only makes me rally behind Brandon even more. Black don't crack. What can you say? Yo. Brandon probably has one of the coolest top upper shelves out there in a sense of from shoulder, traps, arms, just that bubbly round. Front to back. He brings chest. Yeah. Incredible. Incredible. And we've seen him bring up his legs recently. They looked good. They looked good. Both of the showings last year were good. A lot of people said he could have been higher than seventh last year. I mean, I think if you redo the rankings properly. No shade. Shade. Yeah, I think he moves up. I think at the Arnold Classic, I mean, we're talking about Andrew to win the show this year. Remember who got their own call out with Brandon last year for third? That was Andrew at finals. Yeah. And I loved Brandon's Arnold Classic package. It was his most conditioned ever, which is crazy to think of. The dude's, I think he just turned 40 or something like that. And he's no spring chicken. And still, he's finding ways to improve or a bare minimum maintain. Anyway, we have to pick. Yeah. True. We have to put, we have to, out of that top four, someone's going to have to be fourth. And recently, and maybe we'll touch on this a little bit later if we have time, because of his recent stress, his recent lashing out, I put Martin in fourth. People know me as Martin's son. He does not respond well to stress. He's not hottie chooping. You know, you know, when I hear that, the only word I could think of is a bastard child. Disowned. To put your quote father in fourth is, is disgusting. It's disturbing. To think of it. I'm not making predictions. I'm living in reality. Your reality is skewed. All right. I don't see Martin slipping. I think what Martin has done in the past and just shitting on all y'all has been incredible. I think it's freeing. I think it's good for the soul to just speak your mind. I could see it going that way. He blocks all of social media. He blocks all of social media. So he is kind of freed from that because he doesn't see it. Maybe it does help in that regard. But I think now that he's like, let them in so much, let people's doubts. And mind you, no one was really hating on him. It's all made up by trend brain. So when that, when that, when the doubt starts to creep in, you know, it's like, it's like cracks in your foundation. One day you're going to, your, your beach house is going to fall off into the ocean. See, I think you're looking at it wrong. I really do. I think you're looking at it. If I could psychoanalyze this, I think that hearing the shit, cause we don't know how we come across, right? We don't know what we're saying. It might hurt to sit there and put somebody in fifth. Oh, they might make it to the first call out. I'm working my fucking ass off every single day, night and day obsessing over this. And this line is telling me that I'm not going to come on. I mean, at this point, I think that for him to come out and say, you know what? Y'all it's beautiful. It's yeah. Every one thing, if he was getting dragged through the mud, but he wasn't doesn't matter. It'd be one thing. You don't know what he heard. You don't know one thing. If he blocked muscle discord. Hey, say what you will about him, but he makes inflammatory type of content. I think he brings up some valid points a time or the other, but blocking someone like Xavier Willis as well. Our friend, Xavier Willis. Well, that's insane. So I guess there's maybe a difference, but let's, let's, uh, who's your third place? Oh, wait, did you give your fourth place? I know you're afraid of getting blocked by Martin, but let's stop the stalling and get to your stalling at all. I'll give you my entire list before you get to your fourth. I know my list is different to yours. So go ahead. You know, you give me your top Nick Walker. I think he has a ceiling. The judges. It's so abundantly clear. Shape is in. He's out no matter if he's better. I mean, he was, he was peak at the 2023 Arnold classic. They gave it to him over Samson who was not a, not although very good at his peak was not at that peak yet. Number two, I hate to do it again. It's what I think. This is what we think is going to happen. Not what we want to happen. We're making predictions here. We're not, we're not doing a fantasy league. Um, although I'd love to have some of my fantasies played out here. Hottie Choupin is going to be second. Andrew Jack is going to be first. I think they're ready to reward Andrew. I think the winds of change are blowing. And I think Hottie may be on the way out for, for multitude of reasons, drama politically. Um, I mean, he has no sponsor. He apparently, he apparently has no coach anymore. I mean, like, yeah, not that you can't do it with, without those things and for the love of the game, but like, honey, I have the tiger. What are you talking about? If there's anybody out there who doesn't care about what's happening in the world and the media, what people is Hottie. That dude is bulletproof when it comes to his soul. I'm always down for Hottie glazing. I can, I can see where you're coming from. Maybe, maybe he does want to come in and shut everybody up just one last time. Maybe he is done. Maybe I am right. Maybe he is done, but not just yet. It was a beautiful moment that just happened. When you put Andrew Jack in first place, no lie. I saw a couple of curls sprout up there. No joke. I saw my black card is, uh, look, the curls are there. I see him. And it's that, it's that Nigerian just, they're flowing through you right now. I love it. Let's hear your list. Let's hear your list. All right. All right. Well, obviously we have the same fifth and fourth going down to third. It is going to be. Oh, wait, you agree with Martin and fourth. Yeah. Yeah. I think Martin. You're such a piece of shit. You can look, do your little eyebrows all you want, but styles make fights. And I think that same thing applies to bodybuilding. And I think that you can't get more just one extreme to the other when it comes to Martin and Nick, both incredible bodybuilders, both. You have top prevailing. I do. I think so. I think so. And, and that put it like this. If Andrew wins, I think Nick is in third. If Hottie wins, I think Nick is in fourth. I do that type of, type of ranking all the time. I would agree. I can see, I can see us having a two man pause, call out a piece for third and for first. And it's going to make sense because it's poetry in motion. And sadly, once again, who knows where Brandon will fall? He might fall in that top three or he might fall out of it and be placing that. Leading that third call out. Fourth, third. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So there's no telling, but I do think that we've seen this time and time again. I think that in the end, life is, it's a soap opera. It's a, it's a, it's a television show. So I see Andrew and Hottie having that Olympia rematch. Andrew getting his just due. And I feel like they're going to bring back, bring back the rivalry of Nick and Martin. I think it's going to happen. I, I, I, I kind of feel that too. So who do you have winning? Andrew versus Hottie. My hair just got, got wavy. Just got wavy. Cause Hottie, I think Hottie's going to take it. You know, I, you know, I'm, these aren't final predictions. These are subject to change. We will put our stamp on our final predictions a week out or whenever we do that, we do that episode. Um, but that, that is what I'm feeling. I do think Andrew, Andrew has not changed for me. That's always been my winner, but those are our predictions. Um, we're going to move on for me. Oh, before we, before we move on, let's just say, put it like this. I can see Andrew winning. I want Andrew to win. If I had my way, it'd be more to stick together. Nick or Andrew to win this one. I, I, those are some of my favorite bodybuilders of today. I like them, but taking all that bias aside, I think it's a good idea. It is Andrew's time. So I would not, I, to me, it's a slip of a coin with Andrew and, and Hottie right now. Cause Hottie is Mr. Reliable and Andrew is climbing up that ladder, but you're right. We spent a lot of time there. So I think we should move on to something we're both happy to discuss, which is, yes, let's get to our next segment. Most underrated bodybuilders of all time. Well, Marcus, we've each prepared a list of three underrated bodybuilders. Yes. Mine skew newer. Actually yours is newer names as well. Yeah. Mine's all, mine's all just because. 2000s. The modern era, you know, like post nineties, you know, after you have the nineties glaze, the modern era just doesn't get their just do as often. So I see them as underrated. Let's, let's, let's, uh, let's go three, three second, second, first, first. So my third, my third most underrated bodybuilder of all time. Branch Warren. Ooh, that was up there. That was up there. Mine. I like it. Tell me why. You know, I wasn't, I wasn't really there in those early 2010s, late 2000s period. So I didn't experience where was I in the room? Where were you? I wasn't, I wasn't there for that, that Branch Warren hate, but it was there. People said ugly physique, all of this. But looking back, I think his shape, not as bad as people think. And then like some of his body parts, some of his poses, like the legs, the, the conditioning. Yeah. It's like gnarly. It's disgusting to me in a good way. Like, I want to see that. I want to see someone peeled out of their mind. That's how I do my McDonald's orders. By the way. I say, can I get a disgusting amount of fries? Can I get it? Can I get a gnarly? Can I get it? Yeah. Yeah. So Branch Warren, I mean, look, he is, he, I think he can be a lot of guys transcending any era, complete conditioned thick like myself. No. So what you're going to say, what you're going to say. Were you looking for Sosa? What was that? What was that little? Yeah. Over there? You know, I'm going to look like Omar in about 10 years. For my third, I will be going with Ian Valliere. Oh, a man after my own heart. I'm surprised that wasn't on my list. I actually said this now because I thought it was going to be in your top two. And I was like, you know what? Let me get this in there now before he gets in there. Let's see. I'm Dick Rodder or anything like that. Love Ian's physique. Ian Valliere to me is when you talk about the comparison rounds, when you talk about those quarter turns. People are going to hate when I say this. He reminds you of Dorian Yates. Pause. Hold the phones. Hold the phones. I just mean he's not as big, maybe not as shredded. Maybe. I mean, Ian would get super conditioned. But beyond. The way Dorian talks about how he won shows is the same way Ian wins shows. Go through all the poses. Yeah. Ian has a couple of stinkers. Let's not. He'll tell you that, too. He's very honest and open about this. That's another reason. That's why him and Kuklo even had a rivalry, to be real. It's because there are some, quote, stinkers, per se, if you want to call it that. But when you get down to brass tacks, there's more pros than cons. Now, at least those pros are worth more. And, you know, I will say, you bringing up Dorian is beautiful. Why? Because both of them have been mentioned that you have to see them in person. Yeah. There's a huge difference between pictures, photos, and what you see in person. And I can actually attest to that. Pause. But seeing Ian in person, dude has some width. Pause again. He has some crazy shoulder-to-shoulder ratio. There's not many I've seen that look like that. People don't realize how big he was. He was a mass monster. It doesn't. When he's on stage, I look at it very similar to Martin, too. Like, when Martin goes into his poses, it's like, what the hell? It's a transformation we're seeing right before our eyes. But with Ian, I look at it in the same light. I think that he is somebody that when he poses, when he gets his pose on, when he steps on stage, next to whomever by himself, it does not do him justice. Look at the gym pictures of him side-by-side with somebody else, and you'll see that he is three inches wider than that person. That bodybuilder, that top-level eye. That three inches, that could be deadly. I know you know so much about three to four inches. Let's get to our second. Who's your number two? Good old battling Bill Bonack. That's beautiful. No, realistically. Would he be underrated, though? Would you consider him underrated? Because of how good he is? Yes. He gets his props. And I'm not even talking about for longevity. I looked at my list in terms of peak physique. Who is underrated? Like, if I made a top 20 list of the peak physiques of all time, everyone gets one. William Bonack ends up staggeringly high. Yeah, he's shorter and narrower. So complete. So round. Knockout shots. Doesn't have a weak shot. Like, I'm going to be popping up, you know, the 2017 version. Not a weak shot. His weakest shots are like the abs and thighs and front-lap spread, and they're still great. 2019, 2020, that era for Bonack was incredible. And he's still great in the heat. But, you know, people kind of forget he was kind of mentioned as the next in line to Phil Heath. Because they saw him as like, oh, here's someone that is a little more compact than Phil. But, I mean, he has the great back. He has the completeness as a whole. He has the level of muscularity. I mean, Bonack doesn't get beat by almost anyone in the grand scheme of things in the most muscular, in the rear double, in the side chest. It's all that muscle that he's packed on that frame. All that muscle that he's packed on that frame is just, when you think of muscle per square inch, muscle per pound, that dude is probably at the tippy top of this Mount Rushmore. You know, I don't know your list. We didn't reveal each other's list. But I'd be willing to bet William Bonack may be the best guy on our list at his peak. William Bonack reminds me of my number one. Okay. Well, let's get to your number two first. Who do you have? Victor Martinez. Yo, that's – honestly, if I did make that top 20 list, they would be right beside each other. Very, very – Victor Martinez, my Dominican brother who just – I mean, come on, man. That's Mr. Olympia. Quite – uncrowned. Uncrowned Mr. Olympia. Yeah, there was an uncrowned Mr. Olympia. There's far and few that we can speak on in Victor Martinez is at the top of that list. I mean, when you talk about everything you want in a bodybuilder, the perfect – just come into the era that he was in. Victor Martinez checks all those boxes. Another one without a bad shot. He has the girth for the side poses. He's still streamlined for other poses, like the front double. Yep. I mean, the roundness of – and that's the Dominican bloodline. That roundness to the – It is. I mean, honestly, the roundness to the muscle. But, I mean, he literally just – one of my favorites, actually. One of my favorites. You think he wears skinny jeans on the beach like a proper Dominican? Stupid motherfucker. All right. Are you ready to hear my number one most underrated bodybuilder of all time? I'm here for it. Okay. Let's see if you can guess this. My number one most underrated bodybuilder, Hottie Chupin'. Whoa. I get it. I get it. I'm going to start with the stat that I always do. I did the math on this. You're going to go back. Like, Hottie Chupin has never been outside of the top four. He's been top four seven times. Talk your shit. There's only been – I forget the number six, six or seven. Maybe it was like six or five people to ever do – and, like, they're the names you'd expect. Dexter Jackson did it, of course. He's been top four seven times. Not top four every time. That's an important no. I guarantee – I mean, that's besides the point. But I think Hottie's lowest placing ever won't be that low. Like, when he finally hangs it up, I don't know if he'll ever leave the top six. And even that's a stretch. Yeah. So, like, he's tied with Dorian in that regard for top four seven times. And then, you know, you take a look at those top four finishes. Most people would agree that he deserved to win the majority of times he competed at the Olympia. In terms of the most overlooked by the judges, it has to be Hottie for the amount of times he's been, quote, unquote, screwed over. There was those 2020, 2021, that realm, 2019 to where, yeah, I think there's a lot of – And then in terms of peak physique, 2024 Arnold Classic, people don't realize how high up that is going to be on a peak physique list. Mm-hmm. Top ten. I think you would agree. Agreed. I mean, come on. That Arnold Classic look of him is one of the greatest of all times. Right. So we can come on and say that easily. And then in terms of longevity, he is the only thing that is going to be close to Dexter Jackson. The only reason Dexter – because Dexter is an anomaly. You'll never see it again. As much as you won't see Ronnie's freak factor, you won't see Dexter's longevity again. So Hottie Chupin, I mean, he's still going. And, yeah, maybe he is, like, slightly diminished. I can't even say that unequivocally. But, anyway, that's enough of the glaze, I think. But, I mean, I also – I smell blasphemy going on. Because I didn't predict him? Yeah. Yeah. If it was my show, I would. This is the most underrated bodybuilder of all time. My number one pick. He is. He is showing up as his best as a judge. Okay. All right. You know what? I get it. You want to go – The predictions are who I think will win, not who I want to win. Okay, okay. I got you. Well, it's not about who you want. It's who you believe it will win. Who even I think deserves it. Are you saying Hottie? I mean, I have not seen the versions. Okay, yeah, yeah. Look, at this point, like I said, blaspheme. I mean, get struck by lightning over there in that Florida sky you're in. Come on. I mean, what are you doing? Hottie should be ashamed. You put him as your top underrated of all time, but you're placing him second. But I – Let me address that. I digress. He is number one on my list because I think, like, per capita, especially with the recent drama, a lot of people are underrating him. That's just – I mean, I don't know who's more. Dylan from Project Bodybuilding included. No. No. Yes. You're an idiot. What do you mean I'm an idiot? I didn't pick my – Let's hear your number one pick. Let's hear it. Let's see who you have. I think I know who you're going to say. You want to talk about Uncrowned Olympia winners? Oh, Uncrowned. Uncrowned Olympia. And he's a brother. And he's a brother. Interesting brother at that. Oh, yes. Yes. Yes. And I'm going to agree wholeheartedly with you. The boy Kai Green with the red hoodie over the little stovetop cooking the chicken. Everyone's seen him. Everyone's seen that video. But did you put him on there legacy for peak physique, all the above? All the above. I put him on there because he's a modern-day philosopher in my eyes. No. Yes. I'll defend the physiques all day long, but bro, it's a half. Sometimes – Sometimes, look, sometimes he's long-winded. Sometimes he rambles. But there is a lot of deepness in the boy Kai Green. There is a lot of things to be said that can just – you take it with you. Take it in life. I think he's fighting demons. And I think he's prevailing. Modern-day philosophy. Is demons the name of the male talent on set? He's the Mike Tyson of bodybuilding. He's the one in my head to keep all those demons from going and choking someone. One of these bodybuilding news journalists. You know what I'm saying? Kai Green, man. My number one underrated, uncrowned. We spoke on Victor Martinez being undercrowned. I get it. He's going against, to me, the second best in the world in Phil Heath. Right. Only being outdone by Ronnie Coleman, who is the GOAT. I think that Kai Green, if you put him anywhere else, and if you just give one little sway this way, he's Mr. Olympia winner, and he's f***ing up your favorites. So, I would agree with you. People automatically say, oh, bodybuilding Mount Rushmore 4. Ronnie Coleman, Phil Heath, Jay, Dorian. A lot of people say Dorian. I'm here to agree with you and say Kai Green is probably third. He's up there. I think that that is, if I had to pick my Rushmore, it will be Ronnie, Phil, Jay, Kai. Dorian's right there knocking on the door, trying. Big Rami in there before. Big Rami. Big Rami's probably in my top five. I get it. I get it. I think that's someone that's also underrated. But I was only allowed to pick three. Yeah. I think in the sense of legacy, underrated. Still a Mr. Olympia winner, but I do think that when people look at his legacy, he is underrated. I think he kind of sucks. I'm talking about peak physique. Really? I don't think his Olympia wins were that good. 2020, he deserved. But 2021 was kind of the worst. I forgot. You're on Hottie's cock a little bit. I get it. Hottie did deserve to win the 2021 Olympia. I like it. That's a solid list. That's a solid list. To you, too, sir. I'm surprised. I appreciate that. I appreciate it. A compliment from Dylan is like getting one from your racist grandfather. Because it's basically the same thing. Do it live. Put your fucking chapstick on live again. That was fucking cute. You just put on chapsticks that. Well, we are out of time, little dilly. And which brings us to our final segment. It is the real minutes where we react to viral reels. Are you ready? I want to give you a viral load. You look at your cosplaying Spider-Man. I look fired, bro. Flex. You look at your cosplaying Spider-Man. You know, Mark, how many of these compression shirts do you see at your gym? Hey, man. Being a fellow cosplayer myself, I'm not mad. No, who is that? He looks like Spider-Man. He thinks he looks like Spider-Man. Hey, young L.A. and Gymshark is getting to these boys' heads. Untold consequences on the gym community. You know, you start benching. You're finally able to do a plate on the bench. And then you have these guys wearing the compression shirts. I just can't. I just can't. Jealousy is a hell of a thing, Dylan. Jealousy is a hell of a thing. You know, it's one thing to wear a shirt in the gym that makes you look good. You know, people have been wearing cutoffs for a lot longer than they've been wearing compression shirts. But, I mean, I think step one is creative physique, you know, worthy of showing off. No, hey. No, no, no. It's that first year of lifting. You see the memes, don't you? You see all that. You're in the gym two, three months. You finally see that bicep vein. Yeah, there's this drug that goes into these people. Like, this, this, this, you know, it's this dopamine. It's the bell curve of, like, humbleness. You see this first year, the first time you start lifting, you almost want to fit because you're out of it. Because, you know, you're not into it. Yeah. And then you get, like, super egotistical. And then you realize, nah, you know, you ain't shit. Nobody's shit. You should just do your own thing. And then that's usually, you know, biggest guys in the gym are usually the most humble. Yeah, yeah. You go from, like, what you just wore to play basketball to stringers to now our, I'm wearing this pump cover hoodie. Right, right. That's how I'm wearing it around. Right. But, Marcus, this posing needs to be studied. It needs to be taught. Yeah, that's a men in black move right there. That's a little aliens from men in black drinking the coffee. That's wild. I'm taking pointers. I mean, mobility, though. Mobility out the wazoo. True. That's some range of motion right there. You can't really call it a flex or a pose. It's more of a flex in itself. Yeah. Enjoy the big boys league, baby. Keep sipping your little nasty poison over there. You got to get on that. Nah, nah, nah. No, no, no, no. See what you're doing? What you're doing? Get that shit off the screen. Get that off the screen. I mean, if it's not L-Carnitine by Old School Labs, what are you doing? What are you doing? If you're sipping, you want energy, Dylan? You want energy? You got to get you that Blast X, baby. I know you try to. You like that blueberry lemonade, don't you? I do. Marcus, I'm way ahead of you. Oh! Get those little nasty inner killer energy drink here. Go get you some Blast X from Old School Labs. Well, Marcus, I think that was a great inaugural episode. Why don't you take us out? All right. Well, hey, it's been a pleasure. My name is Marcus Guerrero. You can find me at Mr. No Limpy with a zero because at this point, we're just zeros. We're just trying to kick it. And my brother from another mother. You got the curls on top. The boy, Dylan. At Project Bodybuilding. At Project Bodybuilding. One on Instagram. Project Bodybuilding on YouTube. Tons of great content over there. I think you'll find Marcus. I mean, if you look for more than two seconds. Oh, yeah. You'll see me. You'll see me. You'll see us in the projects just sitting there kicking it back. You know what I'm saying? You'll see us in the projects bodybuilding in the projects. Join his Discord. The man's doing things. And now we're doing things. Pause. We are doing things. Super pause. Draft night, baby. It's draft night at this point. You're so cringe. I see you trying to get into the lacrosse amateur league out here with your little fake hockey scruff. We're done.