 Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs Springs the last two weeks of competition, the New York Pro, which was last weekend, and then the weekend before that, which was the first ever Pittsburgh Pro. And we were all in attendance there. We were doing some live coverage. I hope the audience got to see it. And so what did you guys think? Let's start with the New York Pro because that's the one that we are all at. This was last weekend, and Nick Walker won the show pretty convincingly over William Bonack and Regan Grimes and Michael Krizzo. And, Samir, what did you think of Nick Walker winning the New York Pro? Third ever New York Pro. First of all, let me say congratulations to Nick. And in all honesty, I felt Nick should have the Pittsburgh Pro also. And, you know, me, as we spoke at many, many occasions, I've always felt Derek would be the man to beat, really. And I continue to think that way. And, you know, John, we do these things accordingly. We don't care who wins, really. However, I felt very happy because Nick, after all the problem he had with his injury, and then, you know, everybody felt that it was a very, very close show between him and Derek in Pittsburgh. But, you know, I'm not just saying, you know, oh, you know, it was like walking the park. No, it wasn't. It wasn't walking the park. However, I mean, I've spoke, you know, I mean, Dorian Nates and even Jay Cutler, myself, and a couple of other people that I know, they know this game inside out, outside. We know this game. And we all felt on that day Nick could have prevailed. In fact, I told that to Chris Asito when we saw him, you know, Marcus. I don't know if Marcus heard me, but I told Chris that. Not because, you know, I know Chris is a capable coach. I know Derek is an incredible champion. However, I felt just something wasn't 100% there. And based on that, from what I saw, I gave the nod to Nick Walker, without a doubt, on that one day. You know, everybody's saying it was a tie. No, it was not a tie. From my perspective, from my eyes, that day Nick Walker was popped, was ready, and he was confident. And according to that one day, Nick would have won. So, regarding New York Pro, I don't think that Nick was as good in New York. But he still looked really damn good. He won convincingly. You know, I know, I know, John, you were talking that Bonac was pretty caught up in stuff. Yes, Bonac showed up fantastic early on. But I think the next, after prejudging the next round, I think he smoothed out a little bit. And Nick improved a little bit. But according to the score sheet, Nick was winning from prejudging all the way until the end. I don't know if you can see that on the score sheet, John. So, yeah, really happy. And really, I felt that it's very well deserved after what he's been through. And it could have been two winnings show for Nick. And so, I know a lot of negativity going in certain people. And I like to elaborate that they not giving him what he deserves as far as a warrior champion. He worked, he trained his ass off. And he have proved it to me, after all. Because three years ago, I was not a big fan of Nick Walker, as you all know. But the new Nick is a different Nick than he was two years ago. So, we all learned from our mistake. Back then, Nick was thinking size, size. Now, Nick is thinking quality, quality. And, you know, he showed to me that Nick Walker is like, let me put it this way. Tom Plath back in the days, we didn't really feel that Tom Plath had the greatest genetics. But Tom Plath could have won an 801 Olympia. It was a hair between him and Danny Padilla to win the show. Of course, Franco Colombo won that show. Rest in peace. But many people disagree on that decision. You know, we're not always satisfied with who. Everybody has a different opinion. But it's like apple and oranges. So, but you have to give Nick a lot of credit for having the heart of the champion and coming back, looking the way he looks in New York and the way he looks in Pittsburgh, you know. So, I'm happy for him. And really, it was a very well-deserved championship for him. What do you think, Marcus? I mean, yeah, I think Samir really just, I'm mad Samir went first at this point. I couldn't have said it any better. So, shout out to Samir's opinion. I think that's a great thing, too, that we, you know, we see, you know, people like Samir, past champions, giving the ode to the people who deserve it in modern-day bodybuilding. Going off of everything, so first, I'll start off with the Pittsburgh Pro. So, one, I agree. I think that it was a close race, but I feel like I, you know, clearly gave it to Nick. I think I made that very clear. Obviously, Derek was the guy to beat, and I think that at that point, I mean, pre-judging coming out, Nick looked incredible. Same thing in the finals. Nick looked still just as good to me. So, I think just shout out to Nick for everything. I think that that's the one thing I wanted to touch base on is first and foremost, actually. Actually, two things. I'm going to start off with saying shout out to the mutant maker, Mrs. Walker. You know, Mama just, she said something at Pittsburgh when me and John were passing, and I literally was like, I thought she had, like, I was like, oh, she's talking about the Olympia TV or something like that. She's talking about John, not me. And so, like, the fact that she had, like, recognized the maturity podcast and, like, you know, that was the highlight for me. So, if I could speak on anything, it was the fact that, you know, shout out to, you know, Ms. Walker and Dick Walker's mom for, you know, just giving me that just boost of confidence in that, you know, array of sunshine. I really enjoyed that. But I told her the same thing. I think that both shows Nick had it just clear, candidly. I think that he deserved both. I think that we spend so much time shining light on, like, so, for instance, the come up for Nick, right? So, I know Samira said something about, you know, three years ago, it's a different Nick size, size. I think he had to put on that size to be where he's at. Now he's fine-tuning it all. He looks like we're talking about him being, like, people are crazy not to think this guy can't be Mr. Olympia Champion because he can. The same thing with Samson and so forth, you know? People are crazy to think that way, personally. And I'll say that until I'm dead. But we saw somebody who climbed through the ranks, climbed through all that hardship, and came out a warrior. Truly. Warrior spirit showcased it and everything. And I feel like we spend so much time on things like, you know, Krizzo, right? So, I was talking. We were there talking to people in the crowd. People were talking about how Krizzo needs to work on this, work on that. So, hopefully, we give that same, you know, attention and love and support when they actually do what we're asking for. So, when Krizzo comes back a year or two from now and his, you know, posing is just spectacular, let's give him that same love that Nick deserves now, I feel personally. I feel like he is somebody who is climbing up. We've seen it. A lot of people have, you know, doubted him. And I love that, like, for instance, that midsection, this, the core. Dude, that dude kept – we were there. We were in different angles. From the Pittsburgh pro to the New York pro, we saw every which angle, at least myself. I sat in the front, sat to the left, sat to the right. And there was no – I mean, it looked incredible. Like, his core was tight. Yeah, there was certain – his core was tight. His core looked just like anybody else on stage. And I think that's showing just how much these people can care for the sport of bodybuilding. When you really care, when you put in all that time and effort, it's going to show up on stage. And I think that's what we saw. I think we saw somebody who showed up on stage in Nick Walker. So, shout out to him. And, of course, a well-deserved win for everybody who won. I will say that. Not shaking anything away from Derek. Derek is a deserving win, 1,000%. It's the reason it was a tie. And, you know, but I think that Nick definitely deserves to have his flowers right now. You know, truly, I think he deserves it. So, shout out to him. And, of course, shout out to Derek for winning as well. I think that I had a great conversation with Matt Grego about a lot of these things at the New York Pro. So, I want to also shout out to him because, you know, shine the light on how we come across and what people say when they're in the limelight and things like that and the importance of it. So, I really just want to start off with that, the importance of giving credit where credit's due when it's deserved, not when it's too late or not when all of a sudden now is the time. No, giving when it's, you know, when it's well-deserved. Well, I wanted to get that question back to you, John. Give us your input about how you felt about the whole thing. Even if you want to discuss from Pittsburgh all the way down to New York. I think that's good. Yeah, I thought Derek deserved to win in Pittsburgh. I thought it was real close. But I just thought, like I said before, I thought his aesthetics were better. I disagree with you, Marcus. I think Nick's got a problem with that distension. I don't think Nick's as hard in the abs as he was like three years ago when he won the New York Pro, the one I saw in Tampa. I thought he was, back then his abs were rock hard. And I could see the difference also from Pittsburgh to New York. His abs definitely smooth out a little bit. So, he's going to have to work on that for the Olympia if he wants to have a chance to win. He's got to come in with harder abs. He's got to control that distension in the stomach. Yeah, I thought Derek was a worthy winner. I know most people, like probably 85% of the people watching, thought Nick should have won. And, you know, I watched the video broadcast, the one that was on the live stream, and Nick did look better. But being there in person, I think most people who were there in person thought Derek could have won. You know, I mean, all the guys I talked to, Chris Aceto, Sean Ray, Bob Ciccarillo, all the guys that were there in person, they thought that Derek should have won. Well, I know some people that were there, Sean, and they thought Nick deserved to win too. So, I mean, you know, it's like you said, it was close. It's an apple and orange. And, yes, I agree with you when it comes to his midsection. It's getting tighter and tighter. You know, I mean, look, early on, some of the athletes did something that was a little bit different. You think his midsection is getting tighter? I think his midsection looks damn good, to be real, honestly. Like, I thought he looked really good as far as the midsection, obliques. I mean, the core was tight. Like, it was there. You didn't see it distending on stage? Put it this way. If you're comparing to, like, say, maybe like a Regan Grimes, right? Regan looked a lot different from the other bodybuilders on stage, right? To me, I'm talking about them. I think his core looked really good, to be real. I think, like, unless you're talking about when he turns around to the back pose or something. Okay. Let's talk about the abdominal, you know, issue that had happened quite a bit about five years ago. Many of the athletes, many of them. Okay. When I say many of them, they were introduced to something that was not sound. Something that wasn't right. And I can tell you who will have that same issue. Almost the majority. I think Derek is very fortunate that he didn't go that route. And therefore, he kept his tight. You know, look, I know Chris Asido, what he does. Chris does not bother with some of those, you know, unsound way of getting into condition. You know, I believe some of the cocktail that's been used that actually messed up many of the athletes. Even from Dorian Yates era until the past few years. I think Nick had probably took that route for a while. But, you know, Nick is fully aware of the changes. Sometimes these things does not completely disappear overnight. But they will go away as you continue to get in shape. Because, look, the way they were doing things with some of the medication that had been used in the game contributed to visceral fat in a huge way. And that contributed to what they call nowadays a pregnancy. So, but, you know, let's put it this way. 99% of the guys that were competed in the past few years had that issue. Even it's actually happening in the classic physique right now. So, I don't want to be too harsh on Nick. I think Nick has come a long way. And he has not been using any of the above lately. And you can see the transformation on his body. But, John, you are right. There is still a little bit of residue in that area. Which is, I think, as he continues to move forward, it's going to get better. You know. And so. And I think that's a positive way of looking at it compared to not just, like, bashing. Because, to me personally. I'm not bashing. I'm not bashing anyone. I just, I think Nick looked fantastic at the shows. I'm just saying, you guys said that his abs are rock hard. I saw distension. A little bit in Pittsburgh. Definitely in New York. I think he smoothed out a little bit. And if you look at how he looked three years ago when he won the Arnold Classic and he won the New York Pro. He was rock hard, man. Go back and look at that video. His abs were rock hard. I don't think they're as hard now as they were then. And I think if he wants to have a good shot at the Olympia, what he should focus on is getting that waist tighter. I heard in an interview he wants to come in, like, four or five pounds heavier. He needs to go four or five pounds lighter and come in tighter and harder. John, we are judging now. We are judging now. We're not judging Derek, I mean, or Nick from four or five years ago. We are judging that show. That's what I'm judging. I respect you. I'm judging how you look at Pittsburgh in New York. You felt that way. Dorian, we can't say Dorian is inexperienced. We can't say Jay Cutler is inexperienced. We can't say Samir, who spent his life more than 50 years. And you know me. I will critique a mosquito when it comes to bodybuilding. And I'm not going to lie about my bodybuilding. I will never kiss ass. Never kiss ass. Not Derek, not Nick, or anybody. I'm going to always tell the truth is what I see it. Me too. Nick should have effing won in Pittsburgh. As simple as that. That's Samir Benoit. It was close, but Derek edged him out. I mean, it was a tie. I mean, you couldn't get any closer. It doesn't mean that he should have won. I mean, you might say. I think Derek should have won. I'm a judge. This is my judgment. This is your judgment, John. We can agree to disagree. But to say. I will say, I saw the streaming. I saw the live streaming. And Nick did look better. So if you were just watching. If you weren't there. And you were watching it on TV. Then, yeah. I probably would have said Nick should have won too. Look. You have to take into account the muscularity. And the pop-ness of the physique that day. Yes. In the middle. Nick probably weren't as tight as, you know, Derek. Again, in our former podcast. And you know it. Derek and Marcus know it. I always felt. And I still believe. That Derek is the man to beat. But I am judging that one day. According to the one contest. I'm judging Nick. Muscularity. Density. Size. His muscles were more prime. In my vision. More prime. More like boom. There's also. He was more. He was more. A poppy. Derek. I see. I saw Derek earlier. I shared some photo from Chris. And I was like, wow. Nobody's going to touch Derek. Derek. Derek. In my opinion. From my perspective. He missed his peak a little bit. Yeah. He was not the 100% Derek that I envisioned. Right. He was good. He was cut. But I mean, come on. When you have guys. Like Nick Walker with this much muscle mass. Yes. I'm not in favor of this midsection. In the bloat. In the tummy. But you got to look at everything. The back. The density. Derek has a great back too. But I felt Nick was a little bit sharper. What's what I saw. I don't know. Maybe I'm losing my vision. But what about aesthetics? What about shape? What about the V shape? No. Listen. Shape wise. Nobody going to be Derek. That's Samir. Nobody's going to be Derek. You got to take that into account too. Derek. To me personally. I think you got to take everything into account. Right. And I feel like personally. This is one of the best Knicks we've seen. I really think that too. Because if we're going to hyper focus on one thing. Right. And that's what we're doing right now. We're hyper focusing on one thing. To where there are so many other parts. That have just stepped their game up. When it came to Nick's appearance. Same thing with Derek. I mean shoot. Look at Derek two, three years ago. That's a huge difference. Right. So we can say this about all these gentlemen. But I just feel like with Nick. I think this is truly one of the. This is the best Nick I think we've seen. As far as. Full body. Not just simply the core. Best Nick ever. You're talking about maybe an Arnold. Or like the Tampa. The New York pro that was in 2021. To where Nick looked crazy. The abs were etched and everything. But I feel like full circle. When it comes to the entire body. The improvements in the back. And things like that. I think that's where. I'm not talking about just how he looks. When he's in his horse clothes. Oh yeah. His back shot are incredible. Marcus. Marcus. It's everything. It's not just. Hold on one second. I don't disagree with John. When it comes. To the middle area. The middle area. Of course. Derek would win that. But again. Let me just say this one more time. When Derek is 100%. Goodbye to everyone. I'm not saying this. Because I'm not pushing for Nick. I'm just pushing for what I've learned. After 50 years in the game. When Derek is rock hard. Goodbye everybody. Everybody's going to have to be. Have a problem. Listen to me carefully. Now when it comes. To Nick Walker. On that day in Pittsburgh. This is what I saw. And that's okay. I'm entitled to think what I. Derek has to also. Work a little bit more. On showing some of this stuff. I really believe. Even though. As a Mr. Olympia. And I felt that Derek. Would do all that. Even four years ago. Five years ago. When he shrunk down. All the way down. And it was with the wrong coaches. Now I actually told. Chris Asilo. Exactly how I felt. I swear. I said Chris. That's how I felt. Nick didn't say anything. I mean. That's what we're all doing. Chris didn't say anything. I think we're all doing that. We're just kind of saying. How we feel. About it. Right. I mean. We're all giving our honest opinion. I was at Pittsburgh. In person. And even at the night show. I was there. And I. A very good vantage point. Of it. And I feel like it's obviously a close race. It's not like. It's if it was a dog walk. Or anything like that. It was a very close race. I think that clearly. At New York Pro. It was much more of a wide gap. Clearly. I don't think anybody. At New York Pro. Was touching. Okay. Nick. On that night. Let's talk about. Quizzo. Let's talk about. Regan Grime. Because. Both of those guys. Were really sharp. I think. You know. We talked about. Quizzo quite a bit. And Quizzo. Was really sharp. He was in great condition. Especially at the night show. Most. Most people don't understand. What's Quizzo's problem. If Quizzo have a shorter torso. He'll be unbeatable. When you have a short torso. Like. Remember how. Mike Matarazzo. Rest in peace. He have a long torso. If we can make his torso. A little shorter. But he needs to learn. How to pose. To find a way. To eliminate. Some of the. You can hide. Some of the weakness. Seriously. I believe. That Quizzo. It probably was the most. Ripped in the contest. I mean. Listen. Quizzo. And. Regan Grime. Were the most. Ripped in that show. In my opinion. Body fat wise. Clarity wise. And I believe. Also. That if. Regan Grime. Came in full. He would have. Probably won. The fucking show. You know. Let me just tell you. Like it is. It's not like. They can. Totally nick size. I'm talking. What I see. What I've learned. Over the years. Don't. Stop. What I'm thinking here. If. Regan Grime. Came in. With seven. Eight more pounds. Of full. Of reserve. He would have. Probably won. The whole thing. Another thing. Another point. On. On. His leg. He. He needs to keep. His leg together. Once you open your legs. Too wide. You ruin your total proportion. He's got everything. And if he show up. With seven. Eight more. Stop fullness. Of reserve. And everybody gets so worked out. About oh hold in water. A little water. you're not going to look bad if you shred it you can fill up and this is not going to be a problem this is the problem with some of most some of the coaches there oh you know they look at you from here to here and be like oh yeah yeah they're holding a little bit of water give him some diarrhea you know what bullshit that's not a smart coach you put your athlete 10 yards away and you look at him you don't look at him from here to here which is you know this is a common mistake you need someone that understand that been there done that and you know what i learned the hard way in fact i had a discussion with chris asido myself you don't look at the athlete from here to here you look at him from here oh yeah he's ripped but look at him from 10 yards away he's flat and you know i somebody texted me and said that oh chris komir and milo sasev both felt that he overloaded and he spilled over and you know what i'm gonna have to say wrong wrong he did not load enough and i've been back and forth with actually i had a little exchange of messages with reagan and he totally agreed with me and i don't want to just say agree with me you need to look at the photo of him two days afterward i mean if you want to show us this photo uh scott could you please put that photo to show the people here here's what i'm talking about this is three days later a three days later or two days later look at the fullness he looked wider his waist looks smaller he looks way better on the right because now you know he'll he have the tanning stuff on on the left but had he showed up like that honestly i think he probably would have won he would have gave nick walker a big big problem and this is what i can see in in and i'm telling you i've always been saying when regan grime also 100 he's very very dangerous okay so look out for him in uh pro show here in southern california soon if he peaked properly you know what reagan is one of the men i've always thought that he will do it all he'll he'll have it all and so these photo right there tells me that he did miss his peak it's the total opposite from what chris kormier and milos were saying the total opposite sometimes people do not differentiate between full and holding water and all this you can't hold water when you shred it to the bone you can load up and if you load up smart you will have a minimum amount of water which you cannot see from 10 yards away that's why you don't put your athlete in your face and you say oh he's holding water that's the poor judges a poor coaching when someone look at you from here to here and tell you oh wow you know this is the way you're supposed to look not so fast you look at your athlete from this we're like almost from the same this is where the judges sit down look at you see the whole picture exactly like what the artist does he'd paint the painter they you know he does a painting to go backward and look at it he won't look at the painting like this you cannot see things right and this is what i'm telling you most of the coaches resort to using diuretic thinking the flat is water and this is what i'm saying hey come on guys come on you have to understand that if you shred it a little bit of water will not harm you in fact you could ask dory nace about that who peaked six time who won the olympia all these times doing the same exact thing diuretic is not always the solution sometimes can be a solution but a masterful coach will understand when to take diuretic when you not not to touch diuretic and i've talked about that repeatedly in previous uh you know uh pot you know um many many podcasts in the past we talked about it too so yeah i mean you know i'm thinking derek grime i'm sorry uh you know regan grime missed his peak and could have been if he showed up in that condition honestly i think it would have been way different what do you say about that but let's say john what do you say about that yeah i was sitting right next to you i mean i never saw regan compete before and when he walked out i was like holy shit this guy looks great i mean he was great shape of course but really full really really hard his rear double by was amazing yeah and then yeah he just faded and um you know i was listening to dennis james podcast today and he made a good point he's like he goes he thinks that he was flat and then he got a good pump before he went out there which makes sense because when he first came out there and went through his you know his round of poses that they do individually i thought he looked amazing and then when they brought him out for the comparisons i mean it looked like he was going to be challenging nick for first yeah then he went from like a close second or first to fourth i mean not only did uh bonak beat him but also uh chrizzo beat him too and and rightly so i mean chrizzo deserved to beat him so yeah he just he was way too flat totally agree john totally agree i cannot believe that milo thing he spilled over you know we see this guy i mean come on when we look at regan he's weighing 300 pounds the guy looks incredible and when you go on stage shredded but flat forget about you're not gonna get far you're not gonna get far you need to load the muscle properly and again those photos speak for themselves that right there about his changes within days i mean like we say sometimes the water that you put in your muscle are your best friend yeah and do not worry about water spilling over you have to understand what to eat not to make sure this is won't happen but if it happened and you shred it it's not going to cause major damage okay it's it's it's it's it's the mind it's the the worry and and all these uh you know um what i think yeah but anyway uh you need to talk about another guy who i thought was very very well in condition to see sassan well let me sassan came in fourth place and i felt that he got he came in fifth place yes he was really good but i thought he i seen him much better at a previous competition he was harder yeah i think sassan we didn't see the best sassan that night at all i don't think he saw the best he looked much better at night than he did during the day yeah way better same thing with the guy who got sixth place and shout out to him as well the guy who i think got right after sassan he looked really good at the night show yeah he was good too he is great shape yeah the shape was crazy he was a standout for me as far as like if he just came a little bit more conditioned that shape would have yeah it would have taken that next level if i know what we called that he was like it looked i don't know what the scores cards say but it looked like he from the judges call outs and where they placed him it looked like he was fifth after the pre-judging and then sassan came in much better at night looked like he put oil on he looked dry he just didn't stand out during the day but he looked much better at night the abs weren't popping in the pre-judging show at all compared he looked like there was a dryness to like there was yeah exactly how you're saying there was a complete difference especially in the abdomen area you could see it's all about it's all about peaking properly and so you know um that's how they miss the peak and that's what i can keep calling it it's a water warm water warm you need more water in your muscle the body is water when you put the water in the muscle the right way you will have the winning body if you go in there at 65 percent 70 percent fullness as what reagan does in my honest opinion he was at least no more than 70 75 full just imagine you put reagan on stage at 90 percent 95 you know what they would have taken him through the winners it would have won probably would have won i mean i love his mid section was really shredded i mean when when when uh when uh you know when he walked on stage we looked at him and we go like john oh my god you know uh he just looked amazing he was so shredded but you can say what john said that reagan pumped up a lot when he came out he was full because he was pumped but as the time went by the flatness took over a little bit and this is why quizzo ended up beating him you know reagan's physique is literally like i mean one of the best yeah but he has not enough ammunition in his gun that's all we could say right now so uh i i expect a lot from him i hope he's saying with that kind of quality with that kind of hardness i predict like he's olympia finalist like that let's be truthful i think we all kind of had the same reaction whenever even people in the crowd were just like there was that gasp air whenever reagan walked out because the condemn you could his stinking hamstrings look like an accordion like it looked crazy like his condition like yeah he was shredded to another level when he first came out it was just it was like i was in awe and then obviously as we all echoed as the show went on like i at prejudging i kind of had like when we first saw him oh this is top two right here this is crazy and then just slowly somehow even like chrizzo got in front of him and by the night time we can all attest yeah i mean that's somebody who i think chrizzo almost had the opposite of him to where he didn't look as good and then he got a lot better as well throughout you know from prejudging the finals and i just think it's so it's crazy because i think we might be able to see a really really really good reagan you know coming up since it was just a missed peak a thousand additional gram of carbohydrates would have won him the show one thousand more gram of carbs john multiply that add that to that time three that's like three thousand uh altogether of fluid in the cell which is i would say if you hit one thousand times three would be like three thousand uh uh what ounces or three thousand milligram of fluid in the cell and that could lead to tremendous popping of muscle which is it showed two days later okay that's about like six seven pound of pure muscle that and people don't get this picture they don't understand that sometimes you need to eat to look better and don't bother with diuretic don't bother with diuretic first you put your money in the bank then you can go shopping you don't take a diuretic when you're flat okay guys wake up some of the coaches wake up so is the enemy of muscle if you don't understand how it should be used yeah reagan's doing the pro in california this weekend right yes reagan sassan and sassan is doing it too okay yeah yeah and you know it's interesting because i i want to say this right quick i feel like the fact that we see someone like reagan come out and we put him automatically and like oh he could have been second i do think that when you have that whole apples to oranges overused phrase but it's rightfully there for a reason when you see someone like reagan and say again someone like nick they are they're vastly different bodybuilders right the way they you know their aesthetic is very different and i think that's what almost gives like one or the other whomever is better that night the edge because when i look at them as far as size for size reagan did look a lot smaller on stage like he looked a lot smaller and i guess it's peaking and all that of course but i do think that when it is like such a different physique when you're comparing say a one and two that's really what makes it so interesting to where you're going to have this um derrick and nick situation to where someone like john or that you know this crowd will feel so strongly that oh because the aesthetic or overall package everything this derrick won and then there's the other part who will feel like nick won and i think you could say the same thing when it comes to reagan he has so many qualities about his physique that can really make that same argument as far as if he came in with the full package i think we'd be sitting here having the same conversation to an extent as far as there's gonna be one side feeling like over reading reading rigging and the same thing for nick and when i feel like when you compare him to someone like bonak who we haven't shined any light on which is wild because i feel like you know bonak looked incredible and i know like people had him moving up the ranks when it came to that the final um new york pro but i feel like his body is very similar not similar but there's a similar package as far as like overall aesthetic size to a nick walker and i feel like they're more comparable to where reen is not john i want to remind you of 1982 mr olympia when macaway came in seventh remember that yep macaway came in seventh at the mr olympia 1982 in three days later he beat hey he beat everyone in stockholm and you know how much better he looked zillion time better yeah so you guys have to remember you know there's a mastery in coaching okay and it's not as simple as you see it's not about book smart it's about experience and understanding how to do these things okay if you understand pecan the pecan process properly this is what you want this is why aceto is over this is why honey rambod is on top of it they understand that phase right here okay and those are the guy that don't result right away to diuretic because sometimes you don't need to touch the diuretic okay you just load up properly macaway and i mean most people don't understand what i'm talking about but if you look back 19 1982 mr olympia macaway came in seventh three days later he beat everybody he was like so full it was five times more ripped and way bigger so this is what i'm talking about is like understanding the pecan process you need to put your money in the bank this way you can go shopping and get what you want right all right you cannot flex flat you cannot flex fat flat is not the way to go anyway i just felt like in new york last week i think he looked incredible yeah i mean i think i think it to me it's just overall story we can like hone in on just the show and i think he looked really good it was a great package that he brought uh and we're just seeing just this crazy resurgence of bonak in his career and i think it just deserves all the praise i think that's one thing i want to stay on for this day in general is positivity and praise because i feel like we're going to see the same thing that's rigging next week we're going to see that well-deserved praise come when he comes in right and peaked hopefully at the cal at the cali pro but i mean bonak came in looking incredible man you know what bonak was really really impressive many people that's near me some people would say oh wow bonak's gonna win it i'm not i'm not i'm just gonna tell you how people felt about bonak bonak looked tremendous he was clear he was popping he peaked perfectly but whatever he did between the a.m and p.m whatever was it the following day john uh same day and what he bonak have changed from really really good to about 10 15 less quality so something that he did he did not look good in the final but you know john you told me you were very impressed with bonak and i totally agreed with you when you said it yeah i thought he looked better in new york than pittsburgh and he just when he comes in full like that with his denseness and his thickness he looks so good yeah he sure did i thought he looked um you know i thought he looked a little harder than nick at the prejudging but yes overall size i mean i know he did he was good yeah he was pretty good at the prejudging yeah and man he had like the best uh the best music for it being the new york pro he did like a little a little uh mesh of uh i think it was uh i got a hundred guns 100 clips i'm from new york but he had like the jay-z welcome to new york city he had the right music to get the ground the crowd pumping so that was really great to see you know in the new york new jersey area so i also wanted to give a little you know ode to that because that was like you know that's what it's about too is that performance you know keeping the routine obviously at the you know the forefront i think that's something we can probably all attest like the routine is so important it's so fun it's what brings like the you know the live events to the event and you know gives them a chance to show off their physique and to get the crowd in it with like just the music choice in general was really cool to see and i think it allowed them to shine so i love i love that and like i think you got the crowd pumped but yeah i think it's one of the you know this is this is it's crazy when you really look at the whole story for boneck to me honestly i i think it's something that is just we see a lot of people fall off and then they can't come back to where i've seen you know a couple years back we saw him kind of have that you know to where we could have saw oh maybe we're not going to see boneck as much anymore you know kind of similar like with roley even though roley winkler had like the injuries and i'm honestly roley's one of my favorite bodybuilders of all time so to see boneck come back and just have this type of just going head-to-head with you know some of the best of today at pitch for pro and derrick and nick is pretty cool so john so what are you guys prediction uh at the los angeles show i mean the i think is it well the california pro cali pro yeah yeah who how do you see your final top i don't know exactly who's competing but i know um you know not not many of the pro competing which is going to make it uh more much easier on reagan who else is competing uh john uh looks like reagan and and sistan are the main guys and then you got uh leandro's coming in that one too so you also got bruno that's a good one yeah yeah i can barely see it on my phone here but if leandro comes in a little harder than he did at the uh pittsburgh show he could he could be up there in the top three you know yeah i think uh regan should be doing a lot better i think he will look a lot better yeah hopefully he learned from last weekend and comes in cooler and harder this weekend i'm sure he learned i'm sure he learned he knows better than that sometimes you know you put your trust 100 percent in the coaches and sometimes those coaches are really a very paranoid about uh you know they're like very very paranoid about that little bit of water oh a little bit of water here like shut up just load up load up your athlete is shredded when you shredded a little bit of water like again we you know i said it million times in the previous podcast a little bit of water cannot hurt you if it's a sodium water for example which you would you know the athlete watch your sodium so you know if you're eating the right carbs and you're rested enough your nerves are calm you should not be holding a lot of water usually some of those guys who spend the night worrying then they have hormonal fluid which is the worst fluid to have it's becoming like a sticky fluid it's like a glue those fluids you don't want to deal with you cannot deal with that simple but a normal fluid which is no big deal it's just not going to harm you you rip it's not going to harm you and you know how i keep saying that to people a million times you know when you look at a little bit of water you can see my finger through this glass right there through this bottle okay you're not going to see my finger through this because this is a hormonal fluid you're not going to have the clarity but this is a sodium fluid which is a minimum amount of fluid and you can still see the striation separation this is what these some of those coaches have to learn there's two type of fluid if your athlete is calm relaxed eating resting having understanding the glycemic index and stuff like that should not have a problem or the opposite is true so you know live and learn can you imagine how many times i made that mistake before i made that mistake marcus million times honestly i like for the mr universe 1979 i was staying up all night thinking about worrying about you know this is this is how you learn in life you know life is a school live and learn and this is why we tell some of the athletes hey trust me trust me i know what's happening just relax but you need to have heavily experienced coaches what i mean by heavily a coach that competed for many many times that understand the process of speaking and can get you there healthy and safe and you go on stage looking healthy you glow and this is what some of those coaches we don't do like give them a little lasix oh let's give them a little bit of uh exlax let's give them a little bit of uh uh die side let's give them this don't give them a little unless it's a must and it's really needed it is not always all you must give them some of those crazy coaches out there i don't want to name them i don't want to name them i can name them but i'm not going to name them okay it's just in their head they think lose a little bit of water you lose a little bit of water you're going to look like shit you have to understand when and when not and a little bit of water will not hurt you if you're shredded if you're smooth then it doesn't matter you're not going to look good enough so anyway i'll stop at that this is an issue that every time i we talk about i really bring that topic and it's so desperately needed when it comes to peaking this is why you pick the coach that understand the damn thing that's it so with nick's good win here at the new york pro what do you guys feel how do you think he's going to do at the olympia i mean we're still like four months out or whatever but uh okay can i start really quick i know bob chicarello and i know my buddy sean and you know can i don't know they have a conflict between each other about nick and nick says who the is derrick i mean sorry i didn't mean that who the is bob who the is sean come on i mean personally i would let nick do his stuff if you don't think nick is capable of winning the olympia there's a way to say it okay they have a diplomatic style of language don't say oh he can never win i never heard that telling anyone saying that about tom platt that he couldn't win the olympia and guess what if tom won 1981 guess what it would have been 100 acceptable because he was within a hair away from winning the olympia and how many people did think tom plass would have won the olympia honestly i didn't think that he would but i never talked about it but knowing tom plass being a warrior a hard worker he understand what's happening and you know what i know who was actually helping tom at the time besides you know tom tom is is knowledgeable he's a he's a college graduate he understand what's happening and he had so much experience so you know tom came in 100 on the money in 1981 and guess what it would have been very much acceptable if he won over franco in my opinion i know that danny pedillo was the most trip that day and i really i thought for dilla would have won but it's tom plass would have won it would have been okay so please don't keep putting getting under nick walker's skin because you know what you're only making nick stronger and you know don't say oh i love him he's a great guy you know you love him let him be you know let them be you know there's a way to critic someone without being too harsh and criticizing don't be harsh i feel like that's something we see a lot today is people kind of forget that we're all humans like and we lack that like empathy and things of that nature um to where you know that's why i feel like there should be a little bit of more positivity spread and just in general right to where obviously bob is this is the high school stuff well that's what i'm saying this is the high school stuff man exactly that's what i'm saying well because even like rep take away the person's um stature where they are right so rather you're the head of this or whatever it be i think even if you take that away just human to human what you say yeah we're here to be critiquing critique others whatever but i think there is a way to go about it one thousand percent and i feel like okay shedding so much negativity on someone okay marcus let me finish what i john asked me what do i think nick walker can do here's what i think what nick walker can do if nick walker continue to think quality over quantity because he's not lacking in the size department not for any but it is like massive and if he puts so much emphasis on the middle we need to come tighter in the middle okay now when you hit a double bicycle as nick it's not going to be easy to deal with his double biceps from the front from the back is killing and like who you were talking about earlier john i would love to see a clearer and tighter midsection can there can he do that in my opinion yes he could why because he's driven he's focused and he can do it i know what's needed to bring that middle even tighter i know exactly what's needed if nick wants to talk about it i'll be happy to contribute in that area yes we need to eliminate the midsection problem and have a tighter stomach when nick come with a tighter stomach it's not going to be easy for anyone to deal with him yeah well john my bagel his mirror i i think just he he will just continue to think quality continue to uh understand through the art of flowing he can actually help himself a little bit more in certain area with positioning in all honesty i think regan grime standing on stage two with open legs wide it's not a good thing i can see that from my perspective after 50 years in the game and some people may not disagree it may agree with me but from the new school they don't want to agree with an old school there are so many things that we can do to have a pretty balanced massive body but show it in a proper way so yeah i i believe that derek is going to get better he's going to get better now whether he win whether he doesn't i don't know depend on whom you know what happened if let's say it depends on who shows up let's say if the other guy showed up off a little bit and and nick coming at his best so you can't say that he can't yeah don't say that he can't i mean everything is possible so where do you think he's going to place i you know honestly i'll put him in the winner circle i will put him in the top five oh well john how do you how do you see ahead of him i don't know i mean if he was this close to derek in pittsburgh why wouldn't he be as close to him back in in the olympia why not he need to have his middle tighter that's all i can say for derek i mean for nick to get better yet you need to focus on the middle and he need to pose and keep his stomach tight throughout he need not to get caught with letting his stomach go because all of us even if i don't have the problem in the middle if i relax on stage and let it hang it will look bad this is something that you learn that from frank zane and from the labrata when they stand on stage they remain that stomach flex all the time keeping the waist tight and show this the cut in the tummy throughout the prejudging even when you're standing in the background you're not being judged this is what professional bodybuilder champion will do you're gonna stay tight throughout the prejudging never get caught with your stomach loose yeah and look i don't know if y'all see this but this is reagan just posted this 18 minutes ago i feel like we shouldn't skip over this cow i think the cali pro could be a really good lineup honestly you know i mean especially with how susan kind of came in a little off for prejudging and the same thing with reagan we see we you know we didn't see them at their best i think that these two guys are definitely going to look you know we could have a good show at the cali pro and then how many years ago that was sorry to cut you uh this marcus he just posted uh he just posted this 18 minutes ago so this is him right now reagan yeah he just posted so i assume this is him probably i would assume maybe post new york pro yeah well and i think he needs to make a little more adjustment a little bit more i want to see slightly more clarity but that will happen um yeah and now i can see a little bit of water right now i can see a little bit of water a little bit but you still have a plenty of time we're talking today is thursday you got tomorrow which is whole day friday and that could be adjusted okay and i think he looks a lot more massive and uh he needs to be a little bit more clearer but you remember you have to re-peak right now so he might have probably cut his carbs a little bit in the past couple days and now he's going to come back up but i think sometimes you don't need to deplete to replete sometimes you don't need to but by cutting you know cutting the carbs for a day or two you got to lose some of the subcutaneous fluid if you have and then come back as maximum fullness and you could repeat properly and yes i got to be done i got a quick question so with them doing like a show a week after week right because this is where i'm you know i'll be naive if i speak on this how hard is it to come back into peak again a week later like i'm gonna assume it's probably pretty is it challenging like i would assume well you have to be you have to have experience to know how to come down a little bit and come back up you know it takes uh it just take a little bit of uh we're not worried about fat in here or he's getting fat it's just like you go down a little bit and you come back up and fill up properly and you know i'm pretty sure he would look better he's probably already look a lot fuller but right right there yes yet he's needed to make the little bit more adjustment but he had a few days so what about i won't judge him right now what about like the mental part of it as far as like like how does that play in the factor if you're giving it all out the one show like does it take its toll moving into the next as far as i think mentally he i think mentally he's uh he already knows what happened and he knows that he could have done better with additional eating properly who would have been right there you know fighting it with nick walker actually you know you know it is what it is you know he misses peak just like i did in the past like we all did we all make those mistakes and i think he'll be easy to correct it it'll be easy to correct yeah i do feel like the cali pro is gonna be a good show nonetheless i feel like seeing you know sassan come back looking good because i feel like he's a standout we saw him you know go you know nine pounds with uh andrew jack and he looked really good so i'm gonna ask that question to jean what do you think about um what do you think about regan right now from what you saw in that video i think he's gonna come in fuller yeah i think he's gonna learn his lesson so come in fuller and i'm sure he's gonna be the favorite he'll come down and go back up i mean you know you got it's on so oh you got now in southern california it's still already early and you still have a few hours now and you have all day tomorrow of loading accordingly you know you have to have a keen eyes of like okay do more do a little less but don't worry don't worry the worst thing could happen he can be at 85 or 90 percent fullness at least 10 more percent fuller with that same quality and guess what that would be easily done for him to uh get back and win you know which is that show should be no problem for him yeah he's gonna be a good show what do you think uh nick would place at the olympia marcus oh i feel like we can definitely see him being easily top three top four i mean obviously we have samson we got derrick we got hottie and we got nick i think those are going to be your top four um one thousand percent so i think that out of those four right there to answer your question any of them can be first place any of them can be second place any of them can be third and god forbid we could even see somebody slip to fifth or sixth depending on you know everything there's a lot of heavy hitters in the in the game right now who can easily make the martin fitz water is out what about andrew i mean jesus that's another one look at me forgetting andrew that man is a gift in itself so i think that if i'm placing andrew anywhere it would be it's really dependent i think that he if i'm making a guess four or five months out is he's my fifth place and i think those are my top four i think six will be martin you know that's like how i see it right now john if he picked properly i see him in the winner's circle in the top six and from there it's all depends who's who and who's what at that day you know but again if he comes in with 10 percent fullness more than he did in new york guess what he's in the winner's circle because he's got a complete body he needs to make a little modification the way he stand up on stage i do not like to see the legs wide open it takes away from the proportion it's a big mistake a huge mistake it's a very amateur mistake and i don't know why these guys are learning from the wrong people about presentation you know you know what i don't care man hire frank zain you have money you're making money i don't care you want to give tom frank zain 10 grand go to frank zain let him show you you want to get take care of me you want to pay me and i will help you you know what i'm saying i'm not like no i'm really passionate but i love to see good guys like nick walker or even quizzo either as uh you know um regan was a little modification to the presentation even from the mind the way even your personality has to pop up on stage your presentation is is very very important and this is the problem was quizzo because we always have that problem and so you know i believe that regan will be fantastic at this coming olympia and we all you have to do just stay healthy and and understand what went wrong this time and i know he can capitalize on that and come back looking better than ever i really believe that yeah i feel like we're going to see him come in really good looking at the cali pro and to answer john's question because i know that was your your question he kept doubling back to it i can see nick winning first i can see samson winning first i can see all those anybody anybody in this race in today's day day and age has the chance has the ability they all do they all show signs of just we're not talking about samson but again we said a million times before when samson is shizzled to the bone lord have mercy and this is what i'm saying i've always been putting my money on derek okay look we know hardy you know hardy chopin is coming ready and listen what does help hardy his tight midsection his upper thighs is very hard in that area the judges look at your middle and your upper thighs when you're standing on the lineup you make sure you flex those legs from the hip and keep your abs tight and don't go like that stand like a champion be proud and guess what with a physique like for example again regan he's got that balance white shoulder small waist all you have to do is stand there with confidence flex those abs flex all tight don't open your legs wide you open your legs this wide it will throw away your proportion same thing with nick walker tight abs flexing your thighs throughout learn how to pose and hold the poses even if you have to practice and feel the pain of practicing you need to practice to really be there i mean we know automatically who is the top three we know that so for nick and regan to be in the winner circle they need to continue to do everything in their power to improve in all area so even samson i'll go back to say something need to be more shredded yeah yeah yeah well john so like i mean are you still sleeping on nick like how do you where do you see him at the olympia i know that was your question so i want to give you a chance to answer it as well i think top three will be samson hottie and and derrick again uh and then nick would probably be top four if he comes in but he's got to come in harder i think let me ask you something what do you think for example samson's a reigning mr olympia so you gotta i mean the guy's got the incredible body all he's got to do is come in harder you know so he knows he's got to be improved from the arnold um i think hottie's gonna be dangerous he's taking the whole year off um i think he's gonna be really one of the top two for sure and okay derrick's got to come in like he did at the arnold and i don't know you know i mean he's got to peak again so this will be his third time this year peaking so i know it's no problem it's no problem i think derrick comes in shredding he's got enough time to do it i'm gonna put my money again on derrick how about that okay i'm putting my money back on derrick coming in dry shredded his upper thighs his legs were really improved but i saw his legs before the show looking like scary on the stage i don't know what it is whether it's nerve whether it's excitement he's just not looking as sharp you know on stage and i mean you know i mean calm down you already mr olympia you have you have the gift you have everything a lot of people said his legs were down in pittsburgh no his legs have improved a lot and and he just needed to have that deep separation and dryness he needs to be dry nick had the better balance because i don't think i don't think uh derrick is dry enough i'm telling you i mean look i talked to chris all the time i changed photo i saw some photo of derrick was scary with mind-boggling but we need to do that mind-boggling on stage right it don't matter how these guys look on instagram i don't care i'm gonna judge you the way you should be judge on stage all right of course i'm going back and putting my money on derrick again don't underestimate you know you know we have so many other guys that need to be ripped i mean come on samson come on incredible poser shoulder to the waist ratio incredible and he's overwhelmingly massive so when you have that deeper separation and tightness and that saran wrap skin what i then i'm not going to uh really put 100 on derrick then it's going to be toss up it's going to be very close battle between you know um derrick in um what's his name again samson they both have a complete body right so if you look you look at derrick's back derrick's back is unbelievably beautiful crazy he just need to come in derrick need to stop thinking size derrick need to stop thinking size he's massive he need to come in shredded onion skin and guess what i'll put my money on him yeah but let's wait and see what they will look like on stage and then we can re-judge accordingly yeah so how do you see john since you asked the question how do you see it how do you see it well you said i think the top three are going to be uh samson derrick and haadi and i think nick nick could possibly be up there but he's got to come in harder i think you know um i don't agree with you guys about the stomach i think the stomach is a problem um you know he's got the size and i like i like nick's physique when he won that arnold a few years ago was that three years ago i thought he looked freaking incredible so i mean he's he's not like a v-shaped kind of bodybuilder but he's so thick and you know those abs were rock hard he's got to get that rock hard look back that's what i would if i was him and his coach i would focus on getting harder so so john are you giving up on nick getting that quanta quality in the middle um yeah i'm waiting to see if he can get it you know you think you think he could bring it back yeah um you know sometimes i don't know we'll have to see you know it's it's a hell of a problem having an issue with visceral fat to be honest that need to have there's a way there's a way and it's not that simple but i think yeah there's a plenty of time that he could do that he could do that let's hope he can do that yeah because really if you have a guy like nick being able to do a vacuum and they would have been wow and so this is i think something that he needs to keep in under you know you know yeah i think i think he should crunch down on his abs too when he's doing that front double by and standing relaxed yeah he certainly needs to improve in that area most most definitely he's doing that before but at the new york show look like he was coming up like trying to elongate it i think he looks better when he crunches down on it because you can see more more detail in the abs well i wish him all the very best we are here at our podcast we're gonna we don't support just anyone we say it like it is whether it's nick walker whether it's derrick whether it's samson we're just gonna judge thing accordingly yeah and i'm not gonna underestimate any of these guys because that one day when you step on stage this is when they count it's all what we're saying here it's just a guess yeah oh yeah i think i think a good thing is when people are underestimated you can use that that fuel for fire so to the athletes if anybody's underestimating you or doubting you use it use it use it as fuel use it as fire no matter what place you know well it's getting exciting it's getting excited man i mean this mr olympia probably would be the toughest mr olympia this coming yeah yeah i mean you know shake he's getting back hardy looking at his best samson he's fighting to look his best to maintain his sandal he maintained with the winnings and you know what derrick is capable it's automatic so you know uh do i think reagan grime could be in there in the top four honestly if i'm with reagan if i'm around reagan personally if i'm around him on a daily basis honestly i think he'll break into the top four for sure i think reagan has a very high ceiling yeah yeah i agree that he has a very high ceiling one thousand percent the aesthetically he is he has such a pleasing looking body as far as for bodybuilding uh reagan i think his coaches really should have been more professional more understanding that he was not full enough this is a good coach this is what separate experienced coach who have like years and years and years decade of experience i guess guy who actually learned this game in the past four or five years okay so i really believe that uh you know i can see changes in nick walker i can see lots of changes and um again uh reagan you know we'll see we'll just have to wait and see and wish him all the very best yeah well we'll wrap it up there and uh best of luck to all the athletes competing this weekend at the california pro and then we'll go over those results next week and uh yeah that's it yeah exactly what you said john we wish them all the very best and yes man let's keep it old school because having that old school look with a tight middle is the way to go all right