 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Uh-oh. First off, I already told you guys before, I'm like, okay, I got so many questions to ask because obviously it's the biggest show of the year and they were there in person. So I had to get, you know, I had to explore the mind of these two geniuses when it comes to, you know, bodybuilding. So first and foremost, one, how was it? What was the highlight for you in just overall weekend spitball? John, go ahead and answer first, man. It was great. It was a great competition. You know, they always do a great job at this show. It's, you know, the biggest show of the year. So it's the most exciting show of the year, really, you know, it's a long competition because there's so many divisions. There's 11 divisions. They got six for the women, five for the men. So they got to put all that into two days. So it's, you know, it's a long show, particularly Friday night, but Saturday was a great finals event and it was really exciting. Really, you know, a lot of new champions. There was a, I think three different divisions where a former winner came back and won again. And of course, Derek did that too. And this was only the second time in Mr. Olympia history that was ever done before. First time was Jay, of course, in 2009. I didn't know if that was ever going to happen again, but Derek, man, what a, you know, some people thought he should have won. Some people didn't, but what an impressive champion, you know, I mean, I was very inspired by him because, you know, think about it at the beginning of the year, he said, I'm going to do a three-peat. I'm going to do the triple crown. I'm going to do the Arnold. I'm going to do the first Pittsburgh pro and then I'm going to win the Olympia. And he did it. And a lot of people didn't believe him. You know, we didn't pick him to win. A lot of people didn't pick him to win. I didn't think he was going to be able to peak three times in one year. So for him to do that, it was very, very inspirational. It really was, you know. Yeah. And would you say he got better? Right. I mean, after the three-peat, speaking to the university, it looked like he got better. Yeah. I mean, I think it was the most ripped at the Arnold. Yeah. Not quite on shape for the Pittsburgh, but he did it right at this show because he came in big and full and he didn't do that last year and he dropped down to third. He didn't lose his legs. He had big legs. In fact, he beat Hoddy in the legs. And, you know, when it came down to it, everybody was a little bit off and he was right on and he was thick and he was full and he wasn't the most conditioned guy in the show, but it was enough to win. This strategy or Chris Ossito strategy, whoever was, was right on the money. Yeah. And speaking of, you know, the champions, Samir, I want to ask you a question because you were able to see the new tech, they have a new gym out there and they have all the Olympians on the wall. So I know that was probably a highlight for you. So go ahead and talk on that, man. How was that experience, the Olympia weekend and just seeing the, you know, the new and improved things that they have to offer? Well, yeah, you know, I wouldn't want to miss Olympia, but I almost did this time. Unfortunately, one of my client, you know, his name, Julian Ariolo, and Julian was training very hard, prepping for that show. And really, I want to go to the Olympia whether Julian is competing or not. But unfortunately, this time we went, we went to go and competing and enjoy the Olympia as usual, because I never missed it. All these years since I wanted an A3, I only missed it quite two times. One time I didn't go to Belgium. It was in Belgium one time. And then I didn't go during the COVID to Florida. Was it in Orlando, right, John? Yeah. So that's the only time I missed the Olympia. You know, I like to watch it. I still love the sport. I'm passionate. When I judge, I judge fairly. You know, I always tell people it don't matter who's on stage. I'm going to be fair. Sometimes the truth hurts, but it's tell the truth every time. Yeah. You know, Marcus Olympia was great. You know, I think Jake would always doing really, really good. I just love this man, the way he put so much effort with Mr. Solomon, they, you know, they're a very good team. They really make it a good event. And I'm sure the MPC Pro League, you know, do a wonderful job every time. And you know, some people say, oh, this guy, they did help this guy. Oh, no, they didn't. No, no, no, none of, none of these competition is rigged. Let me just tell you, none of these competition ever since this competition went to, you know, MPC Pro League with Jim Manion and all the staff and all the judges, the competition been straightforward. Yeah. You know, you're going to have some, some people say, oh, you should have one. You know, I will tell you from my perspective and I will consider myself a good judge after 50 plus years in this game. You know, yeah, it was good experience, Marcus. We loved it. Yeah. And then also while I was there, I got to visit a new gym. It's really great gym, great equipment, good atmosphere. But the only thing that really hurt that this time I was, I was in such a good mode, I want to say, you know, Julian, he was entering the amateur Olympic, you know, and really we did a good prep. This guy have a great future. He looks good. What do you want to do? He looked good. He looked really good. He was about to peak. And fortunately what happened, that's not Julia, but anyway, well, that's the, well, you know, did you climb up there and find that? I saw that they have the pictures of all the Olympians and they got this. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is a friend of ours from Korea and I met him there. He's have the Korea magazine, but a wonderful gentleman who was just taking a photo and you know, we spent like an hour and a half or so just chatting and stuff. But yeah, just to make the short, short, I didn't say that Julian got sick nearly 10 days before and he wouldn't even tell me he got sick because he's a warrior. He wants to fight it. But you know what? He wouldn't say something. I'm saying he said, oh, I woke up, I was sweating. It's maybe because of the supplement he was taking. You know what I'm talking about? The hardcore supplement, but it wasn't. It was something heavy. Could be as heavy as honestly as maybe COVID. I don't know. We didn't test for it. We tried everything in the book to help to bring Julian back. But unfortunately his body wasn't responsive. We even tried to load him and he's very, very depleted. We went to the point where I tell you his waist was 28 inches. But anyway, things happened, you know, and I was laughing about it. I said, next time you go to the gym, you put a bottle of Lysol. Like Gary Shredham used to do. You don't get sick. Well, I mean, clearly that's what that's what John did. John's over here. He got that bulletproof immune system. Yeah. Yeah. Thank God John was around me and he's got a strong immune system. Unfortunately, his sweet friend, his sweet girlfriend, Stephanie, didn't really get us lucky. But anyway, yeah, yeah, yeah. But anyway, it was fun weekend. Really, you should have been there. And you with Scott and behind the walls. I'm just you guys should have really go and check it out. It's fun. Yeah. One thing I like about it, they did like the blackout for the first time. So how do you feel about the production level and all that this time? Because I really enjoyed the fact that they for the men's open, they did the blackout and they turned off the screens behind them and all that. Yeah, that made a big difference. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like shout out to the shows that are actually doing that. Like I know like Detroit Pro, they just did a straight up like theater curtain and all that, which is really cool. So I like that Olympia production is actually, you know, taking heat to what the fans and what the spectators were saying and, you know, doing it justice. I think we're moving to another hotel next year, right, John? Yeah, they're not going to have a resort's world. You know, which one yet or not? No, not yet. They're going to announce it pretty soon. God, imagine if they at one point had it in the sphere. I would love, I mean, that would be just I know it'd be like, you know, far. They need, they need, they need a larger auditorium because really. Yeah, it's out of now. I mean, you got people coming from all over the world. Yeah. Yeah. People coming in from all over the world. I mean, nobody wants to miss the Olympia. And so it's wonderful. I hear the price is going to go up a little bit, right, John? Oh, really? Even more. I heard it's going to go up to 750,000 for first place. Is that true? Oh, the price money. Oh, yeah. I imagine, especially with the whole Arnold and them going back and forth, which I mean, I'm a fan of that, you know, give back to the bodybutters, give back to the, you know, the athletes. So we'll see who makes it to a million first. Yeah. It's going to make two million first. That's that. Well, the production, the organization, everything was done. Like I said, Jake and, you know, Don Solomon and, you know, they did a great job in handling everything. And I was, we talked to both of them, but anyway, to get back to the Olympia. Yeah. You know, it was a very competitive man. It was like major race. Yeah. Yeah. You know, and you can ask any question and I got a question. You got a question. So when it comes to the first call out, right? How do you feel like they got, did they get it right? And what would you change as far as that first call out? So maybe like that top six, would you put anybody in there? How did, how did you do judges? If you were on the judging panel? Let's go, John. Yeah, you can go for John. Um, I don't think so. I mean, I think it was the top. I think those were the right guys. Um, you know, Nick got sixth place and, uh, he faded pretty quick after he, when he first came out, he looked good. And then after that, he faded pretty quick. His stomach was a big problem. He just came in too heavy. I actually thought Brandon Curry, who was seventh, I thought he could have beat him. And maybe, uh, Tony, oh, also could have beat him, you know, so, um, but I was really impressed with Brandon Curry. I mean, for a guy who won the Olympia six years ago, he's in his forties. And a lot of people said, you know, this guy's done. A lot of people have him, had it, didn't have him in the top 10 at all. I mean, he's still got that great. He's still got the great genetics. You know, he's still got the wide shoulders, the small waist. His legs didn't look small. He's still holding on to his muscles. So he was very impressive. So if you run a judging panel, you might flip flop, Nick a little bit, because Brandon came, you know, so impressive. Well, Nick looked good when he first came out, like I said, but, um, just kind of faded and then it just seemed like they were moving them down when they called them out in the second call out, they were moving them off to the side. They didn't have them in the middle. So, uh, I actually thought he was going to drop down below sixth, but he did. And he was ended up in sixth. Yeah. What about you, Samir? What, like, how do you feel about the first, the top six first call out? Would you change anything? Well, it was a good first call out was correct. Of course. I mean, it's no brainer. We know these stopped six guys. You know, the thing about Nick Walker, man, you know, also when he first walked out, the first, when he walked out as I was impressed with tons of muscle. I was, but I really, in the very beginning, I did not see the middle. Evidently his coach was claiming that he was more inflamed. You know, we've been talking about Nick Walker for quite some time. And, you know, we always think is his, you know, his biggest issue here is the middle and we saw that he improved in that area. But whatever it is, according to his coach, it was more inflamed this time. Okay. You know, I mean, look, if you look at Nick, he's got the best shoulders, the best arm, the most massive guy, but, you know, it's not that simple. You know, the more wasted the better it is. And I really saw changes in the midsection prior to the show, like probably a month before the show, I was commenting, but somehow think backfired a little bit. Whatever the issue, I don't know exactly, but his middle really was not his best friend. So, you know, but looking at the competition altogether, it was very impressive. I mean, the body changes like from one hour to another, from one day to another. First call out, you know, I look at Hardy, for example, in the very beginning, I wasn't 100% impressed because I know the old Hardy. You know, talking about Derek, Derek, when he walked out, I was impressed, but somehow whatever it is, first of all, let me say congratulations to Derek. Derek is a great champion. I love his body. I've always said it. And every time we try to, you know, take whatever, you know, guessing who's the top six or 10, I guess I think you won this time. Beginners look, I know. I didn't know if I was going to bring it up or not. But I mean, you know, you can bring it up. But honestly, you know what? Nobody is a Houdini. Oh, we don't know exactly what's going to happen. This show entails that perfectly because everything was shaken up. It was a, you know, it was a clusterfuck up there when it comes to actually where people place compared to what it thought. Samson and forth. You know, let me let me just say this. Derek, when Derek is 100% rock hard. Guess what? He's literally unbeatable. Yeah, you've been saying that all year to you. Yeah. And I mean, I mean it because I know when Derek is rock hard, he'll be untouchable. Okay. Now in the evening, and I could tell you, I sincerely mean that. How do you should have won the night show? The second night? Okay. How do you was was really shredded? And you know, I'm sitting in this third second row and he was right above me and I could see both of us. He the quality, the striation and how these chest and ab, you know, some people told me, you know, they think hardy got hurt doing lunges with 225 pounds. But I asked his coach, I don't think honey around board is coaching, but he was training at honey gym. Of course, he was still getting advice. Yeah. But according to honey, nothing was wrong with his legs. But somehow I know at his leg size in Tyler Manion mentioned that. The legs are slightly less than the usual mass that we know, right, John? Right. It doesn't help that. Yeah. So I thought the hotty did win Saturday night. He won by one point. Yeah. Oh, well, he should have. I mean, well, that tells you that the system is not rigged. Yeah. And they went by the prejudging, maybe because Derek was looking really good in the prejudging. Yeah. He kind of faded. He, he didn't look as good on day two. He didn't. And really, hardy came in much, much sharper. And if that was, if that was the prejudging, I think hardy would have won the Mr. Olympia. You know, what's interesting is the fact that on night one, it was clearly Derek was the winner. I think we all can attest and agree to that. And then night two, they only had a seven eight score compared to night one, which is a six and nine in favor of Derek. And I'm curious if I'm shocked at, because to me, how do you look much more impressive night two? So I'm curious if it was a tie, you know, like a tie, meaning six, nine, six, nine both ways, night one compared to night two. And then when they brought them back out again, remember, they judged them again. So I'm very curious if it was a tie and then what changed? Let me, let me just tell you how I feel myself about bodybuilding after all these years, I would consider this like running the marathon. You could be in 20th place in the beginning. Who crossed the line at the end? When? Yeah. And I think honestly, based on what I saw that night, it would be fair, probably I have the nod for, you know, how do you look fantastic that night? But I guess maybe he was losing by more point in the AM or the day before. So therefore, you know, I mean, let's not bullshit ourselves. Derek has got a great body. He's massive. He's got the line. He's got symmetrical. So what was it? It was six and nine. Yeah. On Friday was six to nine. And then in favor of Derek. Three points and then there was a one point difference on Saturday. So he beat them by two points. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, I think Tyler, Tyler Manion and his assessment, I saw the video pretty quick and he analyzed it and tell people exactly what he thought. I'm not 100 percent on the same page with Tyler, but he's correct. Oh, he's correct by saying that, yes, Derek looked better in the AM, which is I agree with, but a hair better, not much better, but maybe a point. Wasn't some years. If I was judging, that's what I was. So, Samir, you kind of already answered it. You know, like my next question. So I guess I'll kind of take over to John because you kind of answered. So my question was, you know, between night one and night two, what do you think is most important? You kind of said night two, Hottie took it. So he should have, you know, been a champion or, you know, you would have given nods to Hottie. So how do you guys feel about the difference between night one and night two? Do you think night two should have more merit behind it? Or like, how do you judge that? Do you think it's more important for your, you know, that initial look? No, the judge, the judge equally, you know, I mean, they look at both scores. So they judge it equally. So, yeah. No, I'm dealing with it. It's always been like that, John. It's always been like that, John. Yeah. It's always been like that. If you're winning. At the finals on Saturdays, they do their posing routine. So do you think if it was a tie night one and night two, would they just keep posing till somebody fades? Or is it simply you give the nod to the person who impressed you first or the person who's winning on night two? They'd have to do a tie break on night two. If it was, if it was tied, were we going to say something? I would really judge it the same way on next day two, because like I said, I compare that to a marathon who crossed the line first. So I feel he was clearly in, you know, in fact, I don't want to mention name. I'm major official in the competition, a major official. He came and told me in my face at Samir, he felt how you should have won. And he's really from the heart of the game. I don't want to say anything here because for me, I'm just saying that, you know, Derek, no, I like his body and I'm really happy he won. But if you would have put it as a tie, it would be more better, but you can't put a tie. Maybe you should have taken the $600 check and sit in it. I bet no, no, no. The difference was that I thought Hadi was a little flat on Friday. I thought he filled out a little bit on Saturday, but he was more conditioned on both days, but he did have the leg imbalance also. And, you know, Derek had the bigger legs this year. He didn't, his legs didn't fade like they did last year. Last year, his legs got flat and he didn't have that this year. So he beat Hadi in the leg department, you know? And then I thought Hadi was just a little flat. Like I noticed like his chest, you know, you know how he's like so greeny hard and stuff and he's freaky looking when he hits those most muscular shots. I didn't really see that on Friday. I saw it on Saturday, but I didn't see it on Friday. It'd be interesting if they did the show in one day, if they did like a 12 o'clock free judging and then like a seven or eight o'clock night show. That would be better. That would be better. Yeah, that would be this happens every year where the condition changes so much up and down with all these guys because you got a full day. And you can do a lot like Andrew Jack got way better on Saturday night. He was a little bit flat. Yeah. It was lean. He was cut. He looked really good on Friday, but Saturday filled out. And when you're lean like that, right, Samir, you when you're super lean like that, you fill out, you can eat a lot and you're not going to get fat one day and he just, he just looked free. That kind of brings me to my next question is in Samir. I ask you, what were you most, who were you most impressed with? Let me tell you something about Andrew before we go into this. Andrew looked great part in day one, but we all talked and Chris Ossito was standing with me. You know, they filled them up a little bit more. Sometimes loading is very important. You don't want to be underloaded or way overloaded. But the thing is he came back, became, he was a different day on day two. And honestly, I'd take, probably give him second place. You know, Andrew Jack was good enough to be in second place. Okay. Why? Because he was even harder. He was harder than Derek. Let's be honest. Derek, Derek, with the Lakers shirt on doing a LeBron, you saw him? You saw him walk out doing a LeBron little emo. You know, you know, honestly, if nobody came in 100% perfect, some people messed up on day one, they fixed it up on day two and vice versa. So, you know, it's like a tough sport, man. And that's why I'm thinking, John, maybe you should do it a.m. and finish it in the p.m. in the same day. Because it's really confusing to the average Joe. They don't understand loading, not loading. They don't understand like we do, not that everybody, only bodybuilder champion that been there, done that, understand the loading, what happened, what have you to change the body quickly overnight? Plus they wouldn't have to do the pre-judging Friday night with all those other shows, you know, there's like six other contests. Yeah. And then they're trying to do the men's pre-judging on Friday. It's just, it's way too much. It's way too much. You're right, John. Back in the day, it wasn't nothing like that. Right now, there's so much stuff involved and they have to, you know, balance it the way they did. And, you know, it's a tough job for the judges. Yeah. For the promoter. Yeah, you got, I don't know how many contestants. I don't know, maybe about what, thousand contestants in all the category, right, John? Probably. Couple hundred, probably. Yeah. You got to have a real passion for it to keep your, just to keep that energy up throughout every competitor and give them their just do. I mean, I can only imagine you really have to be passionate about it. Yeah. Plus, if they did it on a separate day, you could take longer with the pre-judging. You could take your time. You could go two hours with the pre-judging. You know, they could call out comparison after comparison. Yeah. I feel like that. Yeah. But you know what really, what really shocked me? Look at this guy. This is something, look, I picked Samson to win the show. And I think John did too. I think we all did. We did. But you know what? Nobody can really predict 100 percent. Look, that's Samson capable. Look at Samson today. I just saw him loaded up. He looked like the winner today, but there was a little bit too late. See, this is the thing. I mean, he worked really hard with his wife and they really focused. They want to come in lighter and more ripped, but sometimes it doesn't work like that. You've got to come in full 100 percent. So do you think he lost muscle smear? Do you think he lost muscle or do you think he was lost? No, no, no. He was lacking some excessive glycogen, John, in my opinion. I know it happened to me. I commented on Samson, one of the posts he had. He said that he didn't load in time. He could have done another day of day of loading. So they didn't really. Yeah, I just said that. I said, you know what, Samson? It happened to me in 1988. I was really in my best shape, probably ever. And then I went down to try to go back up. I couldn't go back up. I gained like two, three pounds. I needed to be up at least five more pounds. And you know what? Ten days later, I swear I was beyond ready, but that was too late. So that's what happened to Samson. I think he could have been. I was really surprised with his legs, how much his legs came down. And, you know, he was a monster last year. And John, I mean, when you look at these pictures here, you could see just he's dramatically down. So I think even Andrew Jack kind of outsized him in the leg department, honestly, or it was close enough to where, you know, it was a major difference. So I kind of want to ask if you were Samson, what would you do moving forward? How would you take it? What would be your next steps? Please go back to what won him the contest in the first place. He's got to get that size. He just he just gets to learn how to peek and just not come in so smooth on Friday. Usually. Yeah. I tell you one thing, if he compete like in Prague, there's a show in Prague in about seven or eight days, somewhere around that he'll go there and load up properly. There'll be a walk in the park for him. I'm telling you, he's that good. Samson is extremely good. It's just that only God is perfect. We all learn as we go and he's young. And I'm pretty sure he's going to come back with vengeance. He'll be better than ever again. So, you know, the next year, Mr. Olympia is going to be even crazy if you were him. Is that what you would do? Would you kind of just go just go put your number back in the race, go to Prague and just kind of beat everybody's butt? I would load, you know, people think if you load for five or six days, you're going to get fat. You can't get fat when you load. You just have to do it right. You have to understand the glycemic and you have to send electrolyte management and all these things is doable. I think he can put on 10 pound a pure glycogen or reserve more fluid in the cell and he's going to look better and probably bigger than he was the year before. But he was too depleted. And my answer that was half was 60 percent of of Samson, who we saw that. Yeah. I don't know what you think, John. I'm thinking that he was not like near 75 80 percent. What do you think? Yeah, I don't know. He looked like he lost muscle. I think it was more than just glycogen depletion. I just thought, you know, his legs were down, his back was down, his back was always, you know, one of his weak points. So he just went too far with it. And I mean, you know, he guest posed six weeks ago and he looked smaller. And I thought he was going to fill out from there, but, you know, he was even smaller. So, John, if you look at his post today and I commented today, today, he looked like better than he was, better than when he won it. I'm curious. Go and check it out. So, so it's really, you cannot regain muscle in such a short period. It's mostly reserved. He regained his reserve. And, you know, I think that was the problem at Samson, you know, what's going on? So. Hey, Samir. Hi, how are you? How are you feeling for those of you who don't know that is the woman who you don't look at. What's wrong with you? You look great. Thank you. Yeah, I went to the gym anyway. Well, yeah, she's fine. She's not bad, you know, I mean, I don't know what happened to me, man. I'm like, kill you, Julian. Well, I know that I know that Fuad keeps on talking about a video from about three weeks out from Samson that he really wants to show to public because it was one of the best Samson's he's ever seen. So I do think that it may be a situation where maybe he got down too low. I don't know, you know, if it's he lost muscle or simply he just got down to a low he didn't fill up enough. Well, look at that. That you lose muscle. Look at that. When was that taken? Probably yesterday. Look at how full he was huge. He looked hard. He looked like a different person. Why? Because when you gain, you regain your glycogen properly, the muscle is going to be fuller, you know, like we said, each gram of carbs taken like over three gram of water and they are stored in the muscle. Your body is 80 percent water. So we gain a fluid in the cell and look at that. He looks to me, he looks like when was the studio? It looks like it was uploaded a couple of hours ago, seven hours ago. So I don't know when exactly it was taken, but it could have been something after putting me post Olympia. Yeah, it's got to be yesterday. There's no way. Post. It's got to be three days later. There's no way he's going to look like that today after he's got to look like going to take him three days to look this great. Look at this. I mean, he looked harder. He actually looked more ripped. Look at the back. The back looks really impressive. Like this is, you know, to me, he was one of the worst backs and this is this is up there. Look at the glue. Look at the cuts in his hamstring. The side. I mean, really, he looked like Samson today and he looked like this is the guy that should have been showed up last weekend. This is the guy that should have been on the stage. And guess what? My prediction would have come true. Would have came true. He kind of reminds me of those people who he will just, you know, he might show up. You know, I don't know what his next show is going to be, but I kind of agree. If that's the case, and it was just simply not enough time to fill out. And this is a telltale. Maybe, you know, go get on that prog stage and, you know, just show him what you, you know, what you really got. Yeah. He's a warrior. He trains really hard. I saw the way he trained. Yeah. You know what they say? Listen, Marcus, we say you can't flex fat. You can't flex flat. When you flat, it happened to me a few times before, like I'm on the stage. I'm flexing my legs hard. You know, it's easy. I have the control. Like, and people tell me at the Mr. International, let's say back in the days, some of you flex your legs, but I'm killing flexing my legs. I'm good at flexing. And you know what? You just cannot flex flat. You can't. Yeah. So you can't pop. So if you don't have your full reserve or at least 90% of your reserve, it will, you will look like you have fat on you. Okay. You look flat. So this is exactly what happened and he was not full enough. And I'm sure, you know, you know, I mean, all the experts will tell you the same thing. I consider myself fully aware because it happened to me many times, many times, not once. Well, moving away from like the, you know, obviously the top four, which I think we all kind of, you know, thought very highly that it can be shaken up either which way night one to night two, but you know, I wanted to talk about somebody in the Martin, I wanted to know what you guys.  fudgable martin, because he was somebody, when I first saw him walk out, I was very impressed. I was very impressed with Hottie and Martin at first sight, but Martin, I feel like deserves that spotlight. So, John, take away, man. How do you feel about Martin this year? He was really good. You know, he was great last year when he got fourth, which I think was probably his best ever. And then, you know, he was off in Prague. He was off at the Pittsburgh. But he went down, you know, he went down for more conditioning, which was a smart move. Yeah. He's got great legs. Samir, we were standing there by the elevator, right? When he showed us his legs. Yeah. Yeah. He was ready. And let me ask you something. What do you think about his legs size wise? Let's say, Marcus, what do you think of his legs? I think I think his legs, especially from the front, are probably some of my favorite legs on the Olympia stage. I love the shape. Well, let me let me just let me just tell you this. Marcus, I mean, Martin, I were talking yesterday. We're talking yesterday. And he informed me some one of the main judges in the competition told him that his legs weren't big enough. Wow. I disagree because he looks symmetrical. His legs look marble hard. He was hard. And look at that glute hamstring. He did a good job. I think he looked better. He looked better this year than he did last year when he came in for he did. And if you give it a gave him four place, you know, Marcus, it would have been acceptable for me for why? Because listen, Samson was not the same thing that we know. He was 100%. So, you know, and Martin was 100%. See, this is interesting for me because you could see he definitely put on some size. So this right here is Scott. You can go through these. This is last year compared to this year's Olympia. And the left is last year to the right is, you know, this year. So how do you feel looking at these? How do you feel about them? I'm we talked all the time with Marcus and I mean, sorry, Martin and I talk all the time. And, you know, like, in his head, he want to maintain that beautiful looking physique. We actually said it. We don't want to blow up and look like a potato. Like, we want to gain, take our time and look beautiful symmetrical. And as you can see, I'm so impressed with his after show. Yeah. And his waist is tight and small. Even if you have crosscut, I mean, he's got the idea in his head. He's not looking on getting huge in two days. And you know, and ruin it later. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like a couple of shots. So he's got, he's, yeah, he's going to go face off with Keon in a few days, probably one week from now. Yeah, that's gonna be interesting. So it's going to be, it's going to be crazy competition because I like both of them. And you know, it's funny, they were trainer partner I went to always right, John. Oh, they got a couple of videos together. Maybe through gas for something like that. Perhaps they trained together a couple years ago. They were training together. I'm not sure what was it in New York or anywhere. But they were like, train a partner. And can you imagine and you know what he told me he said, he said, Martin says, I love Keon and I want to really be more prepared. And you know what, I'm going to get him. But you know, it's not walking the park for either one of them. Because they're both wonderful. They both have the body. And I'm like, I tell you Keon, which also I want to congratulate him for winning. He's one of my favorites. As well. Oh yeah. He looked great. I mean, this is this is a little off topic, I guess, for what we want to get right back to the Olympia after this. But how you know, out of those two gentlemen right there real quick, Martin versus Keon, if you had a, you know, who do you think is going to maybe be the champion? I know we hate predictions, but you know, who do you think might be able to get the edge? Well, let's put it this way. Martin told me that he weighed 233 pound. And I know Keon had to make weight when the down to under two 12. Yeah. Right at the mark, 211.9. Yeah. So Keon probably may load up a little bit more. He might be ended up a little bit fuller yet. But wasn't Keon a little bit off this year at the two 12? I think that's kind of the fault. Yeah. Yeah. He didn't pee properly. I think, you know, the way things always mess things up for everybody. You have to make weight. So he dropped to under two 12. And I think when you do that, sometimes there's a chance of flattening out a little bit, John. And I don't know. I think, I think last year he was like, 204. And this year he was 209. So he was like five or six pounds. 211. Yeah. This year, 211.9. I think he said he was 211.9. Yeah. He's up 11.9. Whatever he was last year, he gained like about, I think at least six pounds, because he was way under the limit last year. So that's what I'm saying. I don't think he needs to go up even more if Sean Clarita gave him a run for his money, because Sean was harder. You know what I mean? So you think maybe for the Prague show, he's probably come in a little bit, you know, more short, a little bit tighter. Yeah. I mean, it's just, it's all illusion anyways. He's just going to look hard. Clarita looks good. He will eat. I mean, I didn't really see the show. I wasn't feeling, yeah, I think Clarita looks really full and he popped much more. Again, when you talk about Keon, Keon's also that body is amazing. I mean, Keon has to be completely off to lose a contest. He doesn't even have to be 100 percent because he's got an extremely beautiful body, shoulders to waist ratio, separation. I think what Clarita did was he came in, I don't know if he came in lighter, but he definitely improved his shape. You know, he's kind of like straight up and down just because of his shoulder structure. But man, that front, the movement of his shape grew in big time. Yeah, look at that. It's very impressive. I've never seen him like that before. Yeah. It's something we said for like his lateral shape popping way out. That's one of the biggest things that was the last. I mean, look at the last, if you look at the last spread, even though, even though Clarita is more popping, but look at the shape on Keon. The Keon shape is amazing. Look at the shoulders, width to the waist. The ribcage is just like both of the next pictures, which is yeah. I mean, look at that double biceps, that ribcage. They both look great. I mean, it's if you go, who's popping more, I would say Clarita was popping more looking at the photo. Yeah. But I mean, it's very hard to overcome a body also like Keon. Keon's body is like literally, I mean, I really would bet on him that if he comes in with additional 10 pound with that same quality or better quality than that, he'll be one of the toughest guys in the next Olympia for sure. I mean, what's the difference between? My advice to him for the Prague would be maybe come down a little couple more pounds just to show more detail, more density. And I think that's how he's going to be Martin. It doesn't really matter if Martin's 20 pounds heavier than Marat. Yeah. With that shape. Let's gain a couple more pounds for Keon going to do. I mean, he's only got a couple, he's got a week or two weeks. He's not going to put on an hour's time. So I think he should go the other way, come in harder and he's going to look bigger. Yeah. John, in most cases, people think, oh, he needs to drop weight. In my opinion, I don't think that was the case. I think you need to readjust the peak in process. And if he was trying to make weight, maybe it was slightly over 212 and he had to drop. Yeah. And that can make things the scale tip to the negative side, you know, and he's not always, oh, yeah, let's be 212, 212. And then you have to make drastic changes for your body. It is not good. It didn't happen in my days. I would compete at any weight, whether I'm 196, which is I was in 190, it was good. Probably if I competed at 190, probably I wouldn't look as good. So if I probably was 198, I probably would have even looked better. So sometime that little additional fullness, which is we just talked about in Samson's case, you know, he went down in weight, it really backfired, it really didn't happen. It's not like he wasn't ready. He did not fill up enough in the time he and time any matter. He just didn't get there on time and didn't look. But is it fat? No. Is he beautiful to look at? Yes. But he wasn't popping this time. So the one thing that Clarita mentioned was the fact that he's running his race. That's the one thing he was saying coming into the MP in his videos is I'm running my race. I'm not doing anything. Well, you know, I'm running my race. I'm doing what Clarita said. So you know, he knows he's a conditioning guy. I'm going to get that pop and do showcase what I've done for last year. So you know, kind of by the way, I think Clarita is bigger than usual. Not lighter than you know, he looked like he put on thighs. Well, you see, but he was harder than before. That's probably the best condition. And he was fuller and was popping. He improved his shape. I think his frame, his frame can handle the additional weight. He could go up and not be over the weight. But Keon probably was over that weight and he had to drop out to get to the scale. And when you lose fluids from the cell, it's going to flat you out. Yeah. Okay. Well, I'm telling you from experience, heavy experience. So going down the line, someone we have not talked about yet, obviously we talked about Martin fifth place, very impressive. You know, next up in six was Nick Walker. Nick Walker, somebody coming into this show who a lot of people and they're, you know, and they're, you know, guessing had them going first place, second, you know, you know, definitely top three. I think all of us had him at least top four. He played six. So, you know, how do you feel about Nick Walker for this show? Sameer, go ahead and take it away, man. Look, Nick, he's a warrior. He tried and training hard. You could see that and he's positive. But just imagine all the nonsense and all the bullshit that he have to put up with. If that will make you work out your adrenal get like, you know, sometime you're emotional and feeling upset about something it could really change your body chemistry. It messes you up. You got to be calm. You got to be collected. And I know he was, but it's easier for you and I to say it, but you know what? If you were in his shoes under all the pressure that he was put under, I think that's not fair. I mean, look, I know Bob Ciccarello said different thing. Maybe it's not in a derogatory way. I know, I know, I think Bob Ciccarello, he didn't mean to be rude, but in his place, he said, oh, he's not going to make the top eight, whatever. You know, I personally wouldn't say it like that. I would give him a chance, but the way Nick showed up, according to his coach, that he have an inflamed middle, whatever it is, that he senses it to something where his stomach kind of hurt him to be honest. But look at, look at, I mean, nobody's going to beat this from the back. Nobody beat him. His back, double bicep, can beat anybody. I'm sorry, but, but you know, yes, his middle did hurt. For those of you who don't know how Carl Wilkes is first, it's his coach right now. And he hasn't worked with an Olympian. So this is like their second time working together and first ever, Olympia show. So I was sitting, I was sitting with John and when you walked out in the beginning, I look at John and say, wow, that's the best Nick ever. The only problem is some of poses. I did not really see his missection properly in the very beginning, but there are some photos where the judges looked at him in a different spot. That hurts him, man. You know, unfortunately, I hope he can resolve that. If he resolved that, man, oh my God, if he can get that missection a little bit smaller, he'll be like that to do. I definitely wouldn't count him out. You know, speaking, you know, I was very, very impressed with the hamstrings. The overall width and size of that back leg right there, that hamstring in that back double was very impressive. One of the most impressive things for me aside from the size that Derek put on that muscle density, that fullness, that sizes, unbelievable. Again, if the middle is not an intact, it's right, right there. It's not going to be the same result. No matter who you are, I don't care if you are Arnold Sergio Simeer. If we're not tight in that area, if you have bloated tummy due to whatever inflammation or whatever issue or something you eat may cause that to happen. Hopefully, that would be corrected in the future. I mean, it's not going to be gone. He's going to come back. He's going to try everything in the book to resolve that. Yeah, I mean, it definitely would not count him out. Obviously, I'm well versed. I'm a phantom mix physique. Obviously, there's ways of improving. We saw, I think I saw a glimpse of that at Pittsburgh. We all did. But, you know, I do think yet it would be dumb to count him out. But obviously, John, I want to get your opinion on, you know, Nick Walker, six plays, how'd you feel about his body coming out and just everything? I just think he came in too heavy. You know, I don't know what he weighed at Pittsburgh or New York, but I think his game plan was just come in freaky and big. And he was posting those pictures on social media and people were just like freaking out like, Oh my God, look at this guy. He's unbelievable. And he was, he was like 285 hard. But you don't look on stage like you do with the pictures. And usually when it comes to competition, you know, conditioning is king, you know, you got to go a little bit lighter instead of a little bit heavier. And he had that stomach issue in Pittsburgh when he was like close between him and Derek. And that's why I thought Derek beat him. I thought Derek was a rightful winner now because of the stomach issue, even though Nick maybe won a couple poses like from the back or whatever. But I just think, you know, he just came in too heavy. He needs to come in lighter. He's got, he doesn't have the most aesthetic physique. He's got short legs. He's got a long torso, but he's always had, of course. But when he was winning the Arnold like in 2021, and when he placed top three at the Olympia in 2022, he was more streamlined. He came in harder, you know, and he's got those thick abs. And when he does this ab shot or does a front shot front double buy, you know, he crunches down on the abs and it wasn't taking away from his physique because it enhances physique. And it really made, you didn't notice the short legs long torso as much when he did that. So it was a real smart move what he did back then. But just putting on more size is just making the stomach problem worse. And I know he's got some unbelievable muscle mass. He's probably the biggest dude up there. But you got to have the stomach. And if you don't, you're going to get beat by a lot of guys. To be honest with you, John, I have no issue complaining about his overall quality, his shoulders. I thought he was more than cut enough in these area. It's that middle that would really hurt him. To be honest with you, it's the middle. Yeah, I mean, look at I mean, look at you look everywhere. It glued his side. Look at he's got cut in his glutes as I'm saying, arm shoulders is incredible. The middle is what really hurt Nick, you know, and for see markets for people who say, you know, you don't have to be there, you can watch it on pay per view. Look at looking on the left. That's pay per view. That's the video stream. And yeah, look at on the right. That's real. That you know, that's the real deal. And what I'm sitting, I'm sitting right to the middle where I can't see that area either. So, you know, but yeah, somehow some of the judges could see that and you know, did affect him. But his muscle quality, he was having a hard time holding it even from the front. You know, it wasn't just the front the back. It was he was having a hard time holding it from the front. Yeah, because a lot of people would argue, it's you know, what the judges are seeing. It's what's important. So as long as when he's doing his transitions, if he can keep it tight, then hey, great, because you know, we're on, you know, we're just seeing what the judges see from that perspective. But you know, I wasn't there. So I wouldn't know how if he's letting it go, things like that. But you know, one thing I want to say is how do you feel as far as, go ahead, Samir, you're about to say something. I don't know. I mean, some of these issues, sometimes it's not easily reversible, you know, and there has to be a way whether it's medically done. It's, you know, when you have that extreme inflammation in that area, come on, it's like, it's not, I don't want to say it's his fault. But that happened to Nick early on. Remember, like five years ago, and Nick was more pro freakness and we started seeing him getting better, trimming and trimming. But somehow he's sensitive in that area, whatever it is, is just backfiring and it's not resolved 100%. You need to resolve that. So that would, if you had to give him any advice to Samir, would that be it? Just kind of work on that part moving forward? I mean, he has a lot of other attributes. You know, some, some people say it's visceral fat, visceral fat, it kind of like, you don't have any fat here, but you have internal fat that pushes the stomach out. You know, I mean, I heard of, I don't want to say it like, I'm not a doctor, but I heard there's a way to actually laser this fat, but it's dangerous to be done surgically. Because if you touch the nerve in the area, you're going to be probably mess up your, you cannot even flex your abdominal. So you have a huge amount of, if you have a huge amount of visceral fat, it pushes the stomach out. So, you know, you don't have any fat, no, it's, you know, fat on your body, but internally, they could be, from my perspective, I think it's visceral fat that's the issue here. Maybe plus whatever inflammation, I don't know that need to be looked at carefully and can be probably done surgically. It's not, it's not easy to deal with. Yeah. And as far as advice, John, you kind of the same thing what you echoed earlier, as far as for Nick moving forward, just kind of really handle that since it's like a, I guess a sore spot for a lot of people. Yeah, I would try to go back to what he looked like in, you know, 2021, 2022. I think he won the Arnold in 2021. That was the year it was held later in the year, like September, I think it was a couple of weeks before the Olympia. I thought that was his best look ever. So, you know, I don't know, that's, that's five years ago. I don't know, you can go back and replicate what you look like five years ago. Time moves on to change the physique changes. But if he could, he needs to go more towards that. He needs to stay more streamlined and not, not just go for mass. John, John, you've been in this game long enough. You think this issue is reversible to just diet? No, I don't think so. Yeah, I really feel that there is something that need be to look at it. If we say like Nick Walker didn't try, I think that he tried like a madman. He's training hard, but sometimes something is not in total control. I mean, him and his coach, I mean, supposedly have a great coach and I'm sure he does. But if that inflammation continued to haunt him, you know, we'll do whatever it takes to find out the real cause for that problem and resolve it. He's young, man. He could fix it. It's crazy because so many people have different opinions on Nick. And I think that's what makes him so, you know, just such a spectacle when it comes to this sport. Because when I hear you guys, you know, I'm, I do like the newfound size in certain areas, right? So when I look at the hamstring, when I look at that leg, and I think that's, you know, when you look at the first, you know, the Olympia, you know, winner, child to Derek, you know, one thing that I noticed with him is that fullness in his legs. So I think that's helped him. Obviously Nick is somebody who's walking that tight rope to where, you know, putting on size might be, you know, a negative for him. But realistically, no, because when I look at it, his back has improved. Me, my one of my favorite packages, aside from like, say New York pro 2021, for Nick was the Pittsburgh pro, I was really impressed with that look. So it's just interesting because I know a lot of the people watching, they're going to hear this and, you know, we're going to be on different sides of the fence. You know what I'm saying? So it's interesting because he is one of those people who are, you know, you're either a big fan of his body or obviously if you had eyelid, you need to, you know, you can look at it with a, you know, a fine tooth comb and really try to pick it apart and, you know, what the judges are going to like out of it and things of that nature. So like, it's just, it's interesting, you know, to me personally, it is because everybody, you know, picks it apart, but I get it. I think, I think no for an answer. If I was in Nick shoes, I would find out exactly what causes the problem. I'm sure he's trying. There should be a solution. There should be. He's young, you know, and look at all this muscle, all the hard work. If this is the nightmare of why Nick Walker is not getting what, what he could get. I mean, it's shame. I mean, it's really shame. It's sad. You know, but in most cases, some of those guys early on, they tried to gain weight too quickly and it pushes the rib cage out. When you rip cage, bonko out, you stretch that rib cage. And this is what Martin and I were talking about, that he doesn't want to gain so fast because really it's not always the size. I mean, look at Hardy, you know, I mean, Hardy is probably what maybe 60, 70 pounds lighter than Nick Walker. Right. So it's not always the size. He got a lot of size and it's a good size everywhere, but we need to solve this. In my opinion, it can be resolved, but it has to be done medically. Gotcha. Okay. Well, moving down the list, I mean, we've spent a lot of time when he's the top six. Now, obviously, John already mentioned how impressed he was with Brandon Curry. A lot of people are writing off Brandon Curry. And I mean, dang, did he not snap back at everybody and come looking at, you know, to me, obviously a lot of people talk about 2019, 2021, but this is one of my favorite looks as far as having that fullness. Legs were crazy. So I mean, you know, Samir, take it away. How did you feel about Brandon Curry? Well, first of all, Brandon have won the Mr. Olympia before. He has the beautiful, he's got a good genetic, honestly. But that year he won, he was like right on the money. And I think he hasn't been back to that exact level since, you know, you know, a guy like Brandon, you can't put him out as the top six, you know, but again, even though we know he looks good and he does deserve better, I thought his condition when he won in 80, what was it? What year was it when he went on? 2019. Yeah. I mean, look, if you could see, it's that little bit blurry, whatever it calls, he was a bad dad, a bit sharper when you won the Olympia, you know? But didn't he get second in 2020 and 2021? He came in second? Never big, Romney. I think it's where Hadi had that one crazy night where he was like so often, I think it was 2021 where he came back and he argued we could have won on night two. And I think he got a, he's got a, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're right. Brandon, a beautiful symmetry. He's got a beautiful body. I just would love to see him come in shredding, shredding, shredding. I mean, really on your skin. Like if you get that same quality, like, let's say Hadi with what striated chest, right? Good abs, deep. So yeah, but again, look at, he looks pretty damn good. He deserves better. He's got that great structure, small waist, wide shoulders. You're no big boy. I remember seeing him in the Olympia years ago, like when he first started going to Olympia, when he was much, much smaller and he was placing like 12th, 13th. And I remember I was writing, I think I was writing for Get Big or no, Bodybuilding.com. I was doing the Olympia Rap Monster with him and I would look at him and I'd be like, man, this guy is great. You know, he just needs more sought. So he's, and he's still, even though he's older in his 40s and he's definitely not in his prime, you know, but he's still got that same structure. He's still got that same body. He's still got those muscle bellies in the chest and the arms. That's why he looks so good. And he can beat guys that are way younger than him that weren't even in the Olympia when he was competing. He definitely showcased that this year as well. Like a lot of people were, you know, had him out of the top 10 and things like that. So it still looked great. It still looked great. You know, I've seen him in better condition. I was a witness in all the contests. I mean, he just need to be more sliced and more get back to Brandon Curry again, 100%. You know, but again, I think when we did our predictions last week, I had him in eighth and somebody commented and goes, he's done. He's not going to make the top 10. And I was like, maybe I was like, oh man, maybe he's right. You know, maybe he is done. He isn't like seven place. And I thought he got six. A lot of people looking at a lot of people for that same way as you that he could have easily been up there, you know, a couple places up kind of thing. Because it wasn't very impressive, Brandon. You remember, I was talking about good video. Remember when I was saying, you know, that he's really, really good. I mean, come on, you know, one thing you he came out on stage not full of himself. You know, another person that I wanted to talk about that we didn't really say much, which is I put a note here. You know, what's his name? No, no, no. My God, what's wrong with me? Not Andrew, not Martin. Reagan. Oh my. Reagan Grimes. Yeah. No, no, no. Wait a minute. Who was it? I'm thinking. No, it's Rubio. Rubio. Next. A friend. A friend from Iran. What's his name? Oh, they lose. But who's yeah, man, I put a note. I don't know where it is. Yeah. But who's by the way, he misses peak. I think he misses peak. Yeah. Okay. Whatever it is. I'm accustomed to see him full. Okay. I'm accustomed to see him looking really much more sharper. And I think he wasn't sure of himself on stage. And you know, I like point fingers at him like keep your legs flexed. They just it's still like we need to be more exposed to the stage. And I see these guys in the background standing and they don't really, they let it hang. And they don't care. I mean, I'll tell most of the guys you got us in the background, you got to flex your abs in your stomach. I mean, your stomach and your legs at all the time, even if the judge is not looking at you, you're not being compared. You should always look prepared. Whatever it is that I think he wasn't popping like he was. So and you know, I mean, Baruz is one of the guys that I really like his body a lot. He was not popping. I don't know what it is. I mean, you know, look at Andrew Andrew is popping. Baruz is not. You remember Baruz you have more shredded glutes and fuller. It's just I don't know he was not exactly what I expected. But again, he's young. And I think he will come back. And fortunately, I think he he misses peak. I wasn't he only got here to this country like a week before. And I was listening to Jay Cutler's podcast with Milo's and Milo said he had like an ear infection or something. I think ear. I think it was an ear. And because he said he was in the doctor on Monday. So he was probably suffering through that the whole weekend too. So I can see why he was off with the traveling and all that, you know, yeah, yeah. And then you don't even know if you're going to make it. So he's got to go through his prop diet and train. And, you know, for the last three years, he's been denied the visa. So I probably thought the same thing was going to happen. Yeah, mentally, he was probably through a roller coaster ride. Yeah. Yeah. From my perspective, I think about who's was somewhat flat, whatever he did. The final hours did not work for him. You know, if he was sometimes, sometimes people try to dehydrate too much. And it does backfire. I know that for a fact. So dehydration is not always going to work in your favor. So whatever the case, I just didn't think it was he was like the bar, I expected. But we don't write him off. I think he's going to come back looking better than ever again. Yeah, I like his body. But I felt like what the heck? I mean, Baruz is like top six material. I mean, just the body wasn't 100% people had him up there. And really big arms to I was really amazing. Amazing. Great timing too, by the way. So John, what would you say? How do you feel about it? You know, how do you feel about the performance? You know, what was your takeaway for that? He's young. That's his first Olympia. And he's probably was a little bit kind of, you know, nervous, probably I was saying, traveling. I don't know about how did you hear about the ear infection, John? Milos mentioned it on Jay Cutler's podcast. Uh huh. Yeah, he said he was a doctor on Monday. Well, if you have local infection, it can affect him somewhat. Yeah. Oh, yeah. But but I feel like he was a little bit not popping. He was kind of flat. Yeah. One thing I noticed a lot of people, they're making videos, you know, they spent a lot of time, the negatives, the disappointments and things like that. And this was a year where I think there was like what nine first time Olympians. So one question I really wanted to ask you guys is for you, who was your breakout star when it comes to the, you know, those who are new to the stage? For me, it was Tonio. I really enjoyed seeing Tonio. So but John, I would like to, you know, have you answered yours, man? What was yours? Who was your breakout star out of the new Olympians? Hmm. Well, we had a lot, you know, we had Brett Rubie L was the freakiest this leg. What was it again, John? Who? What did you say? He's the reveal. Nick Zilla didn't do.  this gentleman on screen here. Got his legs, you gotta see him in person to believe. Unbelievably. You know what's funny? He's probably one of the most conditioned guy. I love his muscle quality, but it's just like his physique is some, someone come from out of space. Someone that we haven't seen. I mean, the guy is beyond massive. His calf is bigger than some of the contestant legs. His legs made everybody up there look small. I mean, you're talking about guys like Tom Plats or whatever. And you know, we had somebody with big legs, but nothing compared to the size. You know, he's like amazing, freaky. But his condition, I have to give him credit. His condition is beautiful. He really got that onion skin around this, but it's just the body doesn't really flow together. And this is what we're dealing with. I wish Urz would have been in better condition. He was off from those other contests he did, which it's hard to hold your peak. You know, but I was looking forward to seeing his posing routine, but unfortunately only at top 10 post so he didn't get to pose. Yeah, he's because I'm sure he would have been one of the best posing routines of the night for sure. Yeah. So you would say probably your, like your most, Urz, he's talking about Urz. Oh yeah. Most impressive. I don't know. I mean, I guess Beirut's probably would be the most impressive. I think Urz has great potential. Rubiel was the freakiest by far. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, for me, I felt like two people, one Tonio, but another one. I mean, a lot of people expected it from Tonio. You know, people had, I mean, even you, John, good shout to you. You had him in your top eight. I mean, in your top 10, I think you had him in like eighth or ninth and literally eighth, yeah. And then let me just tell you. Go ahead, Samir. Yeah. Let me tell you, Tonio probably won one of the most tripped guys on stage. He won. He's, his muscle conditioning was great, but I think he's still lack of size in a competition like that. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you could see. I mean, I asked Chris Asido and Chris Asido said that he was the most tripped in the entire contest. I don't know how you saw, how you see that, John, but you can tell that he's pretty lean and, you know, tight. Look at the abs and, you know, the harness. He's got that muscle density. He's really thick, but it's, he's really hard. It's, he's always hard. Very compact. The thing that throws me off about him is he's just his shoulder structure so narrow. He can't do anything about that, of course, but to me it's. I mean, calves could be improved. Yes, John. I totally agree with John. Yeah. His chest could be fuller. His calves could be better. He need more mass for a competition like that. Yeah, he does. He needs bigger, be bigger. He need to probably for 10, 15 pound. If you bring that with that quality, he would do better. Yeah. If somebody else was Jordan Hutchinson, I feel like he was somebody who just, I mean, could have argued that he could have placed higher. You know, he was his first time Olympia and he was just poised, poised. Even the, you know, interviews leading up to it, very poised. Great physique. Great legs. Yeah, he's really complete. He just needs to come in hard like he did when he beat Quinton. Yeah. You know, if he's not hard, he doesn't look as good because his physique is, the structure is not the best. I think he's kind of straight up now. But he's a big guy. He's like, when you see him in person, he's bigger than you think. Look, yeah. He didn't, he didn't peak as good, right, John? He missed his peak. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Probably if Quinton was there, probably have a chance to beat him. Oh yeah. I mean, he beat him. He got his number. I mean, he's just not at hard enough. Well, I mean, the next step, obviously, the people we haven't spoken about, you know, say the best, I'm just joking. But two people we have not spoke about who were in the top 10 was who we see right now, Good Vito and obviously William Bonac. I know Samir Min, you had some back and forth, last podcast about, you know, the battle between William Bonac and Good Vito. And I know. I won't change my mind about Big Vito. He's very good, but look at how he's standing. Yeah. Look at how he's standing. It's wrong. The way he show his body is wrong when he does kneeling shot. He's a young guy. He's got a huge, unbelievable potential. And, you know, you could see that the guy is great. But his positioning is terrible. He really hurt himself the way he posed. You know, some of those guys, they just like, you have an airplane. You don't know how to fly it. I don't understand this coaching. I mean, what kind of coaches that don't show you how to present that beautiful, complete body? They don't. I mean, look, he's not sure of himself when he posed. It's posing is honestly, to me, it's a horror. This is horror. I won't accept that. If I have a client, he posed like that on the Olympia stage. I don't accept that. Yeah. He need major coaching in the presentation for sure. And he could do a lot better than that. Well, he was able to crack the top end. So that's something that's good for him and Bonac both. So like, you know, John, how did you feel about, well, I guess, you know, we have Bonac on the screen now. So how'd you feel about Bonac? Or, you know, we can talk about Big Vito. Really good, you know, another great showing from him. I mean, he's still got that thickness, that heart, that density, you know, kind of wider waist, but was right up there with those guys, man. You know, he kind of brought the same kind of conditioning all year. How old is Bonac, by the way, John? He's in his 40s, too, I think. Maybe like close to mid 40s, I think. I think he's older than Brandon. Is he really? I think so, yeah. See, he knows how to peak. He always show quality on stage. I really think, you know, he's probably got a high-resolution show this year. Yeah. I mean, he's done a lot. That's how could you do that, man? All these shows and it's so hard on your body. And you still like come into a competition and not a not in bad condition. Very good. Not bad at all. Yeah. But the competition is much more complicated nowadays is tougher. And so yeah, what he came in, what tent? What place did he? So those of you don't know, me and Samir has been begging for last week or two weeks ago at this point about the placing for William and Good Vito. And William actually beat Good Vito by one placing. He got him by one placing. It was literally nine plays, ten plays. And Samir, I'm not going to lie to you. When I was watching it, I felt like such a dickhead because the whole time for their call out, they had Good Vito on one side and William was right there on the other side and they kept moving William out to the outside. So I was like, Oh my God, Good Vito is going to beat him. He's going to beat him in the judge's eye. You know, you know what? If I take Good Vito and spend one month with me, I would make him more Pam Massifault. If it doesn't want to come to me, it could go to a guy like Zayn. Then you will show that what this guy have, he's got a beautiful, complete, insymmetrical, but he's a barbaric in his presentation. He is just he is his own biggest enemy in showing us their body. So if you do that, then good luck. If he's going to continue with that kind of fashion and presenting his body, he's not going to get anywhere. Yeah, you need to show that body the right way. And you have to even show him how to be confident on stage. You can't be there like frightened. You scared to be on stage. You got to enjoy it and be there. You have the body is ready and be professional. They're not professional. Well, John, if you had any advice to give to Good Vito, would it be something similar to what Samir is saying? Like would you echo what Samir is saying or would you have any other advice? Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I mean, presentation is so important. So very about the body. It's got got the muscle and we've seen him like in better, better condition than this. So if he comes in with that condition, if you can just display it, I mean, it's just presentation is so important. These guys have to understand that. He's missing nothing, John. If you look at the video, he's missing nothing. But you go in and open his legs this wide and you open his arm like that. And then every pose, his kneeling shot is like terrible. He does stuff that I'm looking. Oh, my God, I wish I was operating that body. If I have, believe me, I'll make that body placed in the top six like that. I mean, look at Earth when he came over from classic, how he's able to hit the mandatory poses so spot on, you know, his transitions, even just the mandatorys. That's a big advantage for him. You know, he's going to always place well if he's in shape, because he can present his body better than most people, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I'm telling you, it makes all the whole world a different man. Yeah. The presentation is everything we talk about over and over. And I think these guys should be smart enough to find a coach that help them show that body. Your coach, your nutritional coach have no clue about the art of bodybuilding. They don't understand the art of bodybuilding. As simple as that. I mean, the majority, 99.9 of the nutritional coaches, they don't understand presentation. And that's, that's, that's a downside. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's, there's that hurt. Yeah. Well, I mean, well, obviously at this point, I want to know any last thoughts for you guys about the show, like anything, any takeaways for the Olympic, you guys were there. So I want, I want to scoop just, you know, any last thoughts before we sign off. Like, you know, what was your, you know, just anything, just please, John, I can start with you, man. You know, I, you know, I, go ahead, John. Like I said, the only thing I wish is that they would do is put it both on the same day. You know, I think that would be great. I think the guys would peak better on a 12 o'clock Saturday show, you know, instead of 10, 30, 11 p.m. on Friday night. And I think it would be better for the audience. I think we could get more comparisons, but it was a great show. And I think the guys were in really good condition for the most part. Sometimes we go to these contests and there's like two or three that are in peak condition. Everybody else is a little bit off. So, you know, I think the guys were really in good shape this year. A lot of guys were really in them. Looking forward to Andrew Jack, you know, I thought, you know, we've been waiting for him to fulfill his promise and I thought he did it this year. So I'm looking forward to, and then I think it's, this placing is going to give him some confidence too. You know, the first time you beat Samson. And I think he feels like he can, he can win these shows now, which I think he needed to have that, you know, in his mind, I think he needs to realize that. And I think if he has that mental attitude now, he's going to be a dangerous competitor and I hopefully we can get to really see the best of him, you know. Do you think he could win it? Yeah, absolutely. I agree. For sure. I agree. Well, the way I saw things, not one of these guys showed up perfect in the next, in all days. Some of them messed up in the beginning. Some of them did really good and they too. So I haven't seen one person hit it perfectly during the 48 hours. You know, they were like 24 hours champion and then they messed up the next 24 hours. We need to have someone that does it perfectly the whole 48 hours. I mean, the only guy that really impressed me the most, and you know, this is outside of what we're doing here. It's Ramon. Ramon had the most beautiful body in the entire weekend. Yeah. Yeah. What I'm saying the entire weekend. Why? Beautiful body to look at enough muscle and he really I've had down like killed it. And I'm really happy for him. Yeah. I feel like we can probably have a whole episode about that alone. Like we need to talk about that. I think we should do that. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. We will. Yeah. We will. What do you think, John? What do you think about Ramon? Just I thought he yeah, it was really, really conditioned. I never saw him that conditioned and you know, he still got plenty of muscle. I mean, a lot of times before he would try to make the weight and he would flatten out, but he was super conditioned and he didn't really flatten out. So yeah, I mean, I'll find out too. And you could all that top three was really great that him, Summerfeld and Terence Ruffin were all great. He could improve his presentation yet, but I tell you, look at that muscle from like ankle to his head. I mean, really pretty physique to look at, you know, Mike badass was good too. Mike badass was good too. But I favor the beauty, the overall beauty of Ramon. And I would have had Terence in second to. I agree. Who you have second? Terence. Yeah, I agree. I mean, this was the best Terence we've seen. Yeah. He put on size from the last time he competed, which was, you know, two years ago, took last year off and hands down the best. Oh my goodness. Talk about. No, he, yeah, you see, you see, because honestly, the way he presents his body is really smart and it really make his body, you know, if, if he would pose like the other guys forget it, he won't look any good, but look at the way he control it. He control everything. All these flex and look at that. Now this is. Yeah. Yeah. He looks great. Honestly, it could have been second in my opinion. Yeah. And so beautiful, beautiful body and really good pose. Or really good pose. I feel like in true old school fashion, we went right back to classic to finish it off. I mean, there's something to be said about that, that true love for old school and classic and just everything that it stands for. The presentation was just, you know, barred on once, even two 12 to be real. Two 12 was great too. Honestly, their presentation was. Yeah. John, John, somebody, I heard that my badass that he had to drop, I think something like 20 pounds or more. Is that true? Oh, really? Well, I think he had to make it to that. Somebody told me that. He could have dropped some weight on him. He was that much. I think it was like he lost all that weight and he lost all that weight and put it back on just so he can make the scale to make weight. I, I don't, I'm someone told me that I'm not sure. So, but he still looked really good. Yeah. Well, I definitely feel like next week we should definitely come back and have a whole classic week episode. And of course we have the prod coming up. We touched base on that, but I think we can definitely, you know, just give a whole, you know, couple, at least an hour to classic and of course what we see happening at pro. And I'll be back to 100%. There we go. I'm functioning with a flu right now. I'm trying. Well, hope you feel better. See you appreciate you guys. Thanks for tuning in. Now I'm going to pleasure. Thank you guys. And you see you guys, but take care. Please show up next week for a day. You know, episode 106 prog and classic. All right. All right guys, good to chat with you later. Okay. Have a good one.