 anitailsilsils, anitailsils, anitailsils, anitailsils, anitailsils, anitailsils, anitailsils, anitailsils, anitailsils, anitailsils, anitailsils, anitailsilsils, anitailsilsils, anitailsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsilsils All right, Dylan. At this point, we've spoken about dang near all of these guys in length that I don't want to speak on. But there's a few who we've, you know, even us, we've kind of, you know, we should be credited to leaving them out in certain topics. One will call it the Dark Horses of the Arnold Classic. I would love to go over and find out who is Dylan's Dark Horse. I can tell you right now, update just dropped today. When I showed Marcus this guy's update, and I mean, direct quote, he said, oh, my Dark Horse pick for the 2026 Arnold Classic is Mo Foda, Muhammad Foda. I think he is probably the most popular Dark Horse. If there is, I mean, kind of an oxymoron of a term, but I think, I mean, Patrick Torr, his coach, has been posting a lot of him. And I think I saw, I heard Giles or Ron say, Patrick is a guy, you know, a lot of these coaches, they're not going to talk about something unless they feel super confident. And they're also a little superstitious with that. They just obsess over it. Anyone that's at the top of their game that has all these variables in their head is maybe a little on the spectrum, like myself. But Patrick's been posting a lot of updates. One drop today, he's in Columbus. I mean, what did you think when I, besides, besides, you know, your ex, what did you think? Put it like this. I, I'm, when I think of what I want in a bodybuilder with the overall physique, Mo Foda is kind of checking all those lines, man. He's checking all the boxes. This guy, one, we, we always heard in the past, and it's true, shows the one from the back, right? But guess what? One, one of most people's top picks for the Arnold Classic is winning it from the front, Andrew Jack. And Mo Foda is arguably one of the best front lap spreads in the ITV right now. is very unique. It's like a Y frame with legs. Yeah. I love a good Y frame more than an X frame sometimes. That's maybe why I like Hottie Choopin. But it is, it is like the same structure up top as a Y, a Y frame. Yeah. Great legs, great, great quads too. So, but it's not exactly, it's not the same kind of X frame as a Martin Fitzwater. You know, I think it's how, I think it's how deep the quads start. How much of that roundness starts to create at the hip bone in Mo, which really helps that overall lower body. Like you said, his weakest link is the backside. Yeah. But I've got to say, like he has made noticeable improvements show to show. And in terms of condition, I mean, we both agreed that he looked dialed in. The only, again, the only issues he will have will be from the backside unless this is, this is like the one caveat I have with them. The lower abs is kind of like a Hunter Labrata situation. It's, there's just a little sag to them and it's because they're so good. The lower abs are just chunky and they protrude. It kind of, but it looks, it looks a little off. All I want for him to do, especially as a newer bodybuilder, it's, it's pretty common. He should just keep the composure on stage. If he can show up and have the polish of a veteran Brandon Curry, even if he does have weaknesses, I think, I think he'll be a lot more rewarded than hurt by better presentation versus hurt by his weaker hamstrings or backside. Right. Right. And I think when he's coming in the game with a Patrick with that confidence, there's a confidence. This is why we're seeing updates like this. Exactly. There's a confidence there. There's a swagger coming into this and you need that. I think as an athlete, you need that. I understand going dark and all that and just completely going social media black and, you know, just taking that week two, three weeks off for prep, whatever it is. I understand that as well, but there's a certain swagger that comes in when you, when you know, all right, I'm giving you every update. We see Nick Walker doing it, but this, this update here that you just showed me was pretty freaky. And yeah, I 100% agree. He needs that confidence on stage. The judges will notice that and I do believe they will give credit for that. It's just going to happen. I mean, when you look at his overall physique, I think it is what the judges want. I think from top to bottom, he has that type of skin that just sticks to the muscle. It's just this gnarly look. I mean, he's like a new hottie in a way. He definitely could be if he does the right things in the next couple of years. Yeah. I'm excited for Mo. I am. I'm excited for Mo because this is somebody who even from like, what, maybe two years ago when we started to really see him jump on the scene to where a lot of people are still saying who? I know that's, that's an issue. And I think the who is going to be answered come this coming weekend at the Arnold Classic, man. I think on that stage, we are going to see somebody who might upset some of our favorites. Last time he was at the Olympia, he was like 14th or something. Not last, but you know, he, he certainly wasn't in first, second, third call out. But I think a smaller lineup is not a small feat. You know what I mean? That's, that's no small feat. It's 14th in the world. I think the smaller lineup actually helps. I think, okay, you know, there's less gaps in between Nick, Hottie, Martin, and Andrew. Like, why can't he be, if, if the first call out if they break it because the show is small, they break it up into two call outs at first and then start going smaller. I don't see a, I don't see a scenario where Mo Boda isn't in the first call out. He is a lot more similar to the front of the lineup than the back. And when you go shot for shot, front double, front lat spread, side chests are good. Abs and thighs is good if he does it correctly. Most muscular is insane if he does it correctly. The only weak shots are the back poses and the rear lat spread just needs to be hit correctly. He has the blueprint for that there already. He has the foundation. Everything is there. I think he really, he might even have more than what others are bringing to that stage in the sense of, you know, when you look across the board. However, you know, when you really talk about it and think about that lineup, right? And the fact that every guy here will probably get a just dude, they're going to get that look. They're going to get the nod. They're going to, it's a six, it's a top six and then the final call out at that point. Akeem Williams being next to somebody like a Mo Foda. Imagine him staying next to Mo. Both have much better fronts. Akeem's clean with the side shots to where that might be a very good matchup. So if those two You know who I have? You have Mo. I do. I think Akeem is kind of starting to fade. I mean, we just saw him. I'm not going to say he's fading yet, man. Where did you see him? That last time I saw him. Olympia. Don't, look, look, look. You know what? And this is where I know Dylan's BSing because Dylan even said it himself after the show. Akeem was overlooked again. He was. Akeem was overlooked again. You know that. He's one of the few in our conversation who there was a few who were overlooked. Nick being one of them for night two, things like that. The point system, da, da, da. Akeem is one of those athletes who sometimes I feel can be overlooked. And that's not against the judges. You've got to show up on night one. You have to show up on night one because at this point, yeah, night two is his own scorecard and all that. But I think it really doesn't matter. And I get that. I agree. We don't have that on our list, but that's a bonus dark horse. You know, he's always going to be the dark horse because it's just even on night one, even if he bombs night one, he's still the dark horse because it's just like, oh, Akeem always gets a lot better night too. So, I mean, who knows? He jumped up considerably last time he was at the, well, the 2024 Arnold Classic. Yeah. Yeah. And that's not far out if we're being real. So, me looking like he's on this downward trajectory when he literally just had one of his, to me, one of my favorite showings of Akeem was that night two of 2024. I love that version of Akeem. Okay. I love that. Yeah, I get it. Yeah. Yeah. So, there's a lot of people who we could put into these places. I know he's not one of the originals, but you know, I'm always going to bring up Akeem in a sense because I do think that he's somebody who has the ability to sometimes be overlooked a little bit and that's okay. It happens, but you got to show up on night one. I really want Akeem to show up on night one because I do think that he's one of the people who, similar to Mo Foda, has the ability to look incredible from the front. He's going to kill it with the side shots and if he can just bring in the package, I think his back lat spread is good. I don't, it's, you know, obviously the weaker shot would be the back double, but that's all right if he's succeeding. Worst shot in the IFBB. I mean, hey, the shows originally were one by the back. I mean, we hear that it's been engraved in our heads at this point, but I don't know, man. I think that when you have someone like Andrew getting that light on there with how he's going to look from the front shots, it might help Akeem a little bit. That's how I feel. Mo as well. Now, you know, I think we talked about this on my show. I said it used to be shows are one from the back. I think nowadays there's actually more of an emphasis of shows being one from the front. Yeah. I think now that we're in a more shapely and aesthetic era and the judges seem to be very preoccupied with that, love it or hate it, I think, I think Mo Foda actually stands a better chance with a weaker back than a weaker front. Anyway, Marcus, let's get to your dark horse. All right, so let me put it like this. We had the same dark horse, right? Mo. Mo was probably the dark horse. I sometimes don't even want to look at this gentleman like he's a dark horse because he's won Arnold's. He's won Olympias. Well, Dylan's been praying for his downfall for years at this point and he's still bringing some of his top, top physiques comparable with his best ever physique. All right, let's hear it. It's the man, Brandon Curry. People, if you want to talk about someone being upset, right, that top four who we all probably agree on, who's somebody who can kick some of them out, who has the ability at a stage, who's going to have that that just do from the back, who's going to be able to know from their past showings, Arnold's going to be excited to see him. The judges recognize him for what he is. So, Brandon Curry. I'm too excited to see Brandon at my show. You're bugging. You're bugging, man. You're bugging. You're BSing. Brandon Curry is going to be one of those people who I think, if we're talking about, hey, out of the four, who's going to be the weakest, right? Who can we see getting knocked out? The person who I think has the biggest ability at this point before we see them on the RSAs to knock any of them out is a Brandon Curry. I will say, I actually didn't like 2025 Olympia, Brandon, actually. I thought, I thought the condition was a little missing. I'm a condition guy at the end of the day. This is why I will say 2025 Arnold Classic, Brandon. I mean, I would put that in front of a Martin who doesn't hit, a Knick that doesn't, you know, that is maybe a little bit too sloppy with the waistline. I mean, don't, let's not forget, as we said last time on this show, Andrew Jacked and Brandon Curry literally had their own call out. The judges were not confused, but they were deliberating on if they should put that version of Brandon ahead of that version of Andrew. So, I mean, yeah, Andrew's made improvements and Brandon, we probably won't be seeing too many improvements, but I think the one thing you can improve and usually does get better with age is condition. So, that's what I want to see from Brandon. I think that that particular package, something more sharp can do very well. And just look at the Olympia, right? A lot of people left the Olympia feeling like, hey, Brandon's another one. Could have moved up a few spots. Overlooked, you might say. Choking me. Well, got them sweats on. That's a little bright. Got them sweatpants on. Got the joggers with the suit. The shorts. You about to go run a lap after this. Man. I like the hair. I like the haircut, by the way. I wanted to tell you that on camera on live so everybody knows. Look at Dylan's. Look at that little. I hate you so much. Dylan went to a barber and said, can I get the boozy? All right, Marco. Outside of dark horses, we have a couple of guys that may be on the cusp of not necessarily being dark horses because they're on everyone's radar, but still may be overlooked by a placing or two. Everyone is talking about Hottie and Andrew to win this show. You know, that's everyone's predictions. And then it seems like it's a done deal in everyone's mind that Nick and Martin are going to be third and fourth. You know, one of those, one of those two, depending on who you are. Why are we not talking about them like they can definitely win the show? Because I think we would both agree. I mean, why couldn't they? They can. I rewatched our first episode. Shout out to episode one of Muslim and Journey. You should go check it out on YouTube now on Oswego. For real. I rewatched and I'm sitting there and I'm like, you know what? I'm not being true to myself. This is the one thing I wanted to do with this. I don't care how dumb I sound, how out of touch, how biased, all these things. Clearly. I'm not going to try to be too biased, but it's my opinion. We even overlooked Martin and Nick a little bit. Right? We did it. We did it in our, you know, our predictions and all that. To me, somebody who can win the show is Martin Fitchwater, is Nick Walker. Who is more likely to win out of those two in your mind? My heart says Nick Walker. Really? My heart says Nick Walker. Really? My heart says Nick Walker. I think we're living in a soap opera, man. I think it's all, you know, it's all TV series, man. It's Truman Show. And I think that what makes for the best television right now is somebody who is constantly underappreciated in a Nick Walker. I can see him showing up because we've seen it. Pittsburgh Pro version of Nick is top of the line. We know the judges like that. Exactly. Yeah. Nick Walker. We're both big fans of Nick Walker. If Nick brings something that looks similar, he can bring that fullness to that night two of Olympia. crazy, loved it. Insane. If he's a similar package as Pittsburgh Pro, where I saw it in person, shout out to Mama Walker, Tracy Walker, shout out to Mama Walker, shout out to Papa Walker. They were there. We all witnessed it. We bared witness to an incredible version. I know where you're going with this. You saw it. What are you going to say now? The judges like it. They like that version. So I think if he brings a similar package to that to the Arnold stage, they will give him his credit. They will give him his credit. I think his time is now. And I'm not saying that to overlook Martin because guess what? What my pocket says is Martin. My pocket, my money, if I'm betting. That's what I'm going to give you. Yeah. Oh, my pocket. No, my pocket, my wallet. Let me, let's look. Well, okay. Now there's just not a good, there's not a good analogy here, but my money is on. If I had to say Nick or Martin, you have to bet on one of them to try to make some money. It'd be Martin, but I don't think he will. And a lot of, you know, I started this segment by saying media outlets are overrating or overlooking Nick Walker. And I'm not overlooking him, but I'm putting him in third very consciously. Now I will say, you just said, well, if he brings the Pittsburgh pro package to this Arnold and everyone just brought the recent pro, uh, pro physique versions, who should win? Nick. I will say that right now. If, if, Martin's Prague, uh, Andrew's Romania, and then hotties Olympia. So the most recent version showed up with Nick at the Pittsburgh showing up. Nick should be the victor out of those. I would scream it to the high heavens. The problem is Nick has been robbed blind. And at that very Pittsburgh pro, yeah, you may say the judges like that look and they do not enough to put it out of that. Not enough. That inferior version of Derek won the show at the end of the day. So much so, I mean, they were so, they were so gung ho for that. They wanted that so much. They rigged the show. They pushed Nick until the absolute brink. They said, we're bringing these guys out for A-50, 50 coin flip. Basically, we're going to have one special. It was that close. I was there. It was close. Do I think Nick deserves to win? Yes, but it was that close. It was not Derek getting his butt whipped or anything like that. It was close. I disagree. Derek got his whooped at that show. But here's my point. Here's my point. Nick brought his best version in years to the Pittsburgh. Derek brought a very inferior version to Pittsburgh. The judges saw both of those and still decided to go with Derek, even though the divide in my opinion was pretty large. So if a great Andrew and a great hiding, a great Martin show up, what do you think is going to happen? There's a chance Nick might be overlooked or put below them in a sense of judgment. It's not overlooked. I mean, it's purposely. The shape is in. And I don't think the judges like Nick Walker that much anymore. And I'm not saying that as like a personal beef. I don't think they have a personal beef with Nick Walker. You're saying the physique, they're going to they're going to probably cater to the aesthetic, an Andrew. And keep in mind, you and viewers, I disagree with that. For me, it's massive condition above a small waist. If the small waist, you know, both guys have eagle massive condition. Sure. We can come down to shape on that or, you know, more most well-rounded physique. But Nick, I mean, go shot by shot. He's going to win the most poses out of anyone in the lineup and he'll still lose. See, I think that's where we always get into this and I don't even want to get into it right now. Once again, this topic is about overlooking people. You spent half your segment talking about Derek Lunsford. You forgot to mention Martin Fitchwater. I thought you were going to mention Martin. At this point, I mentioned him. You went and rolled with it. But Martin Fitchwater, somebody who, I think y'all YouTubers out there got a hit on him. Y'all sit there. Y'all are over there trying to gang up with this dude or something. I don't get it. Martin can absolutely win. I don't get it. He can win. That's your favorite bodybuilder of the modern era. If Hadi is off, if Hadi continues to kind of age or maybe get smaller, Martin becomes the most well-rounded physique because he has the shape. He has the poses. He has the muscularity and he has the condition. He has the most well-rounded physique aside from Hadi. So yeah, he should win. If, you know, he definitely can. And I'm looking at in the modern day version of judging. Obviously, that's changed over time. So when I say that, I'm not trying to take a dig. It's true. Oftentimes, we put a microscope on certain things, right? So obviously, shape, aesthetic, muscularity, all this conditioning. All of it is what the judges are looking for. I think there are certain, you know, people, myself, Dylan included, we tend to like the more shapely muscle mass. Speak for yourself. I'm a size queen. You're a size queen. Exactly. We grew up on that, you know, we love the 90s bodybuilders. Those Dorian Yates. Look, fast forward to the Branch Warrens. Go back to Nasser. All these people who brought the mask correctly. Jay Cutler brought that mask with the class. That's what I'm a fan of. I love the aesthetics. I love Sam Sadata bringing that true mask correctly. Andrew's bringing it as well. He's getting there. So to me, I do think that you are right in saying that Martin does have one of the most well-rounded overall, what I think the judges will like. In terms of lacking weaknesses, I look at it as points on a video game. Like if we have to do an RPG game and we're putting stats in muscularity, shape, and condition, who has the most even stat spread? Martin isn't not like Andrew who maxes out shape or like Nick who maxes out muscularity, but if he brings a seven or maybe a nine in condition or something, that's the best average across the board. Yeah. And we've seen Martin do this. We've seen Martin in Texas. We've seen Martin go up against the likes of Andrew and do incredible. That bag of chocolate milk? Two Olympias. Yeah, that was crazy. That was crazy. But two, what was it? Two Olympias ago where Martin arguably should have got third. You know, was in fourth, could have got third. He beat Andrew that year. Yeah, exactly. He just beat Andrew recently. So we are, as a whole, looking over people like Martin, people like Nick. Nick has that fan base, so he'll always get his credit. I think he'll always be good. He'll always be in that pocket of that reassurance from his fandom and all that. But Martin is one who I do feel like I can relate to Martin. I feel like he is constantly being overlooked and we got these YouTube people out here giving him crap too. So I'm actually for a lot of what he's doing. I'm for that ego. I'm for the confidence. I'm for it all. I'm for assaulting people at pro shows. Assault is crazy. Assault is crazy. But I get it, Dylan. You got to, matter of fact, I don't understand it because I see in the background, I see a little headboard. I see the old school headboard coming up through your little headphones there. So I'm thinking you would be from that cloth. You got the bed frame for it. I know. It is not assault. It shouldn't be. But hey, I'm for sitting there and being true to yourself and being like, you know what? Screw y'all. I'm out. Go talk about me while I don't hear any of you, what you're saying. Because sometimes we don't want that negativity in our lives. It don't matter how negative you want to be. We don't want that negativity. We don't want it. With that all being said, I do feel like as a whole we are looking over the likes of Nick Walker and Martin Fitzwater. I'd like to go to our next topic because we're talking a lot about these people. We spent our first episode talking a whole lot about Andrew and Heidi. We just went on about Nick Walker and Martin Fitzwater. And I get it. Those are kind of the rightful top fours. But out of those four, Dylan, who out of these top four is the weakest link? Nick, Hottie, Martin, Andrew. I gotta be honest. I'm predicting Andrew to win the show as of right now. I don't know if I'm putting my stamp for my final predictions yet. That's who I have leading the charge right now. I think he honestly has the most, the second most variability. I think if he really drops the ball, like if he messes up with his condition, you know, well then like, yeah, he's just kind of a dude with good shape because the completeness really isn't there. You know, he has some weaknesses. He's big. Like if it's not conditioned, I mean, we've seen a big but not conditioned Andrew last year at FIBO. A lot of people said Sasan should have beaten him, you know? So it's not crazy to think Andrew is, you know, beaten by a sharper Brandon, especially because they were just in the top two call out. Well, a two man call out last year's Arnold. But I think, I kind of want to say Martin because when he's, when he shits the bed, it's a mess. I mean, like, like Pittsburgh, I wasn't at all happy with. Neither was he. But like, I feel like, you know, if Nick screws up, I'll still be saying, you know, like he has a lot of great silver linings there. If Hottie screws up, his, his 2020 look at the Olympia, which was considered his worst, could come in here and still win the show. So like his, his worst really isn't going to be that detrimental to him. It may not win, but it probably still could. So I would say Andrew or Martin are the weakest links. It's an interesting topic in itself because all of these guys, the same way we can say any of them can win. All those, any of those four guys should be able to win first place. They, they, it's, it's wide open at this point, but we can probably agree that all four of those guys can also slip out of that top four. I mean, Hottie being the only one who probably won't slip out of the top four. That'd be crazy. I bet a lot of the, watch, imagine Raphael Brando biggest hottie trooper. Hey man, the Arnold classic. Yeah. What is he top three a couple of years back when he like, he had that, you know, he had that shape. He looked good. So we don't know, but you know, I do think that out of those top four, it's really hard to say for me personally, who to pick one. I do agree with your statement on Andrew having the most variables in the sense of, if he doesn't come conditions, it could be lights out because you have shakiest floor. Yes. And I mean, a ceiling that's liable to cave in. I hate to say it and I hate to say it and I feel like the watchers out there, the people, the fans, you got to think about it because these are people who were predicting to be first place, right? Andrew is, is Dylan's first. However, you have to look at the overall facts of the situation and know that Martin just beat Andrew at the 2020, what, 2024 Olympia. Right. Not too long ago. My whole point in all of this is, for me, it is actually, you kind of took it away with Andrew and I think a lot of people might hear that and be very confused by that. But I have to agree that Andrew is somebody who can flip-flop and I'm not saying he is or has, I'm saying it could happen in the sense of it's the one thing that they're probably, I think conditioning is going to be a big thing going into this show. I think Heidi's going to come conditioned. I think Nick Walker will come conditioned. I think that Martin will probably come conditioned. So, he could be the outlier out of those. However, you know, there's a lot of things going on with Heidi right now too. I just can't see him. I wanted to come into this. I was like, you know what, let me be on my toes and say Heidi. But I have to disagree with myself even. I don't think Heidi's ever. That would be the wrong opinion. So, I'm glad you didn't say that. Yeah, I mean, it's true. But it doesn't take away from the fact that all four of these guys have the ability to win and lose both at the same time. But that brings us to our final segment. It is the real minute. I bring the real. Dylan brings the minute. It's the real minute, ladies and gentlemen, where we react to the reals that are viral that you send us. This is a viral clip. It is Mr. Malibu. Malibu got himself into some trouble recently. So, let's go ahead. I don't know if I'm scrolling all that. So, you got to fill me in. Here's a super cut of basically the drama from Goob's vid and then also Malibu's apology. After all this came to light. Yesterday, I posted a very long video about Malibu Fitmax, aka Lee Markham. Is that true? Now I have them and I'm going to show you guys them and we're going to talk about what actually happened to Malibu Fitmax's face. I'll save you time in scrolling. It was not an IED. But what do his medical records say? Well, here it is, guys. Here's the medical record from the incident that Lee Markham is characterized as an IED to the face. Let me read. The patient is a 26-year-old male. Source of patient information was patient. 26 male complaining of chipped front tooth, lip, and forehead laceration from fall. It was just a big misunderstanding. What he meant to say was he got really drunk while stationed in Korea in 2006 and fell down before his deployment ever happened. Fell down. That's the IED. Well, Marcus, I don't know if you can call that stolen valor because, you know, I think you may have to be actually wearing a uniform or medals, you know, that represent that you've been in service. Let's make that clear. He did serve in the military, but he did not take an explosive device to the face. You know, you know me, Marcus. I'm a very insecure person. I'm a 5'7 chud incel, but I've never gone to the lengths of saying I got my face blown off and this is how they stitched it back together and this is why I look like this. I can just say I'm ugly. Well, yeah, I think that you know that the face is not stitched. I mean, it's obviously, you know, surgery. It's Botox. It's lip. You know, it reminds me a lot of Mickey Rourke from The Wrestler, actually, and shout out to Mickey Rourke. I think he's a good looking guy. And I don't think the, what's his name, Malibu Lee, I don't think he's an ugly guy. I think he's an attractive dude. I think he has a look. It's a look. It's the same way like Abraham Lincoln is. You see a guy like that and you're like, I've never seen anyone that looks like that. But he's lying about like insecurities. And again, I don't know if it is stolen valor. I don't know if that's the definition. It's a nasty lie, but I don't think that he's a nasty person. Certainly someone that's very insecure. But like you said, he's got things going on that seem, make him seem like a very philanthropic person. It's why we have reform for a reason. And it's, you know, just because somebody does one thing wrong, it doesn't necessarily, you know, create the whole synopsis for their entire character. The dude is probably still a good dude. I remember I saw something about him from I think it was one of these channels where it was a text message from him talking about, you know, putting out a clothing line and like 80% of the proceeds going to veterans. So things like that, I do think that I want to look at If he was lying about it, I mean, it kind of helps further the cause, you know. Maybe this lie actually has teeth in a good way. I mean, it sucks because people will put him on like, you know, and I get it, right? Everybody's like right to their opinion. Personally, everybody deserves their opinion. It does suck because there's people who've actually been through this and that's who it's hurting. Nobody else. I'm not trying to sound whatever. Nobody else should feel hurt by this realistically aside from the people who've been through it, the people we've kind of perpetrating at this point. Yeah, like people, you know, step on landmines and they're getting their legs blown off. That's brutal. And you don't see them with the million followers and they should have the million followers. They should be getting the rightful, you know, proceeds. The more I talk about it, the more it actually kind of makes me go the other way on it. Like if I was one of these people, I would see why it's a big deal. That's why I'm saying only those people. Like they, so everybody else who's up in arms, I think it's very clickbaity. I don't want to be clickbaity. I hope this is not a clickbaity section to be real. I just simply think it's a topic and personally, it's really what you do now. It's what you do now. What you do now is what's important. You know, I don't, I'm pretty apathetic about the whole thing. Will, I don't think I've unfollowed him yet, but I mean, it's not, I mean, I probably will. I got to be honest. Like that's pretty, to me, it's just kind of not a good thing to lie about. I got to be honest, but, you know, who cares? I'm one person. Who cares? You know, like, hey, yeah, you could still follow and be a fan of the dude, but let's, let's all acknowledge that's a pretty nasty lie at the end of the day. I think it came out, he made it clear that it was the wrong move. I think we could see it kind of written in the stars too. I mean, it's, you know, I don't even, I care very little about this topic if I'm being real. I think that I'm not in his shoes, but we all are just people in the end. It's what you do from here on out. It doesn't matter what you did in the past. I mean, it does matter, but don't get stuck in the past if you're that individual. Everybody else can do what they want, but you, the person who may have done something bad, man, just make it better. a situation like this, a precarious situation like this, something where the future is unknown reminds me of a good British term, good British phrase, you know, to keep your resolve. You know, it's keep calm and Malibu always has to remember to keep that stiff upper lip. That's going to do it with today's episode of the Muscle Maturity Show. We hope you enjoyed. It is always a pleasure. We're going to be back for more and more episodes to come. We will be at the Arnold. Make sure to stay tuned. We will be there in person, live and in action. Can't wait to see you there. We'll be there.