 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx hungry Cappy Bella who unfortunately just passed away. Very tragic accident where he fell off his bike. Yeah. Yeah. It's John. I can tell you first of all, hi, Mark. John. Good, good man. Thank you. You know, this is really devastating loss, John. I mean, I got to talk about this man. And it's still I'm still like a little bit emotional over it. I felt like I lost my own brother. Seriously. I got to know I got to know Kathy Bella through Ill Dico when asked Ill Dico. She is the vice president of Bible and Federation in Hungary. And she introduced us. And Kathy and I became very, very close friend. And I trained with Kathy and Christian, his best friend. And we I can tell you that Kathy is one of the kindest, nicest people I have ever met. And what really breaks my heart is that a wonderful family, good wife and mother and child. His daughter is just turning six years old. And, you know, it was really what's really strange. You know, most in most cases, we hear about we lose bodybuilder who kidney problem heart attack, you know, kidney fail, something like in that nature. But Kathy was vacationing in Cyprus and was his family. And he was on a bicycle. And he fell off the bike and he hit a hard object in the back of his head. And they could not save him. It's really crazy. And what's the odd for a champion and a good human being? I tell you what, I tell you one of the kindest, most wonderful people I have ever met. I have ever met. You know, he knows all the champion, you know, I'm sure Ron Coleman knows him. Everybody, every every champion that you could imagine went down to Budapest and, and, and, you know, hang out. He treats everybody with kindness. I mean, he treats the athletes like royalty. And he's a giver, not a taker. When he when you go there, he is so loving, enthusiastic person. You see him nice for everyone. And really, I want to extend my sincere condolences to his family, to his wife, Diana. She's an IBD pro. Diana was one of the finalists, one of the top notch at the Olympia competition a few years back. And she's always in great shape. And what can I tell you? Cathy was about to do a grand opening for gym number six in Budapest, somewhere in Hungary outside Budapest. And I was supposed to see him, John, in three weeks, three and a half weeks from now. It's just destiny. It's destiny. And, you know, I think Jake Wood was supposed to go there and the gym was going to be called Lesion Gym. He goes all out. Yeah, John, he goes all out. He does everything. I mean, he treats the gym like a church. Everything you can imagine. First class, everything first class. When you go, when I walked into his gym in Budapest, I swear, I swear it was one of the most awesome gym I see. Like, I mean, you know, as much as I like Gold Gym and we all know about the fame of Gold Gym, his gym was better to me personally, better in the atmosphere. I'll tell you, he's just, one day we'll go to Budapest together, John, and you'll see for yourself. And, you know, I want to extend my condolences also to Il Dico, the lady who's really, really, she's an IBD judge, Olympia judge. And she's also very, very passionate and she loved the sport. I mean, you know, I'm sure losing Cathy Bella is a huge loss to the sport of bodybuilding and Hungary altogether. And then I have some of my friends who watch a video like, you know, former OSL owner David and Tara and they saw this YouTube interview and David had to tell me, Samir, I was dying to meet Cathy, but after watching him talking that interview, he said, the guy is a saint. I've never seen anyone who's so nice and kind. And yeah, may he rest in peace. It's a tough loss for me and for all his family, you know, may he rest in peace. Oh, 45, 45. And, you know, he was in wonderful condition now. And I did not really say more about Cathy. Cathy was in powerlifting. He was like a strong man too. He squatted over a thousand pound, John. I thought, Marcus, you would not believe this guy. His bench, his, he's one of the strong, you know, he's a strong man, you know, it's not like, and then he turned, he went from 300 and almost 20 pounds down to like 265 pound and competed as a variable though. He believed that and he looked really good. Yeah. So on that first post, yeah, literally for like 42 weeks ago, you can tell how sincere you were in it. And you were talking about how great of a person he was and you literally said, I'm being so sincere with the heart. And I was almost a year ago you wrote that, you know, so that clearly gets a lot to you. Yeah. Yeah. It's the truth. Honestly, I'm not exaggerating, you know, honestly, I feel like I lost a family. I lost a brother. That's how it works, man. Like, you know, what's shocking the best, you know, the best people here on this earth takes them. Too early though. I can't believe it. What's, what's the odd, John, a bicycle? Yeah. That's why I tell people enjoy every day because you never know what's going to happen the next hour. Yeah. So yeah, this is a bad week for me. May he rest in peace and you know, been in contact with a lot of his family and friends and we're all going to go, but at least give the guy another 30, 40 more years, you know, a young family like that and everything. When did this, when did this happen, Samir? I'd say six days ago, approximately six days ago, five or six days ago. And I got the message from close friend and, you know, he's so kind. He takes his mom everywhere he goes when I attended his wife's birthday. He gave her a bouquet. It was like, I don't know, like thousand flower roses. I mean, he just go all out to make you happy. He goes all out. You know, you can ask Tom plus. I'm sure Tom plus have a lot to say or Ronnie Coleman or, you know, some of the many, many champion that went there and trained with him. He was very strong, you know. Last time, John, I trained with him and his best friend, Christian, who's a big massive IBB pro. They killed me, but I trained, I kept up with him and I was like so happy to be there in that, you know, this atmosphere of hardcore and good people is like totally really unforgettable. You know, and so my sincere condolences to his family, his mom and wife and best friends and the whole bodybuilding community in Hungary. Yeah, that's a good amount. That's what a shame. All right. Well, let's talk about the Tampa Pro that just took place last weekend. I was out there to see it. Tim Gardner's, this was 18th Tampa Pro and it was really, really good show. I think there was like 21 competitors last year. It was kind of small in the open men bodybuilding. They only had eight. So this year they had 21 competitors and Jordan Hutchinson, who I believe was second place last year to Andrew Jack at the Texas Pro, which we're going to talk about in a minute. He won his first IBB pro show. He beat out Quinton Aria, who's got an incredible physique. We talked about Quinton before on this podcast. Quinton's tall, super wide, very small waist, incredible structural and best structures in bodybuilding. And it was really close to me. No, I wasn't there. Did you see that? I thought John was holding a down for us out there, man. We got to get the scoop from John. Yeah, well, I'm here. Yeah, it was really close between them. I thought at the pre-judging, I actually thought Quinton was going to win just because of the structure, although Jordan was definitely a little harder. But then the night show looked like Quinton definitely, I noticed a big change in his conditioning. He was much smoother and Jordan was just as hard. So Jordan really pulled ahead at the night show and he won his first pro title. Yeah, John. I saw the photo and I really focused and zoomed in and tried to study each and everyone. The photo I saw, maybe from what you tell me, he was much sharper during the pre-judging. And I can honestly say, me, I don't know neither guy, neither one of them. I know Jordan is in good shape. But you know, personally, I give the knot to Quinton looking at those photos. And look at his symmetry. Look at the wasp waist, the diamond calf, the sweep on his thighs, his chest tighten. I mean, the guy is also the waist. Look at this. What impressed me, the waist is so tiny. And he's really, he's not missing much. I mean, I don't know, but John, you know, you saw it. So, you know, I guess they're putting so much more emphasis on that shredded look in the evening. I don't know. So you told me he lost by one in the pre-judging and lost by a lot in the evening or he won the pre-judging. Yeah, I think it was a seven to eight score at the pre-judging, which means it was a one-point difference. So, you know, there were seven judges, probably like a four to three vote. But then at the night show, Jordan got all the ones and Quinton got all two. So, he was definitely, I don't know what happened. I mean, there wasn't a lot of time between pre-judging and night show. The pre-judging, they do the pre-judging for the professional men after the amateurs. So, it's around probably like 1230. And then the finals, they start with the men, with the pro men. So, the men started around 330, you know, 334 o'clock. So, it really wasn't a lot of time, only a few hours in between. But I definitely know that I was actually seeing it was the faculty. Yeah, I judge both. In person, was it very noticeable? Because like when I'm seeing pictures online, it looks like Quinton really brought up his back. Like I saw the back as far as like a couple years back, maybe last year, it looks a lot better. Yeah, yeah, I just thought Quinton was better, like, you know, he was bigger. I think the last time he competed, the one we talked about him, on the show, he just wasn't big enough yet. But he's definitely put on the size and he came in with a good conditioning. So, I mean, give this guy another year or two. He's going to be top industrial. But with that structure, I mean, man, nobody's going to be there. John, I don't know if I told you, John, long ago, when I saw Quinton's body, I really predicted huge, you know, I mean, this guy, you know, asked me right now, what body you want. It's automatic. I mean, right away, I'll say Quinton. Now, no disrespect to Jordan. No, I'm sure Jordan worked hard. He looks gnarly and more muscular. His muscular is hell. But again, I mean, the beauty of Quinton is really hard to match because I tell you, he's got beautiful, beautiful body. I mean, the guy is beautiful. That way, I have not seen such a beauty in bodybuilding for a long time. So, you know, I mean, can you imagine Nick Walker bring that midsection that Quinton have? Nobody would beat him. I mean, I tell you what, when you have a good midsection and good upper thighs and separation, I mean, this man, he's Mr. Olympia bound. This man is the future. And I can honestly say, and I will double what you said, I will go and say you're 100% correct. Another year and this man will be on the Olympia stage easily in the winter circle easily. Yeah. If I'm not mistaken, just imagine 10 more pounds. If I'm not mistaken, last time we saw him was whenever Matt Jansen was his coach and they had all that, there was a bunch of issues going on as far as like, you know, he came on stage and didn't look his best. And I think Quinton, he had a video after the fact that came out where he was like literally, you could tell you was emotional. And it wasn't bad emotions. I think it was just from that come up from where he was to now. And I think you could tell it was probably like series of like, okay, accomplished and I feel good about what I did. I, you know, I got on stage and I represented for myself, which is probably very, you know, to show that kind of emotion for any dude is kind of tough. And to begin with, so the fact that he was able to do that and still want to showcase that you can tell meant a lot. Like, you know, it really meant a lot to him to come and show out. So hopefully I have a feeling he might, you know, might take it at Texas. I hope he stays up mentally, Jean, because sometimes people, they can handle a loss like that because honestly, in his own eyes, he think he should have won in my own eyes being out here, not like you, Jean, you were there live. I'm looking at the photos and everything I saw on Instagram. Honestly, I'm going hands down Quinton, you know, again, I know disrespect for the quality, for the muscularity that Jordan brought to the stage. But I've always been a major supporter of overall harmony and balance and small ways. And really, I can't say anything other than Quinton stick to it because Quinton, you are going a long way, my friend. You are going to be a top notch champion. So don't, don't dwell on it. You know, we all lose. I lost. I was last place at the Olympia in 1980. And then I came back and won the fucking Olympia. So was that body of what, what you have Quinton knew going to be a top notch? You're going to be a champion to reckon with. He's going to be damn. I don't know if you saw the guy who was in third place, but the guy that's on the screen now, Joe Palacios, the fat Joe, he looked, he looked crazy. He had a side shot, his side chest, and then his back shot. To me, his back double was just like levels above the other stage. He looked etched. Like it was a, how was it like in part, to me on the video was crazy looking, a lot of muscle. What place does he come in? He got third. He got third. Wow. I mean, you know what, honestly, look, he looks good. Marcus, he looks good. You know, I think what's the difference between him, that waving is not good, but again, the difference between him and Quinton, Quinton is more wasted. If this gentleman, I'm sorry, I don't get, if this gentleman was a little bit more wasted, I love this density and size. I mean, you know, he's another dangerous guy. Yeah. I think even with everything's very, looks to be very dangerous, but hopefully he can replicate it at the next week's show. John in person, how was it? Like, was it kind of like as nutty as it looks on, on, on screen? Yeah, this guy was the breakout star of the show. I thought, I mean, he was just so massive and thick, real wide, not super tall, but just super thick. So yeah, he's going to do really, really well in the future. Yes. I wasn't aware of him at all. I think he won the USA last year, but man, he really came up. He was super, super impressive. Oh yeah. He is muscular. That's taking most muscle. He was good. You know something, John, from all honesty, I love his body. He's got arm, forearms, lats, legs, calves. You see it right here, John. You see it right here. He needs to get tighter, tighter in the middle. If you get tighter in the middle, which I think he can, I don't see it. I don't see a bulge stomach. I don't see that, which is good. I think he will better, he'll replicate and improve on that condition. Marcus, I think this guy would be a good future champion if he goes a little farther and get more etched to the bone. And really focus on the middle right now, not on everything else. He was kind of a surprise too. I don't know if a lot of people knew him. So, you know, to place third in this big lineup was really impressive. So I think if he goes to, he's going to Texas next week, or this week, kind of actually. And I think now they're going to be aware of him. So I think he had a chance to even move up even further. And I saw that even Martin Fitzwater. I saw that he's having like, they're doing like a $2,000 cash prize to whoever is the, you know, the overall muscle for men's open, whoever has the most muscle. So I think at this point, it might be his prize. Yeah, and they did that. I saw a mark. I think I'm going to determine that. I mean, I guess, I don't know. The same way they would do it, like, don't do the Olympian things like that, like, you know, whoever has the most muscular, like the, I think it is like the Franco Colombo. Yeah, you know what, one thing, look at, you know, if you notice the $8,000, yeah, I saw Martin Fitzwater put out something about it, the Texas pro, they're going to be giving out $2,000 to whoever is like, brings the most muscular. Oh, okay. I saw Marcus. I saw Marcus. I saw Martin last week and here in LA at the LA expo. And I saw J. Cutler too. We had what you call it. Yeah, see the most muscular award. Anaheim, the Anaheim expo. And I had a good talk with Martin and he's really, really motivated about being his best ever. And we talked about quality, quality, onion skin. Big is not always the answer. You know what I'm saying? And, you know, and John said that Quinton looked really sharp in the morning. He didn't look as sharp in the evening. Maybe that has a lot to do why he did not win at all. So, you know, you got to think about quality. So the gentleman, I'm sorry, I missed his name, the third guy, Joe Palacios. Okay. Okay. Joe, what I noticed here, he needs to tan his face a little bit more because there's a major difference in the color. And that's the biggest mistake they keep making. And not just that, he needs to focus on the middle, on the middle. And I keep repeating to people, Zayn, Mr. Olympia, three time, the reason why is always carved in the middle, small ways and separated side. If you don't have focus, if you don't focus on your middle, you're done. And this is why Hardy Chopin always stand out because the middle tight abs, you know, like John was competing last, you know, what, two weeks ago, John was your show? Three. Almost three weeks already. Time fly. You know, like John, this last contest, he was tighter, his abs was tighter, his thighs were actually a little bit harder. So the key for championship physique start in the middle. Yeah. Tight, tiny waist, shredded waist. Because I don't care how big is your shoulder, how big is your arm. If you're going to look like a box, you can take a hike, forget about it, stay home. You got to have the tiny midsection. This is why we talk about Samson. Samson have the V shape in the tiny waist and white shoulder. You know, when Samson also shred anyway, that's another topic. Let's focus on that. I mean, I feel like he's probably going to get up just because nobody knows who he is. And you know, kind of a breakout star, he probably got up in just a size alone. So not trying to make comparisons, but a lot of people are probably going to compare him to something like Nick, who, and we're seeing Nick really refine his physique and kind of, you know, kind of how you're saying, like really get that, you know, those abs. I mean, Nick has a really great ab and thighs. So I feel like this guy, he kind of follows the game. He could do it. Look, I've, I've been on Nick's side all along. And if Nick wants to break into the winner circle, first advice to Nick Walker, you have enough arm, you have enough back, you have enough shoulders, the sharper the tighter your middle, the better your chances. And that goes for Martin too. Everybody, you know, you got to match up to Heidi Chopin because Heidi Chopin, get up there. First thing you look at his thighs are shredded, his ab decided he's not the biggest, but right away, the sharpness makes him look super huge. I'm telling you, the thing I like about Nick and Martin is they both have that. It reminds me somewhat of some of when I watched some of your old video, Samir, to really always, you know, I got that, you know, the killer instinct, I, you know, like the, you know, I'm shooting straight kind of mentality. And I feel like they have that killer instinct. Both of those gentlemen, to me, Martin and Nick have that like, this unbreakable confidence, this tunnel vision kind of thing that I really, I like it just as far as like as being in sports and just competitive bodybuilding. I really liked that. I talked to Martin, we were talking, you know, me, Martin, I always talk, send messages to each other and stuff like that. But we sat down and at the, at the Anaheim Expo and I told them, I said, Mark, Martin, you got what it takes. Don't fall in love with this big, big, big, the more etched you are, the better your chances. That's it. And you know, that's why people like Chris Bumstad, you know, Bumstad is not the most blessed or gifted bodybuilder out there. Bumstad, he gets shredded and he knows how to create balance with his body when he posed. This is what separates the man from the boys, getting that arched, etched muscularity. And you know what, our friend, John Hansen, proved that he came in sharper and he won the master division was no problem. He looked sharper. You look, you were actually, I think, John, you were a little bit bigger. Were you bigger or just like a couple of pounds heavier? You look better to me overall. Yeah, I got fuller for that last show, but I was actually a pound lighter than I was for the week before. So, you know, John, I respect you. You're my buddy. And I really felt in the earlier show, you did not fill up enough. And I think in the last show, you filled up and you popped and you looked way better. You might not look better from here to here, but when you went on stage, you like popping and it was like clear wind. So, you know, it's a lot better to do that. Are you still riding that mentally? How's that feeling now? Like, is it still kind of like surreal for you? Because you've been such a, you know, like to be a pro, like at this point and be a fan for so long, are you still riding that mentality, that wave of just you four years? Yeah, it lasted for a couple of weeks. Yeah, but I'm on to, you know, back to training now for next year or so. But you fully recovered. I can see your face, John, your neck is full now. You loaded, you got full. You know, I'm telling you, but it takes a lot of audio competition. It takes a lot of audio. And you know me, it's not going to be easier when you over 60, man. Come on, it gets tougher. That's why you have to give a lot of respect for John coming in in that condition. And he's a fighter and look at to me, it looks like wow. So John has said, like, wow, he's like way more improved than he did in, you know, in years. Yeah, just slowly back to the training. I'm not training super hard right now. I'm just like, you know, slowly coming back on. Intensity, not heavy weight. I mean, you're not going super heavy, but you're going with intensity, right, John? Yeah, yeah, but I'm just like slowly building it up, you know, because I got a whole year. I'm not going to compete till next summer. So I mean, I've gotten hurt before, after shows where I came back too hard, you know, and didn't get my body enough of a break because you be training for these shows and you train super hard for six months. It puts a lot of strain on your body. So you got to come back. John, I can tell you one thing. I'm looking at you here. Your eyes are white and clear. That means your liver. Okay. Everything's okay. And this is why you're doing the right thing. You don't abuse your body. This is the thing you want to win and stay healthy. Yeah. Unfortunately, some of the guys out there, they just want to win at all costs. I mean, come on, dude. You don't really quit. You know, I mean, anyway, before we started this, we were talking about some of the were abusing man, come on. This sport can be done without abusing your health and hurt yourself. Anyway, that's from my perspective. John, one of the noted anybody else kind of stand out at the Tampa Pro like I know Joe was like a breakout star. Is there anybody else who like stood out for good or for bad kind of thing? Well, John, do it was in really good shape. You know, he looked like he hit his peak, you know, he was hard and full. And then let's see fifth place was Bruno, who was training with Bruno Santos. He was training with Derek. So Derek was there. Derek and Matt Greg over there watching the show, because they were training with Bruno. So yeah, Bruno looked good. You know, I thought he was going to go into the show. I thought he might place a little higher, but he only got like I think fifth. And then sixth was John Delarosa, who won the show last year. And I guess since then, he's retired. Yeah, I guess John is retiring from bodybuilding from competing. Well, it's smart. If you know that your body is reaching a point where you could be unhealthy. Yeah, you know, it's a smart decision. You know, you should know when it's time to stop. Yeah, he looked good. But he looked good still, you know. Yeah, definitely different than last year when he won. Yeah, he was not quite as big and not as hard either. So yeah, John, I'm watching my diet today. I'm on a seafood diet. Look. Oh yeah, seafood diet. I've seen a few of those lately. This is a healthy cookie though. Anyway, it's okay to do that. You know, go out. I remember when we were in magic and what was it? Universal Studios, John? Yeah. And you had that apple pie in front of me. I said, oh my God, John. After that was there was a was Patrick Moore. I know that he got a lot. Like as far as judging goes from prejudging to finals, like he looked like he went up like three places as far as the point. So like how was that? Was it a big difference? A big jump as far as how he looked in person? Yeah, he definitely he definitely noticeably looked better at night. And I actually ran into Patrick. Scott wants to pull up the picture. I just ran into him. Yeah, I thought so. He was in Clearwater and finally moved to Florida. Oh, nice. Yeah. What place did he come in before that? Yeah. He competed, right, John? Yeah, he got, I think he got seventh. Seventh, yeah. He's got the body, but come on. He hasn't been coming in at his best. You know, he needs to really, you know, I really think, you know, Patrick's got the body. I think ever since his, you know, size injury, whatever happened, his legs, that's set him back a little bit. But he can come back if he come back to his old self when he, you know, when he trained with my friend Keith and Houston, he was looking incredible. Then I hope he can come back all the way because he's got a great body. I like Patrick, man. I like him. He's a good dude. And then his physique is just, it's a unique physique in bodybuilding today. So I really like it to stand out to me. Yeah. He does. He told me he had like a couple of hamburgers after the pre-judging and he came back at night and he looked way better. So you just need to pull out, you know. That happened to me always. You know, sometimes you got to eat, man. Don't be scared. You're not that fat. You can't get fat even if you try. You just need to stay full and cut. And you relax. If you relax, if you hold a tad bit of water and you're full enough, it's not going to show. It's not going to show. He's doing Texas this weekend. So hopefully he'll come in really in peak condition. Yeah. I like to see that. Hopefully. Hopefully. Y'all got Florida, but out there. Y'all, I see the sweat on that. John, I'll go back to Quinton. Sorry to cut you, Marcus, but happen. If I go back to Quinton, and Quinton looked really good after he judged, probably he did not eat enough thinking that he's going to look better for the evening. And that probably is the wrong thing to do, you know, because when you pose and you compete, you deplete so much reserve. So it's really smart to go out and eat and relax and come back fuller and you will pop more. Yeah. You know, so anyway, you know, life is about school, you know, all, you know, about experience. Learn from the mistakes, things like that. Yeah. The fact that Patrick's probably going to catch on with that. Yeah. But honestly, I love that body of Quinton. It's like one of the bodies that I really like.  db, besides what's his name, Keon. Keon's got the great body too. I love this kind of body, like Quinton and Keon and Martin. They have an overall look with the small waist. This is the body I want to see because a few years ago we were dealing with stomach, stomach, you know, popping, and now it's gotten better. So hopefully everybody will focus on the middle and come in small waisted like Quinton. This is the look I want. Somebody who I thought was going to do a lot better was Stuart Sutherland. I thought the beats do. He got ninth, I believe, and I really thought he was going to, I had him kind of projected to be like top four, I think top five realistically, definitely first call out in my head, but hopefully in Texas he can kind of whip it back in shape and make that jump. I can see that. Yeah, he could. I mean, he's got the thickness and he obviously misses peak. So I mean, if he corrects whatever went wrong, I think he could move up much higher this weekend. Yeah, because you look good. I like how the back lats work is coming up a lot, things like that, things he's working on. It's looking a little better. Yeah. But you notice something. Look, look, keep that fixture. Let me explain something. If you notice the rib cage, when the rib cage come out of the frame, there's something's going on here that actually gaining when you push the rib cage out, it gets to here. And I think couple of people, I don't want to name who I know, I've been watching very closely. This is not the case was, you know, when you talk, I've been thinking a lot about Samson was all the mass that he has was that tiny waist. I mean, you know, the problem is right here, the middle. I don't see deep separation in the size. And I think the rib cage is coming out of place. You know, sometime your body can be in a certain way where you can't handle to be like to 80 at that height or to a night, whatever. But, you know, I always think about how Samson is going to be with that overwhelming size, this shoulder to waist ratio. I think about it as I'm competing. I said, I know, I know in my heart, in my mind that he can be etched to the bone with that onion skin. And if he does, again, Lord have mercy. I'm not just saying I've always been a big fan of Derek, the thing in that there is always going to be the favorite, the top favorite. But you know what? I can't take Samson out of my mind, find farmer, Mr. Olympia, all this overwhelming mass, complete body. Imagine they get another 5% sharper. John, what happened if you get 5% sharper? Unbeatable. No one again. Yeah, beatable at that point. So do you think that is going to be doing the vacuum? Is it hurting him or how do you feel like is that what you're because I feel like he's kind of doing like a vacuum. Well, what happened? Let me tell Marcus, when you eat and try to gain fast weight so fast. Sometimes some people did what we had with Jay. I don't want to talk negative regarding what Jay did, but Jay at some point was eating eight meals. You know, when you eat eight meals, where are you going to put that 10,000 calorie or whatever more? And what happened? I mean, that rib cage man pushed out and this is really cause more block in us. Come on, dude. You know, I really think eating seven, eight meals is completely unnecessary. And for me, everybody still talking some air condition 83. You know what? I was eating five meals. I can barely eat five, five meals. And of course, it's about adaptation. Your body adapt whether you eat six or seven. But it's not from my perspective. It's not recommended to go over six meal is not. And if you can do it five meals by all means, why not? Anyhow, so basically, we're talking about what's his name again, his story sticking out. So yeah, which is I saw to it. I was with John. We saw him at the New York pro and he had that, you know, I think he got he gained quite a bit in the middle and honestly, he get bigger everywhere. But he on a price of the middle, you know, we remember, listen, Jay Kotler, he could hear me on this. Jay Kotler didn't I didn't enjoy the way he looked. I didn't think Jay looked better in the final Olympia that he won. I mean, I liked him more when he was a tad bit lighter and sharper. His middle was much his waist and stomach was so much better. Yeah. I think he kind of agrees with Jay went up to the eight meals and 10 meals. I mean, come on, you know, he gained a lot of size. And that was for him in his head. Yeah, well, I'm chasing Ron Coleman was Mr. Massive. I got to be Mr. Massive. But you know what? I honestly think it did backfire. I think Jay looked more boxy during the final year. He didn't look as a beautiful body of Jay Kotler the first two three years. Anyway, he said during the episode that thing was 2001. He said it was his favorite physique. Yeah, of Ronnie. Yeah, of J. Oh, Jay looks incredible. Like when you won in the year after I mean, he did really, really good. I you know, I don't want to refer to who was coaching him, but he did wonderful job the first three years. The four years I thought he really got a little bit blocky. I mean, I know we love him is our friend. But the truth must be told, you know, I so you know, the same thing, same thing was Phil. He's yeah, he's wonderful. The first impaired. Yeah, Phil in the first five Olympia was amazing. Beautiful. That's when he was actually beat rock beat Jay in these contests. I was there watching. But I think also Phil actually started to look a little bit worse in the middle. He looked bad in the middle in a costume when he lost to Sean Rodin. Yeah, because his midsection was more blocky. And remember that, John? Yeah, for sure. He has never had like 30 or 40 minutes. People don't talk about. Yeah, people don't talk about the middle. Does it mean that the middle should be the topic about the Miss Olympia contest? The sharper your middle, the better your chances. Well, before we end the show, let's go over the list for the Texas Pro, which is going to be this weekend. Yeah. And let's kind of predict who's going to win there. So 2.0. Yeah, Andrew Jack, who has won this show, I think the last three years, I don't think he's coming back because he's already qualified because he won a show earlier this year. So yeah, it's pretty much all the same guys that were in Tampa. And then we got Karris Badgell in there too. He's a top 2.12. I'll be happy to see him. Is Quinton competing again? Yeah. Quinton, Jordan, literally almost everybody. Wow. Wow. You know, I mean, he will do the right things. I think he's dangerous. I mean, I recognize, you know, Karris, I love Karris's body. You know, I know we watched him winning the New York Pro last year, not this year, the year before. Yeah. Yeah. He's got a beautiful body, man. I think when he's shredded, he's going to be right up there. Yeah. He's another guy. Me, hard and shredded. He'll be a lot of those bigger guys. Yeah. Got to imagine this could be a breakout show for him as far as that too. I mean, coming in from, you know, coming down, you know, coming up from a 2.12 and dude has an incredible physique, man. Yeah. Yeah. He does. We talk all the time and I told him, I said, Eric, Karris, you have the body, all you got to do get super edge, tight, onion skin. You get super shredded in the middle. You know, I mean, look at his abs are very good. That shot to the right. That's a beautiful shot. He's got to keep his waist small and that's keep that muscle mass and be super sharp. He's super thick too. He's always in great condition. Symmetrical as hell as well. He is super symmetric. You got to see him in person when his body is round and it's really beautiful physique. And so I think he's going to be in the top three dogs in there. Oh, top three. Wow. Yeah. I mean, hey, I'm four. What do you think? Yeah. I think Karris will be in the top three. I definitely right now after looking at Quinton, Quinton is going to be a troublemaker anywhere he goes. I'll be honest with you. All you have to do peak right and be super shredded, not miss his peak at night. Like you said, John, you have to come in good at prejudging, good in the evening. If he does, I don't see him losing easily. I think he's a bad boy. Yeah. I just couldn't. Quinton can turn it around. Yeah. Quinton could easily take the W this time. Who is your top three, John, in this field? I think it'll be Quinton and it probably the same top three as last week, but I think Quinton could win this week and he could turn the tables on Jordan. Yeah. Joseph, Joseph, he comes in, you know, keeps that stomach under control. He can kind of replicate that. That'd be good. Yeah. Honestly, I would love it. It's really cool to see a lot of the two 12 guys coming up and just making their mark, man. Like that's really, you know, as we see that as a lot leave people like, you know, Derek, William from back, and there's a lot of people that's coming in and just kind of showing off the two 12. Hey, man, there's $600,000 ahead. Everybody chasing that right now. But the smart one, the smart one will be patient. Don't fucking jack the needle and think, oh, I'm going to get there tomorrow. Take your time. Be smart. You will get there. That's why I'm decision to stay in two 12 for and just kind of rule that to business until he's ready. I like that. I do. It's Marcus. It's heartbreaking. I know some of the champion that I saw in front of me. I don't want to say the name. I don't want to say their name. I saw them come and disappear. You know why? Because they tried and they wanted today instead of waiting for tomorrow. But sometimes you're rushing and you're like shooting yourself in the foot. Yeah, you don't need to rush it. Stay healthy because you can come back better. And this is what Quinton has to do. Go up 10 pound, 12 pound a year and don't just get up there and gain 60 pounds and say, yeah, I'm in a shock to the world because you know what? You're going to ruin your kidney function, your body, I mean, your liver function, your body's not going to be as your body won't be as responsive. You burn all the receptor. You will have to change your medication, especially with those guys I take. John would tell me about someone who uses 700 milligram. I don't, we're not going to say his name, but when someone uses 700 milligram of trombolone and he's using, I don't know how many thousand milligrams of tests, I think these guys are really not coming back. They're there for a year or two and then they're done, Marcus. You ruin your engine, you're done. That's it. Makes sense. Be smart. Of course, and make a dollar too. Not just sense, bro. It makes sense and makes quarter. It like you need to stay healthy and look at it for the long run. You want to be there like John, when you're 60, you can compete and be awesome at 60. And then you know what I'm saying? It's just live after winning, man. You win one show, but you do it the healthy way. Can it be done 100% percent? Can you be champion, Mr. Olympia and stay healthy? Of course you can. And if other coaches that tell you you have to do all this milligram and shit, their coaches are stupid. You do not need a huge amount. It's like going and shooting, you're hunting and you see a gazelle, you hit them one shot, boom, it's down. You don't need a cannon to drop a gazelle. You don't need a fucking just starting a nuclear war for winning. You got to be smart. Take a little bit the right way and it goes a long way. You have to know what the F you're doing. Keep that engine running properly. You know, the heart and your lungs and your liver and your kidneys, if these, if once you lose all the functioning, the proper function of your hormonal function, you're done. You're done. So who do you guys think are gonna be at the Texas Pro? I kind of agree with you that it's like, just the fact that there was a show last week, I can see it being a pretty much a rearrangement of the top three. I don't think Jordan's gonna win this one personally, even though I love, I mean, rightfully so. I think he won the last one like I deservingly, I thought he should have won Jordan, but I can see them kind of, you know, shuffling it around. Rather is Quinton, my money's on Quinton, Joe, I think Joe can come out and show out because that was a really good look. I love to see someone like Stuart Sutherland be able to come up and, you know, obviously he misses peak last time. I want to see him in that first call out. Patrick, I'm always going to say I want to see the first call out. I want to see Patrick. You know, I'm good. John, I don't want to say everything right away. I don't know most of these guys unless I see photo. And the thing is, I, I know that, you know, Jordan is good. We know Quinton is good. We know Karrif is very good. I want to see him show up. Honestly, I like the fact that it was like, I like Tampa Pro because it was like, those, that next up, not to say a Lord's here, but the next up kind of thing. Like everybody who's kind of big, Andrew and all them, they're not showing up to these shows because they already got their tickets to the Olympia. So I really like to see these guys battle it out. That was kind of like a, this was one of my favorite shows as of late because of that, because we got to see someone like even the Asian dude, um, you know, even him, you know, someone like him coming up and just that small waist, crazy skin, just, you know, really looked incredible. And I feel like without a show like this, someone like that wouldn't have been able to, you know, you know, come up and make a, make his scene for us. You know what I mean? Like I was, that's, I'm thinking Texas is going to be even better, hopefully. Yeah. Yeah. Do you kind of see the same thing? I didn't see it, John, as far as Texas, do you have it kind of same concept earlier? You alluded to it, same top three, maybe a little shaken up. Yeah. I mean, it's great to see a big show like this, because I think this is the last show in the United States before the Olympia last fall. Wow. That's why you got so many guys. So I hear all schools, we're going to go cover the Olympia, correct? Yeah, we're trying to do. Yeah. Yeah. We just fit out the things that we're trying to get there. Yeah. Yeah. We talked to, uh, Katie and, you know, hopefully we will all be there. So how do we dope man? I'm, uh, yeah, really good to see the Olympia and, you know, no, you guys. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, John and I want to laugh about something we don't want to talk about it now, but we laugh in a little bit. Anyway, you got to write the same hat on Mr. O so they know. So the people know you're going to rock that now. Unless I, unless I go like John and say, hey, I'm so pro John. Yes. Now we go with John. Everyone recognize John. Nobody recognized me now. Now, but I'm excited for Texas. Honestly, I think it's going to be a good show. I think like Tampa was a really good stand out show. So I feel like Texas is going to be just as good. Yeah. You think Quentin's going to probably take it. John, like you think it's like you think is that your first or you just kind of do you want to put that guess in? Yeah, I would pick him. I mean, I think if he can just come in just a little bit fuller maybe and sharper. He just needs to improve just a little bit because he was right there. So yeah, I think he could definitely win it. I'd like to see him at the Olympia. So that'd be great if you want it. Crazy if Joe just took it. I mean, he's right there. You could. I'd like to see him take this one too. A little bit harder. I think. So now how many weeks for the Olympia right now? We have about say nine or less than three. Nine or more. I think it's like great at nine weeks. I think we're actually like it's three months right now, right? It's about a little bit less anyway. So October 9th and 12th. So yeah, yeah, we have. We had to already nine months. Yeah, only two weeks in a month. Yeah, two months in a week. Yeah. I'm excited. We'll meet next week then and we'll talk about most of the Texas Pro and see how that went down. See if we got a new guy going to the Olympia or what happens. Okay, wonderful. I like the company show. So if we can do it for the Texas as well. Yeah. Great seeing you guys as always. Yeah, looking forward to see the result of Houston competition and we'll see you next week.