 psesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesesese I'm not bad. Yeah. Yeah, it happened. It happened to all of us. Yeah, yeah. Well, you know, John, I had to do dental work. I don't, you know, I still dealing with two implants. You know, I had a root canal that failed. And so now we have to put an implant in place. And I was under the knife and my mouth is swollen right now as we speak. But it's not that bad. It's not that bad. Yeah, yeah. It doesn't look bad. When was that, Samir? Oh, I did it. And well, now it's the whole work is done. So we're going to put the cap on. And so, you know, it's a long process. You know, I had an issue with the bone underneath and stuff. So hopefully we're done in two more weeks, completely done. Okay. Then I can smile like good old Samir again. Anyway, how's it with you, John? What's been going on? Well, I'm about 16 weeks out from the show already. It's coming up quick. Started my diet like two weeks ago. Way ahead of time. Wow. I started the diet 18 weeks out. So last year I started the diet like 13 weeks out. So I'm starting real early. That's good. Yeah. How was the leg training? I know that's what you were just doing. How was the leg training going for you? Brutal. Yeah, I'm doing legs twice a week. My legs are definitely bigger this year than last year. You know, I write everything down. So my weights are heavier this year than they were last year. And they're going up. You know, as it gets closer, I'm going to keep pushing harder and going up. So I do my heavy leg workout Thursdays. And then Sunday I do kind of like a pump workout where I superset and I do lunges. And it's more like 12, 15 reps. But that's a hard workout too because I get super pumped. So, yeah, both are tough. Yeah. Have you always done that style of training? Or did you change it up with like this, you know, getting to prep this time? Or how has that been? Have you always done two weeks? Well, last year I was doing it twice a week. I tried going heavy both workouts. And, you know, my joints couldn't handle it. My knees were hurting. My hips were hurting. So then I switched it up. I mean, you're still using heavy weight, John, right? Yeah. Yeah, I'm still going heavy. I squatted three plates and a 10 on each side for the swift machine squats. I was getting 10 reps. I think you make all the 60-years-old men like, wow, how can you do it? Because, you know, doing heavy squat at any over 50, most people don't want to do it. Yeah. Yeah. I'll be honest with you. I don't do squat much. I do leg press. I do a little bit of hack squat, leg extension, and leg curl. I'm not squatting. But if I do, I won't go heavy. At most, I would do like 225. I don't want to go. Yeah. I see you doing like still like what? 315, John? Yeah. Yeah. I had three plates and a 10 and I was doing 10 reps. You're crazy. Easy. Yeah. That's really good for like the fact that your joints are still, you know, being able to take that wear and tear. Because similar to like Samir, I've had three knee surgeries. So squatting is just completely out of the question for me. Yeah. I can't. It does terrible for me. Like I feel the inflammation for like the next week. So like what would y'all suggest could be aside from like a leg press? Because that's kind of what I started to do was leg press, things like that. Sometimes hacks watch a little hard too. But what would you suggest rather as age or just injury over time? How would you go about your leg training? And if you still want to try to lift heavy? You have to work around it, Marcus. You depend on the severity of your issue there, you know? So if you tore both of your knees, you know, and you had surgical, you know, you repair them and so I think then you have to be very careful. I don't think you got to go have and do 500 pound or 450. So and I don't think it's necessary if you're already, let's say if your legs already, let's say, let's say 35 inches. I'm just saying that. And you'll reach that level, you can really regain that size back even doing 250 pounds. Yeah. So I get you. But John, he's seeking more muscle, I guess. So I still let go. 265, John, or 365? 365? What do you mean? You did three plate and a half, right? You did three and a ten, right? Three and a ten. But I went up to, when I did my heavy cycle, I went up to three plates and three tens. So. And you go all the way down? Yeah, all the way down. Yeah. Oh, man. Ever since I started doing it on Smith machine, I go definitely full reps. Don't do that, Marcus. You don't want to do that right now, all the way down, especially with a knee surgery. Luckily, John doesn't have an issue, so he can do it. He's used to it. I used to go in the gym and like I'd start with squats. But now that I'm older, what I do is, like today, the reason why the workout took so long was, you know, I go on the inversion table for five minutes, you know, stretch out my back. And then I'll stretch for like probably 30, 40 minutes. Like I'll just take my time. I'll stretch like the hamstrings, the hips, the glutes. I'll just, you know, do a bunch of stretching, static stretching. And then I'll start with abs. I'll do hanging knee raises and crunches like a superset. And that's kind of like a dynamic stretch. You know, when you're pulling your knees to your chest, it's like, you know, it's like a dynamic stretch where you're pulling the back. And then I'll start with, I don't start with quads. I start with hamstrings. So I'll do leg curls. And then I do stiff-legged deadlifts. And when I do the stiff-legged deadlifts, you know, that like tightens up my back. So then my back feels tight. Lower back. Yeah. It's like pumped and tight. So then when I go into quads, I'll start with like a machine, like a, what is it, a free motion squat, you know, where your back's against the pad. And I'll just go really right, like 15, 20 reps, just warm up the knees. Then I'll go over to the Smith machine. I'll do one plate. I'll do two plates. Then I do three sets of three plates. And then I'll do hack squats. And then I'll do leg press. And then I'll do glutes after that. So I kind of go back. I do abs, hamstrings, and then quads. So by the time I get to quads, my knees are warmed up. My hips are warmed up. My lower back is tight. You know what I mean? It's not like when I was younger, I could go in and just go right to the squat rack and start squatting heavy. But now when you get older, you got to be careful. I hope you're eating 4,000 calories, John. I'm dieting now. So now the calories are going down and the training intensity is going up. So it's going to be tough. Yeah. Oh, wow. So you'll keep it that intense even with the calories going down? Yeah, it'll get more intense because I'm on like a six-week cycle where it's progressively going up. So I think I'm on week five of the mass cycle, and then I'll do a deload week for a week. And then when I start my next cycle, I'll do a power cycle and another mass cycle. And that should lead me all the way up to the contest. So what I was going to do like with squats was go heavier than this cycle. But then I'm like, man, I'm going to be dieting. I don't know if I can go heavier. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to keep the weight the same as this cycle, but I'm going to do one more rep. And instead of doing like nine reps, I'll do 10 reps. I'll do 11 reps. My weight is volume, but I won't be increasing the weight because I don't think it's smart to increase the weight while I'm dieting. You know, John, I have to tell you, you're doing great, and you're listening to your body. And from my perspective, I will always listen to my body. I'm in the gym. If I feel like I do 500, I'll do it. Yeah. But it's not always. And, you know, sometimes your body say, hey, man, just today I can only handle 400. I can only do 375. Yeah. Listen to your body. Yeah. I took the advice from my master. You know, Bill Perl actually told me that. You've got to listen to your body. You don't say because I did November 8th, I did like 500. So November 20th, I should go 550. But in my book, it doesn't work that way. Right. You've got to go by how you feel. Yeah. And, you know, you push yourself at the wrong day because you want to do what you did on November 8th, for example. And that would lead to major injury. Thank God John has already been there, done that. So for people out there, you've got to listen to your body. You can't just go, hey, you know what? I'm going to go 600. Yeah. You know, some of them want to show up. Like valid points and one thing that John said, I think it should be like reiterated, especially for the newer generation because we see that coming in here. We see a lot of the newer generation who may not know this, but like tell them again, why you start with hamstrings and things like that on your quad day or your quad focus day. Why do I start? When you're going to a squat. Because it kind of just warms it up, you know, like warms up the quad or the warms up the hamstrings first. And then when you go see like what else, if I do like quads first, then when I go to do stiff legged for my hamstrings, my back is like blown out. And it's like, you know, it's wiped out from the squats and everything. So if I do the lower back first with the stiff legged, it kind of like pumps up my back and gets a little stronger. And then when I go to quads and then everything, you know, by doing all those other exercises, everything is kind of warmed up. You know, my hips are warmed up. My glutes are warmed up. My back is warmed up. So by the time I get to, I may not be quite as strong as I would be if I started with quads. Of course. But I'm more warmed up and it takes away the injury. Yeah. You've been there, you've done that. Which is great. Yeah. Yeah. Because I'm still learning, man. I sit there and like I, two months, January 29th, I got an inguinal hernia. From leg pressing, sadly. And it's just, you know, and I'm doing all these things. I'm trying to be a student of the game in a sponge. Obviously, sometimes just pushing away, having that ego. It works against you, sadly. So, John, want to break into something else new. I hear things about Lee Haney and I'm probably, probably aware of it. Yeah. Yeah. What's the story on Lee Haney, the latest story? Well, I guess he's looking for him. I'm sure you're a friend with Lee. You know, we need to talk about something here to clear some of the issue that's been talked about by outsiders out there, you know? Yeah. He's got a genetic condition with his kidneys. So, he's looking for a kidney donor. And he's had this for like, he's been aware of this for over 20 years. Yes. You know, his doctor told him for over 20 years. And, you know, he was able to manage it with, you know, good diet, good training. And he was able to hold off for like over 20 years. But now, I guess it's like stage four. So, now they have to do a, he's looking for it. And I think he's still, he's not in a critical stage right now. It's not like he's on dialysis or anything. He's still way ahead of the game. But they're looking for something now. So, they can, you know. Yes. It's really, it really bothered me. I felt sad that, you know, he had to go. I didn't know Lee had any problem with kidney. But I know I was around Lee and we talked a lot. He's a wonderful human being. He's a great, you know, besides being one of the greatest to do it. Yeah. Great human being too. And when I found that out and, you know, like, you know how people out there right away, they're running their mouths and start accusing. Oh, he's doing this. He's doing that. It's because of the drugs. I know Lee Haney is not an abuser. I know that for a fact. And I know who are the abuser out there. So, you know, even if Lee used a little bit, it's going to be like triple side effect on him. The fact that this is something running in the family. So, you know, for him, like five milligrams for Lee Haney is like taking 50 milligrams, you know, on someone else. Yeah. He had a couple uncles who had the same condition and they weren't in the bodybuilding. So, I don't think it has anything to do with the steroids at all. And he was on Ron Harris' show like a week ago. Yeah. And he made a good point. I kind of forgot about this. But if you think about it, Lee, his whole bodybuilding career really lasted nine years. Yeah. It started in like 1982 and it ended in 1991. In 1982, he won the Nationals. And in 1991, he won his eighth Mr. Olympia. So, that's a short career. Yeah. And he never used steroids before that. You know, when he won the Teenage America in 1979, he was natural then. He was like 212 pounds as a teenager and he was natural. And he told me that after he retired in 91, he never went, he never touched his stuff. He's never gone on HRT. Yes. So, that's 35 years since he retired. Yes. I became friends with him in 82, you know. And then he competed for the Olympia in 1983. He would become more friends. Yeah. You know. And I remember Lee telling me some of the things he does. And I know for a fact he was not one of those guys that don't use that. He uses his head and he's smart and he's great. Yeah. You can tell by when he even like retired. Like the fact that retiring in his low 30s and things of that nature. Yeah. It's very smart to the game ahead of time. Ahead of a lot of us really kind of to catch up with that. Yeah. And it's a very Jordan-esque career when you think about it. If you look at how many times Jordan went to the, you know, the championships. As far as rings. I mean, he's unstoppable. Like he's, you know, 8 for 8 for Lee Haney. And, you know, what, 7 rings for Jordan. So, it's a very, you know, GOAT-esque career. And he's not brought up. Yeah. The only one who's done the same was Ronnie. But Ronnie lost to Mr. Olympia. Lee never lost. After he won, he retired a champion. I mean, no one does that, man. No one goes out on top. And keep in mind that Lee Haney, he didn't compete every show, every show. It, like, took, like, a major time off. Yeah. And he was cautious about his health and well-being, you know. Yeah. But when something like that exists in your family, in your genetics, there's not much you can do about it, you know. Yeah. And so, you know, thank God that he's, you know, doing okay, like what you said now. And you know what? He deserves whatever good things that we could do for him. You know, the first time I saw the ad, I actually posted it in my story. And I want to continue to do that. You know, he deserves the best. I really wish Lee Haney the very best from the bottom of my heart. He's a great human being, great champion. Well, like you said, he's not just a great champion. He's just a great person. I mean, I think of all the bodybuilders, all the people in the bodybuilding world that I've met, Lee's the best. He's just, he's such a great person. In 83, Lee and Shirley. Yeah. In 83, John, I remember Lee Haney came into my house in Marina del Rey with Shirley. Yeah. We were listening to posing music, you know. Yeah. And I told him, John, hey, Lee, this is some of my posing music. He said, well, Samir, I like this music. I said, Lee, it's yours. I gave him my own posing music. I just love the guy. We went out to a Bani Hana of Tokyo. We ate and hang out. I tell you what, there is no nicer human being in bodybuilding more than Lee Haney. I've known them all. Yeah. I know the good, the bad, and the ugly. But Lee Haney is perfect. Yeah. Perfect. He's a 10. Yeah. Very kind, beautiful human being. People will sit there and try to, like, you know, change up the story and make it about and try to blaspheme and put it down and blame this and that to where, like, he's kind of been like a, I think the other day he posted something about his shoulder health. Like, he had an x-ray of his shoulder. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, you know, the doctor's like, yeah, this is not the shoulder of somebody who was, you know, lifting for 10 plus years. Mr. Olympia, eight years. It's not that. So he's clearly somebody who's taking care of himself, did the right things, took the right chances and not took, you know, didn't take the risky chances. So he should be put on a pedestal and, you know, he is a pillar in the sport. Yeah. He's 66 now. And, you know, I do seminars with him a lot in Boston. No, he is. I thought he was 65, John. Well, he was born in 59. So. He's November, like me. He's a scorpion. Yeah. Yeah. So he's 66 now. He's 66. He turned 66. Okay. Yeah. I thought he was 65. But anyway. Yeah. He's in great health, though. I mean, we did these seminars out in Boston and he'll, he'll like get on the floor and start stretching, you know, like he's just like, he's totally functional, you know? I mean, he's like you said, Marcus, no joint issues. No, never had any injuries. I mean, it's amazing. He tells people don't annihilate, train hard. Yeah. He's one of those guys that actually don't go berserk when he train hard, but he tells you, you know, listen to your body. You have that kind of mentality, too. Yeah. Which has helped him. I mean, come on. You win in Olympia a time in a row. That's like unbelievable achievement. Yeah. One time we did, we did the seminar out in Boston and they had a power lifter out there, too. And the power lifter was instructing all these people on how to do deadlifts. And me and Lee were just standing there watching them. And I said, how much were you deadlifting, Lee? And he goes, I never did them. Here's the guy who had the best back in bodybuilding. He blew everybody away from the back. That was like his trump card. And he never did deadlifts. Well, you know, John, when I saw Lee Haney backstage at the Mr. Olympia, the first time I seen him without his shirt, I'm competing against him. And I'm like, holy crap. I'm where did this guy come from? You know, it looked really great. And then, you know, you got Berto Fox, that Olympia 83 that I was in, there were so many badass bodybuilders, man. Yeah, that was a great Olympia. Well, you got Lee Haney, you got Berto Fox, you got Frank Zane, and lots of lots of beautiful that show was great. But I was very impressed that Lee Haney right off the bat, right there, make this winner circle. Yeah, that was amazing. It's not that common that you see a guy jump into the Olympia and be in the top three. Right, right. Yeah. And then from there on, he went on and took it year after year after year. He's consistent. Yeah. Great champion. Stimulate, don't annihilate. That's what it was. Stimulate. Yeah. One of my favorite stories, I forgot who told this, but it might have been Vince Taylor. He said when Lee did the 91 Olympia. So that was the year that he was going to break Arnold's record. And he had left Weider and he signed with Twin Lab. And they gave him like a big like three year, I think it was a million dollar contract or something. So and then Dorian was coming up. Dorian was coming up strong and everybody's talking about Dorian. You got to see this guy, Dorian, you know. And everybody was like, man, Lee might lose because he switched from Weider to Muscular Development, a Twin Lab. And, you know, so the rumor was that they might take the title away from Lee. Plus, it was going to be his eighth Olympia where he was going to beat Arnold's record. So they said it was in Orlando, you know, and they're in the big pump up room. They had a big pump up room and everybody's getting pumped up. And Lee's just standing there with his clothes on, you know, his warm up. He's talking to some people and everybody's getting pumped up. And, you know, Dorian's getting pumped up. And then the guy comes back and he goes, all right, guys, oil up. He goes, we're going to be going out in like five minutes. And Lee just took his shirt off. Like he turned around, took his shirt off. And the whole, all the competitors looked at him and they go, holy shit. It was like his back was so big. Even Dorian goes like, oh, my God. Yeah. I think so. What year was that? 89? Or 91. Or 91. And I recall I was there. You were there? Okay. I was there and I think that was an early Dorian ace and he like stood next to Lee. Actually, he destroyed Dorian that year. Yeah. Yeah. I know that so many people say, you know, that was early stages for Dorian. Dorian improved a lot since. A lot. But, I mean, you can't mess with Lee Haney. When Lee Haney is on, man, he's so wild. You know, Lee Haney's got shoulder to waist ratio. It's amazing. Waist was so small. Incredible shot. This is what he have that actually stood. With Dorian. His chest is so overwhelming. His shoulder width. Yeah. And Dorian at that one show was in good shape, but he was somewhat on the flat side. He was not the best Dorian. And, you know, Lee Haney really kicked butt at that show. At that show. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I'm talking about. Look at how massive is Lee Haney. Look at that rib cage. Shoulder to waist ratio is amazing. Yeah. It's a great stat. You know. How do you all feel about the comparisons to, like, modern day, like Samson? You know what I mean? Like, do you guys agree with that? Like, is this a good comparison to you all? Well, let's put it this way. Lee Haney didn't do anything like what was being done today as far as drug use. Okay? Yeah. Of course. Yeah. I mean, Lee Haney did not go insane with drug use. Let's put it this way. And I'm defending Lee because I know him. He was not an abuser. He just got a great genetic as far as he grew really quick. And he was so focused. He's a scorpion. Come on. He's focused 100%. And, yeah, he kept coming year after year. And he was improving. And honestly, you know, like, so many guys could not shake him. You know, you got guys like John Lane, Lee LaBrada, everybody were chasing him. And it was like, no way, Jose. That's it. That's like, he was like a major gate in a way. Like, he cannot pass that big gate. No. I mean, he was like incredible. Yeah. And so, yeah. Let's hope and pray for him anyway. Yeah. May God speed up his recovery and find the right people to contribute. Yeah. You know, everybody should help Lee Haney out there. God willing, he'll be fine. Yeah. What's next, John? I heard Nick Walker, he's not going to compete for the entire year. Is that true? Yeah, I heard that, too. I don't know if he came out and said that. But people were wondering why he didn't do the Detroit show, because that would have been an easy win for him. And he would have qualified. You know, he got his qualification for the Olympia. He skipped that. I think that was the week after the Arnold. And then he didn't do the Arnold UK. So, yeah, I heard. Yeah. On another podcast, you know, I mean, it makes sense. I mean, he won $250,000 for second place. So, he got money this year. I mean, he did good this year already, even if he takes the year off. And he did do the Olympia. And he did, you know, he had a busy schedule last year. He did the Pittsburgh. He did the New York. And then he did the Olympia. And now he's, you know, then he did the Arnold. So, that's one show after another. So, yeah, I mean, it would make sense. Well, it's true. It is true that he's going to take. In my opinion, I think that's a very smart move. And I really applaud him because you always have to think about your health, not about the check. Yeah. With some of those guys that thinking, oh, half a million, 750,000, you know, sometimes they're not very cautious about the severe consequences that are going to come their way. So, Nick Walker is intelligent. In fact, he's doing what he did now. It's wonderful. I think he's going to come back even better. So, that's a good move. Very good move. Yeah. I think even another topic would be, like, the mental part of it, too. Not even just one from a physical standpoint and, you know, what they're doing to their body. I don't think it's mental. Mentally, he's very on. No, no, no. He's on. I'm saying, well, to me, it's a mental thing to do this. So, this takes mental virtue to sit there and not listen to all the people out there, the naysayers, the people are going to talk, oh, another Olympia. Like, to be able to silence all that bullshit out, it's very good. It shows, like, mental strength. But in my opinion, Marcus, of course, mental things. But I think he's the driven and he's capable of competing. But, no, in bodybuilding, it's very, very important to take this time off because your receptor, as we all know, we don't have to hide. You know, when we use, when we compete at a high level, we use some anabolic, yes. And so, by taking that long break, it's actually going to, you know, help your body, you know, because the receptor in the body won't work if you continue to compete. You know, the body literally shut down. So, the taking that five, six months, seven months, it's very intelligent. And this is what Doria Nays was doing. He was competing once a year. Yeah. Right? He come back and boom, he looks better than ever. But if you continue to do it every three, four months, it's not smart at all. So, that's very good for Nick Walker. I'm happy that he's doing that. Yeah. And if he does the Olympia, he's going to have to do another show to win and qualify. He's got to win that show and then he's got to do the Olympia. I mean, it just makes sense to just take off now and then just do the Arnold again next year. You know, and they're going to probably raise the prize money even more. I mean, he has $250,000 for a second. Even if he doesn't win the Arnold next year, if he gets another quarter of a million dollars, that's a good payday, you know? Yeah. Especially just for one show. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's a situation to where, like, I'm not against that. I feel like when people sit there and talk so much, right, because we're in, like, this social media age, people are going to talk mess, talk mess. And I don't – I think it strays so far away from the actual person, the individual themselves. And I feel like he's always been really good on, like, being that person, knowing what's best for him, leaving Vegas, going back to, you know, Jersey area, being with the family and doing that. So I really do think it goes to show that he's kind of moving at, like, you know, his own drum, which is awesome. You know, I think if more bodybuilders did this, it would be probably better, one, for their health, rather than mental health, but two, for, like, their actual physical health. Kind of like what Samir was saying, you know, what they're taking, the antibiotics that they are taking, is going to work a lot better if they actually give themselves a break. It's why you see people, you know, in the offseason take three or four months, and some of them don't touch a weight crazy enough, but some of them will stay off and stay clear of anything that's, you know, obviously anabolics, which is, in turn, doing them justice. And it's going to be probably even better once they get back on. So it's intelligence. Well, if you do the Arnold and then you do the Olympia six months later, it's hard to peak again, you know? It's very hard. Yeah, yeah. You guys can do that. That's another thing. And then that strain on the body, too. You know, granted, this is kind of a cool little segue, I guess. But, like, so how often do you think? So, like, what do you think the scope is for how often somebody should sit there and, you know, do a show and peak throughout a season? So, for instance, someone like Blessing, who's, you know, he's already saying he's going to do four more shows. So, like, what is y'all's take on that as far as is that intelligent if you're trying to find the right, you know, peak protocol? Not good. Not good. Not good at all. Not good at all. You know, if you're doing it naturally, like, for example, you know, you heard this weekend, Joe, you know, I say I keep always messing up Joe Biena, you know, Arnold's son. He just won a show in, what do you call it, in what city again? In Riverside, California. Yeah. And he won the show the week before. And, you know, Joe is in early stages. He did it naturally. So, when someone competes naturally, if you can do it ten times a year, you're okay. Yeah. Yeah. Okay? It's a different ballgame. But for what's-his-name Blessing, doing all the show, and you know he's massive, and you know he's muscular. We know he looks great. Yeah. But doing that is like really shooting yourself in the foot. Because you're going to text your body. You're going to text your liver and kidney. And this is a very important point if these guys don't pay attention to that. This is why it's very important to have blood work to see where's your body at. But even with that, even with that, your body cannot tell you if your receptor is saturated and things like that. Attempting to do it on and on and on is only going to make the situation worse, not better. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there are way around it, but it would be still texting the body. It's not good. Yeah. Especially in today's modern bodybuilding. Well, you know, some people will compete in a different show. They say they're taking this medication for this show, so they'll take this other medication for the other show, so this medication will work. And then for the third show, they'll take a different medication. But you know what? They're not paying attention to the liver and kidneys, the pressure you put on your organ. And this is what's going to really hurt them in the long run, completely hurt them. And it's not intelligent at all doing that just to chase a few hundred thousand dollars. It's not worth it. And a lot of these guys, they're just trying to get that Olympia qualification. And then they're justifying the money like, oh, well, they're giving 600,000 or 700,000, whatever the first prize is. But that's first prize. A lot of these guys, they're going to be lucky to make top 10. Only the top three make the big chunk. Yeah. Yeah. Everybody else, it drops significantly. Yeah. But I mean, listen, I will tell you, Marcus, you're going to compete. You'll make $300,000. You'll make your first attempt. Yeah, you don't do it. And then the second attempt, you won't get it done. So, yeah, we'll try. The more try and the more try and the more toxicity expose your body to danger over and over and over. Until we know how so many people are having all kind of problem. It's lots of problem. I mean, you know, we have kidney failure. We have liver problems. Lots and lots of things. You can talk about them all. But so, yeah, I'm against competing more than maybe twice a year. At the most, three times a year. But you have to understand how it's done. Yeah. And we have to make sure the engine is okay. So, you'd say, like, that's a good sweet spot. Like, maybe, like, two or three times a year is enough. At the most. What do you think, John? Yeah. And especially if, like, two of them are close together, you know, like a week or two apart. Then you're not. But when you, you know, when you do a show and then, like, two more months later or three months later. Like Samir said, you got to keep using that stuff and cycling on. And, you know, you never give your body a break. And then your body, like, like Samir just said, too, with the receptors, your body won't even respond anymore. Even if you are on the stuff. Even if you increase it. Yeah. And then they increase. Exactly. Then the flip side is they increase it. And they try to do even more. Because the body stops responding. Yeah. Hey, start to take three, what do you say, ibuprofen, four or five days in a row. And then, believe me, on the six days, it's not going to work the same. Yeah. Take ibuprofen for one month. Even 600 milligram ibuprofen won't do you crap. Then you have to take Tylenol or acetomonafin, for example. Yeah. So you have to choose, use something to stop that pain, but you have to use a different receptor. And the thing is, I'm just talking about, I don't recommend either ibuprofen or acetomonafin. Right, John? So the thing is, yeah, you know, you've got to be smart. If you want to have a long life, you're going to make it past 60 and 70. You've got to pay attention. If you want to look like John Hanson, competing at 60, that's what you do. You think John is competing and winning competition because he abused his body? Hell no, because he's smart. You know, what he's doing, he is doing the anti-aging by avoiding the stupidity. And that's what I call him. He's a smart guy in the long run. Look, I mean, how many people out there you see at over 60 looking as good as John? You don't see that every day, right? We see it once in a while. But this is the abuse. This is what we always need to talk about, and people should really listen. I'm telling you, we in the past talked about some guys who are no longer with us. Why? Not just because they abused. They did a lot of crazy things. Sometimes it's not the best to talk about every little detail, but you abuse your body. You compete too many times. You take too much drugs without paying attention to your internal organ. You're stupid. You're stupid. Yeah. You're stupid. Yeah. You know, again, we talk about the old time. I mean, look at Arnold is still with us. Frank Zane is still with us. Right? Yeah. Why? And everybody's, oh, Arnold is Arnold because, you know. Money or whatever. No, Arnold didn't abuse. Most people think Arnold took a lot of shit. But Arnold took some of the things, but not abuse it. No. So did Frank Zane. So did Bill Pearl who lived to 92 and he died by an accident at home in his backyard. Yeah. By slipping the truck over him. So you could do things with, you know, using this right here and you could go a long way. You could make it to 100 actually. Right? It's smart to know to come to the realization that health doesn't buy wealth. You know what I mean? You have to do it strategically. And I do think that Nick, what Nick is doing is strategic. I think it's kind of playing the line. You know what I mean? I'm glad he found that out when he's young. I'm glad he found that out. Because, you know, you got to change the oil. You got to do the tune up, man. You got to do all this. Your body needs to be treated nicely because you keep texting and texting and texting. And all of a sudden, whoop, I'm in the hole. And that's it. It's too late sometimes. Yeah. Especially when you're holding out the shows he did last year. Going into this year. I mean, that's a lot of shows. That's a lot of peaking, you know? So your body needs to break. And look at John. I mean, we're talking about John. And John is like 61, almost 62 or 61. 63. Oh, 63. You're going to thank me. You don't look at John. But the thing is, this is what you get when you pay attention and be careful. Don't abuse. And John didn't use anyway. But that's why you still look. Look at his hair. So good. Looking good. And all the girls looking for him. No, I shouldn't say that. Well, Stephanie is going to kick my butt now. But, yeah, I'm just saying. Staying young and do what's needed to be done. Yeah. That's anti-aging, bro. You know? I think there's going to be said for Joe in the sense of, like, if you're using a lot of stuff when you're younger, there's a lot of guys that, you know, in the 80s and stuff, they were doing a lot of stuff. And they can't even train like this anymore because their shoulders are shot. Their hips are shot. I'm going to put a change in my head. You know? So. I feel like it's too dark. You do all that stuff when you're younger than you can. It's okay. You can see my hair. Beautiful. Okay. Sorry, guys. Yeah. Now, to me, that's why I want to get someone like Joe Benia, like Arnold's son, so much credit for not hopping on anything and staying natural because, like, I'm not going to lie. If I'm Arnold's son, I'm chasing it. I'm going to dumb lengths probably. So I give him so much credit. I see Joe at the gym. He's working hard. And one time I said, Joe, when you're going to get on the sauce, you're going to be incredible. You know what he told me? He said, no, no, Samir, I'm not going to get on the sauce. And I'm like, wow, I'm very proud of you. Yeah. So he already had it. He wants to win with hard work, with proper eating. And come on. And I'm sure his dad told him, hey, hey, listen, I did this, and it wasn't 100% correct, so I want you to be cautious. And so that's why Joe, he's doing so well. He's a very hardworking guy, disciplined, and the whole nine yards. And that's why he's winning competition already. And he looked really good. You know, he does some of his dad poses. Oh, my God. He's got a nice diamond calves, good size, beautiful balance. I'm not just saying because, oh, he's Arnold. So, no, no. I'm talking about Joe, who's a really nice gentleman. When I saw him in the gym, he's a really cool, nice, very nice gentleman. And his potential is Joe right now. I would say about 25 at the, I think, 24, 25. Okay. He's really young then. Yeah. Yeah. He's still young. Don't quote me 100% for it. But I think he's around 25 right now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's around 97. So, he's 28. Oh, he is? Okay. Yeah. He's 28. Yeah. I mean, credit for even staying natural at that age. I feel like that's kind of, you know, at that point, most people who are in this sport hop on. He's hitting his dad poses, you know? Yeah. I mean, look at that. And good legs for a natural, too, I will say. You know, he reminds me of me, John. You know? You know, when I started, I was just enthusiastic about the game. And I wanted to get on stage. You could see that Joe is happy to be up there. Joe is happy to be there. And he's really posing with confidence. And his transition is not bad. Look at that. Actually, very good. Look at that. Okay. He stole that from his father. Yeah. He's hitting all of Arnold's poses. Yeah. That's his dad. Something should be said about that because the pressure. You know, you look at the Hunter Labrada's out there. You know, Joe. It's probably a lot of pressure on them, especially when it comes to posing and things like that. Because, you know, look who your fathers are. You know, Lee Labrada, arguably one of the best posers. But let me be honest. Let me be honest with you. If Joe really take it, you know, the way I did it, the way his dad do it, he's going to be bad. Much, much, much more impressive. Yeah. I mean, that's his first two shows. And, you know, John will tell you, he looks incredible for being clean. Right, John? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Very, very impressive. I gave him credit for getting up on stage and doing it. That's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. I know Joe said, Samir, I want to do a back workout. I said, Joe, I'm ready whenever. He said, well, just let me know whenever you're going to come down to gold. And he's doing some. I saw some pictures. Look at his last spread. His double bicep from the back looks really good. Yeah. Good vacuum. Look at that. Look at the trapezius in his back and the delft. The separation. I'm not just saying that. He looks great. Yeah. And this is a proof that you could develop a pretty damn good body without taking the shit. You know? I mean, look, I did the first seven years naturally myself. Okay? And who knew that I would probably go all the way to an Olympia. Yeah. So let's see how far Joe is planning on doing this. And let's see what's next. But my opinion that he could go a long way, he can. He's got a great potential. When you did that universe in 74, weren't you like 17 then? Me? No. I was 18 years old. Just barely. It was 18. I'm still teenager. Yeah. So I came in seven. If you compare my photo to Joe, I mean, I was pretty damn good too. So, you know, that's, he kind of reminded me of me a little bit. I wasn't big, but I had beautiful balance. The symmetry. And I posed properly. You know, I sold the poses from Frank Zane and Arnold. And so, yeah. So. Yeah, that's good that you were in the Mr. Universe as a teenager. That's crazy. When I saw Joe at the gym, I expected that he had a good future. But I didn't see him for like almost a couple months. And all of a sudden, woo, he's really cut. So he had that planned. And I'm glad he did so good. And he won two shows. I mean, hey, I didn't win my first two shows. Right. Me neither. Yeah. No. I mean, that's very good. Now, some people go, oh, because it's Arnold's son. No, no, no, no. He deserves to win these two shows hands down. Yeah. You know? I will sell it like it is, you know? My first Mr. Universe, I was seven. But I was competing against Monster. I wasn't lucky like Joe. He was working with natural guys. Yeah. I mean, I have guys that I competed against who are like freaky. You remember Ahmed Unulu? Yeah. From Turkey. Bob Birdsong. He was also the best in the country. Yeah. Yeah. And you got those guys from France. Those guys were like huge. Yeah. And I believe little Samir going there. I would like weigh in about 175. But good thing, you know, Art Zeller told me, he said, Samir, when I saw you at Verona, I took a lot of pictures of you. So when I came to Southern California, I went to Artie's house, but rest in peace. He showed me all the pictures he took of me, you know? And so this is how you start young and you do it right. Right from the beginning, you do the right thing. Like some people go pose like an idiot. Joe didn't do that. Joe posed and he showed an overall physique, beautiful balance. And yeah. But in my case, I was just as good as Joe, but I had to compete against Monster. So I came in seven, you know. I think it's pretty cool that you were 175 starting out like on stage of the universe. And then you literally won Olympia around 196. I probably was lighter. Lighter? Yeah. I probably was lighter. I probably was like 165 in Verona. Yeah. But I was just, you know, I'm only like five, six and a half. But I had the pretty body. My waist is small. So I look bigger. I'll be honest with you. I don't know what, how much, how did, how much did Joe weigh? But to me, just looking at the overall body, especially when he cut, you know, when he started getting lean, you can see separation, striation on his body. Yeah. His future is fantastic. Yeah. Yeah. It's fantastic. I don't know what his plans are if he'll do any more shows, but I'm just glad he got up there and did it. That's cool. Yeah. It's really cool. I was supposed to go. Joe asked me to come to, uh, to, uh, the show in Riverside. Fortunately, I had a, an issue where I drove over something on the highway. I don't know. I don't know. Was it one? And there was something on the freeway. They actually closed the freeway that day. Five cars behind me all had the same issue. My tires were. And so what happened, my rim and my car was leaking. I changed the tire, but my rim was cracked a little bit. It was leaking. And I didn't realize it. It happened right before Joe asked me. So that one morning I got up, my tire completely flat. Wow. Samir, I know your kids, I know your kids, like they play basketball, but have they ever gotten, you know, obviously with you, you know, your pedigree, have they ever gotten into bodybuilding or like working out? Your children? Yeah. My son, Sergio train. He's like, hey, wait, about two 12 right now, but he's almost six, two and a half. Oh, he's a much taller. Athletic. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Jesse is very caught up in Jesse. Probably weigh about 185. At Sergio to 12 because Sergio is a lot taller. Yeah. They were training with me earlier, but you know, they're like so much into basketball. So they're a baller. And you know what? What's a good dad do? Let the son do what he liked to do. Yeah. And you know what? Honestly, I think my son, Jesse, could make it in the NBA without a doubt. I mean, I'm not right. He played on travel team a couple of weeks ago. I swear to God, he scored 50 and he assisted a lot. And he's not like a ball hog. So he's a good player all around. So, you know, but I would have liked Sergio to do bodybuilding because he's got the potential. He'd be like something like Joe. Joe, he's got the body, but he just wants to do basketball. What can I say? Yeah. It's good that you support that. That's nice as a father. That's good. Yeah, but they have a good body though overall. Yeah, genetically. Yeah, their dad's Mr. Olympia. You know what I'm saying? Well, why do you think Joe is good too? I think he's got a good father of genetics. That's 100%. Yeah. I'll tell you, it's incredible how, you know, genetics play a major role. And I mean, look, I know Lee Labrador very well. I know Hunter. Look at how good is Hunter. So genetically, he take over. So my son, Jesse, my son, Sergio. Jesse's got a nice body. But Sergio has the physique to go all the way, I swear. And Sergio is the youngest. Yeah. And he's only six foot two? He's six three. Almost six three. Six two and a half. He's taller than Arnold. And he's got everything. His calves are huge. He's balanced. But, you know, I can't say it. I can't force him to be a bodybuilder. He's just like basketball, you know. Yeah. Yeah. You start him young and they can go and be successful in anything they want. I mean, I know. I know I don't brag about it. But I'm trying right now to have Jesse to try out with the Laker or with the Clipper because he's that kind of material. I mean, he used to play against Cardi Pippen. And he used to leave Cardi Pippen's son in the dust. He was faster. Yeah. Jesse played like Westbrook. Like Westbrook. But he used this a little bit better than Westbrook. It's very explosive. Very explosive. But he's not a ball hog. He knows where the ball is going to go. You know, sometimes he's under the basket, but he passed the ball to his teammate. He's just, he's not arrogant. Like, oh, I'd score 50. No, no, he's not like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So. Real quick, I just want to know, where did the basketball, you know, Jones come from for him? Like, were you into basketball? You know, it's really weird when Jesse and Sergio, when Jesse was five years old, we took him to the YMCA in New York House. And he signed in and started going practicing with the kids. And I tell you what, I mean, Jesse became like mind boggling. He was the MVP in Los Angeles High School. He was, he's the best player in Granada Hill. He was just amazing. And so I'm not bragging because my son, but that's the truth. There's a lot of ballplayers, especially coming out of Cali. Cali in Florida, a lot of good ballplayers. Yeah. Well, let's hope he can make it. So now I'm talking to someone with the Lakers and a couple of NBA guys. So we're going to have Jesse try out. But, you know, the problem why Jesse didn't go right then, because of COVID. When they pulled the COVID and school clothes and all that, and we stayed at home for a couple of years, that messes things up for all of us. And for the kids, you know, but he's back on track now. Anyway, I'm sure John want to talk bodybuilding, enough basketball. Yeah. But anyway, so, yeah, another day. I'm here in Simi Valley with a friend of mine and just taking the weekend. We're going to, I'm doing a seminar this weekend in San Diego. Okay. So leaving to San Diego tomorrow. Okay. Who are you doing it with? Just me, myself, and I. Nice. I'll do it. What's the name of the gym? Anyway, so, yeah, we're doing that 1130 on Saturday. Let me see. I have the date here. Yeah. You know, there's a gym in, it's called the gym and alcohol. And since 1130. And actually, one of my friends of mine is also an IBB champion, MPC and IBB champion. Danny, you remember Danny, you know? Yeah. Yeah, I remember him. I met him. Yeah. Yeah. Danny arranged it. So Danny's going to be with me in that show. So, okay. A great guy. Great guy. Good buddy. Yeah. I honestly don't know, but I think he's connected with Danny. Oh, okay. Gotcha. Yeah. Yeah. I think the gym was actually, Danny was training at World Gym in that area in San Diego. Yeah. But I don't know where the gym, but Danny connected. What's that? Is Danny still competing? I think he's going to come back. He took a year off or so. Okay. Yeah. I haven't seen him in a while. He's got a nice body, but he needed to come in a little different, more prepared. You know, when you compete at this high level, come on. Yeah. But I think they weren't fair to Danny for a while. I think he could have done better. I think he was overlooked a couple of times, in my opinion. You know, he was working with George Farah, and he got in really, really good shape. And when I saw him in Vegas, I look at Danny. I was like, very impressed. When I found out that didn't make the top five, I was like, couldn't believe it. Yeah. Couldn't believe it. So. Yeah. He's got greats, dude. Yeah. I think at that time was, I think, what's his name? Winning. What's his name? I can't think of it. Breon? Who was it? Breon, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Compete against Breon. Yeah. How do you like my hat? I made it tight as I put a clip on it. Yeah. That's all that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So we got to make all school stand out better, but. So anyway, guys, so we're good for tonight, John. And. Yeah. Yeah. I got to eat after my heavy leg workout. Okay. We'll go load up and recuperate. Yeah. Good to see you, Marcus. Marcus, I hope you feel better, too. I appreciate it. They can't do what you want. They can't do what you want. They can't do what you want. They can't do what you want. Yes. Yes. I'm going to send you pictures of my special formulation here. I appreciate it. That echinacea and propolis and all the oregano. So. You'll be ready. You'll be up and running. Have you had a chance to read the book? Oh, I love it, man. I think the book. You know what, John? I've been through a lot. I really meant to show the book. I think the books are wonderful. I want to show them to my in my story shortly. Okay. Okay. Because I like them. I like them a lot. Very good choice of photos and good history and stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. I think necessary for the sport, too. Yes, absolutely. And I'm going to do that myself soon, John. Okay. Yeah. I'll do something like coffee table pictures of myself and some of the things. You know, I had a book called Mr. Olympia Muscle Mastery. It was actually forwarded by Arnold. So I think I'm going to re-publish it again and make some updating to it, etc. It's a new photo and stuff. Yeah, you should. Yeah. I want to take some advice from you on what company, what publishing stuff. I'll talk to you about it later. All right. Okay. All right, guys. Well, we'll call it a day and then probably be back next week and talk about some more topics, whatever's going on. Sounds good. Good seeing you guys, as always. Thank you, John. You guys, too. Thank you, Marcus. Get well, my friend. Let's go.