 and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency and consistency was a bug, John. Yeah, no. Always whenever I go to Vegas, John, I come back with something. Yeah, I think the most important thing is to do in Vegas too. Well, you know, when you meet a lot of people, I think, yeah, no hugging, no hugging. Tell them, hey, hey, I have COVID stay. But I was good anyway. Everything is good now. We're back on track. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well, I guess the big story this week is the Prague pro. And that was a big show last year when Martin Fitzwater beat Chris Bumstead. And then this year, it was going to be a big show because Martin was going back. And then Keon was making his debut in the open. So everybody was excited about that. And then after Samson got fourth place at the Olympia, he decided to do it also. So we had a lot of anticipation going into the show. So Martin ends up winning again. So two years in a row, Martin won. And let's talk about Martin first. I thought, I thought he looked even better here than he did at the Olympia where he was really peaked. What'd you think, Samar? Oh, no doubt about it. I mean, listen, Martin is a warrior, man. He is so passionate. And I kind of feel it. I feel it. He reminds me of myself as far as he loved this game. He's put in so much effort. He's always positive. He's a sweetheart. He's a great person. And enjoying it and having fun doing it. And so whatever he's doing with his coach, Stephen, his coach is Stephen, right? Stephen or Stephen? I think, yeah. Stephen, yeah. I saw Stephen Quicks as high. But Jean, let's be honest, it's not always about size. With all due respect to Samson, you know, everybody sees Samson as the biggest threat. We do too. But nowadays, when you have a symmetrical body, you're missing nothing. Like, for example, when you look at Martin, you look at that complete body. He's got calves, hamstrings, thighs. You know, Martin personally told me that one of the judges or two of the judges told him that he needed to improve his legs. Well, you and I saw him. His leg. Right by the elevator. When he hit his legs, I'm like, holy, man, his legs are freaking close up. I thought he was ready for the war. You know, and that was at the Olympia. And I'm sure he in Prague, he did improve. Look at the legs. Come on. Yeah. So I'm really happy for him. He is a wonderful warrior. He's, you know, he have, you know, that when he pose, you have a full control of his muscle. Okay. You can see the confidence. He does it with authority. Okay. You can tell when someone does it with authority. And he's always smiling, not showing a strain and shit like that. Yeah. You know, so I'm really happy. And I wish him the absolute best congratulation for big Martin. And let me just talk about quickly. And well, let me hear your opinion about how did you see it. I mean, we hang it out with Martin a little bit. How do you think he looks there, John? I thought he looked great at the Olympia. I thought maybe even look better here. Did you talk to Martin after the show? Like did he, like, what did he do? Did he get harder? Did he get fuller? What did he do? He's actually got harder and we actually lose a couple pounds or did he just fill out or what did he do? I did not discuss that, but I know he was like in the 2000, 230, a little bit over. And he got harder. I think he filled up better. Plus he came in a little bit drier and Prague. Yeah. I think he looked better in Prague than the Olympia. And I thought he looked great at the Olympia. For sure. Well, honestly, not because we're friends. I thought that he would have been more close, like four place guaranteed at the Olympia. That's my honest opinion here. Yeah, some people were saying that. Yeah. Yeah. And so again, every podcast with John, we always put like Derek as a front runner, but we're not biased. We know we like Derek, we like Hadi, we like them all, but we're going to judge accordingly. We're going to be honest about everything here. We always said when Samson is 100 percent, onions can shred it, it's shredded. Oh my God, Lord have mercy. I think Samson, he tried very, very hard in his lovely wife. She's really supportive. He looked good, but I still felt like he could have been a bit more, a bit better. I mean, he actually looked a lot better in Prague than he did at the Olympia. Oh yeah. Yeah. A lot better. He did a lot better. And you know, he's a good poser too, and he handled himself very good on stage. But then again, Martin, it seemed to me like he had another 10 percent improvement. So his quality was better. He was more gnarly and more like his muscle looked like laser, like a glass. And so therefore he won it deservingly. So with Samson, we were talking about him after the Olympia, and I said that maybe he lost muscle. I think you were saying that he just was flat. So based on how he looked here in Prague, what do you think it was? Do you think he lost muscle when he was prepping for the Olympia? Or was he just, did he just overdo it and he came in flat? Because he was much bigger here. Well, yeah, he's filled up properly and he looked really good in Prague. I bet you if he had showed up just like that, if he showed up just like that at the Olympia, he probably would have been more like it since he was the defending champion. He's massive. He's got beautiful symmetry. Yeah. But I think right now, because he lost that show in Vegas, you know, by placing, he came in what, fourth place, right? Yeah. I mean, that's a shocker. Being missed to Olympia. Yeah. And why, I mean, let's be honest, it's not lack of effort. And I said, you know, sometimes we exchange messages, me and Samson, sometimes you can miscalculate. And you know, bodybuilding is about trial and error. And I'm sure him and his wife are going to get back to the drawing board and going to be better. Because yeah, he was more separated, striated in Prague. He looked better. Yeah. In Prague. So yeah, he looked like, yeah, had you looked like that at the Olympia, probably would have won again. Yeah. But what happened, what's different was, is Martin vastly improved between these two show. I don't know. You agree? Yeah. I mean, it seemed like, you know, Samson, what was it like two weeks? He had two weeks between this and Prague. So we obviously filled out a lot. But I think when you fill out like that, you're not going to be extremely dry and hard. And Martin was, I think Martin was already ready in Vegas. So all he had to do was just, you know, he had two weeks to go. He just had to refine that. So he probably, it looked like he came in just a little harder, a little fuller. He just refined his, his, a Vegas package, his Olympia package, where Samson had to kind of try and redo his whole physique in two weeks. And that's hard to do. I mean, I remember I did that once in a contest. I was flat and I had a show like two weeks later. I tried to fill out and I looked a lot better in the second show. And even though I was fuller, I just wasn't quite crisp enough, you know, to win. And so it's, it's hard. You know, you only got, you only got two weeks. It's, it's hard to really get it all together, you know. But you know, John, I've seen it in my lifetime. I've been in every show. I mean, it happened to the best of us. I mean, whatever happened to Samson, it's not like, oh, yeah, it's the end of the world. No, no, he's going to come back. It's going to look better than ever again. Look, look, I know when Lou Frigno competed in Helsinki, okay? One month before that show, I was looking at Louie with Art Zell, or we looked at him. He was like, almost three 20. And I swear he was beyond shredded. That's what Chris Isidro said. What do you think? Let's be honest. I think Lou can watch. Lou can watch this and tell me if I'm wrong. Lou was three 20 shredded. What he was doing, he was getting up in the morning doing like one hour treadmill, one hour, sir, master. And it was Lou's first time ever to use GH. Yeah, which is like we all did, you know, and I'm like, I did later or so. But anyhow, what happened? Louie, he flattened out. I saw him a three 20 shredded John. Yeah. Shredded. I swear God's strike me dead if I'm bullshitting you here. And when he went one month later in Helsinki, I couldn't believe he was the same guy. He went down to 285. Yeah, I was going to ask you what he was doing. I think it was 280 something. And he was flat as a pancake. So he lost 45 pounds of muscle. Man. So, so listen to this. Later, he told me exactly what happened by doing treadmill stand master. You know, that's lose lose own word. He's not a bullshit. Lou is he'll tell you. Now, here's what happened. 10 days later after Helsinki, I saw Louie again about two 12. No, I mean, three 12 or three 15 somewhere on that. He was scary shredded again. He was huge, even better than it was a tree 20. Yeah, it was like lots of muscle too. But the body somehow you regain that was I mean, two weeks, you it's like muscle memory or whatever it is was additional reserve. So I saw him at 300 closer to 210. Same thing happened to Samson. I think Samson did lose a little bit of muscle, but not a lot of it. There's a flat as a pancake. He was. Yeah. I mean, he'll talk to him and he'll tell you he was flat. It's not like he was used in Tyrewood where he lost all his muscles. He wasn't. So what do you think Sam should do now just take the rest of the year off, obviously, and just go for the Olympia? Yeah, absolutely. I think he's going to do the Arnold with that big, big, big, big painting. Well, you know, the money is always tempting, but you know, the only thing John between us and when we talk about the sport, we talk in a in a loyal and a sincere way. Sometimes when you do so many show in a row, and you know, most of us do use gear. So your receptor are so saturated. Yeah, the medication is not going to work is good. Yeah. Unless you're going to switch and change everything to something else. And I am and all honestly, I think it's probably better to sit that one out and let his body here recover. He's doing good. He's doing fine. Yeah. That's okay. It's no big deal. He's young and he's going to come back and win that title again. Yeah, because that's what he did last year. He went in the Arnold, got second and then went to the Olympia and got fourth. It's hard. It's hard to peak twice like that, especially like they say the real big guys like Samson, Andrew, you know, those guys have a hard time picking twice. Well, yeah, it takes a little bit of mastery. But you know, you would think sometime I'm still there. I'm filled with a striking distance, which is, yeah, you figure, oh, you know, I'll take a little of this, a little bit of that, I should go on. I think it's better not to over tax the body. Yeah. Because you know, when you say I'm not, you know, enhancement method, taking this over and over, it's probably not, it's not as healthy. Yeah. I mean, look at Samson, since he turned pro, he competes all the time. You know, he competes several times a year for every year, you know. Yeah, I know. But his body, maybe he doesn't abuse that stuff at all. You know, some of those who abuse the stuff, it becomes very dangerous. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. But the body won't work if you keep continuing to use the same thing over and over. Right. Well, let's talk about Keon. Keon was doing his first open show and, you know, everybody's talking about Keon Peterson, Pearson, not Pearson. He just won his third 2-12 Olympia and everybody thought he was going to dominate that. And actually, it was a really close call this year between him and Sean Clarita. So he goes into Prague and he only took fourth. So he didn't like kill everybody like a lot of people thought he was going to do. I'm surprised because I really love his physique and I felt like between him and Martin because I know they used to be trainer partner. And then, you know, even Martin told me, well, you know, he knew that he was, you know, that Keon was about 2-12. I think maybe he might have gone up a little bit more. But he had a little bit, I don't know, I felt like this is going to be between them too. And then before you know it, Quizzle came to the picture and Quizzle came in what third? Yeah, Quizzle beat out Pia. I'm surprised because Keon's body is beautiful, is symmetrical. Look at his V shape, the arm. He's put together perfectly. I don't know. I wasn't there to see it clearly. But I've seen him a little bit harder. Maybe he wasn't as etched as he was at like, you know, I'm looking at this, he looked great. But, you know, sometimes the judges can see more detail and hardness and separation. Yeah, I don't know. I can't fault his body. I love his body. I think Derek, I mean, Mark Keon has a beautiful, beautiful overall body that flows great. Do you think it's just his overall, his overall size because he's shorter and not as big as, you know, Samson or Crissel? I think he's big as hell for his height. I mean, yeah, he doesn't need to be 240 to win that. I mean, when you shred it, man, come on, I always compare people to myself at 196. I'd be so many big giant killers like, you know, Haney was 245 the year I won. Bertha Fox was close to 220 at the time. 220 was a lot of muscle at the time for us, you know. Yeah. And Haney was almost 246 in the 82 Olympia. And so I feel like when you look, okay, Martin proved it. Martin proved it. I mean, Martin is probably about almost, what, 50 pounds lighter than Samson? What did Martin weight? It's like 230? Yeah. Martin probably about 232, 234. And that's what he told me. And Samson was like 300? Samson closer to 300. But then again, the degree of quality, John, sometimes it's not clearly visible in the photo when you are there. It's a different ball game. Yeah, absolutely. It's always different when you're there. Yeah. When you're there, sometimes they blame it on the judges because the pictures show A and B, whatever. But the judges, they're doing their job and sometimes the degree of, you know, that little bit of additional detail, they see it a little bit more clearer than the average Joe who's sitting at home watching it, you know, from photograph and stuff like that. But yeah. Anyway, I like Keon's posing that we were just watching his posing. He's a really good poser. The only thing I would suggest is just slow it down a little bit. It looks like he was going from pose to pose. But I like how he does those lunging poses, the kneeling poses. I mean, we need guys who do better posing like that. So he's a really good poser. Yeah. Actually, all three. I mean, Samson is a good poser. Yeah. I think Quizzo needed help with that. And I really didn't even talk about Quizzo, who's actually won the British competition two weeks before that. Yeah. I think the week before. Yeah. I think Quizzo's issue, John, this time, I was, it was clearly visible that his torso is a little bit long. We have to make some changes to his posing. Okay. Yeah. And what really hurt him is his middle, his midsection was wide. Okay. Yeah. And I mean, quality wise, impressive as hell. Otherwise, it wouldn't beat Keon. Yeah. So there has to be a reason why he's ahead of Keon. And I mean, Keon is more symmetrical and actually prettier body to look at. So what could he do with that? He's got that long torso. What could he do? Just do different poses to try to disguise? Yes. Yeah. Yes. Thank you. You said it. That was the answer. You gotta find the way to tweak some of your poses and not show straight direct. I mean, if you look, we can see all the detail everywhere. Glute is shredded, hamstring is cut. Yeah. Everything looks great. Yeah. But you see the oblique sticking out on the side and actually creating more void in the torso is a little bit long. Yeah. Oh, yeah. He's got the best long torso. And John, nobody's going to beat him in the arm department and look at his, his glute is striated. Yeah. Chest is great. In some poses, you can't beat the guy. But when he's 10, look at this. See his weight. Look at his waist right there. Yeah. His waist does look wide. Yeah. Well, yeah. I think that is what affected him. And otherwise, his quality, no disrespect to Samson. His quality is better than Samson. Yeah. I'm not joking. I mean, he is Samson have better body, prettier body. He had more detail and more, his condition is just sometimes the way God makes you. You cannot, you cannot do too much about it unless you could outsmart every one bite. Like you said, try to tweak the posing and not to show some of those weaknesses. Yeah. It seems like just from that clip we saw, he kind of relaxes a little bit too much, you know, when he's standing there and then it makes his waist look even wider. This is the thing. If you know how to stretch his body and make his waist look smaller or tweak a little bit, but sometimes they don't know how to do it and it looks, you see, look at the middle. Yeah. It's slightly wide. But what else is wrong? Nothing. Everything else is perfect. Well, you know, I remember, you know, Nick Walker a couple of years ago, when he won the Arno Plastic, he had the same kind of thing. He had short legs, long torso, and he would crunch down on his abs and he had really good ab development and he looked great. It made his body look great. Because I remember when he first turned pro, he was trying to, you know, trying to do the vacuum and stretching out his torso and it just didn't look as good. So when he changed the way he posed and crunched down on his abs, it made his body look a lot better. You didn't notice the longer torso, shorter legs thing as much as, you know, when he was crunching down the abs, you know, believe it or not. I don't think Nick has a problem with the wide waist, except he have a problem with some kind of inflammatory issue that I would say it's visceral fat that affect in him a little bit. And I think is that can, could that be fixed in all honesty? Yes, it can. But you have to be very, very kind of say work with precision to demolish those visceral fat in there. And there's a way to do it. Okay. How do you do that? Well, I guess you have to avoid certain things in the beginning. I think, you know, Nick, I don't know, I haven't really talked to him detail, but I think he felt like he eats high amount of food. And I don't think it's the food. I don't think it's the carb. I think it's something else. Okay. And I know there's a reason why because I know people remember, for example, you know, Gary Stridham, right? And Edward Cowock. Nobody can eat as much as Edward Cowock or Gary Stridham. Nobody can eat more than them. And neither one have a problem with the tummy. But certain people have different genetic or different response to some of the, you know, I mean, if let's say most bodybuilder not using GH, but I think there should be a boundary of how much GH you should use. Anytime you use more than four IU, they think it will become like using insulin basically. Once you, you know, I know other people, I'm not going to name them that they use more than 10 IU and then they did have similar issue. Now I know back then Gary Stridham, he wasn't using more than three to four IU. Okay. Okay. And I know Edward Cowock, I don't know if he uses it later on, rest in peace. But, you know, Edward Cowock, he's a big eater. And I think he's no longer with us because he ate too much. And I think that actually end up clogging his artery because eating excessive food is kind of like, you know, did it, I believe, eating too much and let your body store fat. And, you know, if the artery clogged and your red blood cell count goes way up, I mean, that's deadly. So I don't know the detail about what causes, you know, Edward Cowock's passing. But I do know that he was eating high amount of food. I mean, as he did eat like more than 10,000 calories, I swear. Yeah. Even Tom Plas himself told me, he said, Listen, nobody in my life I see and can eat near as much as Edward Cowock. Oh, really? Well, I didn't know that. I didn't know he was that big of an eater. I knew Stridham was. I didn't know Edward Cowock was. No, he eats a lot. I think, you know, Ed State was a friend of mine in Santa Monica. His name Chuck Fogali. Okay. And he told me, Chuck told me, he said, Dude, he ate like two bottles here. He put the whole jar of honey, all of it. He ate like his breakfast. I'll take me one week to eat what he ate one breakfast. He said, this guy is my God bless. I mean, you know, yeah, Edward was a big eater. And I think that came back to haunt him, you know. Yeah. So what would you recommend for a Crizzo? Because now he won that British Grand Prix. So he's qualified for Olympia next year. He doesn't have to compete the rest of the year. So what would you recommend for him to have a real good showing at the Olympia next year? He need to focus as much as possible on the middle right now because we know everything else on his body is wonderful. Arms are popping, shoulders, everything is in condition. And he really gets shredded. He does. And he does. He looks healthy to me, but his genetic genre, his torso is a little bit longer. So we have to find a way to show his body a bit differently. Yeah. And sometimes you cannot, if you have no fat in your middle, what can you do? You just have to outsmart the positioning a little bit. And like, when he stands, he should stretch himself up and hit the post. If he let go, his stomachs don't look even wider. Yeah, if I was him, I would, I mean, his arms and shoulders are gigantic. He doesn't need to worry about those. But I would work on the back a lot more. If he's got, like if he takes off a whole year just to get ready for the Olympia, which he should, because he doesn't have to compete. So he should just like focus on the Olympia and just work on the back because if he can bring his back up more and he can bring his chest up more. And then like you said, learn how to pose where he's like crunching down on his abs and he can bring that waist in whatever it takes, you know, I mean, whatever it takes to bring that waist in. And then he can get in condition. He's shown now the last few shows he's done. He's in great condition. Yeah, you know what, John, we talked to Regan Grime, great guy, unbelievable potential. What I want to say is like sometime life is unfair Yeah, if Regan Grime have the same quality as Crissel. Okay. Yeah. Guess what? He'll be Mr. Olympia. Great. Crissel's quality is perfect. His body, this that torso, that long torso, which is that that's not one of Regan, Regan issue. Regan have come a long way in the past couple of years. But I still believe if he get that fullness with that onion skin like Crissel, oh my God, I swear he'll be unstoppable. Yeah. And I mean, I know some people gotta say, oh, what the hell is Samir's talking about? I'm talking about what I know, what I studied for the past 50 years in the game. The body of Regan Grime flow so well. But anyway, so now we're talking about the Crissel in Samson and how to, Nick Walker, how to improve. There's always a way. I don't take no for an answer. Always find a way to solve some issue or at least improve it. Let me just say if Nick Walker can have that area, that whatever inflammation, whatever thing he have in that summit, man, listen, when he walked in with our muscle mass, nobody have near the size of Nick Walker. Just imagine Nick have your waist or mine, like 30 inch waist. What happened? He'll be shocked in the world. Yeah. I tell you that that's Nick's dilemma, whatever it is, maybe his genetic makeup that is sensitive to the mother thing is doing. We gotta find exactly why and that can be fixed. Once he's fixed is going to be, he's going to be like much more, but he's young though, John. Yeah. So yeah, you know, we're talking about posing and Crissel and stuff. One guy I was thinking of back from the golden era was Muhammad Makawe. Because you remember, Muhammad was really good when he turned pro, when he won that university, beat Danny Padilla, and he was shredded. And then I remember the first couple Olympias he did, like in the late 70s, he really wasn't doing good. He was a little bit smoother and stuff, and he wasn't a great poser. And then he started working with Vince Geronda, and like in the early 80s, he had this comeback, you know, that the show you did with Dickerson one in 82, he should have did higher there. And then he didn't win those Grand Prix after because he had learned his body. Yeah. And he was ripped. He got more ripped than he ever was before. And then he was like, he learned how to pose and show his strong points and hide his weak points, right? Can I can I say something about that, John? I know Vince Geronda and I know Vince was like insane about the sport. One of the most passionate coaches. Yeah. Vince helped him train with him. He trained him. And he did help him a lot in conditioning. Just remember, Mohammed Makaoui came in seventh in the 82 Olympia. Yeah. And now what was missing, John? Could you answer that question? Fulness. You know what happened a week later? He got fuller. Oh my God. He was so much better. It was like a different person. Yeah. He filled up. He put on like seven, eight pound a pure muscle in his. He was dazzling, was shredded to the bone. But what I was going to say, Geronda didn't contribute to Mohammed imposing. Mohammed is magical by and on himself. I know him before he met Vince Geronda. Okay. Makaoui's posing is better than anyone on the planet. Let's be honest. Yeah. I think the most accurate poser in the world. First.  frangzane, and Mohammed Makaoui, in the accuracy of the pose. One of the most impressive pose on stage to know how to play the crowd, Ed Corny. Ed Corny knows how to also create his own act, it was unbelievable, rest in peace. But Makaoui is an incredible pose. I tell you what, I'm always impressed by Frank Zayn and Mohammed Makaoui. And of course, Ed Corny, the way he controlled the stage and his personality pops up, is larger than life. When he posed, people stood on the chairs, spending ovation. I was there too. He gave me goosebumps. When I saw Corny, I said, oh my God, that would be wonderful. And then you know what? I was so impressed by how he posed, then I created a pose routine where I had a standing ovation in Louisiana, the Grand Prix. And I did a pose routine where there's bell and ring and I did it and I focused on it. And the more I posed, the more people were standing on the chairs. I swear there was the strongest ovation. So yeah, the posing, come on, the posing, it really helps a lot. It actually can change the judges. When they see thousands of people going crazy screaming for you, it just kind of makes the judge make some changes too. And also it helps you with how you score, because even though they don't score the free posing, if you know how to control your body and you know how to hit the poses right and the mandatory poses like Urz does, that helps you tremendously in how you're going to place as long as you're in good shape. But it helps tremendously if you know how to present your body correctly. And that's something Criszo could really learn. I mean, I remember a couple of years ago, when he first started competing in the Olympia, he was really an amateur. So he's getting better. But if I was him and I had months to work on my body for the next contest, I would not only work on my physique, I would also work on my posing. Yes, 100% John. Like he should be practicing every day. If he wants to do better, he needs to practice every day. John, we've been in this game long enough. We're not here, we're not biased, we're not pulling for one particular person. We love everyone and we know what really works. And this is the way, I mean, you've got to change some approaches. Like I said earlier, I take no, I know there's an answer for things. I know. As long as you're in good health and you continue to improve and believe in your ability to make it. You know, not too many people kept talking about Nick Walker that he's going to do it. I think Nick Walker did very good at one point, but whatever happened to him at the Olympia. Yes, I think he paid the price for that. But guess what? Only God is perfect. So let's come back and put more effort into fixing that issue. I think it's fixable. Well, let's talk about Nick because he's in the news this week because he fired his coach. Kyle Wilkes, I believe. And Kyle was with him all year. And Nick said he didn't like the book. Didn't Kyle help him in New York? Didn't Kyle help him in New York? Yeah, New York and Pittsburgh. Yeah. Yeah. And they missed their peak for the Olympia and then after the Olympia, Nick fired him. So what do you think about that? I don't know. There must be a reason. I don't know exactly what it was. But I heard his coach saying that the inflammation in his stomach that caused it. I don't know, John. It's very hard. I don't really talk detail with anybody, especially when it comes to that. But I think Nick is smart enough to find out the reason. And I don't know what's going on between him and his coach. I don't know. Well, I heard. I didn't hear the interview with his coach, Kyle, but I did see some parts of it on YouTube, or Instagram, I think. And he was saying that because it was a two-day show and they had to do the pre-judging on Friday night and then this Saturday night, they had to do the finals, he said that was something they didn't have to deal with before. And he had a hard time peaking him for that. I don't know. I don't think that's an excuse. I don't know. There could be something else that Nick is more aware of, doesn't want to talk about it openly. It could be a reason. I don't know. I think still, I know we keep talking good and things, but we're not going to bullshit and say that Nick deserved to win the Olympia or to be in the top three. No, Nick Walker needs to fix that issue. And I think, is it fixable? Yes, it is. Maybe whatever his coach was doing, it makes things worse, not better. And Nick's aware of it. So he expects himself to be more wasted, expected to be tighter. But the fact that he didn't, I don't think it has anything to do with day one or day two. Is that ruining the peak? I think a good coach could control that. Yeah. Well, I mean, from the outside looking in, I don't know what their plan was or, you know, I obviously didn't talk to Nick or Kyle or anybody, but it just seemed to me like after Pittsburgh, which was so close, and then they did New York like a week later. And that was, I think Nick was a little bit off of that. He wasn't as good as Pittsburgh. And then they had several months to get ready for the Olympia. And it just seemed to me, like I said, from the outside looking in, that their plan was, let's go in big and freaky. You know, let's just be a freak. Well, when you put on like eight pounds, which I think you put on eight pounds, you're not going to be leaner, obviously. You're not going to be all muscle, right? I suspect something, John, happened. I don't want to even talk about it because this is something to be, it was whatever to do with the gear. And maybe his coach was thinking more mass, like you and I here sitting, we want to talk more class. And the reason why we felt back to get back to talking good about Nick Walker, the Nick Walker that was vastly improved over the past, you know, four years ago, we didn't ever like his stuff. But then he got back to get better and better and better. But something might have changed before the Olympia in Las Vegas, where they were like focused more on mass. Maybe that actually interfered with that issue where his middle got even worse, not better. Yeah, I think his best look ever was the, was it 2021 Arnold where he won? I remember that was the year they held the Arnold later in the year. Yeah, it had to be 2021 because COVID started 2020. And I remember it started like the week of the Arnold Classic and they had to like get rid of all the, they didn't even have an Expo that year. And I think they had like a limited audience and stuff. So that wasn't 2020, but it was 2021. They pushed the Arnold all the way back to September and Nick went into that. And he looked amazing in that show. And I think that was his best look ever. And then I think he went in the Olympia and he took, was it third or fifth? I can't remember. But that year I think was his best look because he had the size, but the abs were rock hard. So like we were talking about that longer torso, shorter legs that Chris has, Nick's got the same thing, but he overcame that problem by having those rock hard abs and crunching down on them all the time. And your focus was on his midsection. You know, he had this incredible midsection. Even though his waist might not be the smallest, it didn't matter because he had that detail in his waist cause he had that super hard abs. And I think now since then, I mean, that's what four years ago. So since then now his waist has gotten bigger. And I think now the focus is on his waist and I think that's why he's dropping down. Well, I, I'll tell you, you know, I didn't have, I'm not complaining about his shoulders and arms and back. I mean, you know, I think his quality was pretty much acceptable. Nice. They say the issue is in the middle. The issue is in the middle. I mean, come on. We're not going to say something that is not true here. And I'm sure Nick is smart enough to recognize that. And I guarantee you he's working on that already. I mean, I exchanged a couple of messages with Nick in the past couple of days. Okay. And I know he's, he's determined, Nick is determined to come in a shop. I mean, you know, this is the heart of the lion. This is the heart of a champion. You, you don't roll over and die. He's going to come back to the drawing board and he's going to fix it. You know, I, I mean, like, like I said, we all know only God is perfect. Some, sometime we make mistake and maybe it is for that reason. Look at that. Oh my God. Look at that. Shoulders and arms, untouchable muscle mass. Yeah. We just need to keep the middle right now. But I think he, look, he have enough muscle. Nick doesn't need to gain one milligram of muscle. He could actually afford to lose 10 pound and guess what? It will be better for sure. Look at that. Who have arm and shoulders and chest that huge? Nobody. Nobody. Look, the abs and not fat, but there is the visceral fat issue. And if you look at this photo, let me just tell you, shoulders to waist ratio is not bad. But when you turn around and move around, the stomach push out. Yes. Because the issue was the visceral fat and not too many people understand what visceral fat. I mean, he doesn't, he's not, to me, even here, he doesn't look fat. His shoulders and arms and chest looks solid. He looks gnarly. But without the middle John, I'm sorry. It's just going to be very, very tough for Nick. He just need to resolve that issue. Absolutely. He need that. Yeah. I think everybody agrees. Everybody agrees that. We're not going to sugar coat him and say, yeah, yeah, Nick, Nick is this. No, no, no. If he doesn't solve that issue, John, you can forget about making the winner circle. It's just not going to happen. Right. I agree. Yeah. 100%. Yeah. Let's hope he will. And I think he could. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well, I guess we'll wrap it up there, Samir. I know I want to mention, tell all the fans you got a big birthday next week, November 7th. Man, it's tough turning 50. I tell you, man. Yeah, man, it's the big 70, unfortunately, John. But you know what? It's a number. It's a number. You know, we, you and I train in hard. We, you know, you take your shirt off. I take my shirt off. I don't look better at all. Trust me. Yeah. Trust me. I think I have enough separation in my, between my biceps and triceps, John. Look at this. This separation. Yeah, look at that. Some of the Mr. Olympia didn't have this separation, John. Here, listen. Right. I don't know if this is maybe for another topic. Yeah. About how we felt about the Olympia, you know. But we love them all. May the best one, best man win. We're going to talk about it. For real, be truthful about it. And I hope people don't get bent all out of shape when we say thing. We don't mean anything. We don't do anything in the derogatory way. This is our style. Yeah. And I hope people understand. So they want to hear the truth, tune in and jump on board and we'll tell you the truth every time. Well, we want you to keep it all school though. Yeah. Well, you're not old, Samir. You're still, you're still kicking. You're still training hard. So, you know. It's a number. Celebrate another year. Thank God. Hey, look at John. You're just one couple of championships. My God. You're like starting in what, early 60s and you're kicking out. Right. Right. Yeah. So it's just a number, man. What do you even think about it? It's a number. I saw a guy the other day at the gym. Yeah. I've seen this guy at the gym before and he was over there boxing. You know, like they had the heavy bags. They got the section in powerhouse gym where they got the boxing area. And Eddie, you know, the one of the owners. Comes over and he goes, he goes, I was just talking to that guy. He goes, that guy's 90 years old. I'm like, 90 years old. You want a tank top, punching the heavy bag, you know? I mean, I've seen him before. I didn't know he was 90. He could tell he was older, but that's amazing, man. I mean, you can. It's a number. Yeah. Yeah. It's a number. Our society is changing now. I think everybody is staying in shape now and, you know, we're pushing the pushing the age barrier back a little more. I know a guy also at the gym that they told me, he's like walking around almost like mid 90. I mean, he's not muscular or anything, but he have no fat on him. He looks fairly good. Yeah. I mean, just being in a gym at mid. Yeah, that's the key. That's like, wow. The key is holding onto the muscle, right? And eating, eating, right? Have fun. Have fun. Enjoy life. Don't let anything get under your skin. Right. And, you know, and that's the way to do it. Eat right. Yeah. And stay active, you know? So, anyway, I'm going to talk to you. We'll wrap it up there and I guess we'll talk next week. So have a good Halloween this weekend. Don't eat too many treats. No trick or treat. We'll have some back for the kids, but that's about it. Yeah. And we're going to try and get some guests on the show in the next few weeks because we don't have any competition to talk about. So we'll try to get some Olympian down here and talk to them. We can get whoever. I mean, we, you know, we talked about, I always want to come on board and I think we can get Martin. We'd love to talk to Martin. He will tell us what's happening, how he did his thing. I'd love to hear, he's always, as you know, when we were eating together that night after the Olympia, he's always positive, he's always friendly, he's always sweet person. That's why he's doing well. Yeah. You know, he never complicates things. Yeah, it seems like a great guy. I got to meet him after the Olympia. Yeah, it would be good to have Martin. We have like Keon and Nick. We'll get them all. So, you know, talk to them. Anyway, John, good chatting with you again. All right, you too, Samir. Have a great weekend and we'll talk next week. Hopefully we'll see you soon too. All right, buddy.