 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx today we just finished with that last Olympia man time flies. It's amazing amazing well wow we have a crazy Olympia this year though John. Yeah I tell you I mean what we have this year it's got a probably much more complicated much more difficult than it was. Yeah right guys what do you think? It's a deep lineup. Yeah it's deep man I think that's this is a deep lineup coming up. Huge I think really it's I mean we have at least some new faces right now and really good new faces and it's a shame that we have another a great champion and it's really kind of making me feel bad for Bahruz you know Bahruz is like one of the guy in my book should be in the winner's circle without a doubt. It's a shame I don't know what's going on in this world why like a tree Iranian bodybuilders made it including you know Mr. Olympia Hadi Shopam but I don't get it John I mean Bahruz is a very very extremely good he worked his butt off it's been like a couple years right he missed it last year too. He missed it for three years I think. This is the third year I mean this is really really yeah three or four this one will be four I heard. It's so unfair I mean the guy is so good he is so good and he would learn he will have more experience being on the Olympia stage and not giving him a visa it's totally total bullshit. Yeah that's a shame I think. And I know I know it was on you know I saw that on you know on Instagram that people should really talk about it and support Bahruz because really we know how hard we train you train hard I train hard Marcus train hard and not to be after all the hard work you put in it and to come out empty it's bullshit. Yeah. And he's not just an average Joe he's a champion he already won a couple of titles I mean. That's something to be a top six honestly I think there's people would be dumb not to put him in that hey arguably first called out gentlemen. I don't get it I just can't get it I don't want to try and figure out why I'm trying to figure out why. What do you think John you think is there any reason I know look he's a good guy he doesn't have any bad record. Yeah. He's a he's a wonderful person I've been talking to him and people that know him said good things about Bahruz so why hard he is in Bahruz is not in I mean to me this is really like terrible. Could you imagine put yourself in his shoes John you know how hard it is you train and then not to be on stage next to all the guys it's disgusting. Yeah sadly I feel like an electrician. He's so long so he's missing out on four years of his career who knows how much Laura's left you know. It upset me you know John it does upset me look for me being a Lebanese body builder Lebanese American you know I came out here and way back in you know way back in 75 you know even Arnold Schwarzenegger is an Austrian he came into United States 1968 what Franco Colombo is Italian. Requaint whatever I mean we have people from all walks of life Dorian Nates is a British. Yeah. I mean why you know remember Joseph Polkos was German he used to come and compete. I mean this is a sport we need to put an end to this political political bullshit we really need to do that because has nothing to do whatever happened in this world positive or negative should not affect the athletes bro. Yeah. It's totally disgusting shameful. So I don't know I'm just like please you guys should talk about it and show support to Baharouz because I really feel his pain you know what they say nobody feels the pain but the person who has it I can tell you he's just sitting look at it from the outside he's heart broken he won the Grand Prix in Dubai the guy is amazing. Yeah. Well what can you say. On the show today guys is we're going to pick our top 10 for the Olympia we're going to do our picks but instead of just going through each one of our top 10 I thought a more interesting way to do this would be I'll just throw out some names of the guys that are qualified for the show this year and then you guys can tell me where you have them in your top 10 or even if you don't have them in your top 10. That's good that's a good good idea. And then tell me why tell me why you have them place where they're when it comes to me John I will never say anything in the derogatory way. Yeah. I don't care who win may the best man win but when I talk about something when it comes to bodybuilding the physical aspect of it we need to talk about it without anybody get like emotional over it. Yeah. And we'll do that let's do that. Right Marcus. We try our best man. I do not to backtrack but I do like I think that one thing that should be discussed is the fact that you know you did mention that you know you are you know Lebanese and a lot of people don't really understand what that's like to be somebody an outsider to feel like a minority in a sense and obviously you don't feel like a minority you probably feel pretty good in America as you should but you sometimes can't help not to feel that kind of you know you're going to be able to relate to somebody who's going through those bottom line. I'm sorry to cut you the bottom line. We love America. We're athletes. You know I was dreaming when I was in Beirut Lebanon picked up American magazine was Arnold undercover even Arnold was Austrian. Okay. But you know what what did draw me to bodybuilding Arnold Schwarzenegger who was Austrian and he came to the United States and became a governor. I love America more than you can imagine. Celebrate that like you see the people who have Nigerian descent people who are Dominican and you know we celebrate the differences and what their you know strong suits bring as far as their genetic background is dope to see. I mean look we do you agree with everything in the political part in United States. I don't but the bottom line is we love this country. We live in it. We love the flag. We love American people. I love my neighbor but we don't get involved in the political side and that's how it should be you know. You know in life John they say there's a good and bad and ugly you know not all your fingers the same length. Some of those athletes are true champions. Some of those people are really really innocent and I just hate to see that but anyway John I'm not gonna dwell on that one part. All right. Let's go and talk about the Olympia this year and discuss it. All right the first guy I want to bring up and you tell me where you got him placed is Martin Fitzwater who was fourth last year. So where are you at? Yes. Yes. Samir. Oh man look I know Martin personally you know I met Martin a few times and his fourth place was nothing short of an amazing. Yeah and you remember I was fourth in Olympia in 1982. I was in fourth place and you know that I came back in 1983 but you know what Martin he's got the body. He's like very symmetrical but let me just say I don't think his last two shows that he competed he didn't look as good as he did at the Olympia last year. Right. So all I care about now what who is the new Martin Fitzwire you know Fitzwater who is the new Martin. If Martin's gonna come in improved if he does he's gonna do great but then at the same time the competition's got more difficult it's much more difficult this year than it was last year. Yeah. Is he capable of course he is. So where do you where do you have him. I mean I have him in the winner circle and let's be honest here you know as you know I love Martin but I think he's a top six and honestly I think the top four is extremely difficult this year. So you got him sixth. I think I will put Martin and around fifth or sixth. Okay Scott we gonna mark these on the sheet. You got a sheet right. Do I. No Scott those. Are you putting that. Okay I'll put it. How about you Marcus. See I got him ironically I'm gonna show it right quick. We ain't copying Samir. I have him in sixth exactly and this is the thing I think Samir says something that's make sense is hopefully he comes to new and improved. The issue is he's had showings as of late to where he's had kind of some setbacks. We saw him in Pittsburgh in person. He didn't look as good as he did at the Olympia and I feel like we do see that a good bit as of late with a lot of the competitors. Sometimes you just you know the road that's behind you follows you. You didn't have a good showing. We see it with Patrick Moore. We kind of see that fall off trajectory and sometimes they can pick it back up and I have faith in Martin. So I think putting him in sixth is no small. I mean that's incredible because you're literally right behind five of the best bodybuilders right now. So to be the top six in the world is crazy. You're going against the likes of Andrew and Samson and Derek and Nick and all that. So a six is a very comfortable spot for Martin and shout out to him because yeah he has he's the bodybuilder is bodybuilder to me personally. I don't know you know the thing is Marcus I agree with you six is very respectable but then again he has the body. How much can you improve over what he had last year. This is what remained to be seen. I had the last talk with him about a month ago here in LA at Civic at Expo and I know he's determined and I really pray to God that he's better and make it even better. I hope he'll win. I mean he beat Derek. He beat Arnold champion at Mr. Olympia pass last year. I know he didn't own paper but he was fourth to Derek's third but a lot of people had him above Derek. So that's saying something who a lot of people are going to put Derek in their first spot. I'd imagine if they're smart but I digress. Okay. What about you John. Next in line. Okay. Well John do you want to elaborate on that yourself. Yeah I got him. You did too. Yeah. Wow. I kind of read you. I kind of read you what you think in guys. I kind of felt it. I like that. For whatever reason I like that makes me happy. I know we're going to different when we get up there and down there but I like that. That's a cool starting point. I think if he you know if he looks like he did at the Olympia last year he's going to be really up there but I mean he did the show against Bonac. I'm not Bonac. Chris Bumstead and Hungry. He's a prog one. Yeah. Yeah. He's a prog. Yeah. I know he wasn't hungry but you know beating Bumstead was no little feat. It was like amazing. Yeah he shouldn't have beaten Bumstead actually. But I don't think he looked better when he beat Bumstead than he did at the stage at the Olympia. No he did. He was way off. Yeah. I thought he was really really good. I was sitting in the first row and his fourth place was very well. Yeah. You know and I really was like wow I'm so happy for him and I really would love to see him another 10 percent better. We'll remember you know we will have to wait and see. John I think he's going to be over there with the mentor. He was off in Pittsburgh so I mean if he's off here he's going to be less than six. He's going to be way down because it's going to be really tough. But if he pulls it all together like he did at the Olympia but I don't know he's been quite a quiet. He hasn't put much pictures out so maybe he looks good. He's just going to surprise everybody so we'll see what happens. Well at least you know what I tell people John if you stay off the social media and just focus on training and be much smarter. Yeah. I'm helping a guy right now and I'm trying to tell him train go home and recuperate. You just sit down and take the phone. All he does is like I said please please I told him I said do me a favor. I personally ran away from Joe Weeder before the 82 Olympia and Joe Weeder wanted to take all kind of photos. That's where he got. Joe Weeder was there. I escaped. I went to Germany and Joe Weeder would leave me message. Samir what the hell is wrong with you. But you know what I don't want no attention. I want to focus on Samir and that's it. Yeah. And it shows what do you think John about the people who's always getting worked out with the social media right now. Well it can backfire on you because if you yes in all these pictures that you look great and then you go on stage and you don't look like that it's going to disappoint it. You know and that happens. I think that could backfire of course it can. Yeah. I mean look at what happened with the camera. That's why you know what we say John tunnel vision mean like the tunnel vision mean 100 percent focused. Yeah. When Dorian Ace train in the dungeon underneath his home what was his goal. His goal was to win the fucking Olympia. He's not walking around with the phone. You know here. Take a photo of me. Like dude relax please. We have all the time in the world after the fucking Olympia. That's one thing. That's one thing I really like about Martin is like so like obviously with the y'all can probably relate to this John as well because trying to get into this whole little social media hemisphere it's uncomfortable to an extent right. And one thing I like is I like seeing some of Martin's videos because not to say anything about like he does great for like he's like he reminds me of Branch Warren style training either Tiger but he seems uncomfortable when it comes to the videos not uncomfortable but it's new to him like doing like the whole social media game. And I really like that because I can relate to it because I can't stand social media even though obviously we have to do it for this new age. I'll speak for myself too. You know what Marcus if it was me competing in the Olympia you would not see anything about me. Maybe hi good morning maybe but I'm not going to go there and think myself doing dips and doing incline and decline. I'm like all world watch me train and fuck no I'm going to train. I don't care about anything. Everybody's out of my head. I'm focusing on Sandow. That's all Sandow is the only person I'm focusing on. All right. Let's keep going because otherwise this would be a five hour show. Okay. Next Zilla Ruby L where do you got him Ruby L. Okay well look I'm going to be truthful again as we said early on truthful is the way to go anyway. The guy I'm very impressed with his conditioning very impressed in fact he is an old school material in conditioning. Yeah. But when we say and talk about harmony and proportion and balance you know this is his problem you know I like some other people have different problem like for example and I always keep in contact with Reagan. Regan Grime if Regan Grime could be like get that same quality as Rubio and guess what he'll win the Olympia. This is exactly what I'm trying to say. Look you can have the greatest body and if you don't have that polished onion skin 24 K along with professional presentation you won't win the fucking Olympia and I don't care who you are. So I don't think Rubio is going to make it in the top six. And that's in my book nearly impossible. Okay. And I'm not going to say I'm putting a block on him if he can or he can but I think physically he doesn't have the genetic that God given to Samson for example. Yeah. Or Andrew Jack. What about like in like the top 10 he could be in the top 10. Yeah. I don't know he'll be like if he makes the top 10 probably be toward the last part of that maybe nine or 10 maybe. Do you want to put him in the top 10 or no. No I'm not putting him in the top 10. Okay. What about you Marcus. Yeah for me I have him 11th on my list right now I have 11th. I think he's the one that could shake everything up. I think he has a lot of the attributes we've seen him come in better condition as of late his best condition as of late. So that's promising and I do think he has that freak factor that can really have him jump from say he could be a 16th place finisher. I'll say that 100% he could be that that you know trophy that you there but he else gets or he can be in that top seven top eight area even top six I say eventually but right now I'm proud of you. I'm proud of you Marcus you've been learning a lot around me. I mean I come on look what I'm with I'm with John Hanson and Samir Baloo. Very good. Very good. Are you catching up you catching up with understanding the game because the game is not. I'm graduating from the Spend class and you know now I'm here. I'm back with the regular lunchroom and everything. I'm here. Man listen to the students. No disrespect. No disrespect. We're gonna say it like it is. Rubio could be the nicest guy in the world and I love his quality. I love his drive and his that the guy is doing incredible stuff with what he has. I mean dance moves. He's top five. Who said top five? I was joking about his dance moves. He's the one who was dancing on stage. I'm putting them out of top ten. I don't know exactly when what made me and like I said if he make it to 10 plays he'll be very good. I just I'm looking at the list of contests and bro you know what I mean. Okay John you turn. Yeah I don't think he'll be top ten either. He's of total freak and he's been a really good condition this year so I mean he could. I mean he might be eighth you know who knows seventh eighth. I mean conditioning. Unbelievable. Yeah really sharp whatever. Whoever helping him John this guy coming in with onion skin. Oh yeah but his calf is like bigger than anybody's legs. I know but is that gonna help you to have a 22 inch calf for example or having Tom Plats legs. Is it gonna automatically qualify you to win the Olympia? I'm sorry no. And see that's what's crazy with all that freak factor you stand him next to someone like say Antonio and someone is as compact in the opposite frame of Rubio can end up beating Rubio in Antonio you know what I mean. I hope I hope Rubio with that you know he'll prove us all wrong. I really hope so because I know like Brayon told me how nice this guy is and I know he seemed like extremely nice but let's hope. Anyway next in line. What about Andrew Jack? What do you got? Well Andrew is honestly Andrew is one of my favorites. Andrew's got the body to do it. I still don't like his presentation even though some people say oh I like his pose and routine. You don't learn posing from your nutritionist from the guy who's coaching you to get in condition to compete. So do I think I think for sure Andrew to me is in the top six of course is in the top six. What place will I give it give him exactly? I may give him fifth place. Yes. How about you Marcus? Same I mean I don't want to is I have it the same. Andrew's in fifth to me. I think that him and Martin have gone back and forth but I think that when it comes to the center stage the main stage I think Andrew can pull it off. I think he has that wow factor especially from the front. If he can bring up his back shots a little bit more so and especially with like you know the conditioning with you know how the hamstrings look and things like that it'll be the difference maker but he just has that he has the more complete that Rubio lacks in Andrew has so I'm going to pull him in. Oh come on dude you can't even compare. I mean listen man listen listen Andrew's got a beautiful body small waist he's a huge and he's really lacking nothing in particular there's nothing no obvious weaknesses. He could be a little bit sharper and he needs to have his muscle controlled people don't understand the positioning when you go on stage positioning is so important he's still lag in that department you know that's why I keep telling some of the pro go see Frank Zane not because of Frank Zane he's just going to give you a pose with you and he's going to tell you how to aim and shoot they don't know how to aim and shoot they don't sorry guys but I mean that's what I give Andrew fifth place. Sadly I'm the same John are you are you are you joining the scene with the fifth place that's yeah I got him in fifth I wish he was going to be higher but you think you think he's running out of time I mean this is how many Olympias Andrew's done and he just doesn't seem to nail it. Well John you didn't tell me what do you say about Andrew you tell me first. I think he's AI mean I think he's got the best physique in bodybuilding I think he should be Mr. Olympia but he doesn't seem to be able to give him you know give the judges what they want I mean I don't know about the best physique John he's got a good physique. Him and Samson I can't pick between them. Look look sometimes there's one thing that we miss talking about the flow the flow of the body let's say who have the best flow who have the best physique out there it's automatic you have to easily give it to Samson Samson have the flow he's got the shoulder waist ratio the sweep on his side listen Samson is Mr. Olympia you know why because he have the flow in his body was he the most ripped no he wasn't and Samson comes in ripped and guess what nobody's gonna touch him. To me Samson's the only acceptable answer as far as who's that who's better than Andrew in a sense of overall is the only acceptable answer is Samson to me personally if you said anybody else I gotta disagree and feel bad about it but I just yeah Sam to me Samson and Andrew teeter top so what place do you give him John again? Fifth. That's me okay well I guess we're on the same page on the same page. That's again all three of us. I mean does 2024 Texas give you any hope you know what I'm saying? You know guys I'm kind of like sometimes I may have to make some changes too because you know we have the Brazilian the Russian Brazilian the Vitaly Big Vito I mean listen we cannot you know act like we don't see this guy I mean he hasn't been on the stage for quite some time but that guy Vitaly is a badass he's got everything he's muscular and symmetrical however I don't think he have the control necessary on stage with his posing ability. I honestly see this guy in the top six but what the hell is getting like already we're like I don't know man I would love to see him. You know what I don't know maybe you know I think this guy might be in four place. Wow okay is that okay I meant talking about him already. Most will bring him up next yeah we can all I think this is where we're probably gonna differ a good bit even though like I get it he's the most like you know he should be the biggest dark horse here. What do you have a man? I don't have him placing top I have him right there outside of top 10. I don't have him placing in my top 10 yeah and that's where I might hey y'all might drop me down a few pegs compared to the you know the intelligent ones here but yeah you had okay okay Marcus you had him out of the top 10 okay let me just ask you since now you're talking as someone who's been looking and you know you're keeping an eye on that tell me the reason why. The only reason I can give you is if I name off the other people who are in the top 10 put it this way there's somebody who I can take out of my top 10 which would be hers I can see hers cracking that but I think that's just more of a political thing compared to like good. Alright let me tell you why let me tell you for my perspective why this guy is good. I know why. I never met him I never you know because I have no reason to bullshit here to anybody. The guy has everything he's a young man that he does not I don't know who's coaching him right now but honestly if he comes in prepared and he controls his posing this guy's going to be the biggest surprise okay he's going to be big big surprise and I can tell you right now he's going to break into the winner's circle. I might be wrong but if he comes in if I'm in his body right now I'm for sure in the top four but he's I'm not I'm not in the driver's seat he's in the driver's seat unfortunately I don't know if he's able to drive and control that body he has he's missing nothing Marcus you need to know something about bodybuilding he has no weaknesses shoulder to weight ratio is unbelievable muscularity is unbelievable quality he takes all the boxes for sure for the most part. Well you have to understand that I don't care who wins again but the guy have everything needed to be in the winner's circle. Yeah the thing is I don't disagree with you. I'm not forcing you to be I'm not forcing you to agree with me but by not putting them in the top ten I'm disappointed. I know and I get it I get it I get it but there's people like William Bonak out there there's you know they'll put his way there's somebody in my top ten who I could easily take out but I don't want you because I have faith in him. You go back to talk to me about Bonak I like Bonak he comes in prepared but Bonak does not have the balance and the mistype the beautiful line of that big veto with all due respect Bonak we know he's muscular he always comes in in shape but take a look at the big veto I don't know I'm gonna let John be in the middle of this and then he could talk about it from his own perspective. I've got him in seventh. Seventh place yeah I think it'll be right okay well right outside we'll talk I mean at least I'm not as disappointed I'm not as disappointed but I'll tell you what where do you place him from here where do you place R so is he fourth in your in your top five I would give him fourth place but then listen only if only if he controls his posing ability understand if he can pose and show look at this my double bicep he's my side check if he does it properly let's say if he posed let's say even if he pulls as good as Martin man this guy is a badass you don't understand this guy is a badass by me looking at his photo right away it's automatic the guy gonna break the window circle and I know John gave him six but you know I think John he doesn't know what a veto is gonna come to the contest looking like but I'll tell you what if this guy is shredded you're not gonna put him out of the top six  and that can go for all 12 people who would be in that little area, the first two callouts, they could all be in that winter circle, I think. That's the whole point. This guy is going to be in the callout, my friend. You're talking about what you have seen in the past, you're talking about Bonac, you're talking about Cissan, you're talking about Ours. You haven't seen much of Big Vito. This guy is good. I don't care if he didn't compete for the past two years. He's good. He's blessed. He competed this year and he looked good. Can he be up there on stage, present his body as a pro? That remained to be seen. If he does, Lord have mercy. He's very good. I mean, remember, we saw him this year. He's very good. He's just as bad as Bahruz. He is just as bad as Bahruz. In fact, his lower body is even better than anyone. The guy has a diamond calf, small ankle, overflow, huge muscularity, small waist. That's arms like scary. Quads are crazy. Put together in a balanced way. You cannot disregard someone who is blessed with this kind of package. That's from my perspective. What the hell do I know? You know a lot. Don't say yourself short. You know a lot. I got to be the one saying what the hell do I know. Like I said, I agree with you that he can 100% place up there. 100%. It's just if he, you know, if all the stars, not the stars, but if it all aligns for him, just like with everybody else that we're talking about. Yeah, but Marcus, you didn't understand. By not putting the guy in the top 10, you just want me. You know why? I asked you what his weaknesses. You did not answer me. Well, he doesn't have many weaknesses to be real. What's his weaknesses? Could you tell me what his weaknesses? I just said he's lacking calves. I just said he doesn't have many weaknesses. You just, okay, okay, here, let me stop. Go ahead. You said bone act. Yeah, I 100%. I love bone act. Bone act is a great. I'll bow in that mountain. But no, no, no, no, no, wait, wait, let me put you to task here for you too. Bone act legs versus good vetoes legs. Good veto has some of the scariest quads in this list of people and calves. Not just squat and calves to my quad. Okay. Arm, who's better in the arm department? Oh, I keep William compared to good veto. No, I'm talking about all these gentlemen. What makes nicks are better to me if we're talking all these gentlemen, Nick Walker has better arms. Especially from that back double. I'm asking you about these two guys. I'm not asking you about those two good veto. I mean, bone acts arms are changing. Okay. Well, okay, John, you can elaborate on that from your perspective. I know you gave the guy seven place, but then I'm trying to let Marcus understand the flow and the muscularity and the way the body is put together. You can't tell me bone act has a better God given genetic. I think you're confusing what I'm saying. So I'm just making a prediction. I put it this way. So like, I'm not confused. I'm never confused. Who has a better aesthetic who has better strong suits right now? Good veto. But the thing is, I've seen William, especially even this year, show and prove that he's capable of being in that winter circle scenario. I've seen him go up. I've seen him do, but you're cold right now. You're not being fair. You know, you're being biased because he's from the new part of the world. Whatever. Hey, come on. Hey, man, I don't care. You know what? You can tell me a Lebanese guy and I might be I said, oh, he's going to be in last place. I'm going to say it like it is. William bone act is wonderful. He's consistent. He always comes in shredded. And yes, if good veto kind of coming off and bone act is going to come in shredded, of course, bone act is going to be sometimes that both are saying championed over certain other qualities. Look, if both of them come in shredded, guess what? Good veto wins. If they both come in their best, good veto wins. Good veto wins. If they both come in their best, what do you say? Okay, John, good veto versus bone act both and talk. I'm not I'm not disagreeing. I just don't know if he's going to come in his best compared to William whose track record shows he's going to come in his best. Hey, I, hey, Marcus, I'll brainwash you. You already have AI agree with you. I legit agree with you. No, I agree with you. No, but dude, you know, you know what? You know what? Bodybuildings is all about harmony and balance. Mass was class. The thing is, was what people don't see that the telly big veto doesn't have a bubble gut and he's ripped. I don't know what the hell he's doing, but the guy maintaining a balance and beautiful mass was class. I don't know. We'll have to wait and see. But like I said, if he comes in ready, Lord have mercy. This guy is going to make us. I'll happily be wrong. I'll happily be wrong because I think he has a stellar crazy top notch physique. So I'll happily be wrong. I hope I'm okay. Just mark it down. Mark it down and I'll remind you. I'll tell you 20 bucks if I'm, if I'm super wrong, but only between him and William 20 bucks between him and William Bono. Any bucks or you're going to buy me sushi in less than 20 bucks. They said, I can't go to Las Vegas. Hey, you know what? John challenged me with a quiz. Oh, and I lost the sushi with John. And I gave him the sushi when we met in Tampa. Right, John? I kept my promise. My bet is only between him and William. By the way, I think Marcus is going to 20, $20. I don't know, man. You got to up it a little bit because you can't buy a tuna. I mean, you know, you can't buy a spicy tuna with $20. We're clear to go on different levels in the world, my friend. There's levels. There's, there's Mr. Olympian. There's Mr. No. Hey man. No, no, I'm only kidding. May the best man win. Anyway, next in line, big John. Brandon Curry. Oh, shit. Man, I'm under pressure here. I need the AC. I need to turn the AC on. You got that. You got the hotel AC. That's the best one. Yeah, I'm at a hotel, but you know, I have this local AC. If I turn it on, you guys will probably hear it. You know, it's not a central. Anyway, yeah, man. Brandon always, I always like Brandon. And remember Brandon is former Mr. Olympia, bro. And when you win Mr. Olympia, it's not, doesn't mean you okay. You more than okay. You great. The only thing that I would say about Brandon, will Brandon comes in shredded. That's all I care about because got a beautiful body. And if Brandon comes in ready, you know, I can see him like right now. Sorry, but I don't want to. I mean, I'm, I'm making my assessment here, my analysis based on what I've been seeing in the past couple years. And you know, I think Brandon is going to come in the top 10, of course. But I don't know, could be a place I would say unless he proved me wrong and comes in shredded to the bone. If he comes in shredded to the bone, I think we're gonna, we probably prove us all wrong. But for now, I would give him a place. Respect. Okay. How about you? I give him seventh on my list. He is seventh. In mountain. I got him an eighth. You gave him eight to John. Yeah, I got him an eighth right behind Goodmeato. All right. Oh my God, it's getting tight squeeze here. Oh my God. You know, I really have a list in front of me and I'm like kind of like, wait a minute, you have ours, you have Regan grime. Come on, man. It's like, man, what the hell can we put them on the top six? It's not going to be possible. Let's talk about Derek Lunsford. What are you guys got there? What's, what's, who's your next, next, who do you want to talk about? Yeah, Derek Lunsford. Oh my God. You know, look, I've always said that Derek has probably one of the most incredible body. I'd love to see harder muscle. Okay. Lately I've been talking a lot about hard looking muscle versus the softer looking muscle. Maybe Derek needs to change something in his gears, whatever it is. I would love to see Derek get harder looking harder. And I still see Derek making those horrendous mistake in that presentation. I do. I mean, you could say, oh, Samir is talking bullshit. I'm not talking bullshit. I'm talking based on extensive years and years and years of experience. Okay. And I'm not going to say more than, you know, Derek is a great bodybuilder. I would love to see a better performance Derek Lunsford. I like to see a harder looking body because he always comes in beautiful. He looks great. But I think his presentation is still lagging a little bit. It's not good enough. I'm sorry, but Chris Osito don't know how to do posing. Sorry, Chris. I'm not going to sugarcoat you always. I'm saying it's not your job, Chris. All right. I'm going to tell you that right now. This is the reason why I say that Chris Osito agree with this position. He thinks this is a good thing. And I completely, I love Chris. Look, Chris and I, we always agree to disagree. And I just love the guy. He's a safe coach. He's a smart coach. But right now we disagree on presentation. And I would like to see Derek take a better, better posing coach. Yes. He need to have a better posing coach. And I'm not going to say it's me. He can go to somebody else. He could go to Frank's. But he definitely not going to, he, he need to run away from Chris Osito's posing. So where do you got him? Where do you got him, Samir? I easily, to me, is in the top three. But oh my God, he's another Mr. Olympia is very, I'm going to have to go say right now this year based on his former past two showing, I was going to give him third. Okay. How about you, Marcus? All right. So I'm going to put Derek in fourth. That's where I have him. Last week I had him three, but I'm putting him in fourth. To me, he's a little big engine that could, man. I agree with a lot of what Samir said. He does lack this hardness, but he has such strong attributes as well that outweigh anything else. So like the lack of arms and that kind of the softness across the chest, we actually saw a little bit better chest when it came to the Pittsburgh pro. A little bit more details going on with it. But I just think that. What did you say? I'm sorry, Marcus, you said arms. His arms lack, his arms aren't the best evil to me. No, man. Come on. Derek got a great arm. I don't think anything about his. I mean, I'm not trying to. I'm trying to be a pro genetic. He's got everything. Derek's got everything. I didn't complain about his body. I'm complaining about his presentation a little bit. Well, then I'm complaining about it. I'm talking, we're talking about Mr. Olympia here, man. How could you say? Because the people put this Olympia is not perfect in all area. Yeah, you know what he can be is the competition is more tough. He need to improve his presentation. His arms are very good. Marcus, his arms are very good. He just needs to get a little bit harder. I'm knocking on wood. Yeah, I think I think he lacks harness, but I will say it doesn't like with that being said, it doesn't matter because his strong suits and his attributes kind of outweigh anything else, meaning it'll take him over. So if you compare him with Nick's arms, Nick's arms are crazy better. Samson has great arms and sense of size. Try some things like that. You know, they like detail as well. Wow, you gave him a fourth place. I haven't been fourth. And that's not, that's not shitting on Derek. That's a great place when you're already going up against two other Mr. Olympia champions who are going to be above him. What about if he shows up like he did at the Arnold where he was probably then he'll probably be top two 1000% if not the winner. I think if he shows up, how he did the Arnold, he's the he's the winner. And I think the only person who have to fight through is Hottie at that point. That's the only person I see as having an issue with for Derek. If he shows up like the Arnold classic is Hottie. That's it. I think he'll he'll beat Samson and sad to say, I think he'll beat Nick. But how they showed up with Pittsburgh pro. I know we probably differ on this one, John, but I think that I turn the AC on at the Pittsburgh pro. Nick better, even though Derek still look great, but he looked way better at the Arnold. So top two man, Derek, you know, I'll tell you, I'll tell you what, if I have Derek bodies, I will declare myself Mr. Olympia. OK, if I have Derek's body and you put me in Derek's body, I wouldn't Olympia. But that's from my perspective. Again, some work needs to be done for sure. But I don't know about four place. Come on, man, it's one place after you. I don't know, John, what do you say about Derek? Right now I got him in third. Yeah. Yeah, we're both on the same page here. Unfortunately, I haven't seen much changes in the past two years. I don't want to say the coaching right now, but definitely the coaching when it comes to posing needs to change. No disrespect to my buddy, Chris, I see, though. Yeah, Derek can improve in that department. And I would like to see him harder again. Hardness is, like I said, hard hard work with heavy weight and intensity. Along, you may need to do some changes in the gear to attain that harder look. OK, so we get a harder look. Talk to Dorian Nase about harder look. Talk to Ronnie Coleman. You talk to people who train with intensity and have your weight. The muscles like more. Anyway, that's it. We can move from here. I can't really talk too much. How about Tony O'Byrton? I don't know what to say about Antonio. I don't I don't have him in the top 10. OK, how about you, Marcus? I don't have him in the top 10, even though he is one of my like, I like him a lot. I have a bias towards him, but don't worry, Samir, I'm not going to let this bias outweigh anything else. But like I said, I brought him up earlier when it came to like, you place him against someone like a Rubio and I think that somebody with Tony O's physique and overall just blessings, he is able to, you know, beat some of these guys with such an incredible physique. So I think that he's the future of this sport, not to say he's Olympia winner, but I think he'll be a future in, you know, at a Mr. Olympian I think the league and all that. How about you, John? That's fair. I got to be nice. I love that. Yeah, he's got a freaky physique. He's very grainy, thick. The judges like his look. I think he's a little narrow. It's just his shoulder structure done that you can do about it. I think he kind of throws off his physique, but the judges like him. And I think he's going to be in good shape, but he always is. So I think he's going to make the top 10. Yeah, OK. I like again, I don't see the top 10, but he can prove me wrong by coming in and be on shredded and presented right. I mean, I've seen him in New York what couple years ago and I was very impressed. Yeah, but I'm just looking at the list of contestants, bro. You know, I mean, yeah, no disrespect from him. I mean, anybody is going to make the top 10 is going to be bad. His trajectory has been pretty crazy as of late. Like he's he's gotten a lot better as of late. And I'm pretty sure that if Samir was Tony, Tony would be first place, Mr. Olympia champion. You know what, man? You know, up to now, we haven't even discussed Regan Grimes. We haven't discussed Nick Walker. All right, let's talk about Regan Grimes. It's so hard for me to talk about Regan because, you know what? Regan, I keep in touch with Regan. Sometimes I tell him certain things, you know, we're connected. I believe his potential is unbelievable, is unlimited. Yeah. We need to see. Regan. Shredded to the bone along, not missing his peak. You know, we saw in New York, John, that he came in. He was small, but shredded. And one week later, he was full and stayed shredded. So you need to master that peaking. You know, sometime maybe loading for one or two days is not enough. And I think he needs a longer period of time in loading. And he still lack a little bit more in presentation. He still does. I mean, I'm like a fan of his body. I mean, like a lot of time I see seeing he's really getting better. Like on this side chest, in fact, I sent him a message on that. And I told him that he needs to put his forearms deeper into his rib cage and create a 3D box. I actually sent him a message regarding his. He did a three quarter backshot. And I said, you know what? I want you to flex your rear delts a little bit more. And I'm like, sincere about it, you know, I really like to help. I don't care whether it's Regan or anybody, but I think we can have all the tool to kick ass. I don't know what Regan is going to be like, because I don't know who's actually coaching Regan, because in the posing room, there was a guy with Regan and I can see there's a guy in the room working with him on his posing. Guys, do me a favor. Don't shop at Kmart. You hear me? You pay for it and I don't care if you don't believe me or trust me. Everybody now is a great co-posing coach. No, you go to Frank Zane. Oh, yeah, if you want me to come and really make your life hell and correct you and complain about every position, you can try because I know I will not let you make a tiny mistake. I don't know what you're going to do. I'm not going to make a mistake. I don't accept anything less than perfection. I don't know. I'm talking about Regan. Regan could be all the way to first place or maybe down the ladder to seventh place. I don't know. I still have no confidence in his peak coaches. I don't feel that his coaches are capable of helping him. Today I saw some of those shots that he was doing and I like to put a like on them, but I see him doing the trick water back and he's not flexing his rear delts. The side chest. I mean, he doesn't really need much. He got everything popping, but I would like to see Regan come in at 100 percent. He's at 100 percent. Oh my God. But as of now, as of all these up and downs, the high and low, I could see him in about seventh place. Definitely. I would love to see him higher, but I don't know. Like I said, I don't have confidence of the people behind who's actually contributing to his prep. Okay. How about you, Marcus? I mean, Shallots are Regan first and foremost. I think that he's like the best. To me, I'd like and I don't want to say it's about many people, but to me, he carries himself in a way that I'd want to come across. I think he's like one of the best ambassadors I've seen. However, I don't have him placing in the top 10. I have him at like 13th to be real. So that's like, I know we're going beyond the 10, but I'm going to do my thing. What do you have him again? I'm sorry. I didn't hear. 13. I mean, like you, I think that Regan has the ability to place in a lot of places. I do feel like I love to see a matchup. I want to see is him in good video personally because I think they're both people. I think that have all the abilities to like run the I have to be at one point be top, you know, top I have to be athletes. However, you know, with Regan, we haven't seen it quite yet. So I don't have him placed in the top 10. Let me, let me, let me explain. Let me just jump in and say, look, good video quality is excellent. His genetic is excellent. You know what? Regan have an excellent genetic. He's really missing. That's what compared to two. Well, the thing is good video gets shredded and say full. Who's ever behind his prep, whoever's contributing to, you know, I mean, come on. Good video as a kid, they're still young guy. I don't think he's what maybe mid 20. I don't think he's older than that or maybe 26. He's probably like mid 20 upper 20. At least. Yeah, I mean, anyway, you know, it's a shame that sometimes I want to talk about it. I would love to be on board with any of these guys the final two months just to be there. You know, because sometimes you guys disregarding their part that experience does come. Yeah. Believe me, when you do this for 50 years and you understand the high and low and how to present it. Some people don't know how to cash or not. They go to, oh yeah, prep coach. Like, who are you really? Who's your who's your prep coach? There's only one prep coach really that is 100% confirm in all area. And I'm not going to talk about coaches right now. I feel yeah, we saw, I mean, John, I love to hear your input on this as well because I feel like at the New York pro we saw like when Regan first came out, especially in the pre-judging, he looked incredible. Like, even though he was a little bit smaller, like he looked a little bit like not as full as the other guys. He looked really good as far as his conditioning and then he just kind of just all of a sudden just diminished really quickly. So, you know, seeing that in person, it kind of makes me like, oh, if he can keep that same whatever that level of conditioning, but then the fact that it was just diminished so quickly is kind of alarming. But I know he's had issues all the way along the way with certain things and inflammation, things like that, whatever, what not. But John, what do you think like about Regan? Yeah, I don't think he's going to make top 10 either. I just don't, you know, if he would be able to peak more often, I might have more confidence in him. I agree with you, Samir. I think he's got incredible genetics and great potential, but, you know, only people that understand the game will understand what Regan Grime can, what he can bring to the table. Unless Regan will have the right people on board, people that really, really accomplish, not just get me any. I said, don't go shop at Kmart, bro. You need to have a very professional coach in presentation that, and it's not like double-bizers, it's much more. Someone that talks to you from your facial expression, your angle, the way you, all of these little tiny detail, and I don't think Regan is doing that yet. Yeah. I know because we were together when we saw Regan at New York. Was it New York? Yeah. And how he missed his peak, and then a week later it was unbelievable. So, you know, that's one year. And you learn from that one year. Is he still with the same coaching staff? That's also, like, for example, let's say you take Regan Grime and put him with Hadi Chopin. I'm sorry, with Hadi Ramboy. If you put Regan with Hadi Ramboy, or you put him with me, and let me just say that. I know exactly precisely what he needs. He needs to pose with precision. He needs to peak with precision. Everybody is scared the final three days. Oh, if I eat, I'm going to smooth out. Like, dude, relax. Relax. It's not as easy to smooth out. You're not going to smooth out. That's another topic. You know, Regan Grime needs to do some changes. Unless he does the changes. I'm sorry, I'm not going to be on board of him really winning it all as of now. Anyway, that's it. How about Jordan Hutchinson, a rookie? He won two shows. Who? Jordan Hutchinson. He's the one that just, he won the two shows. He went up against Quintzen. Yeah, he won Tampa, and he won Texas. I think, very impressive, but again, it's a different ball game here. Yeah. It's a different ball game, and he's going to be fighting with some guys. You know, I mean, even the guy that he beat Quintzen, and some of us didn't agree with it. Some of us think, yeah. But I think it's going to find it difficult for him to break in the winner circle. Yeah. It's going to be very difficult for him. And I don't know what to say honestly, Jean, about his placing, but I didn't study his body good enough, but I know he's good. He get in shape. Top 10. He might be 10th place. I don't know. I mean, but not better than that. Okay. What about you, Mike? Yeah, I mean, every time we've seen him on that pro stage, he's looked incredible. I mean, last year, and then the two shows this year. And I think he handily beat Quintzen. I think they was like both of those shows were his deservingly. I think he was, he looked incredible. But kind of to echo Samir, it's a different stage, it's the main stage, and I just, I can't see him cracking the top 10 right now. However, the package is incredible. Paul's, but like, that's probably a better, better way to put it. I think it's going to be very tough to crack the top 10. And my opinion, in fact, if you tell me Quintzen is competing and he made it, I would put Quintzen easily in the top 10, but Quintzen also need to have a more mastery in his speaking. And I mean, when I talk about Quintzen, he's not in the show. He's not in the show. But I'm just being honest. Is he capable? Yes, he is. He's posing is not as good. You know what? He posed next to Urs. Urs is a very good at the pose. But anyway, let's continue with our placing because I don't want to elaborate on that. What about William Bonac? I don't know. I think William is going to be, is going to be a rough ride for Bonac this year. And I don't have him in the top six. No. If there's anything that he might be in top 10, I might give him the top 10 instead of what's his name? Yes. Yeah, no, I would give Bonac no better than top 10. 10? Okay. How about you? What about you, John? I didn't put him in top 10, honestly. You didn't put him in the top 10? No. I kind of have to agree with you. I think he could make it. If anything, he might be at the very end of the top 10, maybe 10th, maybe 11th, but I don't think he's going to do better than that. Look, I'm looking at the contestant list, man. Come on. Shoot.  we haven't talked about Nick Walker, we haven't talked about Urs. We'll get to them. What about you, you got Bonac in the top? Yeah, yeah, I got him. Eighth. Behind Brandon. Eighth? Yeah. OK. I know. How about Urs? I put him in 11th place. 11th? OK. How about Urs? Whew. Man, I don't know, man. Urs is one of the guys that I like because Urs is a very smart, very intelligent bodybuilder and I know that's his first try and I know some people with discretion from competing. I think he's smart that he is competing since he's already in condition. I don't know, like, you know what, Urs, he has this mentality of German mentality of like quality, quality. He like quality and the good thing about Urs, what people don't understand, that he's in complete control of his positioning, OK? He's very good about showing what he has. I think. The majority doesn't. You know what, if like Quinton had the same ability as Urs in showing it, he would have done better. But anyway, let's continue to say about Urs. My God, I like to put Urs in the top. I don't know, man. He's got to make the top eight, but I don't know where I can put him at this point. Shoot. Oh, my God. How many places? Let me see. Already covered six. Oh, my God. He's right there with Martin. I think you said something that was like really spot on in the sense of like the quality that he brings, right? And he brings that like just pristine overall, just on stage presence. And I think that's going to be, it's going to go a long way at the main stage of Mr. Olympia. You see, listen, what people don't understand and Urs. He's just a smart guy. He knows exactly how to aim and shoot. This is what most bodybuilders don't have. You know, I used to say so much about Chris Bumstad, how much in control Bumstad of his posing. Bumstad have the ability to show you what he want to show you. And guess what? He does a good job. And I don't see, I would say the same thing on Urs. Urs is like a different bodybuilder now. It's not like the old Urs. Urs is a new Urs right now. It's like a big guy. He could be a little bit bigger yet, but that's his first Olympia. And I'm happy to see him making the winner circle. At this point, I don't know, man. I don't know. I mean, I still like go back looking at the list. I don't know, man. We still have Hany and we have Hady and we still have Samson. We still have shoot Nick Walker. And I like to see him in the top six. But again, if he comes in in the top six, I'll be very good from the first year. Could he make the top six? I think he would be in the right. What the hell? What should I remember? You got Regan at seven. Do you have Urs being Regan? Well, honestly, no, Regan is not going to beat Urs. Because not both the size, not for the quality. I mean, Urs is right now, he's on a roll and he's shredded. He comes in shredded and he's in total control. This is what Regan don't have now. I mean, can you imagine Urs the same size as Regan? It would be crazy to see him the next couple of years just climb up that ladder. I'm freaking out, man. I don't know what else to say here. But this crazy line up is insane. Insane. So you want to move Regan down the spot and put Urs in his spot for the seventh? Like, do you have Urs beating Martin? Well, Urs is probably at the same level as Martin right there. He is. He is. That'd be a cool little call out right there. I mean, I gave Martin sixth place. So I don't know. It's like, I say it's equal between Urs and Martin. They're going to fight on a sixth spot, I think. But then again, that's all I can elaborate on right now. So don't push me to the limit. You pushing me to the limit. I feel like you sometimes push me to the limit a little bit. And I sit there, I had to scramble and stuff. I'm like, oh, shit, some ears over here giving me his, you know, he's doing all that. So I'm like, ah, I want to give it back to you a little bit. Well, you know what, man? I'm passionate about this game and I hate to leave anybody out of the race when they are deserved to be in the race. I hate that. It's just a very tough year. And it's like heavy, heavily contested contest this year. And I mean, Urs is one person that I like a lot. Because he is in control on stage. And he did change things for the better because we know all along he's more belong with the bigger boy because cutting his body down to a certain weight to make the classical bullshit. And here he is right now. He's doing excellent with the big boys. I mean, look, man, he's beating Quinton. He's beating these guys. I mean, he's a badass. I mean, Urs is good. So I don't want to say more than I say, I see Urs in the top six, but where exactly? John, please help me here. Yeah, right now I got him in 10th, but I think he could, he could be in the top six too. I mean, it all depends on, you know, what kind of shape he's in and what kind of shape everybody else is in. But you're right, Samir, he's, he's, he hits his feet. I mean, he knows how to pose, man. Yeah, he's very, he's very smart about his presentation. I think his best needs to come up and, you know, his arms, even though they're better than they were when he was in classic, they still need to come up a little more. But yeah, I think I'll make top 10 though. I think I'll make top 10. Yeah. Nice. I see him even way better than top 10. I mean, you know, I don't know, I gave Regan seven, but I hope he does. I hope he plays. Right now, right now I can see him having a, I put him ahead of Regan, unfortunately right now, I could see him no less than top seven. Yeah. For me, I feel like, pardon me. You got an intent? Yeah. So I have, I have an intent. I do have an intent. And for me personally, two things helped create that. One, what we just saw within the last couple of weeks, just came out and just, you know, I did his thing. You know, John, I would like to see yours size wise. Yeah. Again, for me, it does. Right now, he's going to stand next to Samson, next to Hardy, next to Derek. I don't know how much, you know, again, Andrew Jack, those guys are big. It's not like, you know, standing next to Quinton. Yeah. Right. He's standing next to a bigger boy. That's where I feel like he'll be able to like sign against the Tony O's out there. Even a bone act. Like I could, even though I have hers in temp, I could see. Him doing better than a bone act per se, depending. No, no, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Ores is easily in the top seven or eight for sure. Why? Ores got a tiny waist, shredded abs. He peaked very pro very nicely, especially in the past through show. His arm has vastly improved. His legs, easy. You can see the legs. So Ores is, in my opinion, he could improve a little bit more in the back department, but other than that, I mean, Ores is like, is in control. He's behind the driver's seat. He's driving properly. Whoever is contributing to Ores and Pekin, I'm sure they did a good job. And, you know, like saying, knowing the German mentality, because I was around the German box, I trained in Germany for the 83. And I know these guys don't accept anything under 24K. So just by virtue of the German mentality of bringing in super shredded quality to the table, Ores is going to be like, I don't know. I mean, I'd like to see him size wise, next to the big guys. But I would say definitely in my top seven. Okay. You got me. Seven. So I guess Scott put Ores in seven, three in an eighth for Samir. All right, let's go to Samson. Where you guys got Samson? Oh, I don't change what I said about Samson. I don't change anything about Samson. He's a champion. I see him. He's working his ass off. Yeah. He's busting his butt. Him and his wife is pushing him. You can see how driven he is. And they've wonderful team. This is alone is going to be plus for him. The worst thing that we're going to see Samson looking at least better than he was. I'm still anxious to see him bringing 24K quality. I know he won at 21K. So just imagine. Just imagine Samson coming, you know, creeping toward the 24K. So Samson at 24K is untouchable. And I have to say that. Why? His physique, shoulder to waist ratio. Last time you guys saw him gasp posing and he looked good. And I said something about how good he looks. And that's not even since something was flat there. But you can see his body that he's trying to bring in more quality. And I would love to see more striation and separation. When Samson bring that separation, deeper separation, bringing more the tight end between shoulders and arm, that is going to be very hard to beat. So I think that's going to be the best thing. So I would have to go. Samson for the win. Okay. How about you, Marcus? All right. So, you know, without trying to be a bias Betty at this point, I just, because I will say Samson is my favorite bodybuilder right now, as far as physique goes and all that. Um, for this prediction, I have him in second. I want him to win though, but I'm not trying to let my bias, you know, outshine my prediction at this point. So I have him in second. Even I want him to win. And I mean, Samir touched base one at one. That's all the women out there. I think he got so much black. That's a fair assessment, Marcus. That's a fair assessment because really, look at, I said, if Samson bring in high, better quality is going to be automatic. And I think we just saw. And also so far, so far, I see the hard work. I see the hard work he puts in, but I have not seen that deeper frustration and separation. I mean, I'm pretty sure there will be a new, uh, Samson on stage. And, uh, but I cannot take him out of the top two. I can't. I think what, what, what do you say about that? I got him in first two. Um, I think he's really concerned about coming in really harder than he was last year because he got criticism last year because he wasn't, uh, in really hard shape, especially Friday night. So I think he's, you know, and I think we saw in that guest posing that he's definitely harder and yeah, I just think, you know, with his physique, he's got the great body. He's really not lacking anything. He's got the great symmetry. He's got a good. He's all for body. Yes. Yeah. He's got muscle mass. It's just his problem is, is that he always comes in always, especially if it's a Friday, Saturday show, he always comes in off on Friday and he did that at the Arnold too. And I think he's mad about losing to Derek after just winning the Olympia a few months earlier. So I think he's going to, I think he's going to improve that. And I think he's going to come in much harder than he's ever been. And I think, yeah, well, especially with this symmetry and is the beauty of his physique, if he comes in harder, I think he'll win. But I wanted to do something here and I hope that, uh, Samson is listening to what we're saying here. I am my biggest advice for Samson. I don't want him to thinking if he's lighter, he's going to be better. I want him to peak properly. I want him to stay full. I don't care if that happened at 270 or at 290 because if you're not completely full and popping is going to affect you in a big way. All right. So we need him to come in peaked properly. Don't say, oh, I'm going to be a little bit lighter and to come in a little flat. No, because we saw that happen to, uh, Quinton, I would like to see the muscle pushing out, popping, you're not going to get fat. You're not going to get fat, but do not come in flat. You understand? You should be able to differentiate between fat and flat, but only a handful of people understand the fat and flat, only a handful. So yes, a lot of time we point finger at someone who is shredded, but flat. And we say, oh yeah, he's fat, but no, no, no. No. I tell you, well, none of those guys is going to have one gram of fat on them, but still they don't understand the proper way to keep the muscle maximum fullness in. I mean, this is another, this is what I want to tell Samson. Make sure you don't come in flat if you want to win the Olympia again. Yeah, I think you said one, the biggest thing is like how he won the Olympia was having that fullness. I think that's what set him apart from the other gentleman he was going against with the top two and three guys was that fullness that he brought to the stage. What? Okay, Marcus, I have a question for you. I want a question for you, Marcus. Quick. Why do you give him second? Because I just think the same way that John said about Samson, as far as that hunger, that drive, I think Hoddy is doing the same thing just in the dark. I think he probably has that same drive. He's a past Mr. Olympia winner. So I'm not wrong for putting Hoddy up there because it's like deserving. I just think I can see it. Granted, I would be so happy. I want Samson to win, but it's just my prediction. I think Hoddy might come with vengeance. I want the best man to win. And if I had my bias, it would be Samson. I know Hoddy is one of my favorite people. Hoddy is a hard worker. Hoddy works harder than anyone and I can see it. And then sometimes you have to apply the overall harmony and the line and the quality. And I'm sure John, when I elaborate on his number one, I know you picked Samson. Why do you think Samson is going to take a John? Well, I think he's got the best physique. And I think the only thing, like I said, he was lacking was he just wasn't hard enough. And I think he'll be hard enough to share. So I think it'll be enough to win again. That's exactly how I feel. Samson improved Samson. That means Samson is going to come home with $600,000. And now I cannot say, honey is not, I mean, honey, I'm sorry, Hoddy. Hoddy is going to be clashing head to head. He's going to be improved. And it's going to be very, very tough on the judges to, you know, you got the judges looking at wide, small ways, beautiful line. And you're looking at Hoddy Chopin, who was striated in the chest, great midsection, hard like a rock, legs. So this is the only way Hoddy is going to fight that fight. You know, I tell you what, Hoddy has got the muscularity, the hardness, and he's proven to bring it to the stage. Like I said, when Hoddy come in, step on stage, you're immediately going to catch your eyes. You're going to right away first call out why. Hoddy understand that his midsection, his upper side, the hardness, remember what I talked about, hard muscle. For that one reason, I put Hoddy over Derek. Because we know Hoddy is going to come in with that tight midsection, hard, and striated chest that comes out. You cannot miss it. Will you tell me who has a better genetic? Who has a better body? Hoddy or Derek? And I'm going to tell you, nobody has the genetic of Derek. Derek is an incredible gift. He's the most blessed on stage. He is. But the lion heart is in, you know, Hoddy, he's got the lion will. He trained so hard. I saw him doing one set of legs. My God, I'm like, fuck. I didn't even train that hard, bro. He started with like, I don't know how many plays, seven plays. It was like going and going and going and going. He's torturing himself. And this is why sometimes I elaborate and say about hard-looking muscle. Hard-looking muscle does matter. Does matter. And the guy bringing hard muscle because he is training ultra-hard and intense. And he's got a lot of muscle. And that's the harder look is the hardest looking body would be in the top three would be Hoddy. Hoddy will have the hardest looking body. Now, if again, I go back and say, Samson, I picked Samson because what? The God given genetic, the shoulder to waist ratio, the flow, the thighs and calves. So this is going to be very tight and we're going to witness it and let's see who showed up. We cannot 100% confirm that. Oh, yeah, Samson is going to win it. Walking the park. I'm talking, this is a speculation. And if this and that happened, that's what happened. I can't say, oh, yeah, you're Derek is not going to be capable. Derek is capable. Will he do it? Let's hope so. Anyway, that's it. I'll call it that. One thing that I can say for certain, which is like no semantics, no guessing is the one thing I've always loved. I've always championed it because I do love, like I think women are like the backbone. So the fact that like, I love the fact that everything with a storyline for Samson and his girl, Marlene, like I love that. So knowing he's coming in with her and having that as his, you know, just that's going to be his ride or die throughout the whole thing. I think that gives even more strength and power. So like shout out to that, even like with Keon in the 212 division, him and his girl, the fact that she's his trainer. I mean, shoot, Samir, I don't think we'd be here. You'd be here without Jen there. You know, so shout out to Jen. You know what I'm saying? Like everything like that. You know what I mean? Like the women are big helps. Like, you know, I've seen John Irvine, me and mine, you know, so like, I love to see that. So man, I made the best man win really sometime when you're sitting on this side, trying to look at it from the outside in. And I don't like for anybody to think I'm like biased. I'm pulling for the answer. I don't really pull for anyone in particular. Made the best man win. I'm not told you what like I was defending Nick Walker at one time. You know, why? Because Nick is a hard worker. We saw him changing, evolving into a better Nick Walker. You know, we saw Samson looking incredible and we couple of time and I voted for Derek to win. And you know what? We just following what's been happening. And again, made the best man win. And so what else? Who did we leave off, John? We didn't talk about Nick Walker. What about Hadi? Where do you got him? Second? As of now, it's all depending on what Samson is going to bring to the table. I know one thing. Hadi is going to come in ready. How much better can he be? And how much better Samson can improve? This is a tough one to really analyze. You know, tough analysis right here. Because you are fighting with a guy like Samson who's got a classical physique. We I want to see Samson looking sharper, bringing more variation. Now, what what else? Mr. Olympia Hadi Chopin need to bring to the table this time. We don't know. We still don't know. We know he's working very hard. We know Samson is working very hard. And it could really be these two guys. And guess what? Don't leave Derek out of the race. Because Derek can make some changes and gets ultra hard, both better, be more shredded. I don't know. But anyhow, that's I stop it at there, John. I think Hadi would be no less than second as of now. And could win it without weight. You know, we have to wait and see what he's going to bring to the table. Say it again, John. What do you say, John? I got him in second. I got I got Hadi in first. And it's just we've seen we just saw Samson and Derek go back and forth. Things like that. And Nick was thrown into that too as far as the mix. And I haven't seen Hadi yet. And I think he's going to come with a vengeance. I think that last year is Olympia. He's won. It took Samson into deep water. So, OK, Hadi first. OK, well, now I'm going to ask the question for both of you. Please discuss Nick Walker. I mean, I think Nick could be as high as second. But I got him in fourth. I think he's just an absolute freak. And I'm just so impressed with how he looks, especially, I mean, the amount of size he's put on just since New York is incredible. He's just like, look at this picture. This is, I don't know if this is a filter or what, but he just looks unbelievable here. I mean, he could win. 100%. I mean, it just depends. Wow. If the judges decide to go with that look, that freak look, then he could win. But I don't think he's, I think the judges are going to go with Samson. And I think he could place as high as second. But right now I got him in fourth. I think Derek's going to beat him. But I really don't know. It all depends on what he shows up with. But he's going all out to have that freak look. And he's going to shock a lot of people, I think. Yeah. But right now I got him in fourth. What do you say to the judges? What do you say? I think that, you know, obviously the nickname is perfect for it, obviously. Put it this way, I brought up the fact that Samson has his girl there and things like that. And Walker is coming with the whole, you know, the Walker Nation. He's coming with Mama Walker, Papa Walker. You know, he's coming with a whole family and people that are just going to be on his team. And these people are just beautiful, blessed, just a whole family unit. So I think that John said it. I mean, I don't think second, I think first, I think he could easily get first. It just depends because there's such a crazy lineup. So I would not be shocked and I'd be very elated if he got first. But right now third, but I would be very, very happy if he was able to get his sandal and go home with that and just take it to the sand. So what place, what place do you want to give third? Yeah. Third. That's fair. Okay. Well, why don't you think he'll be first, Mark? Oh, personally, like, I mean, just saying what you said, you just said it, you said something right there. You said, if the judges are going for that look. So to me, he has a champion look. I think that Derek was the Mr. Olympian champion. We, we, and he arguably to me beat him at the Pittsburgh pro, Nick. So to me, he has that look. He has the look that's good. Hey, man, Marcus, you seem like you're all working out with Nick. Hey, then I'll be getting those games like Nick. I could be a little, little, I know you become a, hey, I know you become more of a fan when you interviewed him last time. I've always been, I'm going to, I'm y'all going to test prior, a big fan of Nick. Um, I know that he doesn't look, look, man, I tell you what, Nick is the most driven bodybuilder on the planet right now. He's the most driven, you know, and his training was vengeance. I know that. And we've been discussing Nick Walker for the past three years. We went from Nick Walker. That was Nick Walker, the blocky Nick Walker. Now, up to this point, Nick Walker is proving us all wrong. And then I became a fan of Nick Walker two years ago. He started to bring in the better body, better body, more detail, smarter, clearer muscle. You know, I think Nick is smart bodybuilder and he's telling everybody, including Bob Shaccarello and everybody else that, Hey man, you didn't even put me in the top of the top 10 or whatever. He can approve them all wrong. I tell you, he is. I don't know. I mean, look, Nick is like a pretty bulldozer. He become like a pretty, pretty bulldozer. You understand Nick is coming out to clean up. You want to speak of hunger. He's going to be the most muscular guy. That's right. If you want to speak of hunger, imagine having to sit out. Like how you're saying about Barus. Nick is literally arguably supposed to be in everybody's winter circle. Man, don't talk about Barus, man. It's going to be. I know it's going to get you to my eyes. Barus is really upsetting me. But I'm just saying Nick has had to sit out. I'm so sad about Barus. And I can only imagine the hunger that that's going to bring. So that same hunger I spoke about with Hadi. Shit, I could sit there and change those two right there. Look, look, I really think Nick Walker is going to prove a lot of us wrong. But he's not proving me wrong because I see the changes. I'm keeping up with everything. Don't worry. I see Nick's midsection. He is paying attention. I've studied Nick. He's paying attention to creating balance with his body. Least recently I saw him is putting his legs together. Something that I've been preaching about forever. So you know what? Nick is smart. He starts to know if I do this, this is what happened. Guess what? I don't know if someone is helping him in that area or not. But he's really making up ground and creating a better looking bulldozer. Okay. He is going to be like, I'm a pretty King Kong. Let's see what he's going to bring to the table. But I honestly, like when I go back to see my list and I looked between Nick Vito and Andrew Jack, those guys to me, they're going to be really up there. But then when Nick the bulldozer, you know, Walker is going to come in with a freaky muscularity, with a big huge damn arms and great upper body muscularity. And yes, I would love to have him to work on his line, his line, creating line with that body. If Nick learned how to apply the creating line and keep his feet together, put his legs together, and guess what? He's going to be bad to the bone, man. And it's not going to be easy to overcome by some of those guys. You know, I could see him, you know, like you said, John, everything is possible with the judges and what they like today.  but is Nick Walker more gifted than Samson? No. Is he gifted as Derek? No. But is he more muscular in bringing more muscle weakness to the table? Yes. So we'll have to wait and see what Nick's going to bring to the table, and I predict that he's going to bring another new look of Nick, the bulldozer, Walker. You know, it's called a bulldozer. Take it as a compliment because he's coming in like King Kong. You know what I mean? He's going to say, Bob, Bob Shacarello, take a look at this bulldozer. I'm going to bulldoze everyone on stage. Bob's going to have to swallow some words. You know, I really wish him the best. I like Nick because he's relentless. Nick is relentless in pursuit. This is one thing about Nick Walker that I like. You know, some people may think, oh, he's like too aggressive. Nick has got the style of like, yeah, but hey, man, that's Nick Walker, but don't underestimate the firepower and the muscle power that he has, the confidence, the confidence that he's going to bring to the table. So I don't know. I could see him like in the top five. It's going to be, you know, we're going to see what kind of Nick Walker show up. I can't say anything other than I know he's improving. I know he's making the necessary adjustment. He's capitalizing all the new information. He's like, you know, he doesn't care what happened last year, what happened two years ago. He is keeping his eye on the ball and you know, I'm bodybuilding, you keep your eyes on the ball. You would say he's being a student of the game. That's why that's one thing I think that he is taking heat to a lot of things. How you said, but the way he's standing and things like that, I think he is being like a good student of the game. He's improving and positioning. You know, if you notice some of his latest photos, he's keeping him his feet together, his leg together. And you know what? That's the smartest thing you can do. Anybody, and I repeat anybody that opened the legs like this on stage, guess what? The dumbest things in the world to open your legs wide because guess what happened? You throw off your symmetry and harmony. You will look like crap. Every time you open your legs and arms like that, you're no good. I'm telling you, you want to lose the Olympia? Stand on stage with your legs wide open, open your arms there, trying to act like Superman with your wing open. You got to learn how to create lines. You have to learn to become a professional in every word. You got to be pro. That's why you're in Mr. Olympia, man. Don't go up on stage looking like a funky chicken. I don't want to look like a hen. I want to look like an eagle on stage, proud eagle. And yeah, I think, you know, Nick Walker is improving and all these. Where's the penguin at, Samir? So I don't know what Nick Walker was going to show. Samir, where's the penguin at? The penguin award. Who's getting a penguin award this year? My penguin is not here. I should have brought it with me. But you know what, man? Marcus is no joke. I pull my heart out and I talk about it. It's time for the MPC and people on top in the MPC Pro League to really find a way we get more respect because those kind of positioning are very unprofessional. Very. And you know what? You want to prove me wrong? Ask Frank Zane. See what Frank Zane will tell you. And I'm not saying Frank Zane he does it because he's not 300 pounds. Frank Zane does it because he understands I'm an artist. I went up, go up on stage to look pretty. Dorian Rates didn't do that. And you know what? I don't follow Dorian Rates. I mean, Dorian Rates as a poser is a no, no. I don't think Dorian was a great poser. Dorian, he brought a muscularity in conditioning and unreal. And he did the basic stuff. He can't pose like, you know, look at, he doesn't pose like Sam. So Sam can bring positioning on stage. He does a great job with positioning. I mean, hey, every Mr. Olympia we see out there from Ronnie Coleman to Jay Cutler. I'm not a big fan of the way they pose. I'm not. And so look at guys like Nick Walker. He's like capitalizing some of those info. You know, and let's see what he brings to the table. And I know you said you'd be top five. And I know like in that fifth spot, you got Andrew, you got one place missing. So who would you have? Do you got info? So if you do your four and five, are you placing Nick over Andrew or Andrew? Man, I'm like, I don't know Nick Walker. But for me, it's like, you know, like I said, I put big videos at fourth place. I don't know. I mean, I think big video's body is flowing really, really well. I don't know about his stage performance. I don't know about his stage experience. Will that work with him or against him? I can see that he's not in control of what he has in total control of what he has. And I'm talking about Nick Vito. And I think, I mean, I'm sorry, big video. I think Nick Walker is going to be a different Nick Walker again. He's going to bring a new Nick Walker to the table. He's just going to be like, do you think he'll place above Andrew? I think a good Vito fourth. You know, I can go Andrew Jack, Andrew Jack, who's great body, but you know, the world right now, they're very hot on Nick Walker because Nick Walker muscularity and the way he talks and the way he thinks. I mean, again, I don't know, man, all best is off for me. I just want to see who's a new Nick Walker on stage. He's making a lot of progress. He's making a lot and lots of progress. So that remained to be seen. It could go all the way up to when I don't know what we're going to bring, what Nick Walker is going to bring to the table. All I know is going to be vastly improved. All right. So let's go over our top 10. Marcus, you got Hoddy first, Samson second, Nick third, Derek fourth, Andrew Jack fifth, Martin Fitzwater sixth, Brandon Curry, seventh, William Bonac eighth, what do you got tonight? That's my bias pick. And that earth and time. Yeah, Kim was on 10 last year. Tamir, you got Samson first, Hoddy second, Derek third, you got good Vito in fourth. You got Andrew. Right now, I may have to say in four places really, I mean, Nick Walker, because he's a hot, he's a hot guy on the stage. So I may want to put like Nick Walker and straight right behind them would be big Vito and then Andrew Jack. So we have to make room for these guys. And you know, sometimes when we're talking, and I lost count of the big list, we have a huge list here. I mean, even Ores, I have, I mean, I put Ores is in several places instead of ahead of Regan Grime. So I made some changes. Please keep that in mind. I mean, no, there's a lot of guys we didn't talk about. We didn't talk about Sasan. Yeah, you know, we didn't talk about what his name. There's a champion called what Brett Wilkin. Yep, Brett Wilkin. Yep. He's very good too. I mean, we don't know what this guy's going to bring to the table that day. So you got, you got Nick and fourth, good Vito and fifth. You got Andrew Jack, sixth. Yes. Martin, seventh, Ores, eighth, Regan, ninth. What do you got in tenth then? Tenth, I mean, you know, I would put guys like, I said, I didn't put Rubel in there, but like guys like, what did, where did I put Ores again? Eighth. Yeah, I think I have him seventh, but again, you got Martin placing in front of Ores. He's no lower than seventh. Yeah, I think Ores is going to stand out more. He's going to be better. Better than Martin? Yeah, then I would have to go through bad Baruzas out of the pictures. I would have to go with guy like Sasan, if he comes in shredded too. Okay. He might make the top 10. You know, the guy is good. And you know, like Brett Wilkin, those guys could be one of those guys can really hunt for the 10 spot. Yeah. Randale is another one. What do you think? Randale is another one who could do. I want him to put his arm down. He's doing again. He's doing the pelican. Pink. See the pelican bro? Marcus, we got to stop the pelican. I mean, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I said penguin. Why did I say pelican? The penguins. It's all your fault, Marcus. You got me. As I heard, Jen cleaned it up. Yeah, she cleaned it up for me. Yeah, but I kind of, the penguin is a beautiful bird, but not on stage. I can't stand that penguin being on stage like that. To me, you know, what? Sorry guys, but I call it when someone's done like this, I call him an idiot. Sorry. Nothing derogatory against anyone. But when you stand like this on stage, guess what? In Samir's, in Samir's way, not in a derogatory way, I would have like a donkey with 24 ears. You stand on stage looking like a penguin, your bone head, somebody brainwash you to do stupid things. Don't do it. Don't do it. Learn. Learn from experience, right, John? Right. What about, what about John's list? We got, Scott, go back to John's list real quick. We got, so we got Samson first, Hottie second, Derek third, Nick gets fourth, Andrew in fifth, Martin Fitzwater sixth, Good Vito in seventh, Brandon Curry, eighth, Tony O'Burton, knife. I like that one in earth's 10th place. Oh, John, where did you put Big Vito? Good Vito. Seventh. What? Seventh. Good choice, smart guy. Smart guy. He's looking good. I think, you know, that Big Vito, the Good Vito guy is going to surprise all of us. Look out. Okay. And I remind you, Marcus, you're losing $20. Finally. I feel it. I feel it. I mean, I think I like to see him and Nick Zilla next to each other fight for that, you know, time for them. They'll all school to pay you a little bit more. Tell them, lose $20. Your zell is going to come from old school labs, LLC. PayPal, Samir, and it's a, yeah, that's, that you put me on, you put me on the spot with Samir and now I'm going to start losing money gambling with this guy. It's all right. It'll be credit for that. Well, it'll be fun, man. I can't wait to see you guys in Vegas. This is going to be a great year, man. John, we're going to sit down next to each other and take a look at everyone there and be fair to everyone. And again, from my perspective, may the best man win, whether it is, whether it is Samson or honey or Derek or anyone on Nick Walker. I would, I hope any of these guys I mentioned to be the winner and may the best man win and may God bless all our good friend who works very hard. And again, I'm sorry that I have to come back and say you guys need to raise your awareness a little bit and help our friend Bahruz. And let's hope you can, we can bring him to compete. More than that, God bless you guys. It was good to talk to you as always. All right. We'll look at our list after the Olympia and see how we did. And then, Fennie, you guys out there listening. We can compare notes. Want to give your top 10, put them in the notes. Stop saving your money. Yeah, yeah. Definitely. Definitely. And one more thing. Shout out to my grandma too. Any praise for Bahruz and all that and we're on the world. Sorry about your grandma. I hope she feels better, man. I'm sorry about your dog last week. This sucks. But yeah, thank you. I appreciate that. Yeah, just life as a beach. Give some prayers to those who deserve it. We gotta hang tough, man. Yeah, trying to, man. Trying to. But my grandma deserves it way more than me. So the blessings and things like that. Well, she's 82. God bless her. So she's good. Yeah. She called me right before. That's why we had to start. Yeah, right before that she called me. So I'm happy about that. So yeah, appreciate it. God bless her, man. Thank you. Thank you. And bless you. God bless you guys too. John, John and Samir. I hope you guys have a great time and everybody else watching. Thank you for watching. Thank you, buddy. I can't wait to turn my AC on. I'm sweating. Take care, guys.