 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx on Christmas, we are true fans of this sport and it is Olympia time. It is that season. Tomorrow they will be on stage. So there's a lot going on. We're going to try to cover. I mean, let's start off with, you know, there's, there's going to be Keon. He's up almost 12 pounds. And if there's anybody who's even going to beat on his level in the 212 matter of fact, Olympia men's open at that point next year. That's where I'm thinking. That's my brain is going. We got some drama brewing in the men's physique class. I don't know if y'all call the presser, but there was a lot going on. Ali Bilal, he was getting it in Brandon. There's, there's some little touch and touch and touch and go going on. And of course we cannot forget about what are they calling it now? The hair gate and all that. The Mike, that a Mike summer felt with March, March, March, summer felt. And then of course we have the just everything that is men's open and the coin flip that we can do four or five different ways as far as who's going to take the sand out home. So let's get right into it. Let's start, let's start with the, uh, let's start with Keon. How about that? Let's, let's go with Keon. All right. So we know that he is, I think officially 211.9 pounds. He is right there on the top. Yeah. Yeah. He's there. So how do you feel about him? Have you seen his updates? I mean, I'd be very surprised if there's anyone that's on bodybuilding social media that hasn't seen them. I think right now he's just the king of the updates right now. I mean, him and Nick Walker are the guys that everyone is talking about and rightfully so because in the updates, they, they look insane. They look like Mr. Olympia. Nick, we'll see, but in Keon's case, there's no one in open that even comes close on pretty much in two, 12, there's no one that even comes close in it on any metric. Um, they don't have the size of him. They don't have the width. They don't, they certainly don't have the structure. He's getting the condition now. It's just, it's a package that won't be beatable. I wouldn't be surprised if they do, if he's like even remotely on one call out, send him back. That's it. So he's going to get that feel he's treatment. Might, might it be the feel he's treatment? I mean, it'll be not to be hyperbolic, but it'll be just as dominant as some pound for pound, just as dominant as something like a 2013. I've said, you know, there are Chris Bumsteads wins were as dominant as Ronnie's wins some of the time because there was just no one that could really stand next to him and pose a serious threat. And then for Keon, that's just the case. Who's going to pose a threat? I challenge you to name me one name, not in a disrespectful way. No, I mean, not at all. Yeah. Keon has serious genetic gifts and he's, he's capitalized on all of them. So it's, it's just a done deal. Some guys are better than others from the get go. Now, do you think he will be forced? Not forced per se, it might be some choice words, but might he have to just kind of go up and we're going to see him at Prague. Right. So do you think this might be his last classic physique show? I'm not classic of his last two 12 showing and then he might just go take on the open depending on how he does in Prague. I think so. I think at this point, yeah, there's no reason. I mean, a lot of guys still, even if they hit the two 12 weight cap, they'll still do a couple more years because I mean, a weight cut won't hurt you typically that much until you, you know, Breon was able to do it for a while. I know that was classic. Flex Lewis was able to do it for a while. There he was. But yeah, I think he should definitely test the waters and then see, I mean, I don't even know if he'll need to do Prague. He definitely will and should. But I mean, based on what we see tomorrow morning, I mean, I think we'll be able to tell quite quickly. Yeah, do you think at this point right now, what we're going to see on that stage, do you think he can make it to a first called out men's open? You know, this is I've always had the unpopular opinion on this because because the fact of the matter is and these aren't, this isn't shade, but you are 55 as of 2024 55 and 200 pounds. You know, that means everyone and it's not always scale weight that matters. You know, Keon has he looks larger than life even on stage. But at some point it does matter. I don't even know if he would have beat Andrew jacked last year just off sheer size. I don't think he would have beaten Martin and I don't think he would have placed top three last year. Based on what I'm seeing now, I think I it's time to update that opinion. I don't think I'm not going to say top three automatically because I just don't get that. Like, yes, it can be the best. We can all agree Seabomb has a better physique than any open guy. Maybe you want to say that, but that doesn't mean it's going to beat them on a bodybuilding stage because of size and thickness and density. I think though, Keon is bringing something absolutely wild in the updates and it's not like they're hidden behind lighting or something crazy. You know, there's just in a doorway in a mirror. This is what you get. So I can only I think it'll translate to the stage and I think this is a package worthy of at least top eight at open. I think that's and you know, people will say, well, that's not top three. I think you're under aiding him top eight of the open is that this year is incredible. Yeah, you're right off bad. You're there six gentlemen there who it'll be tough to put anybody in front of them. I mean, even people from the past top, top 20 in the world type. Right. It'll be tough for them to go and you know, go, you know, stand with these guys. These guys are looking really good. I think we see a lot of people who don't give today's atmosphere of bodybuilding enough credit rather is down for men's physique all the way up to men's open. I think we have a very deep lineup. I think as of late, the lineups have been they've been shaky, but they've been getting better. And I think this year alone, I mean, dude, your first two callouts are going to be just a toss up and all these guys are going to be bringing their end game. So I mean, it's something special. I think going back to two 12, the only, you know, there's there's some names, but obviously we all got think of, you know, gives some respect to another Mr. Olympia winner for two 12. And that is Sean Clarita. Sean Clarita made it clear he's coming in dialed in. He's not trying to come in before it's not trying to come in. He's going to bring his, you know, his specialty, which is that conditioning that gnarly look that he brings. The issue is he's going up against a powerhouse in Keon, who just at this point, not trying to sound crazy, but call it how you see it. I think this guy can look good in every division. You throw him in a classic stage. He's going to look good. Well, I have a bold prediction to make about Sean Clarita. I think he kind of slips this year to no fault of his own, actually. I think he'll I think he'll bring a decent package. I just think it this we've seen like a resurgence of the two 12 recently like you can name like really good two 12 athletes, which like for a couple of years after flex retired, it was just kind of that old crew mixed with some fresh faces that never really did too much. So you've got Lucas Garcia, you've got Madelman, Madelman, whatever, Jose, Barry, Barry, you've got, um, Karath Bajo, uh, Nisha, I don't know as last name, uh, the Vietnamese guy, if I'm not mistaken, um, it's going to be, it's going to look real bad if he's not Vietnamese, but the Vietnamese guy, if I'm not mistaken. Um, and these are all guys that have a lot better shape than and look, this is kind of what it's not the shape division anymore. But when your standard has maybe the best proportions and X frame of all time, pound for pound, it does, it does kind of force you to look at everyone through a different lens. Yeah, I agree. I think that there's, there's going to be some heavy hitters. However, it's one of those situations where Keon is just looking otherworldly. I'm very curious if come next season, we're going to see him, of course, on the Olympia stage, but similar to hers, he might be having his, uh, his open debut there. Let's, you know, as far as Freddie Olympia stage, uh, we're going to see them prog. I can't wait. I hope that all these gentlemen who are thinking about it on the cuff in men's open bodybuilding actually take that chance and you know, no reason not to. Yeah. I mean, hey, and we saw, you know, we saw it last year at Prague with Bumstead and Martin. So, hey, there's, you know, that being said, Keon's not Bumstead. Keon has the size. He has that X frame. He has that, that gift like physique that will allow him to not be outsized by Martin Fitzwater, to not have him look, you know, like, oh, this is not a quote bodybuilding stage kind of thing. He's going to look like a bodybuilder on a mental. Yeah. He'll be able to play the bodybuilding game just to a lesser degree, but well, every guy in terms of shape. Yeah. I mean, some people, I don't know if he has a better X frame than Chris Bumstead. I wouldn't know if you want to call that better shape per say some people will prefer the actual long limb aesthetics of Chris Bumstead, but in terms of just actual X frame proportions, no one is beating Keon. No, no, it is, it is reminiscent of a that what we saw with Ronnie as far as who can touch this style of physique is shape overall. Now, getting into shapes, heights and genetics. Let's let's go to the next topic. I believe you called him Marge, but we're going to go like Summerfell. Yes. From what I could tell, it sounds like he had to drop, I think, 14 plus pounds leading up into this weigh in. But we were excited about this. We were texting back and forth all morning. We were, we were pretty giddy. I was on the next day. We didn't know what was happening. We kind of felt they were watching WWE for a little bit. Like, honestly, I felt like that was in the attitude air or something, because this was this felt like a work. Obviously, if you if you tuned into the weigh ins and check ins, there is a lot of drama people. A lot. We are in the internet age. We are in the social media era to where a lot of people are going to have their voices heard and rightfully so. That's fine. Get your comments and it helps. But kind of went under fire, especially considering they did a lot of this behind the scenes. We had a live, you know, we had the live and it was all behind a curtain, which I get if I'm if I'm, you know, head of Olympia, LLC, I'm going to want to be the one to put out that the footage, whatever it is, I want to be in control of that. I think that's just intelligence at its best. But I get it from the spectator perspective being like, what the hell's going on? What's this and just being an uproar? So I kind of know your thoughts on this. But if we can give a mean, a much, you know, try to talk this out. What are your thoughts on Mike Summerford? I don't want to slander anybody. I don't want to slander anybody and I'm not going to. But there are some facts that we got to take a look at. I felt as a fan, I was disappointed that it was behind, you know, a lot of people used to UFC. The scale is front and center. It's front and center at these press conferences, at these weigh ins. It's front and center. If you have to take your clothes off, the whole of Patel for whether you're male or female, I don't know, you know. So, yeah, I don't even think the excuse works of, well, we needed a backdrop for the guys that are naked. You mean the guys that compete naked? But so I felt just as a fan, I thought it was a little disappointing not being able to see their heights and weights. And I knew how that would play over everyone. Like the whole thing is about transparency. Hey, we're going to re weigh everybody. We want to be transparent. And then we kind of, they kind of do it in a not so transparent way, perhaps the least transparent way. And that left a bad taste of my mouth from the beginning. What did you think about that? You're fine with that? I, you know, this might be where I get to slander, but I'm fine with it in the sense of if you as a company are doing what you can to keep, you know, your ducks at bay. You want to sit there and have everything correctly done so that there's not no people doing it. Remember, it's a lot of people watching this. There was over 7000 plus people watching the lives and all that on the Olympia TV. My issue with that might be all it takes is a weird little camera angle, something like that. We've seen people going crazy with the AI stuff. And all it takes is that one little funny camera view where he looks like he's five foot seven. And then they're going to take that and run with it. Or maybe they're going to get this shot, the screenshot, right when it's going down to his head. But it's not quite there. And then we can take that and run with it. So I get it the full transparency part, but I hope that there is some footage back there. You know, even if it's Olympia's own videographers, whatever, right? Correct. Some footage wrong. I thought they were going to take pictures of the scales and they would be in the check-in photos. I just looked. I don't think those are out yet. Yeah. So that's what I'm assuming is going to happen. And I think that's intelligent. If they that's the to me personally, I get it. Not saying I'm a fan of it, but I get it. And I might even roll that way. Hey, that's why I'm not president or being, you know, head of these things, because I might be the shady little guy. But nonetheless, how do you feel like it can impact his performance? I'll be straight up. He wins this weekend. If he wins this again, if he wins this weekend, there are going to be boots just because of how much this boiled over. And it's that to me, that's sad. I understand it, but it's and there has to be a bad guy. I mean, he's the bad ass, right? So that's true. You need to change this to the bad ass or something. You know, I mean, he needs to take on that moniker and it might help. I think he's playing the role pretty well. And I don't even think he's trying to put it that way. I just think that the internet took something in the ran with it. Right. But and that's how it is. That's how it is. The good thing is with the with Bumstead not being present. Hey, it brought some excitement to classic. I mean, if I'm if I'm a writer, I like this. I love it. Even though I like staunchly disagree. And I am on the I guess I am on the Mike Sommerfeld hate train. Call me what I'm a Mike Sommerfeld hater at this point. Guess that's what you can call me, I guess. But I mean, we can't deny this is great entertainment. I'm glad this. It's entertaining. I'm glad this. It is entertaining. Right. It's entertaining. It's to the point to where it's what we're talking about and we're a day out from Olympia. I mean, it's it's crazy, but hey, I'm here for it. I mean, with with Bumstead not being there, there's some big shoes to fill. Even if they got the little fillers in the shoes. Right. You're the one. I'm the same. But you know, platform shoes, but it is some big shoes to fill and I'm here for it. I'm happy. Shout out to everybody who's competing. I cannot wait to see it. Ramon's going to look crazy. I think we're going to see probably. That's that's a bold statement. We'll get there. I will get there because we haven't even talked plastic on this channel yet. Really? I know we discussed it. We have not talked yet. We've not went in depth. Like we've talked about it, but not in depth. No predictions or anything like that. So I can't wait to hear that. I think I have an idea. We might be on the same page a little bit, but next up, I mean, speaking of WWE and entertainment, something else, we don't cover too much here. Menphys. I know we're we're just going to get into there because. Menphys is going through some changes as well. And when you want to talk about just the night of champions and things that there is, there is, we got Buendia going for his five time title. We got Ryan Terry going for his third title. Brandon Hendrickson is back. Olympia winner right there. One of my, you know, a fan favorite for me. And of course you have, I mean, I would, you know, there, I say the Andrew Jack, the Distivision Aaron Banks, we have some heady hitters. Ali Bilal, the new voice, the new Jeremy Buendia. If I may, there was some, there was some back and forth at the presser for those of you who did not see there was, they, Menphys brought the heat, man. They, they brought the, you know, what I wanted to see at the press conference. They brought it. It was a little bag of fourth Ali was, you know, I believe he said that next year he'll be the one to retire Ryan Terry. Now. Yeah. Saying that is crazy. It's kind of romantic. You can call it that. I mean, but I don't think anybody's going to retire Ryan Terry at this point. Anytime soon. This guy is what 10 plus years into his, you know, time on the Olympia stage. And one is looking incredible. Might be at his all time best, but we have some heavy, heavy hitters in Ali Bilal. I mean, all these divisions at this point are stacked. And the fact that we have three or four plus Mr. Olympia champions, even in the Men's Physique Division, it is pretty dope. Because bodybuilding is better now than it's ever been. Yes. Yes. So we have to be a little bit thankful for, you know, the social media and all those, you know, the Tik Tokers and all that goofiness. We, we have to have some love for it. It is sadly the New Age magazine and I'm here for it. I will be a fan of this work, but I really enjoyed the fact that the, the, the ones who are the smallest men on that same, I say smallest, take that with a grain of salt. A lot of these guys, you know, no, no, no. Pretty, you know, the Men's Physique don't sleep on them. They're not, it's not 2014. These guys are legit bodybuilders and they can, a lot of them can step on a, on a classic stage and probably do some, some work, you know, yeah. So what are your thoughts on Men's Physique? Do you think Ryan Terry is going to take home the W for disclaimer? I don't follow it that much. And I'll, and I'll say that right. That's my least favorite division. I like two 12 more. I understand you're, you're, you're, you're, you're a size queen. You're a bodybuilder, bodybuilder. You're a fan of that. So I understand, I understand, but you gotta give love where it's due. So. Um, so I do know I'm a big fan of Ali Balal. And I think from the front, he's just not beatable right now, but from the back, I think a lot of guys beat him and it may only be narrowly, but a lot of guys beat him. I think Aaron, when he's on is pretty good. I think Ryan, um, he's pretty on most of the time nowadays. Um, he'll beat him unless Ali has made some pretty drastic improvements. You know, I've always liked Chiron, but he always seems to be on the outskirts. Yeah. Yeah. Sadly, it's one of those situations to where, you know, you have to question, is that what they're looking for in this division? I thought it was to play in the other divisions. Yeah. And he was going to go up to classic and I think he ended up going back down. Um, and we'll see. Uh, he is another one of my favorites as well. He came in with a little anime trunks and all that. I had a little, a little thing coming down. He's a way to stand out, but, uh, I agree. And it's, but nonetheless, I think it's going to be a showdown. I think any of these guys that you just named, I mean, Aaron Banks from the back, Ali from the front, Brandon Hendrickson saying he's bringing his best package. I understand. Yes. Very positive. We're going to get past it. I don't know if they know what that means here, but the point is, um, it's going to be a deep lineup. Can Buendia make his mark? I know it's, it's, it's a tall, tall order. You know, yes, but I mean, come on, man. I will say, he's a flat at that sad squat show, pleasantly surprised with his improvement in just a year. That was actually like, you could see last, the last time he was at the Olympia, it was like, is Jeremy still there? Is he in? Well, I don't mean mentally, but is he still there? Is he in there? But then you see this package from 2025 and you're like, you know, there's a glimmer of what once was more than a glimmer. You know, I started PTSD in a good way, I guess. I still, I started getting nostalgia attacks and I'm like, whoa, that is, that is the Jeremy Buendia. I've come to know and love that we've all come to know and love. Um, and you say he was flat at that event. Is that by his own admission or is that? We don't understand as far as what it looked like. He was flatter than what it needs to be. I think that what he's going to look like on stage will be. Yes, exactly. I think it was, you know, a couple of weeks out, it's going to come to a dead or it's, it's, it's exactly what we saw, say Samson did last year. And another dope thing to have an oppressor was when the, uh, kind of took Ali under his wing, you know, as we know, I mean, you made a little, it was, it was it a fruit of 40 and slip earlier about the mental case. And, uh, obviously, we know him to be a very controversial guy at one point. However, he's cleaned it up and he's doing really good and shout out to him because he was talking to Ali during the presser and was just, you know, giving him all sorts of knowledge. And I think it's dope because that's coming from somebody who's been there done that. So she's about to be before being not only just a great ambassador, but truly being a bridge to the other younger cats coming up in the men's physique and just bodybuilding in general. I think that's who we can learn it from the most of the people who've been there and done it. So that was a great sight to see, especially if you're a fan of Wendy. It's hard not to be like, yeah, it's hard not to get them to, you know, this Jeremy Boundia train because will he be first place? I'm it's hard to put him in front of people like Aaron Banks, Ryan, Terry, however, he can be first call out for sure. He can be. He maybe could be a factor this year. Cause what was he last, last time he was at the Olympia 13th, something like that. He, he, he didn't, he didn't, you know, and granted, all due respect, he just wasn't a factor. Yeah. And I think the physique is looking a little bit more progressed a lot. I'm actually, you know, some guys, you can see they wear their age poorly and this he's actually like, he's turning back the clock. You're seated in real time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's, this is the great thing about bodybuilding in general is when you can really just, you know, take a second and enjoy all factors of it. I mean, me and Dylan have talked about even women's like fitness, the fitness division, we love that. This is one of the funnest things for me. I have a Taylor, Taylor Learmont poster above my bed. I believe it. I believe it. And shout out to Taylor. Yeah. That is another just wanted. I mean, just a spectacle in our sport, man. She's just somebody to watch and just, just wow. She's going to win this. Oh my goodness. No, I don't know about that because the mistake with Missy, Missy Trust got one done, let and she did, she's one figure. Yeah. But she left and I have to go figure so far off from with all due respect. She gets all the points right now off the routine. Routines. Yeah. It's all, it's all, yeah. And then when it comes to the actual comparison with the body, it's, it's, you know, yeah, but then, but then you have to wonder at that point, does the more muscle start taking away from what you're able to do in the routine and vice versa. And can she win with the balancing act, making it, you know, like stealing points from this to even them out or does it kind of happen to be like, for somebody like her, I do think it will forever be a balancing act. She's still young, but there will be time and you know, there's still time. There's a lot of time. Don't, don't, don't hate me because I know I don't, I think, I think Taylor will be probably a top four in the division. So I mean, it's just a lot. I mean, we got Natalia. There's, there's so many things going on in bodybuilding at this point. Shot to Natalia. I mean, that's another one. I can't see what, to see what happens. I cannot wait to see, but this is the one thing I want to really get into. It is meant open. I think it is that time. I think we've all been going back and forth just constantly when it comes to who's going to be our first place, second, third, fourth, all the way down to at this point, we can just call it first call out. We have no idea. We have a, we can say, oh, who's going to be in there? Guess what? And he's a new order. The Ruse is in town and he got that love. He got the, the champions welcome. He did. They knew him is just do. So I know that on, you know, as far as those who watch old school labs, probably we've been here before and the Ruse was not coming at that point. So he didn't even make it to our top 10 predictions. So with the Ruse coming in, with everything you've seen updates and all, when it comes to just, let's just say your top five, right? Don't throw in the top five. Do you see the Ruse being first called out? I can pull it up for you. Have we made that mine? Yeah. Now three times in the last three weeks, by the way, may I add? Okay. Um, my top five does not include Beirut's nor does my top six. Okay. Is he, is he seven fit least, but my top seven doesn't include. Okay. Okay. There's no, and there's no harm in that we're talking. You got the likes of Andrew Martin. Right. Easy. I mean, a lot of the other people that were telling you, William Bonac, he beat William. He beat an Exila, you know, so this is why he's getting, you know, it's a tall order, but hey, it's why people are putting him in there. Could be possible first call outs. Well, now I think the biggest piece of evidence is at the Romania pro in 2023, where although Samson was smaller, so was Beirut's. Beirut's was able to stand next to Samson and look very comparable. Very good point. Very good point. And we saw what he did at Dubai pro when he beat William. He beat Nathan. He beat Tonio and Tonio, I know we both hold Tonio in high regard as well. Tonio is a physique that we can kind of all have love and be fans of because it is a very, I mean, come on, we always hear, what's their not to like? Yeah, you can't, you can't. There's not one thing you would tell me is there room for improvement and growth, of course, but when we talk about ceilings in this division, Tonio has a high one. Right. He has a high ceiling. Now, I really want to get into it. First off, for those of you watching Paul's video, let me know in the comments, who do you have winning? You can give me your top five and all that if you want, but this is the thing. It doesn't matter. We at this point, who do you have winning? Because I have a strong feeling that we're going to see six different people in that, in that first place from everybody's perspective. I think that there's people who can still be on the injured train right for me. So it can be on that train and be like, I Andrew's going to take it this year. It's going to be the best package. But Roos is a lot of people who believe it. Ask Milo. A lot of people who believe the Roos. That's true. That's the first place. And I love that love, man. Milo hyping them up. That's I need that of a license, some hype like that made me feel like I'm a super hero like that guy for you. But I will say, speaking to people I like, obviously at this point, you guys know may the best man win. But I have some, some favorites and honestly, they're all, they're all possibly in that top five top six. I mean, we got the Martins out there. I know you're a big fan of Martin. It's my mom. Have Andrew. We have Nick Walker, the mutant. Come on, Samson, the best shape that's going to be at Olympia this year. Hadi. And of course, Derek Lunsford. All these, most of these guys are just named our past Olympia champions. So where do you see at this point? Where do you see that top four, top three, top five shaking up? How do you see it? Let me know your feelings. Well, if anything, I got to start back at. I got to orate my story like I did earlier. I got to start with the top 10. All right, go for it. So and I'll make this quick. And I'm going to take up too much of your time. So Good Vito is going to be 10th. And I'm saying this like I know, but good. I haven't been 11, but I have him right there. I think he'd be as high as like six and fifth. He's going to be Brandon Curry. It's going to be a sign of the times. Brandon won't be unable to replicate his Arnold Classic package. Good Vito gets a top 10 placing. He'll get to move on. Ninth, Tonya Burton. Tonya beat him the last time they were on stage. Tonya was a top 10 worthy physique and eight that have old battle and Bill. William Bonac, Billy Bonac. Yes, Billy Bonac. I think his physique is just with Stanley a lot better than some of the older guys are. And then seventh, now we have the changing of the guard. Beirut's to Bonnie. Sixth, Andrew Jack could win. This is where this is sixth and above anyone could win. Fifth, and I hate to do it. And I'm going to say this, I need to spread this. I need to spread my gospel here as well. Fifth is Martin Fitzwater. Now, the problem for Martin is if he shows up like Pittsburgh, I have, even though he's my favorite bodybuilder, I have no problem leaving the hype train and he'll place seventh, maybe eighth, because you can't keep bringing packages like this in front of the same judges. They're not going to like that. But if he brought the Pittsburgh Pro package, where do you see him? Seventh, I think it's going to be better. So you think even so if he replicates Pittsburgh Pro, you think seventh, you can't you can't like with again, he's my favorite bodybuilder. But he was a sweating mess on stage and it just is what it is. And then he could be as high as third. I'll tell you what, he could win the show. Because he's a lot like Tony, just bigger at this point and more developed. He gets in condition when we're talking about an in condition package, Martin. So if he brought 2024 Olympia peak with improvements, no, no, that could win. That could. That's a tough physique. And then fourth, I have Nick Walker maintaining the edge in the rivalry. Third, it's going to be Hottie Chupin, who's who it's just I go back and forth. ! 2nd is going to be Sampson. You hear that train? That's the Martin Fitzwater hype train. I've got to get on here. I've got to get on there pretty soon. So let me wrap it up here. Second is going to be Sampson Douda. And then first, I hate to do it. I hate to do it, but Derek Lunsford. People that know me are going to know that I am not a big fan of Derek, but I think this triple crown storyline, it's going to pay off. It's going to pay off. He's got all the hype. The judges like Espiseek. Rightfully so. Rightfully so. If he is able to bring what he brought at the Arnold Classic stage, I think that a lot of these gentlemen are going to have a very tough time. Will he though? I mean, that's the Olympia, the Arnold, the Pittsburgh, now the other Olympia. How do you hear a lot of people who have their ear to the sport who know that it does tend to get harder to peak? Of course. Some people don't even like to see somebody peak like what Sampson did. With the Pittsburgh. I mean, the Arnold to the Pittsburgh, I got to be honest, Pittsburgh was the worst package he's brought since 2022. 2023 was better, 2024 was better. And then his Arnold Classic version was certainly better. Pittsburgh still was able to pull out the win. Make of that what you will. That's why I do think a lot of people have Nick Walker winning this Olympia. I don't know if it's possible. Well, you know, so when people say that, and I know I've heard a lot of people say that and that it's not possible. And I get it. Your old classic bodybuilding fan, they might believe that. And if you're looking at it as far as what the judges like, you might also believe that. The judges, you know, they kind of, they can dictate where and who they want to win. I don't mean that in a, you know, in a messed up way. I'm simply saying what they want to be the poster boy for the sport as far as. Right. They have standards. They have criteria. Yeah. And all these guys have, you know, attributes that go off each of them. If you're talking shape, muscularity, they're Sampson for you. If you're talking coming in conditioning and shredded, if we're going to put a mic and scrub on that, you have Hadi, who is probably not going to come off at all. It's very tough to see Hadi off. Derek, man, his attributes outweigh anything negative you could say. I just, right? Oh, and you're allowed to. And that's why we're not on a judging stage. We are spectator fan judges and we're just doing this and just trying to make our best guess. Obviously, bias predictions are different from like, you know, what we're going to put the money in the household predictions, right? Right. To where I do think that anybody in their right mind is probably going to put. You know, that top four is going to be interchangeable between most people's predictions is going to be a Hadi, a Sampson, Derek and Nick. And rightfully so. I know you flipped it like five times. Well, my original top four was Derek and fourth losing tons of ground, unable to even replicate his Pittsburgh Pro package. And then in third, I have Nick Walker. That was my original prediction. And third, I had Nick Walker because I was like, well, he leaves the Olympia after two years, leaves in third, comes back, gets his redemption by beating Derek and doesn't skip a beat with his placing. And then Samson's in second. And then Hadi is able to pull out a win, bringing one of his last best packages because he's not a whole year off. That was my original prediction. But I was like, man, I want that too much. I got to do something I don't want. I see what you did. You did the win-win scenario to where either which way you're happy because you look like a genius if your predictions are correct. Yeah. People need to understand this. And I know you just said this, but what I predict is as if I'm betting money on it, not what I want to happen. That's what I think will happen. I prefer Nick to win just so I can see him and Bob, you know, for him to say, you know, who is Bob on stage? And they had that they had that little moment at the press. They did. And that's the one thing that I love to see is, you know, I'm a fan of the sport, right? And I'm stupid when it comes to this sometimes. I'm I'm I'm in to all that. I like seeing how they act and that run its mouth for me. So Nick came in looking like he was just dialed in ready. Confidence. Just I had a tiger situation. The crowd love him. And yes. Oh my God, you heard them pop for him. And it's rightfully so. I mean, this guy, he has so much charisma that you can't not. It's hard to hate Nick. It's hard. If you do, I think you're just being a hater and hey, we need that as well. Be a hater and that's fine. But you cannot tell me that this guy is not going to do damage on that stage. It's just not possible. If you're doing that, you're just going to be hyper focused on the gut. But guess what? We've seen him recently be able to control that. Obviously, five or six rounds into posing, you know, when it's like a, you know, to the wire tie, right? You know, yeah, the smaller person might end up looking a little bit better at that point. But I think you're never wrong with your predictions. Please let us know in the comments what your predictions are. Who's winning? Is it Hottie? Is it Bevruz? Is it Samson going to take the repeat? I think that Samson can't. I think that is sent. I think that one big thing is he's the outlier in this situation to where if he actually gives the judges what they ask for, he comes in a little bit more doubt and see a little bit more of that gloop situation, whatever you want to, you know, whatever you, whatever you fancy. If the lower back has a little bit more tightness, just if we see a little bit more conditioning going on for him in favor of him, he's going to be the champion. To me, you have to knock the champion out and I don't see any of them knocking out if he comes in with that slightly better conditioning. If he brings the same package as 2024, it is going to be tough to beat with slightly better conditioning. He's his own worst enemy. In fact, with this genetic advantages, he's his only enemy because unless these guys come in with 110%, if Samson, they can't beat Samson 100%. A lot of them can't even beat Samson at 90%. We saw that last year. We've seen that. Right. Yeah. We've seen, we've seen that because I say last year, Samson won with what is his minimum condition requirement. If he was any less conditioned, I don't think he would have done it, but he hit the right level and with his size and shape, there's just no one that can compare. Yeah. I mean, so you have to go a little bit deeper in a lineup and I feel like, um, you know, Andrew is somebody who can fare as far as overall shape and he takes up a little bit more space in Samson. True. When you really think about it. Now, obviously the same situation Samson is going to, Andrew is going to have to bring in some separated hamstrings a little bit more just, you know, from the back for the whole posture, your chain needs a little. Yeah. From the back, it's in hopefully, you know, hopefully we're going to see that. Like I said, there's no telling. We had no idea Martin was going to do as good as he did last year and he did. Right. So there can be that breakout. I still think Behrouz of all the people is going to be the breakout. However, I will say this, this one thing for those of you out there who don't know or know, I'm a big fan of our King Williams, right? Oh, we know. And yes, I'm a big fan of our King. However, we got another guy coming up who I think is very comparable to our King in a lot of ways. And that is good veto and good veto. I don't know if you peep this, but I'm pretty sure they're going to be standing right next to each other. Oh, they got whenever they were getting their numbers. Okay. I was a King and veto and that's a little matchup. I want you to see. I would like to see that because I think it's the new guard coming in. I think it's going to be, honestly, to say, to do the pun is to old versus new school. I prefer going around. I prefer it came with you. But I think good veto may get the nod. Maybe it's he nails his condition both nights. Maybe. Yeah. Yeah. He just has a wild factor about him. Yeah. And he needs to show up night one, but I will say this, that's the crazy thing about this lineup and why I want to get so much credit to it being so deep is the fact that you have people like Regan, you have people like Tonio, you have people like good veto, you have people like Brandon Bonac to where no, like they can literally place anywhere from the edge of second call out to trying to peek into that first call out. And that's crazy to me how deep this lineup can really go. I mean, you have so many people with so much potential and as they come in on, you hear Samir say it all the time, it's that water. What if they come in doubt in looking correct with that 24 K quality? There's no telling what can happen with all with dang near 10 of these gentlemen. Would you say this is one of the best Olympia lineups of all time? I may know as far as to say it is the best. I appreciate you saying that, you know why? Because I feel like if I said it, I'm going to get shitted on and slandered. I don't care. We have to stop beating the nineties off. Like, no, it's not that these guys aren't legends, but like, no, there was never lineups like this. I will say that for me, this is a great. I'm very excited for this lineup. I do think I mean, you're echoing what I'm saying. I think it's a very deep lineup for Mr. Olympus. I mean, come on. Like this one and you have you have people, you have a lot of not to say, you know, I know I'm in about six or seven people that can win it. Yeah. And you have uncrown. You have William Bonac up there. You have classic physique or stepping up to the big leagues. I mean, that's you have next zilla. You have new inch. You have monsters. It is Halloween for a reason. I think we're in a spooky season when it comes and when I say the best. I don't necessarily mean like these are going to have the most legends because I think the nineties is always going to be held in such high regard because it was the first to get nostalgia. But yeah, in terms of actual competitiveness, I would say these modern lineups are the best. I can't think of very many lineups that were more competitive outside of the 2010s. And that's still that's still of the modern, the modern era. I think that we've been so used to throughout history, seeing a lot of lineups to where there's that top two, top three, maybe, or just that top one, you know, Ronnie Coleman, Phil Heath, etc. Right. To where we don't really see it as deep. And I think that this lineup in particular, especially what we're building up and gearing up to get into, it is very deep. We don't have a clear winner. I'm telling you at this point, any of these five or six gentlemen could be the next Mr. Olympia, literally. And as you can tell, you can look all across the line and see everybody's predictions and see that. Everybody has the same, probably four people in their lineup. Have you noticed this mass exodus from Samson and predictions recently? I feel like this is a vibe shift. You know, I'm into politics as well. And I watch, I love elections. It's my second love. Not even necessarily the politics of elections. And you can just feel like when you're tapped into an energy, like you can just feel when there is a shift in the vibe. Yeah, I think I feel like the kind of, and I don't know if that's right or wrong. We'll see. Yeah. But like everyone up until like last two weeks was predicting Samson and then everybody else. Now I'm seeing a lot more variety when it's time to actually make predictions. Why do you think that is a lack of confidence on Samson's part? Well, I mean, do you put it this way? Would you bet on any of these gentlemen if your life depended on it? There's no way. It's not the situation to where it's like, you know, we can sit there and be like, this is the bona fide winner. There's no way in hell. That's why I want everybody to sound off in the comments because I know we're going to get six, seven different people. And 30 people will give, you know, it's going to be a situation to where you can't call it. And that's why I think this lineup is so sweet and is why we're we're getting treated right now to a very, very good Olympia lineup. I don't think that anybody can have any complaints because, yeah, can people sit there and lose faith in Samson? Of course. Why? Because you got Hadi right there behind him. You got Derek, you got Nick, you got Behrouz, you got a lot of heavy hitters. You got Andrew Martin. And if any of these guys show up, hey, it's not going to be. It's going to be a long night. Let's put it that way. It's going to be a long night. Which we'll start earlier. Dan Solomon said it's going to start earlier this year. We'll see. Hopefully for the sake of the big guys, man, let's let's hope. Right. But I'm I'm excited. I can't wait. I feel like it's Christmas. Yeah. Dylan, I appreciate you being here. Of course. Do you have any words for the people out there and then, you know, in old school in? Oh, man, I would I got to see your guys' predictions. And I've made some crazy claims today. I've said, you know, I've already said on the 90s, I've said modern bodybuilding is a lot better. Yeah. I know I'm in. I know I'm in the wrong venue for that. But let me know. Maybe there are some people that agree with me. Oh, even in the old school in even in the new year. There'll be some outliers in old school. And I think that the people is, you know, I feel like it's got a few. Do you have the predictions that we put up a couple of weeks back? And grant these a couple of weeks back. So a couple of weeks back or so. The well, no, ours did the ones I'm talking about, the Scott has hopefully is like Samir and John. OK, so it's not going to have the likes of the rules in it. Right. Sadly. But nonetheless, I know that we were all very similar. And I think that when it comes down to it, they all have, you know, they have really good eye for the sport. Right. I mean, come on, the Samir and John Hanson. They know what they like. Yeah, they know what they like. And, you know, it makes sense. Right. So obviously you can't say here we go. I was I was killing time until thank you, Scott. So Samir has. Samson at first, Hattie in second, Derek third, Nick fourth, Good Vito fifth. He believes in good Vito sixth, Andrew, seventh, Martin, Urz, a friggin and ninth. And I guess maybe maybe you can go back in that tense by the pens. I know it was hard for me. It was it was it was hard because, you know, he wanted to put all those guys that first call out to be honest and I don't blame him. Right. And John has Samson, Hattie, Derek, Nick, Andrew, Martin, Vito, Brandon, Tonio and Urz. And I was all over the place. I had Hattie, Samson and I still, you know, I think these might top three regardless in whatever order. Hattie, Samson, Nick, then Derek, then Andrew, then Martin, then Brandon and Bonac, Ikeem, Urz. That's changed now. It is a little different now, but nonetheless, it looks pretty similar. But yeah, so, you know, yours is good. It fits 100 percent. Like there's no wrong. More or less, that's what I had before my final, my 11th hour switching up. You know, like I said, it makes sense, but I'm excited. Do not appreciate you being here. If you do not know about Project Bodybuilding, please go check it out. Tell them about it. You know, it is a different demeanor. It is fun. Right. If you if you love what you've heard today, you can go over there and watch more. If you hate what you've watched that, you can go over there and watch. And hey, watch me too. I get plenty of love. I love I appreciate haters. I really think you like the haters more than your lovers. You know what I'm saying? I think the haters are just as important to me as respectable viewers. Hey, all fuel is fire, man. All fire is fuel. I love it. It's going to it's going to, you know, it's going to be there. And I cannot wait to see what happens. Is you I'm just I keep on bringing this up. Yeah. It's Christmas, man. It is. I haven't sat on Santa's lap. You have a little bodybuilding toys. All right. I think they're in a little collectible cards. I might need to get them in a little action figure. You're using their trading cards. They're still doing. Yeah. It's pretty cool, man. Speaking of nostalgia, but I appreciate you guys tuning in. If you have not, please go check out Project Bodybuilding. Shout out to your boys, Samir Benu and John Hanson, who are there hopefully giving us some live coverage and can give us that, you know, that, that keen eye that they have. So I mean, nothing further. I hope you guys have an incredible Olympia weekend. Enjoy it. Sound off in the comments. Let us know what you think. Call us crazy. We accept that we love it. Appreciate you guys. Take care.