 tmin t?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A-sid?", A- One of my favorite too, John. I've always liked his body. Patrick, you got one of those physique. We never really talked a lot when doing competition, but I know that he was destined to go all the way. Yeah. So, yeah. Patrick, you got one of those physique. I look at you and I'm like, why isn't he placing higher? You know, I was like, he has a great body. Like, what is wrong with these judges? I don't understand. But I thought we could start off, Patrick, talking about your background. You just mentioned, you know, you have a boxing background and also football. Basketball. Basketball. Yeah. Tell us how you got into bodybuilding, what age you were and stuff. Well, man, you know, I've been a boxer for, you know, since I was younger. Basketball, same. And, you know, basketball was my first love. You know, I just loved playing. I grew up with my uncles. They would take me to the park. You know, my dad would take me out in a, we lived in an apartment at a time. And he would take me out and make me dribble the ball back and forth. You know, just basic skills and stuff. And that's what made me fall in love with, like, the actual, I guess, the basics of the sport. You know, and then we would go to the park on Sundays and we'd play pickup games and stuff. And I was like 10, 11. And it was just something that, yeah, man, it was crazy being out there with the older guys because it made you grow up really quick. Yeah. So, you know, of course, through high school, middle school and stuff, I played basketball and while boxing at the same time and stuff. And when I was pretty much done with both of those, I was around 25, 26. And I was still in the gym. And because I always loved training. I love working out. So actually training for me started when I was 17 years old. And because the girls like guys with muscles. So I figured, you know, let's go get some. And like every teenager, you know, at the time. And, man, it was. How far did you go in boxing, Patrick? Oh, man, I've been to Golden Gloves, national tournaments, all that. So, you know. I heard you were Golden Gloves, yeah. Yeah, man. So, and I still love it. I love it like I, you know, I would go back to it if I could. You know, obviously I'm too big for that now. But, you know, combat sports is, it's just one of the best things you can do, man. You know, because it's so technical. It's just you and another human being that's possibly trying to do harm to you. But, you know, you're both trained. You both have a skill set. And it's just one of those deals like, you know, on the day, let's see who's better. If I can best you, you know. And I always loved that aspect of it. It was never a deal like, I'm a tough guy and I want to beat people up. It was just, no, can I hit you and not get hit? For defense. For defense purposes. Exactly. A physical chess match. You know, a violent chess match is what we will call it. You know. You know, you know what's. God. It's so funny. I was going to say, you were talking about basketball. And I just told my son, Jesse, turn the TV on. We watch every goddamn game. We love basketball. So we're waiting for the Laker versus OKC at 630. So that's a big game. But my son always likes. They have the NBA channel. They watch all games. So I have two baller. You know, my son, Jesse. He's like, really, he could go. He's really good. I'm not brag about that. He's a badass. IQ. Defensive player. Fast as a lightning. He plays similar to Westbrook. You know, he's that kind of player. Yeah. But he can dunk and everything. But it's not about dunking. You know that. It's about the IQ. Athleticism goes far away. Yeah. If you have the IQ, you know, the basketball IQ and athleticism and the skills to go with it, man, you can, you know, you can really fly. You just have to, you know, hone your craft. And it's just after that. It's just getting in front of the right people, you know, and you get a chance, man, to get on the big, in the big league. It's like, hey, you know, it's a blessing. There's very few people make it that far. I know Phil Heath was into basketball, wasn't it? I'm sorry. We'll talk about bodybuilding. What led you into bodybuilding? You said you were in the gym training. And then, like, what got you into actually competing? So, you know, I was just, I love training. I love the way it made me feel. And so going to the gym became, like, my thing. You know, I would go to work in the daytime. And I just looked forward to training every evening. And I never had a training partner. So it was just me. It was just what I did. And I remember going to a 24-hour fitness down in Houston. And I ran into an older guy there. And he said, man, you got a physique on you, you know. Everything about bodybuilding. And, of course, I was like, no. I would not. And at the time, I just didn't. When he asked me, I said, you mean, like, get on stage in underwear? Right. You know, just an ignorant understanding of what it actually was. And, you know, it's fair. I just, I didn't know, man. I wasn't around anybody that was doing that. And there was no social media or internet at that time. You know, there weren't fitness influencers and all this different stuff that was pulling people into competitive bodybuilding. And this was 2010, probably, 2011. Okay. And so I would see this guy all the time. And he'd say, man, oh, you should train like this. And you need to build your back up. And you need to train legs and all this. And I didn't really care because I just wanted, again, the stuff that the girls liked, you know. So when he would give me advice on training and I started to expand, I said, oh, man, I actually like training these other groups, too. You know, it's a challenge of trying to put together this physique. So the whole time I'm actually bodybuilding, I just don't know it. You know, so I'm doing it and I don't know. And so a couple years it went by and finally this guy said, man, you know, Gigi, you have to compete, man. You got to, you know, there's this guy named Gabe you need to meet. And so he tells me, go meet this guy, Gabe, one Saturday at the gym. And I had seen Gabe before, but, you know, he wore a really low hat. He's a real big guy. So I went to the gym and he told me, he said, yeah, man, you're the guy that, what was his name, BJ. BJ was talking about. And I said, yeah, man, he told me to come talk to you about bodybuilding and he thought I could be good at it. And he said, yeah, man, you know, you got a physique and, you know, you can, if you compete, you know, you can get sponsors, you can get free supplements, all this stuff. He made this out really good. So at the time, you know, I'm buying supplements. So the idea of lifting weights and getting stuff for free was appealing, you know. And so after some time, he takes me through a training session and, I mean, just kills me. And I was sore for days. I mean, it was a back workout and he made me go from wide grip pulldowns to close grip pulldowns, 20 reps a set, back to back to back. I mean, just, you know, destroyed me. And I like the challenging aspect of that because he was a lot stronger. He was bigger. And so then it became this thing of like, okay, you know, I think I can do this bodybuilding and stuff. So we ended up going into a competition and, you know, the Philly Classics was 2014. And I ended up winning the overall as a light heavy. So I won my class in the overall. And I interviewed with Jay Cutler and Phil Heath after that show. And so that was crazy because when I met Gabe, he told me, he said, man, you kind of remind me of this guy, Phil Heath, because I like basketball. And he knew I liked tennis shoes. I liked cars. Yeah. Me and Phil had a lot of the same interests. And I didn't know who Phil was at the time. And then I looked him up. And that kind of sealed the deal for me because I saw all the stuff Phil had, you know, the way he carried himself. And I was like, oh, man. And, of course, he looked crazy, you know. So I wanted to look like that. And so then it became this thing of, well, if I look like that, I could be the best in the world. And then the rest just started to roll. So I won that show, interviewed with them. And at that time, I remember Jay Cutler had asked me who was my favorite bodybuilder. Well, Phil was standing right there. So I said, well, I mean. Yeah. That's the first time I saw you. There was something with Phil Heath. Yeah. And I think you were pretty close to him at some point in the beginning. Yeah. And I looked. I said, my God. I said, this guy, Patrick, is going to be really badass. He's going to be bad. Really, I felt I predicted it, you know. And you did. You were going like that. Then, you know, the injuries, no big deal, slowing you down a little bit. But like I said earlier. I saw Phil backstage at that show. And I told him, I said, man, I want what you have. You know, I want to be where you're at, your position. And he didn't know me. I was a kid, you know, young guy at the time just starting bodybuilding. And he just kind of laughed it off. He was like, well, you know, he just keep working. And I actually have that picture. I was going to put that up. Me and him, that picture was going way back from the very beginning. And so some time it went. And I went from there, went to a national show. And I was like, oh, I'm going to turn pro. And, you know, like everybody does. And, man, I got my ass kicked. And I was so far fucking down the line. And, you know, when they give everybody the same number, 16, 16. Right. Yeah. So I calculated. Yeah. But I think I was like 18 plates. And I remember after that show, you know, I'm ultra competitive. You know, super, super competitive. I just handle it very well. I mean, I'm competitive to the point when I would play video games with my older brother when I was younger and I would lose. One time I remember taking a controller and I just whipped it like a lasso and popped him right in the mouth because he was teasing me. And, you know, just I hate to lose. I hate to lose. And, but, you know, I was a kid then. So obviously I handled it emotionally different. Yeah. But, you know, fast forward and I, you know, at that show, okay, I looked at these guys and I'm like, man, these guys are serious. They, you know, they are all in condition. They were in shape. And I was like, wow, this is what it really looks like. And so I knew at that point it was time for me to take training series. And so then I ended up getting with Hunter Labrata was actually at that show and Hunter was training at a gym that I worked at. And so he grabbed me and he said, hey, I want you to come meet my dad. And so I met Lee and Lee was like, oh man, you know, you got a physique on you. You know, why don't you come by the office and, you know, we'll talk and see if we can help you out. And so I went there and they gave me, you know, the basic sponsorship package, a few hundred dollars or something that's a month. But it was cool because Lee, man, he treated me like a son. I was super close with Lee, you know, and I still love him like that. I mean, I always will. They're good people. So, yeah, man, Lee, you know, he taught me a lot from posing to how to carry myself professionally, how to turn bodybuilding into a business eventually, all these different things that, you know, I didn't know. So, you know, pairing that with what I was learning from Phil at the time, who was the champion, it was just a win-win. So we're getting ready. The next year we're going into the USA. I actually won Mr. Texas in 2016 and backstage at that show, Ed Pariso saw me and he said, man, he said, you can turn pro, you know, and I was like, not after what just happened to me last time, you know. And he said, no, no, really, man. If you do the USAs and I promise, you know, you'll turn pro. So time goes forward, you know, from November and it gets around, you know, June. It's a little bit before USAs. And I remember being online and at the time, you know, I saw Phil, I think one more time in 2015 or 2016, because he had a showdown in Houston. And so I talked with him a little bit longer that time. And he said, oh, yeah, I remember you. And so going into the USAs, he actually had commented on a post I put up. And so I was like, wow, you know, this is Mr. Olympia just commented on your post. And, you know, he said, well, wishing me luck and all these things. So I remember putting that on my story because it was such a big deal. I'm like, man, look, this is crazy. And he got, I started this because of this guy. And here he is commenting on my page. Yeah. And so it meant a lot to me at the time, right? And it gave me a confidence boost going into that show. So we're going into the USAs. And I ended up weighing, I was a heavyweight before at the Mr. Texas. And Keith Klein, who was a nutritionist at the time that I worked with, he wasn't really big on trying to make a weight. He just figured however you look best is whatever you're going in at. And that's it. So we just went into the show. I ended up being one pound over the heavyweight limit. So I was the smallest super heavyweight. No kidding. Yeah, man. I want to show you this really quick. About this time, this is a photo sent to me by Keith Klein. You remember that time? Yeah. So this was right after turning professional. Yeah. Yeah. And yeah, I just heard professional that children's are crazy, right? They're always around like that. Yeah. I'm telling you, I was talking about you with Keith. And I'm like, went back to my text messages, you know? And I told him, I said, Keith, he's a, I'm telling you, he can go all the way, you know? And that's what Keith would tell me. He was a real big believer. And he said, man, he said, you can be the best. He said, you know, if you follow what you're supposed to do, it'd be very hard for a lot of guys to beat you. So he was with me through that show. And we won. You know, we won the class, didn't win the overall. Derek Lunsford, Derek won the overall that year. He had, you know, a bit more stage experience than I did. What year was that? What year? 2017. Okay. And so he had more stage experience than I did. I mean, when I was in the middle on the overalls, you know, I can say I was a little bit shocked, you know, because I didn't even chance. I was like not surprised that I won my class, but I'm like, wow, I just went from like last place to first, you know? So being in that moment was like a little overwhelming. I mean, I had, everyone talks about getting that pro card, but you know, when you're an open bodybuilder and you get it, it's like a big deal, you know? It's like, man, I'm going in with the big guys. And so after that show, I ended up talking with Phil and he ended up actually coming down to Houston. And we had dinner with him, his wife, Cherie. And man, we became super close to it. He was actually the best man at my wedding when I was married. Wow. Yeah, man. And he helped me out with the show, the last pro win that I had in 2021. And on the California pro, you know, Phil has always been the guy. He's like a brother. You know, still is like a brother. He just has always been a straight shooter. He tells me like it is. He's never, you know, steered me wrong. Even there's times I didn't listen to him, but he would give me advice. You know, it's just whatever, man. But, you know, it's surreal when I think about it because the astronomical chances of that, you know, I wasn't a bodybuilder and to get that close to him with him and learn as much as I did. You know, he was ultra competitive, too. So I, you know, I was ran a similar parallel with him in a lot of ways. Yeah. And, you know, so once I turned professional, I stopped working with Keith Klein and actually regret that because, you know, I thought once you turn pro, you're supposed to get a coach. You know, I thought that's what you're supposed to do. You're very lucky. You were surrounded by champions, that really good champions. I mean, you got La Brada, Phil Heath, you got Keith Klein. I mean, you had great people around you. That's so important, you know. Yeah. I learned, you know, from all of them. I learned about adversity and stuff through Phil Heath. You know, I learned about training from Jay Cutler and Phil Heath. I learned about posing and business from Lila Brada, how to be a man from Lila Brada, how to carry yourself with character. Wow. You know, all these different things. You know, I'm just a product of all these guys, you know, put together. That's so cool. So, you know, things are great, man. And in 2019 at the Olympia, that was like the time when I hit the scene, you know, when everybody was like, wow. And, you know, at the time, of course, for me, it was amazing because I'm like, man, three years ago, I was last place at a national show. That's crazy. And now they're like, oh, this guy could be Mr. Olympia. And so it was a lot to digest at the time, but I felt I held it very well. And so I was riding that high. And 2020 was COVID. And that was my first Arnold Classic. And it was a quite different experience, obviously, with COVID. Training was different because gyms were closed. You know, getting food from stores. Everything was just different. So 2020 was a rough year. 2021, I was able to come. I saw you at that 2019 Olympia. I'd never heard of you before, Patrick. Right. I remember that was the year that Brendan won, right? Right. And I think Heidi grabbed second that year. Yeah. And in that lineup, man, there was John De La Rosa, Juan Morrell, Cedric McMillan, Lucas Ozzaville, Luke Sando. Man, it was a lineup. Yeah. You know, there was some heavy years. When you came out at the night show, the crowd, I mean, the crowd, like, was really reacted. And I was like, who is this guy? I never heard of him. This guy looked great. And then we did the wrap-up afterwards with RX Muscle. We were all on the, you know, the sidewalk afterwards. It was Chris Aceto. And I think Milos was probably there. And, you know, Dave Palumbo and a bunch of us. Me and Chris were both like, the Patrick Moore guy, I mean, he didn't do well. But, I mean, he didn't get the call-outs. But, man, what a great physique. Like, everybody recognized what a great physique you had. What did you think you needed at that point? Just more size? Is that what the judges told you? So, for me, you know, to come in and grab 10th place was, like, a big deal. For me, it's my first Olympia. I just turned professional two years prior. Yeah. And being in open class is quite different than any other class. Because I'm in there with the guys that are 220, 240, 250, 280, whatever. You know, it's just like to come in. And I think we had about 16, 17 guys that year. I was able to edge out some guys that had, you know, been there, you know, professional before me. And so it didn't even really dawn on me the call-out situation, even after pre-judging. And so in pre-judging, I actually was in the third call-out. And I was like, it doesn't matter. I'm on the Olympia stage. Yeah. You know, it's like, okay. I just thought you had the shape and the symmetry. I could tell, you know, you weren't maybe quite as big as some of those guys. But me and Samir talk about this all the time. We think shape and symmetry is, like, super important in bodybuilding. And it's just as important in size. But it seems like sometimes, especially when you get to the Olympia and a big open show like that, they go with the bigger, bigger guys. And I kind of felt like you got kind of pushed down a little bit. I thought you should have been higher at that show because I thought you just had – I thought you really stood out from all the guys that came out there that night, you know? Yeah, I did. And, you know, I felt the same. And, you know, like I said, I didn't have any – at that time, I'm still new to competing because, you know, I'm learning what real conditioning is and muscle size and symmetry, stuff. All the things the judges are looking for. And, you know, when you go back and look at those pictures, and I look at the pictures now. I actually, like I said, I posted a picture maybe a couple hours ago. And you can see the huge difference in the muscle size and maturity. I remember Keith Klein told me, you know, when I was an amateur, he said, well, you know, yeah, you have to be in shape. You have to be lean and in condition. But he said, do not forget, this is a muscle building show. Yes. So, you know, size is a factor. And I knew that. And I knew – Was that the rear double bike? Are you just supposed to – Was that the rear double bike? Yeah. See if you can pull that up, Scott. There it is. Yeah. Wow. And, you know, it's like – Well, yeah. You see the difference and, you know, it's just like, okay, man, now I kind of see, you know, the other guys had significant training time on me. So, their muscle was more dense. Yeah. Even if they weren't, quote, unquote, bigger, which they were, they were also more dense. And the muscle just had a different look to it. And just like, you know, in that picture there. So, I understood that aspect. And when I found out I got 10th place, I was happy with that. But the biggest thing for me, you know, I said it back then, is I just wanted to look like I belonged on that stage. Yeah. You know, so that's it. The placing was going to be what it was going to be. I just didn't want the echoes to be, oh, he doesn't belong there. He shouldn't have been there. But, no, that wasn't the reaction. It was like, wow, this guy looks great. His waist is small. He reminded us of the 80s and the 90s. And so, that was enough, you know, yeah, John, for me, that was a win. And because there was no negativity. And I didn't even think that the people were saying, I need more size. There wasn't negativity. That was just the facts. Like, I did need more size. And when I look at the pictures of myself now, you'll be able to then, I'm like, it's even more evident that, you know, I needed that size. So, what's the weight difference between those two pictures? That's probably near 18 to 20 pounds, I would say. Wow. It looks like more, doesn't it, Samir? It looks like more than that. Yeah. You know, I tell people, man, that if you're putting three, four pounds of muscle on a year of stage weight, that's pretty significant. Yeah. But people don't know what that looks like, you know. So, when I hear guys say, oh, I gained 20 pounds of muscle in a year. No, you didn't. No, you didn't. It's not about weight, man. It's not about weight. It's the quality. Quality, balance, harmony. Speaking, Patrick, I saw you in Southern California around, you know, the end of COVID. You competed here. I don't remember what show it was. You won that show. So, that was after COVID, the 2021 California show. Well, everybody was wearing, you know, a lot of people were still, like, using, what do you call it? Masked up. Masked up. Masked up, yeah. Because I remember seeing you backstage and you were, like, told me and Phil, and you were like, man, you look great. You guys did a good job. You did a really good job. Yeah, yeah. We ended up winning that show. Yeah. Yeah. You won that. You won that show. And I was there. Yeah. You look pretty good. You know. It was a good show. I liked that look a lot. And at that time, that's when, you know, I was going back to Olympia. And Phil actually told me to skip that Olympia. And I didn't listen to him, you know, hard-headed, young, just not thinking. So, I didn't do that great at that Olympia. And then after that, so at that time, in 2019 to 2021, you know, I had sponsors. So, I was making money. I had guest appearances. I had all these things going behind me, you know, that just was elevating what I was doing. So, 2022 was D-Day, man. And that was the injury. And I remember. What's your stage weight? Yeah. Huh? Oh, man. Like, what's your stage weight, you know, in most of the show you enter? Around what, you know, like what, 40 to 50? What? My weight? Yeah. Stage weight. Yeah. Well, I mean, the best look I've got so far is around the 239-ish mark, which is what I just did just now. Yeah. So, I'm probably willing to bet a few pounds off of that will bring a combination of that pitcher that's on the left and the one on the right. Right. Here in New York in about five weeks. Because, you know, tightening up is just, it's a, you have to compete more often, for one, you know, to get your body in that rhythm. And then having more training time. So, all those things are a factor. So, if I had to guess, my best look at this particular time will probably fall around 236, 235. And what, you're like, what, 5'9", 5'10"? 10. 5'10". Mm-hmm. 5'10". Wow, that's a lot of weight, man. Just remember that Arnold, at his best, was like 228, 226. And he's like almost 6'2". Yeah, man. You know. If you think back to the 2011 field, he was 232 pounds. And that was a phenomenal physique. You know, he had no weaknesses. I mean, that physique today would be Mr. Olympia, no problem. Yeah. You know, so, for me, when I hear guys talk about weight, I'm like, yeah, I don't care about weight. I know what 230 pounds shredded looks like. And that's impressive, you know. So, that's where my mind goes when people are like, oh, get bigger. No, guys, I'm just going to get more dents, more muscle quality. Weight don't mean a thing, bro. Weight don't mean anything. You know, so. I was 196 and I was at my best. When I won the Olympia, I was 196. Yeah. But, you know, my skin was like saran wrap, like sciated everywhere. So, you know, who cares? Maybe if I was 205, I would have lost. Yeah. You just never know. When your weight falls, it's all about a look. I don't marry a weight. I marry a look. What I'm looking for. And that is, that's it. Exactly. Where it falls. Yeah. So, you were talking about your injury. Yeah. So, 2022, I was en route for California again. I said, okay, I'm going to go back to California this year. And this time I'm going to take stock and see if it's worth trying to shoot for the Olympia or take time off and train and, you know, try to come back the next year and see, you know, how much more I am. And I remember finishing a training session and I went into the gym and my buddy was like, man, you want to go play horse? So, I said, sure. You know, we get in there and who's going to get injured playing horse, right? So, we take a couple shots and in comes these two kids. And the two kids come over and are like, hey, man, you guys want to play a game? So, of course, I'm like, yeah, no, man, you guys, I'm good. You know, it's no big deal. So, my buddy is like, man, come on, man, let's just, you know, run one game. And there's the competitiveness in me. Like, oh, we can go play these kids and, you know, have a little bit of fun. So, we start the game. My buddy has the ball. He passed it to me. And I remember taking one dribble, one dribble, one step. And that one step, the Achilles pops. Oh. Oh, man. And I remember thinking, like, my shoe came off. You know, it's such a weird feeling. I looked down and my shoe was completely intact, laces and everything. And I was like, that's weird. You know? And so, my buddy came over. He said, dude. He said, man, I think you just ruptured your Achilles. And I said, no, no, man, no way. He said, yeah, man. He said, my brother had that injury. He said, that's what that looks like. And I said, no, no. And he said, can you stand on it? And so, I tipped my toe. And as soon as I tipped my toe, it was like, it just, it gained every time. And I was like, oh, come on, man. You got to be kidding me, right? So, I put my finger right behind my Achilles and I could feel about a three centimeter separation. Wow. And that was the gap. Yeah. And I remember. I think it was because you just got done working out and you did that. I mean, I've talked to a couple people who have tore their Achilles. Yeah. The doc that I had, he was a great man. Finding a doctor, you know, really quick was crucial. And I wanted someone to do it right, you know, because it's a tricky surgery. Yeah. And he told me it's probably a combination of the fact that years of, you know, boxing, you know, pushing off of that foot like that, you know, basketball, jumping, running, all that paired with a significant body weight increase. But not only that, the muscle size of my calves, you know, so my calves were 20 inches, 21 inches. They were very thick. Wow. And all of that, that force, downforce of 250 pounds going through the calf of a much tighter muscle and a much bigger body was enough for the two to pull the opposite direction. So the calf pulls up, the heel goes down. And then it was just tug of war at that point. And the rope just wasn't strong enough. It snapped. And, you know, I remember that my first thought was like, oh, my God, man, my career. Yeah. You were really, really bummed out. You know, I remember I had an injury in my elbow, you know. But that was like, I never hurt myself training. Yeah. I never had an injury training. That was fighting, John. No motorcycles. So, man, once that happened, you know, I remember going to my buddy's house. His wife was a podiatrist. And she put her finger back. She's like, yeah, you ruptured it, you know. So I remember just being crushed. Yeah. You just, oh, crap. Like, what, you know, what, your mind goes a million different thoughts. Yeah. And it's like, what am I going to do now? I've put all this energy, all this time, all this money, all this into this thing. So, you know, the next morning it was like just processing it, trying to get MRI. You know, hopefully the MRI said something different. It did not. It just confirmed what she said. And, you know, so the surgery was about $16,000. You know, I paid out of the pocket. Terrible feeling. Terrible feeling. Yeah, man. It was just a road to recovery after that. Yeah, definitely. You just got to get it fixed as soon as possible. And then. Yeah. You have to have the surgery. Cover. Yeah. So how was your condition right now overall when it comes to, you know, any injury at all? No, no. So that was the only injury. And, you know, coming back from that, you know, it changed the way that I walked. It changed the way that I stood. You know, all those proprioceptors in the ankle, you know, it's not an easy thing to come back from. So mentally, it was debilitating. Physically, obviously, it was debilitating. Oh, yeah. You know, not being able to train. So there's that mental aspect of it of, you know, can I get back to, you know, can I even get back to where I was? Or can I even get any better? You know, so you have all these doubts. And that set in for quite some time. In that time, all you can think about is I just want to train, you know. So at that time, you know, lost sponsors, obviously lost the ability to compete. So everything that was here just immediately went down. And, you know, I had developed this lifestyle for myself that was based on this particular income, that money that I was making and potential income from over here. And so then, you know, life started to settle in. It's like, man, okay, damn. You know, what am I going to do? I had some savings and stuff. But, you know, that only goes so far. And so it became a rebuilding process, you know, financially, mentally, physically, you know, through and through. And so that was, you know, four years of being in the fire, you know, competing with no sponsor. You know, I'm paying for the shows. Yeah, sponsors drop me. Sponsors not pay me. Just all this shit, you know. And all the while losing shows, you know. Yeah. You're just, every show that you do, you know, you need more size, you need conditioning, you need this, you need that. And so it took a lot of mental fortitude to be able to get up and, you know, train. It's a big obstacle. Big obstacle. Yeah. But you feel like that. It's like really bad when you get injured like that. I mean, you got to definitely, at least one year is gone. Yeah. You know. Yeah. You know, you were saying at the time, Patrick, right, that your legs were behind your upper body. So how did that affect, you know, coming back from that injury, how did that affect your leg training? Man, significantly. Yeah. Because, you know, not being able to point your ankles evenly, you know, it's going to dictate your knee flexion. It's going to dictate the way your hips. Everything. Yeah. So where I was growing my legs prior to injury with squats, I wasn't able to squat. You were doing leg extension, mostly leg extension, leg curl, right? Well, yeah, I was doing those two. And when I was able to finally get to leg press, you know, I'm still trying to learn how to properly engage the quadriceps, you know, because you lose those signals trying to fire that down through the ankle, scar tissue, all of that. So training was tough. But, you know, it wasn't something that I wasn't willing to work through. And, you know, through the time, as difficult as it was, even once I was able to train again and I started competing and I was losing shows, it was just a little voice that was like, listen, you just got to keep going. Like, this is going to pass. You just have to control what you can. And what I can control was my training in the gym. So it was like, all right, I'm going to figure out how to make this work. I can I can do this, you know. Yeah. And it was just four years of the grind. And I knew I was getting better. Everyone else just couldn't see it, you know, because, you know, you lose shows and then you have to every loss. You know, it's more stock that you're losing. And, you know, oh, he should retire. Oh, he's he's you know, he's washed up in this and the other. I'm like, guys, I really only got to compete like four years before I got injured. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I had the same feeling, you know, Patrick, I was in Houston at some point, like back in early 90, 89. And I was sitting on the motorcycle outside the gym. And so I slid while I'm sitting on the damn bike and my elbow hit the curve right on the corner. And I tore like 70 percent of my triceps. Yeah, man. I was so bummed out. But you know what? In my head, I said, you know what? I'm coming back. I'm coming back. I was like, oh, positive. Eight, nine months later, I won the Pittsburgh Grand Prix. Yeah. So, you know, you can come back. I mean, never say never, you know, but the devastation and the feeling is so bad. I mean, bummed you out so bad. But you know, the heart of the lion. It was a very necessary process for me to go through. Because when I think back, you know, when I had all the things that I did in 2019, 2020, 2021, the success that, you know, for me at the time was major. Because, you know, that's just the perception that I had. And I did not have, like, I guess, the foresight of how far I actually could go. You know, the potential. Everyone else saw more potential. They saw it. And I was just growing into it as they were seeing it. But, you know, there was never a time where I was like, oh, yeah, like, I know I can win next year. So I'm just training and doing all the things. And, you know, when I think back as the person that I was, you know, the man that I was. And it took for the success that I wanted. And I don't think that I was mature enough to handle it, you know, because I remember when I was doing well, it was one of those deals like, you know, look at me. Like, look what I've done. You know, I'm so great now. You know, I'm doing all these things. And, you know, in that time, I was thankful, you know, of course, for the opportunity, the physical gifts that I have. But I don't think I was as grateful as I should have been. And so, you know, when you're not grateful and as thankful as you should be, you take opportunity to suffer granted because you think it's always going to be there. And you're not really aware, like, man, I could lose this thing tomorrow. Yeah. You know, so going through that experience and I think back about the shows that I lost, I was starting the work. Remember, I told you earlier, I love training. I just love training. Well, I had began to relate the training to the result of the shows. And so when I didn't get the result that I wanted from the shows, the training, you know, wasn't what it should have been. I wasn't loving it like I did before, you know. So if you don't love something, you're not really doing it to your max potential. So I remember once I got injured, I was just sitting on the couch like, God, I just want to train. Like, I don't care about the sponsorships. I don't care about the money. I just want to go train. I just want to go work out. Training again. Yeah. Yeah. You know, just the one thing that I loved. The thing that I loved had afforded me all of the success that I had. Yeah. And I started to not be focused in that. So once I was able to train, it really put a different aspect on how I, you know, performed in the gym. Every workout became intentional. Not that it wasn't before, but it was just a different type of focus. And so that became my mission. Again, how good can I be at this training thing? And if I can nail this training, then the physique's going to be there. And if the physique's going to be there, the placings will be there. The places will be there. The money, the opportunity will be there. So it all brought me back to the very beginning. And so I remember there was maybe a getting ready for last season, 2025. And I remember thinking to myself, okay, God, listen. If you give me another shot, I won't squander it this time. You know, I appreciate it. You know, I'll take it for the opportunity that it is. And instead of having an attitude of, oh, you know, I'm so great. Then you start to look at it like, oh, well, how can I take what I'm doing and inspire everybody else? When this is done, you know, it was no longer about how much can I get and how much can I do? It's become more about, well, what am I going to leave behind when this is over? Yeah. Because people will forget the wins. They'll forget the losses and all that. But they'll never forget what they took away from you, you know, how you treated them, what they were able to learn from you through your experience. This for me now is like someone's going to see this story, you know, down the line. And they'll go through the same experience. And they'll be able to say, well, man, look, that guy never quit. And look what he was able to do. So it's a different purpose behind it now, you know, still to win. But now I can't stop because, you know, the story is still being written. And maybe it already is. And I'm just stepping into it. But either way, I have to see this thing through. And so for me, that's all the motivation. And, you know, so when I post and I put stuff up and I'm like, let's get back to work. You know, that's almost on every post because I really, that's the mentality. Every day it's like I get up, I thank God. Hey, thanks. Thank you. Thank you guys. Let's get back to work. We got to get to work now. And then I was able to deliver, you know, this weekend based off that mentality. It's great that you were able to get that perspective, you know, from that injury. Yeah. But after a couple of years, you know, you're able to understand that there's a reason why this happened. A hundred percent. You're back in the hunt, you know. You're back in the hunt. You're next to Andrew Jack, man. You know, you should be motivated. He made over a million dollars. So you know what? You got everything on your body. All you got to do, like, keep, like, pushing it, bro. Keep, like, polishing it. Keep doing whatever. That's why I tell people, you know, after the show and everyone's like, oh, you know, catch your office condition. I tell them to people, it's like, yeah, guys, first I had to get the muscle back. And then the muscle has to be on the bone long enough to train and condition it. So it's coming. And I'm like, did you guys forget how good I can actually be? You know, I tell people, you build the house and you decorate, right? You got to build the house first and you can decorate. Yeah. So, you know, they forgot how good. I saw you at the, you were at the Tampa Pro last year too, right? Yeah. Yeah, John. Yeah. We ran into the whole foods right after. Yeah, the whole foods. Yeah. So, you know, it's like, while everyone was like, oh, saying all the negativity, the negative things, I'm like, it never really like offended me, you know, because when people are like, oh, he should retire, he's washed up, this, that, and the other, whatever. It's like, I understand that. If I'm not placing well in shows, then, yeah, that's their perspective and that's fair. But, you know, like I said before, it's like, but they don't know me, you know, so they don't know my mentality. They don't know. They don't know what's coming. Right. You know, and then, so just, it's like when I see that, I'm like, okay, I know, man, just wait and see. Just wait and see. It's coming. And so the fans are passionate, you know, so whether they like the physique and like something about it or don't like something about it, whatever it is, it's all motivating because, you know, when they, when you tell me criticism, you're just giving me something to go focus on, something to sharpen my ax on. That's it. You know, it's not tearing me down in any way. I'm like, oh, you don't like that. Okay, then. Well, I guess I'm going to have to go fix it. You know, so this show, it's like, man, he's bigger. He's better. Just a little more conditioning. Okay. You know, Big Steve, Tyler, you know, they tell me these things. So I already know. And so then it's like, it's coming guys. Just give me some time. You know, I need time to make this thing happen. And that's what this sport is. It's bodybuilding. You know, it takes time. If you want to do it right and you want quality muscle tissue while still maintaining an aesthetic physique, it's going to take some time. And like Samir said, you know, at this show, standing next to Andrew, you know, it gives me a chance to look and see, okay, what does that actually look like? At my current stage where I am right now, you know, I'm not the best I'm going to be by far. And I can't say Andrew's the best he's going to be by far. He'll improve. Martin will improve. These guys are all top five guys. Brandon. So just to be compared with those guys is good for me to take back and do my homework. Where do I need to improve at when I'm standing next to him and standing next to him? So, you know, I'm over the moon, you know, about the result. You know, I was able to win some money. You know, I was able to, you know, get myself back in a position where, like you said, John, you know, I'm in a conversation where people are like, wow. You just, that's a good feeling to be recognized for the work because it's been four years in the fire. Yeah. So, Patrick, now that you jump in the top three, what's your next goal? What do you envision yourself to be the next time you step on stage? What do you have in mind? I mean, you visualize, like, that Patrick Moore is going to be more shredded? Or what do you see in your mind eyes about your next show up on stage? Uh-oh, we lost. We lost you for a second there. Oh, can you hear me? Yeah. Yeah, we can hear you now, yeah. So, what do you envision next, the next time you step on stage? So, it's, that's the post that I put up. And I said, well, I'm going to put the 2019 version and the current version together. And so, it is, you know, a much more shredded physique is obviously the goal. And, you know, it's, it's pausing, John, for some reason. Yeah, because I keep getting a phone call. Hold on. Yeah. I'm going to get the phone call. It stops. Okay. Yeah. So, hold on, guys. Yeah, man. That's bodybuilding for you. You got to stay hungry. Right, John? Mm-hmm. You got to stay hungry. You got to stay passionate. And, you know, it's like really always when you compete, you got to go to win. You don't want to go to be just another guy on stage. That's, I always thought of that. I don't want to go to be second or third place. I want to go to win. Yeah. And that's the thing is, I want to go in and I just need to improve on what I just did. So, being, you know, tired of conditioning. So, where, you know, I remember at Detroit, I had a personal goal, right? And I said, you know, when this show is over, there's two things that I don't want to hear. I don't want to hear them say he needs more size and he needs more back. Right? So, when that show was over, they were saying, oh, Patrick got the best back up there and he's got more size. Those are the personal goals internally that I set forth for myself. And so, at the Arnold UK, I wanted to be, you know, the same fullness and size. I didn't want to lose that pop, but I wanted to be a lot tighter. So, I actually came in a few pounds lighter at the Arnold UK. So, I knew that that was going to be a much better look because I had a couple more weeks time in between. So, now I have five in between. I took a couple days and to, you know, have a couple meals, nothing crazy. I had a couple burgers, like homemade burgers. Yeah. And now it's like back to work. You know, it's back to the diet, back to the cardio, a couple hours a day, training like an animal. You know, I just couldn't be more motivated to get back on that stage in New York. So, we've got New York, Pittsburgh, and then possibly California Arena after that. When there's a New York. Okay. I'm getting credit because, you know, you did the Arnold in Columbus. Then you went to Detroit, which a lot of people didn't. A lot of people didn't show up in Detroit. And then you went to the Arnold UK. Hey, Scott, do we have those interviews with Chris Aceto? And because, you know, you weren't really in the conversation before, but now I've noticed over the last week, I was watching a couple podcasts. And now people are talking you up and people are noticing, you know, that your potential is coming out. It's in the winner's circle. That's it. Yeah. I'll go ahead, John. What'd you say? I was asking my producer if we have those clips. Yeah. I'd like to see. I really didn't see much photo, honestly, Patrick, but I know your capability. Once you put it 100%, I know you could be back to the bone, you know? Yeah, it was a really good look, you know? There we go. Uh-huh. Let's see here. No, we do know that Patrick comes better than the second show. Wow. You remember what he showed us last year or two years ago? Right, right, right, right. Yeah, I think Patrick should be fifth. And I think I can't be sixth. And then seventh will be, well. Oh, that's a surprise for him, huh? Yeah. Yeah, you were predicting the RLUK. Do you have that one with Chris Tocito, Scott? Because Chris was really giving you a lot of compliments, too. I don't know. Yeah, Jay Cutler, Phil, he talked about me some on the cover. I saw that one. Yeah, Phil was really. Yeah, and, you know. Man, your waist was so small at that show. Yeah. Double bicep. It was like a wasp waist. And your legs came up quite a bit. They have, yeah. They come up a lot. And that's not easy to do when you have an Achilles rupture. Yeah, I know. I know. It's challenging. But, you know, for me, I was up for the challenge, man. I said, I'm not going to let this thing stop me from getting to where I need to be. You know, it's like, I know I can do this. And I'm going to find a way to train around there. I did. And, you know, now my body is catching its rhythm. So, it's going to get better and better from here. Because now, you know, and also, John, too, you know, when you get injured, it makes you more aware of how you train. So, you learn to be more effective with your training. So, it became, you know, where I was just trying to move weight to get the legs to be bigger. Now, I'm actually utilizing the weight properly, you know, to contract it to the muscle. You know, so now I'm moving weight with purpose versus just getting under something or squatting up and down. I'm feeling every movement. And it's making a big difference in the physique development overall, you know. Yeah. Yeah, I can imagine you have a little trepidation when you're doing, you know, you're coming back from Philly's 10 and you're getting under a leg press, you know. You don't want that thing to tear again or squat. Right. Right. Right. I want to ask Patrick a question that probably people want to hear from him. What do you think is important? Intensity or adding more muscle, more weight for each move they do? What do you think? What's more important? Both. You know, and the reason I say that is because I'm a high volume guy and I'm also a heavyweight guy and that boxing background, you know, when you're in the ring for three minutes continuously moving, you're used to the body thing under tension, you know. So I like the intensity that keeps the body under tension, you know, so no super long break. And then, you know, when I'm talking about heavyweight, it's all perspective. It's relative, you know, based on your strength. Under control. Yeah. For example, let's say, you know, you could do 400, 405 on the bench and then you could do it comfortably and go all the way. And then all of a sudden, ah, I'll go with 300. Yeah. My mentality is go handle the maximum weight you can do under control with intensity. So, yeah, and I practice that same thing like with squats, right? I can comfortably squat in the 450 range for about, you know, 10 reps. But I love 315 for 20 because the intensity that that creates being under that bar up and down for 20 reps, that's not a short set. And you do that three, four times, you're going to be in for a day. You will explode. Yeah, man. You will explode. Because like you said, you can handle it. When you can handle it, you can feel it. And when you can feel it, that's muscular development. And that's what we do. That's right. We're developing physiques. We're not power lifting. So, although I can move weight, that doesn't mean it translates to the muscle. Yeah, absolutely. You know, weight and that intensity together. Like, exactly. Yeah. That's what I expected an answer from you. Because, you know, you got people that actually, they're just thinking about lightweight and pump up. I don't like that. No. If you want to get that dense muscle, man, you got to go heavy and push yourself to the limit. Yeah. Yeah. Just think about it like this. You know, we're physique artists is what we are. You know? And like an artist with a sculptor, you know, he's using different tools or painting or whatever it is. You know? He's got the big brush for the big strokes and, you know, that gets his job done. And once that groundwork is laid, he's got several different other brushes to get in there and just, you know, get the detail. You know? So, when you're training and you're going to the gym and you have all this different equipment, you know, you have a squat rack, you have a bench press, these are tools. You know? So, you have to become a master craftsman with these tools. How are you going to utilize them? Sometimes you need the big brush, you know, to just get under there and that might be your squats or your bench press or your leg press. And then the other times you need your leg extensions and your walking lunges and your leg curls and adductors and all these different things to put together what you think that the final product should look like. You know? That's the goal. How pretty can I make this thing? You know? Because that's what people want to look at. Bodybuilding is still the thing that people should want to look like that. Yeah. You know? And even if it's not conceivable that they can get that big. Just the idea of that. So, for me, what guy doesn't want broad shoulders and a small waist? Right. You know? So, that's appealing to me. And I can identify and I can think that that might be appealing to some judges. So, when I'm in the gym and I'm training, it's like, what does this need to look like? Oh, I need round shoulders, big arms, small waist, flaring quads. You know? All the... It's a picture-perfect portrait of what I'm trying to put together when I'm in the gym. And then that's what I go present to the masses. You know? Online. On the stage. And then that's bodybuilding, man. It's something people should look at and say, wow, that is... And if you want a hard-looking muscle, if you want hard-looking muscle, this is the way to go. Yeah. You have to move weight. And if you train with light weight and do a half-ass kind of training, get pumped. No. How many times you see guys that, oh, they're big, but, you know, I'm not impressed. I like dense muscle, man. You have to get under the weight. And you can't do half repetitions. You have to... You know, if you want a big chest that sticks out, you're going to have to press... You're going to have to push that weight out. You can't sit there and do this. You know? It's like you have to be able to know how to train the muscle. You know, how it moves. Basic physiology of what works for your body. And then that will eliminate a lot of the nonsense you see some people doing in the gym when they train. It's like I see stuff and I'm like, yeah, that doesn't work. I don't go tell them that. But I'm like, where'd you get that from? You know, must have been an influencer or something. Online, you know? Yeah, online or something. Because I look at guys training like John and Ronnie and Jay and Flex Wheeler. All you guys that had these physiques before it was the internet and all this other stuff. That's what you should emulate. You know, those things. You know, you guys had it before... Again, you guys had it before the internet and all this other stuff. You guys had the physique that people would see and marvel at. Like, oh, wow, man. That's impressive. Like, geez. You know, and that inspires people to get into the gym. I'm not going to name anybody here. But, you know, there's a few guys out there. They're big. But, you know, they don't really leave a great impression on me if the muscle isn't really... Boom. You got to feel that hardness, that fucking muscle popping like concrete. And this is the look, you know? I'm not going to say anything negative now. But I'll say, like, some people make fun of Nick Walker, for example. But the last time he showed up, he did a really good job. His muscle looked harder. And this is what really put him right up there. You know, it doesn't matter what your physique looked like here. But I'm just thinking the quality was much better. And even now, he's doing better. You know? This is the thing, right? This is the beauty of bodybuilding. It's like every one of us, we're different. So your job is to take your physique and sculpt it and develop it the best way you can and then go present it. That's why it is a subjective sport. You know, you can't sit up and say, oh, that's a bad physique. That's not a good physique. It's all appealing. Like, if you line up 20 models, you're going to like some of the models and some might not be your type. That doesn't mean that they're not good looking. It's just like, I prefer that. You know what I mean? And, again, that's the beauty of the sport. That's why it appeals to the masses because everyone can be a Patrick Moore fan. They can be a Nick Walker fan. They can be an Andrew Jack fan. They can be a Samson Dollar fan, a Phil Heath, a J. Cole, a Ronnie Cole. They can be a fan of whoever and however many that they want. Our job is to just give them something to, like I said, marvel at and be inspired by to go in the gym or whatever and be the best version of themselves because that's what we're doing as athletes. We found something that we like. We like to train. Most of us, it makes us feel better. It makes us a better person. And so, you know, you can take those same principles and stretch them across life, you know, consistency, discipline, you know, having just the raw feeling of wanting to be better. You know, that's what should be the takeaway from bodybuilding because at the core of it, that's what it is. I just want to be better. I want to look better. I want to feel better. And then if you compete, great. If you don't, again, same principles apply. You know what I mean? So I think that all these guys have good physiques. We're all born different. You know, we have different gifts. Nick has a lot of muscle. So, you know, I remember Jay Cutler telling me, like, yeah, Patrick, you're never going to be the biggest guy, but you don't have to because you have shape. So you come in. If you're sharp and you're full and you're dry, that's a difficult physique to beat. Shredded, hard-looking muscle wins. Shredded, hard muscle always wins if the physique is beautiful, which is you got that. Yeah. Yeah, we got this is Chris Acino on Hockey Muscle Radio this week, and he was talking about Patrick. Yeah. But let's talk Patrick Moore. What did you think of Patrick? I thought he looked great. I think Patrick Moore, if he took a year and ate until he could get his body fat. No. Try. Damn. He's got such beautiful, you know, lines. And he's like a big Darren Charles, you know. Yeah. He's like. Very good. Very good. It's. This physique with, like, more muscle is. Could do a lot of. Stuff. I mean, he looked really good. You know, because. Good compliments from people, too. And you can see. You can be critical and say he's not big enough. But he is big enough. He is. He is right. And you say that. He is big enough because what you're looking at is the right structure. Yes. Look at that. Three-quarter back shot. Your shoulder. Your delft. Yeah, it's all there. It looks really. Dense. It's massive. It looks great. Yeah. It's what I envision. You know, when I'm in the back and in the gym and I'm training back and I'm thinking about how these shots are going to look on the stage. What areas do I need to develop? And that's how I look at my physique. When I put a picture up and I see a picture, it doesn't go to, oh, my waist is small. I know my waist is small. I'm going to look at what I don't like. What don't I like about this? Where can I be better? And that's how I believe you improve your physique. You know, that shot. I really wanted to improve my side chest. I wanted more density in the chest. I wanted a lower hamstring drop. You know, my hamstrings and my glutes separation. Oh, I wanted that to come together so it looked like it's one muscle. Yeah. You know, so when I'm training, these are the things I'm thinking about is what are they going to see when I get one stage? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we all have a different physique. 239 or 240, right? 239? Yeah. Yeah, 239. Look at that waist. We all have different physiques in bodybuilding. Look at the lads, man. Arms. The ideal physique is the aesthetic look with skies. And you have that. You were gifted with that. And I could see that, you know, six and a half years ago when I saw you at the 2019 Olympia. And I never saw you before. I was like, this guy's got the shape. And I think, you know, you went through the down period. Now you're coming back up. And now you're making improvements. You improved your physique. And now you're putting on more size. And now people are starting to see it. And that's why I wanted to play those clips with Chris and with, you know, I saw Phil Heath was talking on Jay Cutler's show this week. And Dennis James and those guys are all starting to recognize it now. And you're starting now to come into your own. Good job. Good job, Patrick. Good job. I'm impressed. How people are recognizing it. And you're making those improvements. And you're emphasizing your strengths. You know, your strength is your symmetry, your shape. And now you're just putting the muscle in the right places. Now people are finally starting to see it. Agreed. I agree, John. Yeah. Yeah, man. Your arm came up, too. Yeah, my arms, you know, because I stopped training them because they grow so quickly. But once my shoulders started to get more good. Come on, you never get enough arm. You can OD on the arm. It's okay. Yeah, so it's just, you know, I had to, you know, balance it out. And again, you know, Samir, that's how it is, man. You look and you're like, oh, I need to change this. I need to change that. And, you know, so that's the fun in it, though, because it's always something I can work for. Something I can work towards. And that's motivating. The only muscle that you can continue to gain is your arm. And it's no problem. Because your arms are the wing that you can fly with. You can do it this way. You can do whatever you want from the back, from the side. If you don't have a big arm, it's like a bird that don't have any fucking wings. You got to have the arms, bro. So, you have improved there. I'm impressed. I didn't really see this photo. But now I'm looking at it. Dude, you look great. Yeah. You look a lot better. A lot better. It's just, man, the work continues. So, let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Another improvement over that. And let's go. Get the big checks, dude. Come on. That's what's going to happen. I'm on it, man. Trust me. I am. I was in the gym training. That's why I text John right before I said, okay, yeah, I'm going to knock out some training. And that was my second training session today. You know, it's like I am chomping at the bit for as much work as I can do when this body allows me to do. I'm going to push it 100%. There's no letting off the gas. You know, my body will tell me when it's tired. I'm very well. Again, John, that's another thing is, you know, that injury taught me to become very in tune with my body. Yeah. I know when it's tired. I know when it needs a day off. I know when I need to restructure my training or the output. You know, that's what I love about bodybuilding and preparing myself for these shows is when it's going to be a day where it's training legs and I'm about to go in there and train two hours and I'm going to squat and leg press and lunge and leg extension, leg curls. I'm going to eat. I'm going to fuel this body for the training performance. And if I can perform in the gym, that's going to drive the conditioning. That's going to drive the overall look. You can't go in the gym, zero carbs, depleted, and think you're going to have good output. That's not how that works. You know, you eat food to get your ass in that gym and train hard. So if you're doing 1,000 carbs a day, your ass better get in that gym and train 1,000 grams of carbs worth of training. And this is what you were doing with Keith. You were like on a really high carb at the time. Yeah. Yeah. I don't like the low carbs, man. Low carbs is bullshit. No, if you do low carbs, I'm like, no, your ass needs to train more. Yeah. Yeah, right. You're going to do low carbs. Okay. You need to tell you what. Keep the carbs where they're at and increase the output. You know, throw a little party on top of it. Something. But make sure that that muscle, when it's time to perform, it has what it needs. And you're going to have to eat to do that. You know, so where people are like, oh, I'm going to suffer and suffer. Yeah. I get that to an extent, man. But we're still building muscle here. And to build muscle, you need a lot of fuel. Well, you know. Whatever you did. Whatever, Patrick. Whatever you did for that Arnold UK. Keep it going, bro. Because I see it's noticeable changes for the better. So you're on the right road right now. I appreciate it, man. Keep it going, bro. Keep it going. And so, you know, another 10% more improvement. Come on. You're going to be fighting with the, you know. I'm not telling you what you want to hear. I'm looking at your body. I'm looking at your arm. Your lats. Your lats flow wide in small, tiny ways. And this is what win contests. Your middle. You have that separation in your thighs. You look beautiful, man. And they're huge. Like you say, you're not big enough bullshit. You can even get a little bigger if you want. But I don't think that's a problem. The size, you know, the size is going to come with the training. But, you know, until then, it's just like all I need to focus on is the work. And if I am training hard and doing everything I need to do, the body is going to change accordingly. Yes. You know, it's going to happen. That's it. Of course. That's how I view it. But now it's different because my body has caught its rhythm. And so I feel the training every time I go in the gym. You know, mentally, I'm in tune. Physically, I know the job. I know what needs to be done. Mentally. Mentally. First. Yeah, mentally. It's like why I used to be. That tunnel vision is so important. The tunnel vision, that being passionate. And now you're on that right track, in my opinion. So just stay enthusiastic about it and keep moving forward, bro. Yeah. That's my opinion. Yeah. I know. Yeah. And that's, I know you've been around guys like Labrada. I mean, look at Lee Labrada, for example. Lee Labrada wasn't the biggest guy up on stage. But he knows how to ride, to have that beautiful body, that quality, the presentation, the confidence. All of that play a major role. Right. And so I'm telling you, bro, you're not far off being to get the first check. You know, just keep going. Yeah. Well, Phil on that Jay Cutler podcast that I watched a couple days ago, he was saying at one point at the Arnold UK, you stood next to Andrew Jack. And you guys were getting a little bicep, and he's like, man, he was right there with Andrew Jack. So, you know, he's comparing you to one of the best bodybuilders in the world, a guy who's favored now to win the Olympia this year. So, I mean, that's what I mean. You're in the conversation now at the, you're going to build your way up to that upper echelon. And I think you deserve it because you've got that genetic shape, that great shape, and you've added the muscle. So you should be up there. And I think people now are recognizing it. Yeah, man, I appreciate it, John. It is motivating. You know, that's the thing is when you get the recognition for the work, you know, and that's what I think about. You know, when I think back about the last four years and all the training and all the, you know, the placings that weren't great, so on and so forth. It's like I say relentless, you know, the perseverance to it all. And then this experience here this past weekend that I win more prize money than all the shows I've done combined. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Right? It's crazy. Right? When you think about it, it's like, okay, so I'm going through all this deal. And it's like by the old metrics of the old prize money, I would have had to win seven shows to dig. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so it's like here's your just zoo, man. I know you've been working hard. So here's a little bit of life, you know, and that is enough for me to say, I'll keep digging. What did you get from that third place, Patrick? $75,000. Wow. Yeah. Very good. Very good. Yeah. I hope you'll get bigger checks soon. You know, remember, you know, I look, I've been in this all my life and I just wanted to tell you the total package, my friend. Always focus on your total package. Right. And your waistline looks so fantastic. You know, your thighs have improved. The arms are great. I mean, you did good. You peaked good. But always in every pose, make sure the whole package shown properly. Every pose. And that's it. I'm telling you, it's not like if someone I weigh you by 25 pounds, big deal. But, you know, you have enough mass for your height, too. So, and, you know, no disrespect by Andrew Jack, incredible. Yes, he's huge. But don't be scared that because he's taller than you or bigger than you. You got to go there and, like I said, take number one. I was very happy to be standing next to him. You know, because our physiques have been compared before, having similar structures, small weights. Yeah. And like I said, you know, again, when I see the guys that Phil took down over the years, you know, 200-something, 300-pound big Rami, you know, huge Jay Cutler, huge Kai Green. You know, it's like so you can't, you can't, if you go into these shows thinking like, oh, I don't want to stand next to the bigger guy. Everybody's going to be big. This is open class. So all you need to be worried about is bringing your 100% package to where if you get a chance to stand next to these guys that are bigger, you can edge them out somewhere. You know, like you might be tired of your conditioning and something. You might be more complete. You have no gaps in your physique. On any given day, if you're 100%, you can get a win. You just have to be 100%. Let me give you an example. Since you're pretty close with Lee Labrada, and I know Lee very well. Just look at Lee, and he was a runner-up in the Olympia a couple of times. Medorian. Yeah. Well, okay. Look, how many big guys were standing next to Lee? Right. A lot. But the judge's eyes went to Lee still. Why? Because he looked at the overall package that went contact. Yes. Okay. Quality was overall. I mean, Lee was for his height. He still have enough muscle. But, I mean, when you're standing next to a big guy like Lee Haney, you know, honestly, in Rimini, in Rimini, Lee, I was there with Lee. Probably Lee could have won because, I mean, Lee Labrada, you know, Haney was a tad bit off in Rimini, in my opinion. But then again, you know, Lee won the Olympics. But I'm just saying, Labrada was runner-up a couple of times, not because he was 250 pounds. It was like, what, 180 pounds, 185. Yeah. Who cared? Yeah. Clear abs, very wide shoulders, small waist. And this is, you know. It's still the overall best physique that wins. That's still how they're judging bodybuilder competition. Keep listening to Lee. Yeah. It's not just the biggest. It's not the most conditioned. It's not the most shapely. It's the overall. Thank you. So you have to strive your best to be conditioned, have good shape, have good muscular. And that increases your chance to be in the top. So that's always my focus is I can't worry about guys being bigger or smaller or more conditioned or having this or having that. No, I bring what I bring. And I need to maximize my physique. Because when I'm training, that's where my focus is. It's just in every show, like we said, it's just getting better. You know, 5%, 10% better. Yeah. What did I like about this show? Oh, I didn't like my glutes and hamstrings. Okay. So next show, glutes and hamstrings come in. Let's see what that looks like. Okay. Then we look at those pictures. What don't I like about that? Okay. So now I fixed that and I go into Pittsburgh. Okay. Look at those pictures. What don't I like about that? And then it becomes a thing where it's just compounding, you know, until finally. Finally, remember when you're happy, when you're happy and there's no pressure, your injury is good now. Everything happened is a lot better. Remember, your thought is stronger than anything. Right. You got to take, you're happy. Everything worked like a clock. Right. You don't have anything, any bad event in your life or no injury to worry about. So you know what? It's open road for you, bro. Let's do it. Oh yeah. I'm on it, man. I'm on it. That's good. All right, Patrick. Well, we'll let you go. Thanks for joining us on the show. It was really a pleasure to talk to you about your history in the sport and then your upcoming shows coming up. I'm so happy to see your physique is finally doing well. Long overdue, in my opinion. And I think the best is yet to come for you. So I'm really excited about what's going to happen this year. Hey, man. I appreciate it, John. It was great to come here and talk with you and Samir, man. And yeah, just stay tuned, man. It's coming. It's coming. I'm telling you, after looking at what you've done on that stage, I'm impressed. And I'm not easily impressed. Okay. I'm just telling you. That's good, man. That's just going to make me go train hard tomorrow. You got to package. Anytime you come to Southern California, let me know. Okay. I'll take you up on that, man. And you can trust me. We'll do some posing too, whatever. You know? Yes, sir. I'm sure Nila Brada will approve too. 100%. Yeah. Great chatting with you, buddy. Thanks again, buddy. Really wishing you all the best. Wishing you the very best. Thank you, man. I appreciate it, guys. Thank you. Congrats. Congrats. All right. Take care. All right. All right. A nice life.