 naringin,geries, u, tb.m. On today's episode of the Muscle Immaturity Show, we will be talking about the Arnold Classic UK Classic Physique Edition. We'll be going pose by pose between Wesley Vissers versus Mike Sommerfeld. We'll be discussing the future of the Classic Physique Mr. Olympia. All of that and more in today's episode. Welcome to today's episode of the Muscle Immaturity Show. We are officially on episode six. We are not canceled. I haven't been dropped for my brand. There's no death threats for Dylan at this point. So it's a good day. Yeah, yeah, it's been a good run so far. I'm glad we're covering yet another major show. This time we have a Classic Physique Edition of the Arnold Classic UK. Got to be honest, Marcus. I've thrown a lot of shade at this show behind the scenes. I think the lineups are mid at best. I mean, Open's lineup was so bad they invited Blessing Awodaboo to the show. But we'll talk about Open in our next episode. I actually think Classic Physique could be the main event this time around because we finally get that matchup that we've been waiting for between Mike and Wesley. And I told you about this. They were slated to do 2025 Arnold Classic, but Wesley botched it so much and Mike really ran away with it. So, you know, you didn't get that matchup. They were in different callouts. And then in 2026, we finally get it again, only for Mike to miss. And now Wesley has hit a good peak not once but twice at the Arnold Classic and Detroit Pro. So hopefully he can keep it again and give us a good matchup here. A matchup that I think deserves some pose-by-pose analysis. It's interesting because at this point in this storyline for these two stage superheroes, we got a villain, you know? Interesting, right? The last time we saw Wesley, he was the hero. He won Detroit Pro. He even took down the big guy, the Men's Open. I'm actually curious what you felt about that. How did you feel about it? I do want to talk about that. Mo Foda at the Detroit Pro, if you don't know, they take pretty much the winners of the Classic Physique and the Men's Open and have them battle them out on stage to become the king of Detroit. King of Detroit. Yeah. Yes. I preferred Wesley straight up. You know, I was big on Mo Foda before the Arnold Classic. I can see why I wasn't before. I was so eager to come and talk about this. I thought it was going to be a whole topic because I thought that Mo was going to win, just similar to how last year with Matt Grego and Bonac it was. To where I believe that, you know, oh yeah, it's not even comparison, blah, blah, blah, Bonac just looks so much bigger, all this. To where, yeah, Mo really did not shut the door and actually got beat. I agree. He got beat. He just, the size of Wesley, overall shape, he stood up above him in stature and had probably, I would say, even more width than him in general in the upper body. The legs were the only place where really there was a big difference between the two. I like the shape of Wesley's quads more. I think really it was nearly from the rear. Side leg. Not even side leg, really. As from the side, there was clearly a density difference. But, I mean, the upper body of Wesley won him that, hands down. To the point where, I mean, shout out to Mo. I like the fact that he used his platform. It is a popularity contest, too, at the end of the day. Yeah, but, I mean, we could agree that, regardless of popularity or not, like, Matt Grego got beat by Bonac, rightfully so. I mean, it's season muscle versus a new guy. Are you kidding? Oh, I see. I mean, I'm saying our analysis, how we look at it, bodybuilding. We're judging bodybuilders on stage. Well, vice versa, they would both win their respective divisions, even if Mo Foto was allowed to compete because it just doesn't look as good. Okay, so now we have to look at this differently then because I'm looking at them as far as rather as classic physique or bodybuilding or not. Wesley was the better looking bodybuilder on that stage. Mm-hmm. So, I don't care what division they're in. To me, Wesley actually won that regardless. That's how I'm looking at it. So, I'm saying, like, I don't like to see if there's a huge difference between classic and open. I know there's a lot to be said about that. But, to me, it's like, okay, it's Martin versus Bumstead all over again to where, well, that's a very even matchup because you have a very good open competitor versus, you know, the best of classic. So, it makes sense for there to be, you know, so many people up in arms. However, to me, it was clearly Bonac versus Grego on that stage. I mean, it's just there was too much muscle, great shape. Overall, Bonac was the rightful winner. To where me, the way I look at Wesley versus Mo, regardless of the exercise, the density, the depth, and the muscle, I still think that Wesley won. Like, I think that if they were on an open stage, Wesley may have been, like, you know what I mean? I think that he could have been pretty decent on a, you know, an open stage even. In an open context, yeah, I think there's the game. The gap from the rear deserves a DQ from open. I mean, I'd have to give Mo the win just for, like, there's less gaps. There's more muscle. Well, how do you feel about Martin versus Bumstead? Martin won. And I, that's what was my opinion. I mean, not to say I don't disagree or agree, but why did Martin win? I think Martin did win, but why? Muscle. So, just because of Mo's muscle. See, and I don't think that he was outmuscled heavily in the upper body. I think for Mo versus Wesley, it's actually more clear than it was between Martin and Seabom. I could definitely see why Chris could have taken that. Interesting. That's an interesting take. I mean, realistically, that's an interesting take. I kind of disagree. Nonetheless, it's a cool thing that Detroit does that. I would like to see more of that. It is an ode to the classic, you know, the old school bodybuilding, the golden era. Where you used to have an under 200 and over 200 category at the Olympia. Yeah. And, you know, you have probably three or two, two to three guys each, you know, because bodybuilding consisted of like five people back then. And then you would compete for the overall. Yeah. Shout out to the Olympia ladies. Yeah. Arnold and Franco. Ken Waller versus Colombo at the 76 Olympia or like, and, you know, you had Frank Zane versus somebody, maybe it was Mincer one year because he was just over 200. I like it, especially now that there are clear divisions with clear rules and difference between them. I think they should influence the show. I don't know if I want to see it at the, like the highest level at the Olympia, because you know, there was, there was the argument that it takes away from the winner of open, which it does. It does. It's not an argument. It does be better. You just took it from Mo here. I feel like it's taking something away from the bigger guy. Mo's too busy slobbing on Martin's knob, bro. Now I like, see you, I like that pause, but I like the fact that he didn't say it like that. It was a human thing to do. We all have bad days. Well, we can't all be cool like you, man. That's true. You know, I liked it. I thought it was a good use for the platform to spend that time giving to somebody else. I'm shocked that you disagree with that. One, I think the whole Martin thing is so stupid. It's, it's over, bro. The dude's a crash out and, um, over in what sense? Like, let's, let's just stop talking about it. Like, yeah, we get it. He's a crash out. We don't need any more than that. And I guess I want to stop the pile on in that sense. Not because like, oh, Martin is screaming uncle, you know? Oh, I lost all my sponsors. Well, you guys got what you wanted. Just the fact that it's boring. I agree in a sense that there's a, a softness to the way that the industry reacted. Personally. I think, uh, I mean, but granted you're the one that tried to say he assaulted somebody when he hit his camera. So he's, he assaulted two people now. Yeah. I, I, the bodies, the bodies are piling up. Nonetheless, let's get into it. It has been a long time coming and we do have a villain now in Mike Sommerfeld. And sadly, again, even with this past, uh, you know, a couple of weeks ago at the Arnold, people were still kind of mad at him because he missed weight. So it just kind of keeps on stacking up against him. Because they thought that he would get rehided. Why he thought that? I don't know. I would, there are two options. Him and his coach are really dumb or they thought they would get another favor, which isn't Mike's fault. Technically. It's not his fault, but they thought they would get another favor because why would you even think that the two options are incompetence or injustice, you know, where he's like, he thought he would get, you know, another inch, a little more few pounds to play with back where, you know, he used to be, which would have helped. But I still, with all that being said, I do think that I love Wesley over. I watch his videos because I think they are probably some of the most informative videos that any bodybuilder makes on YouTube, not just from a working out standpoint, but more so behind the scenes, the kitchen, the diet, all these extra tidbits that it gives, uh, from a supplement, uh, standpoint, I really enjoy what Wesley has to offer. Pause. That being said, I don't know, man. My opinion on this has changed. What? I don't think I have Mike winning anymore. Really? Okay. And I was just about to say, I have Mike winning. I think Mike's going to win. Look, it's not bodybuilding. If it was a bodybuilding, Mike is more complete, uh, definitely from the back, from the legs. Then the, like, I've looked at them pose by pose now. And, um, you know, the back pose and the hamstrings, now that Wesley has some more girth there, it's not really that big of a difference. And you have to think, I think Mike is only going to get worse. Maybe not, not like bad, but you know, like, it's not going to be like his great versions from the 2024 Olympia, the 2025 Ronald, because he's not as big. He can't be as big anymore. He's done cheating. So I think the physique may get a little more small, a little more withered. And, you know, it's, it's not a good look when you go backwards ever. It doesn't look the same case in point, Breon Ainsley until he got that little extra bump in his weight cap. He was getting worse every year because sucking down year after year was literally hurting his physique. So I don't see why Mike would be any different. Yeah, it does. I mean, it kind of comes with a caveat now, but I do think that Mike, see you, you, you bring up a point that I also disagree with the whole, the, Oh, he's not classic. What makes him not classic? I didn't say that. I meant like if it was an open bodybuilding context where it's more about winning these poses, bringing a more complete physique than Mike would win. You don't think that same feeling comes with classic. You don't think that the judges are judging in that manner. I think it may be, I don't, I don't know because look, Wesley isn't the most complete guy and he just won the Arnold. Now I get the lineup wasn't all that, but I don't know what we have right now is Ramon Dino and he's complete, but more classic than Mike. And he's more complete and bigger than rough diesel, but rough diesel is more classic. So they seem to be trying to go for a middle ground, but I don't know. I don't, I don't necessarily think they should. I think it should be even more different than open. Like a physique, like Logan Franklin. Arguably should be winning. Like in terms of an open bodybuilding context, he's not beating his peers. He's too lanky and all, you know, but like in terms of like classic, he's like a, a wide hip Frank Zane. See then classic physique is going to become the division of moving the goalpost. And that'll be an issue because now we're just judging off clearly who is the most classic. And that's odd to me because it's like, okay, then who are we basing this off of? If it's Arnold or, you know, Lou, well, Wesley has to win all of them because he resembles Arnold or Lou for, you know, the most, if it's a Frank Zane, then yeah, we're going to have to go Logan Franklin. So to me personally, it's a little, it's, it's an interesting way to look at how to, how to grade or score classic physique because there's someone like Jose, Jose, Jose. What about him? You know what I mean? He brings that next level. If you want to talk about one person who, you know, Hey, you know, right. Should move up, you know, we'll talk about that, you know, but there's a lot of these guys who don't really match the mode of classic, but, or the quote unquote mode of classic yet. They still shine in the classic physique division. I mean, look, Nile, Nile, Nile, whatever. Yeah. So look, look at someone like him to where a lot of these gentlemen, if they sat there and moved up, they would, they look like open physique. Look at Ramon. I mean, Olympia winner. It does change the goalpost because I think that era was actually just more unique. Bodybuilders. A lot of the time you have two camps now it's five, seven and below and they look like hottie. That's where you'd come in. Right. Or no, but we're talking about five, two and below for me. And then, and then, you know, you're like five, 11, six foot and above and Andrew and, and Samson are kind of similar, but like back in the day you had so many different physiques, like so like they were so different. And that's a good thing. You had room for physiques like Franco and Ken Waller and Frank Zane and Robbie and Mike Mencer at the tail of the seventies, early eighties and Arnold. All of these were different. Arnold, Arnold was a lot like the sea bum of his day where he had it all. And then some. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, we, we, we do see a glimpse of that today, regardless. I mean, we see a glimpse of that, especially in the classic physique division. We get all these unique, you know, physiques of Mike Somerfield, Wesley. We have Logan. We have Hosima. Yeah. You only win if you look like Chris Bumstead. Say it again. You only win if you look like Chris Bumstead though. Here enters Mike Somerfield. Right. I mean, that's, that's kind of my point is so Mike Somerfield is somebody who. And that's why I think Wesley's going to win because he doesn't look like Chris Bumstead. He had the code to me though. He was the code breaker, especially at that one Olympia where they were going like neck and neck to where it was a totally different physique, but because of his, you know, more open or, you know, bodybuilding style of poses or physique, it really helped him. So I think that is kind of the, they're looking for something different. They're looking for something new to where, yeah, a Wesley. I don't know. I think I want my classic physique guys to be smaller than that or less muscular than that. Maybe that's the wrong choice, but I don't know. I actually want them to be smaller than Mike. It's tough, man. It's not, it's kind of the issue I've always had with a classic physique in general and the way people look at it. I mean, I've gone back and forth with John shout out to muscle maturity podcast, John Hanson. I've gone back and forth with this topic because I think we all agree that classic should still be judged like similar to open in the sense of it's whoever's classic physique was bodybuilding. I get it now. It's like a freak show, quote unquote, at the, at the, you know, at, in opens now at the top of the food chain, but it was, it has always been, if you fit within the weight cap, why not? I mean, that's what I'm saying. That's why I kind of argue for Mike Summerfield, granted he's had a lot of issues fitting in the weight cap at this point, but if you're able to fit in the weight cap and whatever, regardless of how you show up on stage. So for instance, Jose, I would like to use Jose as a, um, an example. That dude, gnarly, crazy condition. Doesn't fit the division. Doesn't fit the division to me fits the division. Why? Cause it's, it's bodybuilding. It's still class. It's just classic. So we want a little bit more lines. We want some taper going on all that. To me, I think it's such, it might take away from, but you can argue the opposite. It could also, both sides could take away from the division if they get too big, but that's why they did the weight caps and things of that nature. So I think those are there to kind of always withhold what they're looking for. So I do think that somebody like a Mike or, you know, they're, they're the ones who can come in and will eventually have some type of reign into this division personally. And it's because they're bringing a different package. I mean, I get why Mike probably will win. It'll be interesting. I think it is a litmus test for where the, the classic physique division is because you know, you have no Chris Bumstead now. So like in the absence of someone that has, cause there's no Ramon either. And Ramon is that dude that combines everything, not to the level that Chris did, but close. He is classic and complete and conditioned. He has it all. He checks all the boxes. But when you don't have someone that checks all the boxes for sure, where Mike isn't the most classic and Wesley, Wesley is very unique. I don't know if I'd call him classic, but very unique in terms of the shape, but is missing things. Which do they ultimately go with? Hold on. Why would you not call Wesley classic? Palm tree lats, kind of a wide waist. Oh man. To me, he looks good. Blocky. Okay. Yeah. I get that. Even with the new package, you still feel that way. Mm-hmm. Ah, man. See, once again, but going off the words you just said a couple minutes ago, we had every type of physique back in the day. Yeah. I'm not saying it shouldn't win. But what makes it not classic? We still, we keep getting to this argument. The lack of flow. It's just like the high lats to like the weird rib cage. Like, yeah, I'm not going to deny that it's appealing to some people. It's appealing to the classic physique division, if you ask me. Right. Is it technically classic? No. But in a weird way, it still kind of is. It reminds me of a silver era physique more than actually a golden era physique. Obviously not a level of size and condition, but just like. Yeah. Yeah. The, the Herculean look of the bone structure, you know, like if you take a look at like old, old muscle magazines from like the fifties, you know, like these guys, they were looking for like the biggest rib cage, but just the biggest people possible. I think we're in now where classic is more so in the realm of the, the, the eighties, the late eighties, if anything. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're getting into that realm of, of classic physique. I think that's what we're now looking at. Like. Ruffin is black. Lee Labrada. Mike is Momo Benaziza. And Ramon is like, I don't know. Francis Benfato. Who would you say fits the mold the most? Would it be Terrence? In terms of what? Classic. What are our little whatever of what classic is. Ramon. Ramon. Yeah. Because like I said, he checks all the boxes. Like he is complete, but not as muscular as Mike, but he's like on the verge of that. And he's not as classic as Ruffin, but all together, it's the best balance of all those things. Okay. And for me, it'd be Ruffin to me. Ruffin is my pick to be what I would consider the standard of classic physique. If we're trying to bring that perfect rendition of the, you know, classic bodybuilders from back in the day to me, Terrence is, is that, uh, and we, we should talk about the posing and things of that nature, which all these guys, you know, they, they do great at that, but there's some standouts in terms of Ramon is not that good. Hence why I feel like he's one of the ones who I'd love to see wolf to open to be real. I'd love to see that body. Paul is maxed out. Oh, you know, to that next level. I like where you're, I like where you're going with that. I think he'll take Brenda out of Brenda out real quick. Well, he's done. He's not that dude should retire. Is he? Well, we know we want to keep it. We want to keep a classic. Will he be at the open now? Will he be Arnold UK or is he, is he hanging? No, he's not doing it. He never was going to do it. Oh, okay. He was never on the poster or anything. You're siding with Wesley for this one. You think the weight situation, all that, it's going to hurt Mike. It's going to. Well, in terms of bring a more regression. In terms of prediction, like if I was a betting man, I'd still probably have to bet with Mike, but I'm going to make the argument that it should be Wesley. And that's all, that's all I'm doing. I'm making the argument that it actually probably should be Wesley. Assuming it's, we roughly get what he's been bringing to the Arnold and the Detroit. If he's off. Yeah, he deserves to lose, but we'll see. Well, we don't know what version of Mike is coming. So the version of Mike we last saw was Olympia, right? Wasn't a fan. Wasn't the best. Mike wasn't the best. I would say, but it was still very good. And I do think that it was still beat Wesley. It hurts me to say, cause I'm a, I don't know Mike like that. I'm a fan of Wesley. If I'm being real and transparent, I do think it has the, it's the, it's the caliber of bodybuilder to be able to beat Wesley personally. Even this version of Wesley that's to me just getting better. It still has the capability of doing so. I'm on the side of the fence with this one. It's going to be a very clear reason as to why either of them wins. You know, what, what's more important in the judges' mind when that catch-all competitor is not, is absent. Is it, is muscular more important than a classic look? Well, the conditioning is going to be, I think something that's going to be in a focal point. And I do feel like Mike will be able to bring. At this one, yeah, I think it could be a tiebreaker. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Actually, I think Mike is going to run the risk of looking a little flat and actually less conditioned, even though he will, he will have to be conditioned, but I think he'll be flatter. I think it'll hurt the overall look. It's a, it is a sweet science, man. When you really think about it, it, a lot of people try to take a lot of things away from this sport, but goodness, man, it's a sport. It really is a sport. There is a sweet science to this. And I think that right there just kind of proves it because yeah, I sit there and have the tit for your tat. And it's, I thought maybe, yeah, the conditioning was going to, you know, that could maybe put Mike over, but you are right. A hundred percent. Now he is at the risk of coming in flatter, not bringing that fullness. That really helps Mike. That's the whole, that's, that's why he was able to take a bump set to those deep waters a couple of years back at the O. So. Yeah. Which I didn't agree with taking a point off the goat. I didn't see that. I guess there was, there was one person on that panel that really appreciated that Mike looked like he was in two 12. Well, good. That's not what we're judging for. Good. Because like I said, and this is where I might stand alone in this Island. I feel like classic deserves to be judged. However people see fit because it is that weird anomaly of a, of a division to where, okay, you're supposed to have that old to classic, but it's still who's the best bodybuilder. Cause a lot of the classic guys, a lot of these older gentlemen are still going to look at that division as it's who's the best bodybuilder. There's still bodybuilders on stage. It's about bodybuilding. It's just who has the more classic physique, quote unquote, but it's still bodybuilding. So with that being said, that's why I would give a little bit more credit to a Mike. That's why I do think he could take a point from someone like a bump said, even though bump said was like the prototype for today's, you know, classic standard. It gets old. It got old to me personally. It got old. I don't think that's a judging criteria. It's not a judging criteria, but what I'm trying to say is if you look at it from the lens that you're doing right now, Oh, I can't see how just cause somebody is bigger or they would think a two 12 competitor is going to be able to run. Now, why are you comparing him to a two 12 competitor? He's a classic physique competitor just cause he has the stature of a two 12 guy. Are you, I mean, to me, that person personally to me would be able to like, like a, a Keon he's too big probably, but Keon, I would love to see him come in. Cause that's a classic physique to me. Keon is a step above it now, probably, but Keon screams classic physique to me. So like he's that modern day open classic guy to me. If Keon and Chris Bumstead were competing in classic as they are, as they show up, Chris Bumstead should win. Not that he would, but I get the front of Chris is the anomaly. Chris, Chris is the anomaly in this situation. That's, that's what I'm trying to, that's kind of, here's my hangup. There is, and this is my, this is my, this is probably the last thing I'll say on this because it's just, it's just my governing philosophy. There is such a thing as overdeveloped in classic. I think many will agree with you. Do you think Jose is against that point? Yes. He's at that point. Yes. He can do well in the division. This is another reason why Mike beats Terrence when they're playing, when they're going for second or third. But if they're in the conversation for first, then it should be Ruffin ahead. I still think, I still think there's an argument for Ruffin to have placed ahead of Mike at the Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I always say, man, styles make fights. And I think, I think Terrence won that fight. Like, I'm just saying, if I were judging this and like, well, Ramon is my clear winner, then I'm kind of less offended how Mike and Ruffin goes. But if those two were my, my challenging for first, then it has to be Ruffin. And for me, Ramon wasn't a clear winner. Like you say that so like just blatant. I don't think he was a clear winner personally. I think that any of those three guys probably could have won that show. I do think it was a situation to where it was what direction are we going to go in? And I think Ramon made the most sense. I think that if we didn't have these whole height cap issue, of course, we would probably saw a different outcome personally. But I do think we might see the rightful outcome regardless at the UK, because I do think that Mike's going to come in with a chip on his shoulder and he is the villain right now. Right. So that dude's a freak. I see his alter on his alter ego, Elvis or whatever. And his girlfriend's the only one that can calm him down. Just lift the weights and do the car. Yeah, bro. No one cares about the demons. My evil alter ego. Coming from a true single individual. I got you. I get it. I get it. Jealousy is a hell of a thing, man. You want that person to calm you all down and talk you off the ledge? I get it. No. No, I'm just saying that. I don't know why you're taking it into some weird situation, but I'm just saying. What do you mean a weird situation? He's a freak. You're saying he's a freak. Okay, the Idris Elba, whatever weird character he has going on. I don't know about that. Elvis? Dumbledore? I have no idea. It's spelled. I think it's an E or I. B-I-S. B-L-I-S? Elvis? But you also mentioned the fact that his girl is the one who can take him, I guess. That's what he said. I don't know. I don't know how this works. I've never had an alter ego. You decided to bring it up. I stopped playing Make Believe when I was six, so I don't know what that was like. Hence the lack of imagination. I got you. I got you. Man, it's hard out here for a pimp. I see. Hey, my imagination is the only thing that got the intro done. You're trying to force a square block through a circle hole. Oh, wow. You were on your computer typing like this, like Donkey Kong. I've actually seen Dylan punch a heavy bag, and that's how he punches, by the way. No, you haven't. Put up your set with your little fist again. Put him up. Put him up. I think we went into too much depth, I guess, when it comes to these two guys. But I think this is what UK is going to be. I really do. I think that I don't think this is going to be easy. Yeah, it is a main event. It is kind of the only way that Open can really outshine is if Andrew Jack comes with his all-time, one of his best looks. And I can't stand you for saying meh to the picture I sent you. Of Andrew. Meh. What? The guy looked incredible. So I do feel like this is the main event, and the only way that Open can really kind of go. Because it's two heavy hitters. It's something we've been waiting for for a while. And the appearance of Mike Summer. People in Open are just standing with their dicks in their hands. Like, does no one else want to do this show? Nick Walker's afraid to get on a plane? Or how do you guess gets a pass? Because apparently he doesn't have a visa. I would give Raphael some shit. But, like, you're right. He shouldn't compete at the UK. He should stop competing entirely. No, yeah. To be— No, no. I think that— Bro, Hassan Mustafa's still doing it. Shout out to Hassan. See, let you all this negativity. Shout out to Hassan for doing it. I think strategy has to come into play with this. You put all your eggs in this basket. Arnold, rightfully so. Big money prize. All right. Back to the drawing board. Let's make something else happen. I think that the person who I'd have liked to have seen Hot Ray back in would be the top three. But if for whatever reason, you know, one thing led to another, they don't want to—I get it. Martin's not doing this, is he? Apparently he is. Really? Yeah. Oh, shoot. Okay. Well, that'd be something good to see then. That's two heavy hitters right there. Sure. It's going to be Brandon, Andrew, and Martin. Yeah. Yeah, that'll probably be the top three. And then everyone else. Maybe Blessing can crack that top two. Watch. Watch him, mate. I know you love Blessing. There is no way in hell Blessing cracks the top two. No, no, no, no. He won't crack top two, but I think he could be top five. Top five? Four? Top five. I think he'd be top five. I think he'd be top five. I think he has the ability to be top five. I'd hope so. This lineup sucks. Well, I think Arnold's put on a good show. I'm actually looking forward to his strong man, to be real. That's what I'm looking for. It's not his fault. It's just these competitors. Yeah, more people should show up. All right. Well, we kind of touched base on this before. Obviously, getting past the Arnold's, getting past this season, we have the Olympia to look forward to. And I mean, similar to Open, there is a lot to look forward to in Classic. A lot of different physiques make up that Classic Ode that we all love. Now, we have a lot of modern day heavy hitters who just kind of bring all different packages. We have, I assume, Brown's going to come back and try to do it. Hopefully not. Maybe we'll go to 212. But nonetheless, we're just talking about different packages. Hosima is somebody who I would love to see continue to come in and bring that gnarly conditioning. The Niles of the world. Logan Franklin. I agree with you. Logan Franklin is one of the ones that at the show last year, his showing, it's the one physique that I'm like, okay, screw everything else that we know and think about. This is capable of being the standard. I haven't thought about that. I haven't thought that for any competitor yet, aside from like a bump set. But he got his clock cleaned bodybuilding-wise by Mike. So that's where it went. And that's where I think Classic is such a unique and interesting division because we have a situation to where it's like, okay, well, the most quote-unquote classic guy is getting his bell rang. Your words, not mine. But how do you see the Olympia shaping up? Obviously, we know the heavy hitters will be there. So we can... You failed to mention my dark horse to win the Olympia. Justin Batterina. Oh! I don't know if you've been... Look, I think to make it simple, the judges want to catch all. Chris Bumstead was that catch all. Check every box twice. Ramon doesn't check every box twice, but he checks every box. But Justin Batterina could check a couple of these. I mean, the structure is insane. He's just... He needs a little more from the back. And maybe... And you know, like I said, he is bordering on too developed for the division. But the structure really does pull some weight. It's a bigger structure, so it doesn't look like Mike, where it's a little more squashed and 212-esque. It just looks like a very powerful classic physique. I think, all in all, that could be a dark horse to win the Olympia this year. He's checking your boxes, clearly. He's ringing my bell, as you said. Okay, Anita Ward, I got you. Well, I think somebody who I see them having some faith in is Niall. For sure. I think Niall was somebody who... I think he has a little more to go than someone like Justin. Yeah. Yeah. But he has all the capabilities, to me, as far as structurally, to be able to come in and really start to turn a number on this division. Same thing with... I still got face in Jose. Man, I really do. I think that he's somebody who seeing him on stage in person, it's such a gnarly look. He's a lot like the Bull, where you can't exactly place him first, because there's always going to be guys more classic. But in terms of muscle and condition, he's always going to be top five. Man, RIP and whatever. He's a good sub-boss. He's like the Goro of Classic Physique. You got to beat him before you can go any further. I actually really like that you brought Peterson up, because that is somebody who, to me personally, was one of those. George Peterson? Yeah, I thought that's who you was talking about. When did I say Peterson? The Bull. Oh, you're talking about Michael the Bull. Michael the Bull. I did it. I was like, wow, look at Dylan here getting points, because you brought up somebody who, to me, was another... Well, the Bull as well. I'm on record as saying George Peterson would have won the 212 Olympia by now. Okay, yeah, because to me... And I said that like three years ago. I've always had an issue with where to place him at the time, because I thought he was a great classic look. Had the 212. All around, I thought he was a really good competitor. I still thought like a 2019 Breon was better. Although I, you know, I think Chris shouldn't have won that year. I think Breon should have won. But I think... I agree. Breon is a smaller George with a vacuum, so it's like more classic, you know? He's the more classic. But that's why... That's why I really enjoyed you bringing up the Bull. So I guess we could talk... Now, going off nicknames here, because I do see someone like a Hosema and whomever, these different guys who don't fit the mold, but still somehow fit the mold to still be in the running. But go ahead and speak on Michael. Well, I was just saying he's a lot like Hosema, because, you know, you can't place him first, because there's going to be guys that are more classic, usually in like these bigger lineups. But you got to go through him to get to the other, you know, get to the cream of the crop. He's always on the orbit. Oh, you know, at New York... He's checking the door. At New York, I really... He got... Hosema got second. Yeah. Terrence got first. And I truly thought that Hosema should have won. Yeah, in terms of bodybuilding. No, in terms of classic. I think that he is somebody who... This is clearly why... I guess it's just... It's always going to be that. And that's why maybe classic will be such a great division, because we sit there and look at it, and I feel like Jose is somebody who is just... He fits the mold to me. He's bigger, okay, but he still comes with that gnarly, old-school, classic look. Everything etched to the bone. You can see... Can't even hit the front double straight on. Oh, my goodness. He's like, in a division where they all sit there and... Okay, that's classic. That's classic. We're going to sit there and do all the little leg twirls and all this, put your leg at 10 degrees that way. That's still classic. But a little, you know, how you walk, do that to the waist kind of thing. It's a certain swagger. Well, so classic has a swagger. And it's a different swagger than yours. It's actually, you know, good-looking... All right, all right. All right. So let me get your quick prediction right here. Top three at Olympia. Okay, okay. You ready for this? Nope. Ramon, Justin Batarina. I like it. He's holding on to that. And Wesley. Wow. Wow. Okay. Ruffin can maybe be in there if he gets a ladder to get onto the stage. Coming from someone who's sub-5-5, I love it. I love it. I know. You saw me and Terrence X to each other. The short-on-short crime is awesome. I get it, man. Wesley could breastfeed for me standing up. I mean, Ruffin could breastfeed. What? Well, to be honest... Ruffin could breastfeed for me standing up. That was Ruffin. That was Ruff. But I hear you. One of them Freudian slips, huh? Well, Wesley could also, but he'd be like... He'd like pick me up. You know, he'd be the one standing. As you're licking your lips. I got you, man. Well, I think Ruffin will be capable of placing in that top three at the Olympia. I guess my dark horse would be Niall. What was he? Fifth? Fifth or sixth? Last Olympia? I think he was sixth because Jose Moules was fifth. I think that's how it went. They had their own call out. Those are my two guys right there. Those are the two most unique physique for me coming up. Yeah. So, yeah, I think you... Was there not an outlier there that we're forgetting? Was it? Yeah, I guess they would have been. Yeah. Because we would have been thinking about somebody else. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Cool. Cool. Well, that outlier was Justin Batarina. Where'd he place? He actually botched that. I don't think he did too well at the Olympia. Speaking of big men. Well, you know, speaking of the big men who are competing in classic, if you had to pick one of the classic competitors who just, I guess, in your realm, rather they fit the mold or not. Maybe you might go and say one of the ones who doesn't fit the mold. But who would you like to see come up to that open level? Mike Sommerfeld. Mike Sommerfeld? For me, it's Osima. Well, he already was open, but yeah. They both need to go to open. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think this year will be a telltale for Mike. I do. I think that this will, with the new height and weight cap for him, I think that this will be a telltale for him. Oh, another classic competitor I like to see go to open. Horse MD. He is going back to open. He is going back to open. Yeah. I think he's somebody who should have went to the drawing board personally. He should have been at the drawing board and stayed there and kind of, I get it. But sometimes you just, yeah, I don't know. The back and forth doesn't make much sense to me. It doesn't make any sense to me, to be real. So it's actually not the best thing for, especially with him going back to open now. It just probably should have stayed. Probably should have took a year or two off. Pretty much did what everybody tells Regan to do and just stuck with that for a little bit. And he's, isn't he younger regardless? Horse? I think so. He's not old. Yeah. I mean, for me personally, I'd like to see Osima go up. You would like to see Mike. I get it. I still think Mike could have a reign in the classic physique division. I actually don't know how well Mike would do in open. I really don't. I don't think he would fare as well as Osima would. Osima has more potential in open long-term. That's how I feel personally. Yeah. All right. Well, another, you know, another quick topic. I'm going to throw him at you right now at this point. Sam Sulik. We watched him live in his hometown of Columbus, Ohio. I didn't because all the phones went up. Everyone was like, oh my God, Sam Sulik. Did you hear he was going to win open? We went and interviewed a lot of those young lads at the Arnold. And yeah, their, their men's open winner was Sam. I don't care about Sam Sulik at all. Really? Yeah. Why? He's, I mean, so, okay. Well, the question. What does he do? What does he do? Like, okay. Is he overhyped or being underestimated? Clearly you feel. Yeah. He was overhyped because a bunch of people that don't watch bodybuilding watch him. They're like, oh, he's going to, he's going to do top five at the Arnold. That was never going to happen. You're an idiot. If you think that if you're like one of these idiots out there, these, these young LA wearing 185 bench and teenagers that watch Sam Sulik, you know, and you thought he was going to be top five. You're just an uneducated idiot. Um, we can't all be at 225 like you, man. So he, and the thing is, Sam did well at the Arnold. Sam did well at the Arnold, like eight in at the Arnold. And like, he did make some improvements and it's like, I can't believe the fan base is so dumb that they like turn on him the minute he gets eighth place and they're like, oh, that's so disappointed. So disappointed. Why did he do this? He needs to, he needs a coach. His posing is so bad. It is his first, his first pro show. Pro show. Uh, it's his first pro show. It's just, it's just his fans don't understand how it works. So I'll defend them, but I just don't care. So the question overhyped or underestimated. Clearly you're just talking about his fan base overhyped going into it, but now underestimated because it was his first pro show. Yeah. I did see a post where it was comparing him to ninth place guy. And, uh, I guess there was an argument to be had is what the post was saying. Sure. Well, clearly, uh, Dylan is not a fan of Sam, but, um, I think that he will be considered underestimated. I'm going to actually pick up topic and not just be a negative Nancy, like little Dilly over here. I do think that he's somebody who's being underestimated first pro show. Very young, probably one of the other competitors on that stage. It's like 23. Imagine him in 10 years. Just put it that way. I imagine in 10 years, he'll be open. So probably can't wait to see that. So Derek Lunsford block me. No, he didn't. I was about to say there's no way. All right. Well, we're all out of time here, folks. Uh, we have, uh, one last minute for a real minute. And I am going to assume that this is where me and Dylan are going to have another lovely debate. I'm assuming, right? This was your, go ahead and come with your, your real minute. What is it for, uh, this episode? Well, this, uh, there's this clip of clavicular in the, uh, in the club getting slapped. Take a look. Oh, I believe women are right. Like which one? Like all women? Because all women are right. What the fuck is wrong with you, man? Like which one? Can you clarify what you did? You were raised by a mother. You know all women are right, man. Like which one? Like which right? Like the right, oh, like when you're playing, like what you're playing. Like which, which right? All women are right, are you kidding me? I'm not thinking to clarify. I don't even punch you. You don't want to what? I'm not fucking punch you again. I am. What? You don't have to watch. It's like, you want to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out to hang out hang out What's that what? Get her get her get her Call the police Call the police Get the police Can I get a picture with you? Hi Police Call the police Call the police That's all Can I get another? Can I get another play on? Oh Thank you, I appreciate you Well, Marcus, what do you think of the situation? I'm very curious to hear your point of view I think that I don't even know how to like should the girl have hit him? No, she shouldn't hit him. He did ask for it in the sense of you know, it's a slap to me it didn't seem whatever I think that what maybe made it worse was her yelling, you know, profanity after the fact because it seemed like it was like a thud Thing and then it turns into a more negative thing. I think he's kind of up for Trying to say he's gonna sue her whole bloodline and all this wildness. I'm gonna sue your family Well that that coming from you that sounds that sounds great. You can't hit anybody and get away with it Get away from it for look Look who I am Oh I'm gonna sue your big signs now Marcus is Marcus sees a dude get slapped Well, he should just sit there and take it What if it was the opposite? You're getting about some girl slapping this guy who you Because you're Because you're What do you mean? I'm a simp? You dude you're sitting here getting bass in your voice because of this guy Who your generation seems to It's not what it's about I don't care I don't care who You're saying that You haven't had not one ounce of This whole time all of a sudden it starts down in these this situation You're like let me get some bass in my voice for this one Get your point across without being so emotional go ahead You can't you won't let me finish so It sounds like you might slap somebody right now Let's hear what's let's hear what you have to say come on I think it's the whole situation is goofy I think it's goofy the girl should not hit him Do you think he should press charges? No, I do not think he should press charges He got what he wanted he got the the clickbait he got the the views and all that So his money is already coming in for him If a man if a man slapped okay switch the roles the exact same thing If a man slapped him I think he should hit him back I don't think he should press charges I think he should hit him back I think he should hit him back I kind of agree with you I guess if Maybe he shouldn't have pressed charges That's you sound like a Why? You saying it was so much anger in your voice right now I see the anger in your voice that's scary Dylan That's scary We're done I see it We're done What's happening Mr. Rage Bate? What's happening? You getting so uptight you can't handle it You think he should have pressed charges To me personally Should she have done it? No, makes her look you know stupid However, him pressing charges and saying that makes him look kind of stupid too It's two stupid people Now, to answer the question If it was a boy should he press charges? No, he should have hit him back Like what if the gender roles were reversed? Then he should have got jumped by whatever boys was around Somebody there should have put hands on him That's how Yeah, somebody there should put hands on him To me the person who thinks otherwise To me personally where I come from How I feel about it You don't let some dude put hands on a girl Personally, you don't do that Why? Because clearly A boy is going to be able to overpower Pardon me, but that's going to happen So you don't allow that It's the same thing to me as if I see someone getting up badly I might try to stop it Or if it's getting stomped out I might try to stop it That just seems like a good moral compass to me Yeah But what would you do? Would you? What would you do? No, she deserves charges You know why? Because it's illegal You can't put your hands on somebody else And I'm tired No, there is a legal system And like hey, you slapped a dude It's on camera You will now face charges Because that's what you deserve That is what the law says The law that we agree upon So why did you get so hyped about it? Because you're coming in here saying No, I don't think he should press charges Why not? No, he shouldn't 100% not I think it's a punk move to do I think it's a punk move to do Personally Yeah, next time Next time just take it Next time just take it She did a little She did a little Riley, Kayo She did what you did earlier Put him up She did all that Interesting So you want me to press charges? You think that's the lawful thing to do? If I got my house burglarized Should I say Should I say Oh no, it was a woman Well, you know I could have overpowered her If I were here Stop moving the goalpost Stop moving the goalpost Stop moving the goalpost If I got my house burglarized I get it You There was a crime There was I got you It is a crime It is a crime It's called assault Mm-hmm He should, right? So you're saying He should press charges Yeah He brought it upon himself Or no? That's not how the law works Like you think that the situation No, I'm not I'm not asking how the law works I'm asking how Dylan's brain works with this With that video being said So you're only whatever She shouldn't have put hands on him And he should press charges Correct Okay That's good I love it Well Ladies and gentlemen That's your real minute Dylan thinks that What's his name? Clavicular? It could be anybody I don't care who it was Clavicular should You know Press charges I think he got his clicks His views All that I think that's what he was looking for I feel bad for the girl Who after the fact Can I get a picture? I feel bad for that I think we need to get our priorities straight Personally Stop putting people like this on a line Like How do you Do you like the guy? Are you a fan of him or what? No Oh, okay Yeah, so I still stand on what I'm saying Because I would love to dissect that If you were a fan of this guy I don't watch this guy I don't know from Adam No, I'm not I'm having a very A lot of A very objective viewpoint That's good That's your viewpoint I got my viewpoint You don't have to agree with that I don't have to agree with yours Yeah, very guy-centric I'm going by the law Say it again Very gynocentric Gynocentric? Mm-hmm Why does it bother you so much? It's just the disrespect That's it Wait, the disrespect towards what? Let's end this episode Well, there you have it That was a real minute It's a f***ing smack I can do that right now I'll do it I'm worried about my I'm worried about my friend over here Well, that's gonna do it For today's episode Of the Muscle Immaturity Show Got a little heated there at the end But leave us your predictions For the main bulk Of this episode What do you think Is going to transpire Between Wesley and Mike At the Arnold Classic UK? I mean, I kind of left it open And when I say transpire Maybe something else happens backstage You know, maybe something else Can transpire Other than that though We're gonna get to open In the next episode So stay tuned for that Make sure you hit the like button On this video Subscribe for more Subscribe to Project Bodybuilding Tell me where I come from And we will see you all In the next episode Thanks Thanks Thanks