 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx I'm okay, no more pressure. Trying not to fill up too much right now. Still look good, John. I don't see it. I don't see it. You're gonna stay in two weeks probably. Yeah. It's for the guys. Yes, yes. So today we're gonna talk about Urz Kalisinski winning his first open show, the Italy Pro last week. And I think he shocked a lot of people with the way he looked. I think he was, I'm not sure exactly, but I think it was like 30 pounds over what he was last year at the Olympia when he competed in the classic physique Olympia and got third place. So what do you think, Samir? What do you think of Urz's physique? I mean, last week we talked about the episode before that probably was in his best interest because he's holding himself down. And you know, like for example, I keep going back to making weight limit and stuff like that. I don't know. I think he did so much better in classic, I mean, at the open and that weight that he gained, it was just, he filled up properly. His arms, he made tremendous gains, John. I mean, come on. When you change by 30 pounds, oh my God. I mean, you can tell. I mean, he was really competing, depleted. There's no way he gained 30 pound of muscle, but he actually, he let his body heal. I'm sure he probably gained a few more pounds, but I mean, it's night and day. I like his shape looks better. His arms look much bigger. And that was his arm was holding him down somewhat, John. They look at his arm right now. I mean, everybody's now comparing him to Dorian Nace. I looked at the, you know, on the social media, everybody put in pictures of double vice of the three and Ours and Dorian. I mean, tremendous job. I'm so happy for him. And to be honest, John, he is very passionate. He's in total control on stage. His positioning, his transition, everything he did during that show was right on the money. I think he came in prepared and the minute I saw the photo, I said, Oh my God, you know, I mean, I know Quinton is also tremendous bodybuilder. And I felt like this was going to be either way, you know? So the judges went this time to Ours, who was like incredible changes from his classic physique days to now. That's what it's been a year approximately since he competed, but the changes is like unbelievable, John. I mean, I'm just happy for him. He really is a true champion, a very well liked by everybody in his presentation. It's amazing. Let me just continue and say Quinton, who also is one of my absolute favorite. I think Quinton is the man to really beat in the future. I feel like Quinton is still not peaking 100%. I don't think the real Quinton showed up yet on stage from my perspective. You know, I know he trained in England with Samson. I know Samson pushes us and trained them super hard. But you know, John, once you get the hang of the peaking properly and it's a different ball game. So we haven't seen the real Quinton yet, in my opinion. I mean, look at how now we saw the real Ours because Ours, we always impress with Ours, but when Ours peaked so much fuller and he looked so much denser, I think he's gonna do incredible in the open eventually. Let's hope he'll be in the winner's circle this year. So yeah, so what do you guys think? What do you think, Marcus, what since you've been following Ours and I know you like Ours. Yeah, yeah, I mean, I think we're all, none of us should be shocked, but we're shocked, especially because of how, I mean, when you look at the before and after picture there, of like when he was competing in the Classic and then comparing it to how he looked in open, that looked like two years plus of like actual men's open growth. Like, you know, so I was happy to see, you said something I really agree with, won the arms. When he was in Classic on that stage, he was just shrinking down so much that there was just the limbs, the arms. Oh, look at that. Yeah, it looked like coming, I mean, like they were like non-existent compared. It was invisible. Yeah, like literally, night and day. Yeah, compared, it's a legit night and day. And then of course, the leg size. I was blown away by how great that, I mean, look, this is like, this is great. You know, this is- It's not just the legs. Oh no, it's everything went up in proportion to the body. Yeah, everything. That's what I'm thinking about the arm, you're right. It legit looks like three years of like real growth, like putting on just real muscle. So I mean, I'm super happy. I'm happy for the Classic Physique Division because I see, you know, we saw at Prague, bumps that come up and just, you know, arguably I know John believes a lot of people are on board rightfully so with, you know, he should have won that show. So the fact that we have the people like Classic, you know, Urrs, Bum said coming up and kind of taking on the big guys, it's fun, it's cool to see. John, just look at the pictures. I mean, it's so clearly visible. I mean, he's like double legit, you know? He did it in a good way. So whatever he did to change that look, even look at his glute is like boom, filled up, look at the delts, the arm. I mean, good job for Urrs, man. I'm happy for him. And you know, he's a champion that deserves all the love and respect. So congratulations. I mean, Paul's business is legit hard to get excited for like bodybuilding when you see, like for him, just for this guy to see how much size and how much like better he looks, just fuller and just in every way, the muscle. It's like how you're saying like the groups, there's so much more mass there. Oh yeah, everything go up. What, John, from your perspective, how do you see Urrs conditioning and that changes in the new division? Oh, I thought he looked amazing. I was shocked. I didn't, you know, I knew that he was saying that he was always heavier. I mean, we saw him in New York and he looked huge then, you know, in the offseason. But when he said- You can tell in his clothes, he was like so full. Yeah. When he said he was gonna be like 30 or 40 pounds heavier, I thought he might come in a little smooth, but he still had that super small waist. He had a great shape and he just was blown up everywhere. I mean, I thought he wanted to show easy. I didn't think it was close. Yeah, I think he deserved to win it. You know, like I said, you know, I cannot put Quinton out of the race because Quinton is unbelievable. And you know, I really predict that Quinton is gonna do great. Hopefully now the next, this coming week is in Germany, right? Yeah. So let's see. I mean, that probably is gonna be tougher. You know, I wish he would peak a little bit better, a little bit better. I mean, not to say he didn't look great, he looked great, but I know he can be greater. Yeah. I mean, because even if you compare him to like Mark Hector, who was like third, who, Mark Hector had some good pop to him, so you just don't really see that same type of pop in Quinton. You don't see it. So- Yeah, I think it was quite- Yeah. The thing about Quinton, the thing about Quinton, look at the proportion and the balance, the small ways, the sweet. I mean, the reason why I keep talking about Quinton, to me, he's really balanced, really perfectly put together by God. He's just like, you need to maybe relax a little bit the final three, four days and load up properly and relax and pop. He can pop. I can tell from his chest is not full enough. You know, John, you've been on stage several times, and you know how it is. You yourself peaked that last show you did, and you looked way better. You looked like a different John from first show, second show, you did. So, no disrespect to Quinton. I'm not gonna tell him and say, oh yeah, you deserve to win. I think, you know, Urs did a wonderful job, but we have not seen the real Quinton yet on stage, like 98%, 99% peaked. I think Quinton is going on stage about 70%, in my opinion. He's not 100%. You think it's just too many shows, he's just getting burned out? Could be, that could be, but look, you did three shows, and in your last show, you looked better. Yeah, yeah. So, this is why I'm saying it. We cannot always say, oh, he burned out, he's not doing it right. Yeah, he was training with Samson, and I'm sure Samson pushed him hard, kicked his ass. He did a great, I'm sure they did a great job. But sometime, you know, when it comes to the final 72 hours or four days, some people are really afraid to eat a little bit more, think, oh, I'm gonna spill over. I'm gonna do that. I have to say it one more time. When you shred it, you have no subcutaneous fat whatsoever. Go eat and relax. Eat from the right menu, allow the reserve, the glycogen to fill you up properly. This is something that Ores did it right. Whether Ores did it with assistant of his coaches, I don't care what he did, but he did it right, and he was popping, and the results showed. Now, again, we're looking at Sergio Oliva here. Sergio Oliva looked incredible, a lot better than usual. I felt Sergio could have been actually been a little bit fuller, but what hurt Sergio is the middle of a little bit. Let me be honest. I mean, I like Sergio, he's my friend. And look at his shoulders and I'm unbelievable. Look at bigger than Quinton. Look at the shoulders, the arm. I mean, Sergio is unbelievable. He's like his dad. He just have to find a way to not, like when they're asking for app shot, I want him to go to the side a little bit instead of showing straight direct, because his midsection is hurting him a little bit, to be honest, to be honest. I'm not gonna tell Sergio, I don't do that. I think he's great. Look at how much better he looks. I mean, he really worked his butt off and it shows. So top three, nothing to be ashamed of, because the two guys that were with him, they were very, very, it's like incredible. But I think Sergio should go to Germany and give it another shot. It seems like he's not gonna compete in Germany, which is that give him another shot at. He actually got fourth, he didn't get third. Mark Hector got fourth. Oh, he was fourth. Yeah, he was fourth. Oh, wow, I'm sorry. I do like the fact that he came up with back shot a little bit. I think that after so many years in the game, when you're doing things like that, obviously they all care, but it shows you're paying attention to the details a little bit. But yeah, I agree in the sense of the midsection, especially like how you're saying in the relaxed shots, you just, you see the midsection could be an issue. In his front lat spread, the lats really aren't popping the same, but yeah. Marcus, I'm not saying his midsection was fat. No, he's got to add, but he have to do poses where, when you stand, let's say for example, like Sergio LeBret back in the days, that's a piece, when he did poses, he pivoted a little bit. I mean, instead of going abstract, I would go slightly to the side because that actually makes the, your midsection less visible. I mean, when you open up and go direct in the pose, you got to find way to display poses without showing weaknesses, okay? And you know, we know Sergio, he's not blessed with the tiny waist that his father have, but look, he did everything like his father, everything, shoulders, arms, legs. I mean, he's amazing. I really felt Sergio was going to go, you know, be in the top three for sure. Look at here. I think maybe Sergio also missed his peak a little bit. I wasn't there. I mean, look, he looks here better than he did on stage, in my opinion, so I don't know. He said he did miss his peak, John. Yeah, he said it right there in the comments. He said that? Okay, guys. Well, I mean, when we look at this photo, guys, look at the separation, the depth of the separation his size. He looked tremendous. His abs, we don't say his midsection is not bad, but I'm just saying, when you pose direct like that, it shows it kills some of your V shape. So you should go twist a little bit, hit an ab instead of going like this, go a little bit like that. You know what I'm saying? I mean, there's always way to hide certain things. With some time we have to hide certain things. I mean, honestly, all the top five gentlemen all looked, they all had such strong suits to them. Like I was actually really happy with how Lewis Breed came in. I thought he was like a standout for me. And I think he came in, I want to say fifth, Lewis Breed. But even like Mark Hector, when he came to the upper body, upper body was just crazy shoulder ratio was just otherworldly compared to the other guys on stage. But I mean, they all have such strong suits, but you know, the issue is yet. Yeah, I saw his photo. I mean, he was, he's a very good third without a doubt. I mean, I saw some of the photo, he's impressive. Whatever he did, he peaked properly, he was popping. Look at that, I mean, oh, that's Sergio. Where's Hector? This is Mark Hector. I want to see what, oh, it is. Man, I'm like confused between him and Sergio. Oh wow. Anyway, wow, look at how full, look at the shoulders. I mean, you can tell he's popping. You know, look at the deltas, so small up. Very big. You know, so. And Louis Brede looked good too. I think he was in that next picture. Scott, if you go back to that, the last one you're looking at, being the second, I mean, he looked like granny. He came in fifth. Yeah, I mean, I thought he had a crazy look to him. I'm really excited to see how he looks at this next week's show. He's competing in Germany now. Yeah. He is. OK. I'd like to see him, you know, kind of have a shot. Look at the muscles, the size. I mean, this is bodybuilding contest. It's not simple nowadays. I mean, you have a lot of competition. And you know, that means you know, peeking properly, it makes you, you know, it makes you or breaks you. Let's put it this way. I don't care how great you are. If you miss your peek, you're not going to get the result you want. It won't work. Because everybody on top of it, everybody come in in condition. And so unless you do the same, that's I go back and talk about Quinton again. You know, if Quinton was popping like that, what I'm envision, it'd have been much tougher for us to be honest. You know. Yeah, I was very, I was very, I'm impressed with Louis's physique. But like, how do you feel like these guys are going to fare in Germany? Like, do you think anything can change as far as like with the peek? So I know like, Serge is not going to be there. So like for him, the peek won't matter this week. But like for some of these other gentlemen, like a Quinton going back up against Earth, like how do you guys feel? Can anything change? You think it's going to be a maybe an easy W of him? Yeah, I think it can change. I tell you what, I think Quinton should not be discouraged at all. If he really, I know he's true to himself and I know whether I don't know if Samson is coaching him in the peeking process, but you know, he trained hard with him. But if you are his friend, just you tell him the truth. It's not like, oh, oh, you shouldn't want. I mean, he's got the winning body, but he's he's got to make the necessary adjustment. Can he do that? And to the, of course you can easily. If you do the proper adjustment and he's going to be in the race so easily on the top spot, I mean, it's not going to be a walk in the park for ours. It's not going to be a walk in the park. So, you know, hopefully ours will peak properly. But even if ours doesn't peak properly and then Quinton picked properly, it's going to be more problem for our board. I feel bad for Quinton because he keeps getting that second place. You know, it's been like show after show. It's like three or four shows now where he just keeps getting, or no, even third. Third, Joe got second to one time. So hopefully he can get that qualification. I agree. I guarantee you once he finds that that fine line, that's a fine line, you know, it's like many, including myself, I made those mistakes before. Nothing to be, I mean, you could work so hard. You can train your butt off. You could be meticulous on your diet. But that final hours that are so critical. Like I said, you sit down and panic and worry about your condition. Oh, I'm holding a little water. This and that. You're flat now. You know, just eat and relax. I mean, look at Leigh Hayney. Like he ate for three days. Surely was cooking for him and eating, relaxing and come up and popping in one. Eight Olympia in a row. I mean, we all know sometimes when you are on ease, you load properly and you really, you can get fat, man. You can get fat even if you try. You can. So I really think, you know, this is the only area where Quinton have to make the adjustment necessary. His skin is very thin. This is a good thing about Quinton. Quinton doesn't have an issue with like that. It's like complicated. I can tell you he can correct that in a matter of days, couple days, he could correct everything. And it does seem like he's in it. Like his headspace seems healthy, especially compared to like last year whenever everything kind of, you know, shit the bed for him. Like he seems like he's in a better headspace as far as way to protect. Well, Marcus, Marcus, you haven't been on stage yourself. You haven't been on stage. You haven't competed, right? When I talk about that, from my perspective, the average is not going to understand. Like John can relate to what I'm saying. We, your body can change. I mean, now everybody's all, oh, Ours is taking this and Ours is maybe he's taking less gear for this show. It doesn't mean you have to take more to be this great. It's just he changed things around the peaking process, the fullness. The Allah has bought the rest. I mean, John, what do you think? You think Quinton can make an adjustment and be better in a matter of weeks? We could definitely be better. Yeah, I mean, it just seems like he's trying to figure out whether he's coming in too smooth or coming in full and he just can't seem to get the formula. I don't know if anybody's coaching him. He's far from smooth. I don't think he's smooth, but I think one of his conditioning was a little off. So then the next show, which I think was this show, he tried to come in harder and then he comes into flat. So he just can't seem to nail. Well, you know how many times we talked about some time or even the judges, the judges doesn't understand fat and flat, you know, when you flat, it's like your muscle cannot be pushed out. You just, you know, you have to. OK, you have to be able to differentiate between flat. And whether you hold in water, like we said earlier, you need the keen eyes that's been there time and time and time again, you know, and he needs a proper assistant. I'm not sure if Samson was there in the competition with him in Italy, but I think he have a good team right now. If you have Samson and Samson's wife and him, his experience, we need to find that missing link, which is called peaking. I'm telling you, I can't say more, but I still love his body. No, regardless, I think he's incredible. So I think he can make the necessary adjustment for Germany and come in, maybe a couple pounds fuller and be more ripped. Yeah, what do you think of the first opposing routine? I I didn't really see the whole routine. I saw comparison shot. I didn't see his entire routine. Can we look at it? Maybe Scott can show it to us. I think. So what about it, John? Tell me from your perspective, how was the posing? It was awesome. I mean, he might have posed. Milo said this on Jay's show, and I think he was right. I think he posed a little too fast. He wasn't really holding the poses. There was only hold them like one second, but just the way he posed. I mean, it was. Miles above everybody else, you know, so it's. You're talking to the. There's your leave up. It's kind of he's it's cool that he's setting the example of what a good poser should be, you know, and I hope. Help more people can do that, you know. Yeah, I wonder who was working with. He was working with. I think that's one of the good things about a lot of the guy, the classic guys coming up and, you know, kind of setting that example, because they're the ones that have, you know, when you watch Olympia, you know, the men's Olympia, the Mr. Olympia, they're the guys who are kind of blowing you up. The posing is very the artistry is there. You got people like Logan Franklin, people like ours. They're coming in and it's just it's, you know, the posing routines are on a different level compared to a lot of the open men. Yeah. So hopefully they can kind of set that down. You see how he moved? He moved properly. Very fluid. Look at the side chest. Yeah, I'd like to. This is not a from night. This is a that's the routine from the day show. I want to see Sergio since you've been talking about Sergio's posing, but I know ours is a great poser. You were talking about you were talking about urges, John, right? Yeah, I wasn't talking about Sergio. Oh, you were talking about who is posing. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Oh, well, when you asked me, you said, what do you think it's Sergio's posing? That's why I'm like, yeah, no. I asked what you think of urges posing. Do you think it'll probably be a victory for him again, John or in Germany? Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I think so. I mean, he's in his hometown, so that's going to be a big advantage for him. And sad to say I do for like this week was it was seems like he has he has no problem peeking. He knows exactly what to do. So I'm sure he'll be just perfect again. You know, I do expose a lot of confidence and he knows how to, he knows how to move well on stage, you know, he knows how to very well hold his body, you know, during the mandatorys and oh, this, this was his routine here. Uh huh. Now that I saw him look at that. You see the move. He doesn't walk into it. He's slide. He's slide. That's why he is that good. He's a he is a professional to the team. You know, this is how Bumstad was Bumstad was a great poser. When you have a good body and you know how. Yeah, you know, you know, you have the wheels. Yeah. You know, so, you know, this is what really made Bumstad a superstar because he was in control of what he have on stage. Right. And I think, I think, yeah, I mean, Oors is the same way. Yeah. Oors have that same exact kind of control. Yeah, exactly. And no doubt about it. I think, uh, yeah, he's a tremendous poser. Was that a doubt? I would love to see. Well, really surprised he was, you know, with all that weight he gained, his waist was tiny. This is his routine right here. I don't know. Yeah, look at the way you see. And it's funny because a lot of people here was, you know, a lot of people fear gaining that weight and moving up that their waist is going to blow out. Right. And it's like that. But it kind of goes to show if you're doing things. So this was obviously he always probably looked like this in between shows, but then he just had to sacrifice so much muscle. This wasn't like he just put on all this muscle in the last year. I think. Yeah. Thank you. He's been competing with losing tons of lean mass. Right. His feet in the past couple of years. Right. I mean, you was yours was coming in dry, but still he was not popping. And that's why it was like always coming in and like second and third. Yeah. I feel like a lot of these days are I feel like he didn't really impress me last year when he was in the Olympia. I didn't, you know, I know he was just so small and he was really sharp. Yeah. He looked very sharp. But he's a different or right now. I mean, look at the chest. I'm full. Different body. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. I can't wait to see how he's going to look next year. He flex everything. You know, what do you think about these comparisons to him and Dorian? Well, what can I tell you, man? I think. I don't know. Motivation. Once I think it's very good. I think, you know, Urs is going to actually go to the highest level eventually. I mean, this is his first competition in the open. So give him another year and watch him. He's going to be more amazing. You know, he'll be more amazing. I mean, you know, look in this one picture here, Dorian look more like onion skin here. But I mean, Urs looks really good too. But I mean, in some pictures, I think this is when Dorian looks his best. I've seen Dorian. I wasn't impressed at time. But when Dorian comes in, it's really dry like that. You notice his skin is so thin right here. Yeah. It's because I think genetically, look at they both have a great legs. We know Dorian has a crazy back and nobody's going to mess around with Dorian from in the back department. We know that, John. Right. But but in the chest department, I think I will give the nod to Urs. And the chest here over Dorian. I like Urs chest fullness. Shoulders, we call it like about even the V shape. Urs got a tiny waist. The arm probably also pretty close. So it's really hard to say unless you see them next to each other and really make the judgment. But I mean, that's a great respect for Urs being compared already to Dorian ace. I mean, come on, Dorian. He just had such pronounced lat so especially in that front lat spread. I mean, it's like a cobra. Yeah. But look at the lat. I mean, Dorian have a great back, but look at the lat. I thought Urs's front double vice have looked a lot like Dorian's. Yeah, I think I can both could have been have better in the arm department. I think Urs could actually still get better in the arm department. You know, I was surprised how much Urs arms came up, you know, when he came. You know, I said it many times. You know, I talk to Urs all the time. We talk and I told him openly and I said, Urs, you put on more mass on your arm and you're going to be very hard to deal with. And he did. And I left it. I'll show you the comment. I did it while back and he knows, you know, he's smart. He's not like the thing about Urs. He took it as a constructive criticism. He didn't take it all. Look, some is an asshole. He's like, say, talk, I'm talking about my arms. I'm not going to tell him what he's going to hear. I love the guy. Great champion. Like I said, we, oh, we communicate on and off. I tell you, the guy is a good sport. He's not a baby. Get emotional like some of the guys. You give him a little, you criticize him in a nice way they take it. They get all bent out of shape. No, you know, he can reply to me, you're right. And I'm going to work my ass off. I'm working on it. That's the champion, you know, I like to see his lower back better yet though. Yes, I want to see more. I will say that is the one thing I feel like with a lot of the guys, I want to see some of them who I feel like they're just kind of capping themselves like a Ramon, you know, another one, Breon. Oh my God, we've seen Breon do this to himself for years, where I would have loved to have seen him, you know, go up and, you know, be able to kind of get the most from his body and try to go against the bigger guys. Well, you mean Breon? Breon, I talked to Breon. I talked to Breon. I talked to Breon last week and he is going to come in more bigger this time. So because every time you go down and buy the weight and they like force you to be a certain weight class, you have a boundary or limitation in weight. You know, most of the muscle, most of the loss come out of, you know, Breon's legs get smaller and he loses that overall.  and I think that's what was happening to Urs. Yeah, definitely. And so the real Urs showed up, and he impressed us more. He was popping. Plus, he's really good on stage in presenting his body. That's what Breon need to do. Breon need to be in control of positioning like Urs. I saw him talking about on the Jay Cutler show about how he's going to come into the Olympia this year. So hopefully it works, but... Well, yeah, it will work. I see him, Breon, at over 200 in really good shape. How's he going to come in bigger if he's still got to make the wake up? Yeah, he's saying he's going to, like, I think he has the same problem. Yeah. Well, because he's saying like he's going to, like, show up and get down to the weight that he needs or below it, like two weeks prior, and then kind of, like, I guess, build up into the show instead of being so depleted. I remember he was talking about it on the Cutler cast, but... I thought he's gone up in weight, no. I mean, he's not going to compete at the same weight. If he's going to go back and... He's doing classically. He's got to wait two minutes, though. I mean, he can't go up in weight. He's doing classically, yeah. What's his... What's... Again. Yeah. Yeah, he's not doing... Well, now that I don't want to... I'm not going to comment on this because I know Breon, he could compete at a bigger weight. You know, I don't know why people sometimes are scared to go up in weight. I mean, look at... Now, we know recently I found out that Keon is going to compete in the open. What's wrong with that? I mean, why Breon wants to keep himself in the same area? You know, it did not work once and twice and three times. He did win the... You know, the Mr. Olympia, you know, in the very first time. And he was like, right there. His weight was perfect, his muscles were tight. But he has grown. I mean, you need to do what actually Ours did. Yeah. This bump stat competed in the open and it was very close. Many people felt like he couldn't... Well, remember he was going to go up to 212. He beat him and marked him. Breon was going to go up to 212. Yeah. He said he's going to go back down to classic and try to do it right this time. No, I'm telling you, to my knowledge, he was going to compete at a heavier weight. But I don't know if he's going to go back to the same 180 on the 180, I think it's not going to work. Yeah. It's going to backfire. It looks like the Prague show is going to become like the new emphasis for those guys moving up. The fact that Bumstead did it last year right after the Olympia went and did Prague. And now you've got Keon. That's going to be his first open show with Prague. Well, you know what now, Marcus? The guys are encouraged. They are encouraged. Why? Bumstead did it. And Bumstead said, you know, some of the classic guy, they can really be up there. I don't care if these guys like 30 pound heavier than you. I mean, let me tell you what, like Keon. Keon's got the body to stand next to any one. 100%. Yeah. Well, I don't care if he's standing next, let's say he's standing next to Samson and Samson out weighing by 30, 40 pound. I don't care. I mean, but for his height and size, I go back to how Labrada used to be standing next to Leigh Haynes. He used to come run. He used to be in run or run. However, Breon, man, I mean, sorry, not Breon. Keon has got the lat, the wasps, the big arm, the flow. It's such a beautiful flowing physique. Yeah. I think Keon can stand on stage with anyone. No fear. I personally feel like if he was to do men's open, like even, I would say like this year, if he was, I know he's not, he's going to go get his title on 212. If he was to do men's open this year, I can 100% see him in the top six. Like I can see him being right there first call out or really, you know, if not on the edge of it, but I feel like he'd be in the fight for a top six. Oh yeah. Oh, for sure. For sure. Easily. Huh? He's doing the prog. Yeah, he's doing prog. Yeah, I said that's going to become the new show. You know, that's what Bumstead did. So I wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. You mean Keon doing the prog show? Yeah, he's doing men's open. So he's going to go right after the Olympia. He's going to do prog men's open. Okay, I'm going to tell you right now, he's going to win. That's honestly how I feel about it too. And I don't care who shows up. I'm going to tell you, he's going to win. I know what he has. I know the weapon that he has. And I don't care. I mean, look, if, if, if you talk about, oh, that would be nice. Who's doing it? Crisso. Okay. Well, you guess what? I'm not afraid. Kaya and listen, Keon have all the necessary tool to go to the war. And I'm sure he's going to be improved over that. The whole package, you need to look at the whole package. This is how you judge body. But remember what I said. I mean, how much bigger, let's say, how the Chopin, who is Mr. Olympia already, we, I said that so many times about Flex Lewis, Flex Lewis could have easily fighting with Phil Heath back in the days and could have probably won that was untitled by flex decided to say at the 212 and he didn't go all the way. But in Keon's case right there, I can see a slightly bigger key on and even as ripped as he does, and he's missing nothing. So you cannot put him out of the winning circle. No way. I mean, he is right there. He's a front runner for sure. 100%. You could damn near argue he nearly has to put on any like he can come in as is. Okay. Like how he's going to look at this. John knows that. Hey, John knows that I like Crystal. I always say good things about Crystal. But get me quiz on stage and get me Keon prepared. Who do you think I'll pick? Thank you guys. Keon. Of course. Why? Because the package because we go back to the Austin Martin versus the Hummer. All right. So don't matter. You know, I mean, this is why I'm saying Keon is that good. And you know, I only met Keon one time. I go Jim really briefly. But I saw him the last the last time he won that show. I could not find weaknesses on him. And so right now, go in no boundary man. I love it when you are able to do whatever way you want to come in. I have one of the guy I'm helping and he's like he wants to compete at one hundred and eleven kilogram in Mexico. And guess what? He's like 260 right now. And he's already in good shape. So you have to lose about 25 pounds. And you know what? He doesn't need to lose more than seven eight pound. So what does that mean? He's going to lose his muscle and they give him only one day to load up the get on the scale of the day before the show, which is wrong. And I would love for Jim Manion or Steve Wainberger or, you know, I mean, we need the MPC Pro League to allow seven to two hours for recovery for these athletes. Yeah. Because you weigh in the day before you have no time to bounce back up and fill up. I think we'd be seeing. So the weigh in should be, you know, well, you know what, Marcus? It's very critical. And I'm telling you from experience. I was so discouraged when this guy told me he told me like four months ago that he's going to be the weigh in as three days before and I felt comfortable. But all of a sudden he said, oh, the weigh in is the day before. And I was really pissed off. I said, I need to do something to maneuver the final seven to two hours. That does not allow you time to recover and be at your best. So, you know, it's just not right. So I hope they will make the necessary, the modification here. And, you know, I think, you know, Jim Manion or, you know, Steve Wainberger, whoever has the say about making those adjustments, definitely should go to the athlete's home, take two people to check your weight. And, you know, you have eye witness that you weigh, let's say, that much three days before the show. That's all you need to do. So letting the guy giving them like 24 hours, forget about it. It's not going to, it's not going to be good. You guys need to think. I think Tyler, I think Tyler have a lot to say. I mean, sure Tyler, he was a Greco ruster and he know that he had to compete a certain weight, but this is not wrestling here. You know, it's bodybuilding and you give your body time to fill up and load up and recover. So hopefully we'll see some more adjustment to that. At least just weigh the guy 72 hours before. No, that should be okay. Anyway, so what else has happened in John that is a huge importance in the sport now. That's about it. I mean, we just got the Germany show this week and that's the last one. That's the last show before the Olympia. The Olympia is only four weeks away. This weekend. We're talking in two days, right? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Good. I want to say it's going to be on Sunday. That's why that's. Yeah. I talked to ours and I told them. I said, you know, or I know you focus on your show, but he agreed that he want to get on board with us right after that show. It will set up. Awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Great guys. Great guys. It would be good to talk to him and see exactly what happened. How did he gain the 30, 140 pound changes? We'd like to hear from him. So let the fan hear. I think John hit it, man. I think it's the fact that he's all he's had it. He just keeps having to lose it all to get on stage for the, you know, classic, you know, the cut off. Well, he didn't have all of it. He added to it. I mean, you know, he probably have at least half of it. Yeah. You know, yeah. So, but he did make a tons of improvement, you know, over the year. I mean, he probably put on 10 pound of muscle too on top of his results. Legit. I mean, he's a young guy. I mean, how old is, how old is or John? I don't think he's. He's still under 30. He's probably 27 or 28. Yeah. Yeah. So the body is very responsive right now. So yeah, I think he's going to get up there. I can breeze the weight and get big. You can smell the way. I can see him cracking top 10, man. It'll be, it'll be, I can see him cracking top 10. Oh yeah. Yeah. Oh, easily, easily, easily, because he's, I told you, he's in control of the stage. He understand. I mean, look, I mean, look at Chris, I think made the top 10. Did he? No, he didn't. Yeah. But I mean, the problem is with Chris, though, he's, when he's on stage, he's not sure of himself. Right. When you get guys like Orz, he's sure of himself. You see the confidence, the peak condition. And I'm here. I'm here to compete and really kick some butt. He knows how to present himself. Again. Okay. What do you say, John, between, between Orz and, who am I saying? Who, who is the guy? I'm going to question. Chris? Nick Walker and Orz. How do you see the different, the competition between the two? Well, Orz definitely has a better looking physique, but Nick just has a better look. I think he's going to be top four for sure. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, yeah. And you know, Nick Walker is an overwhelming muscular, the freakness, you know, what, what's going to really help Orz is having a tiny midsection. Yeah. And remember every time I, we did a podcast, I've always mentioned when you have a big size, shredded, the judges got to look at you right away. Right. And this is the strength of Orz. He's got tiny ways, cut up abs and separation in the thighs. Yeah. This is, this is how Frank Zayn made a living. Is that beautiful middle? Well, that's why I was so excited about Bumstead last year when he did the big size. And I think he's going to be the best. Well, that's why I was so excited about Bumstead last year when he did Prague, because I'm like, okay, now he gained a little bit of weight. He only had like, I think two weeks from the Olympia to Prague, but he, he filled out a little bit. And I was like, well, if he wins an open bodybuilding show, that's telling, you know, that would be the judges statement that, you know, this is, this is bodybuilding, you know, having the symmetry, having the shape and all these idiots are like, Oh no, that has nothing to, that's classic. And then this is open and they got this distinction, but bodybuilding has always been about shape and symmetry and proportion. And I think it's not just say that this guy like ours, you know, when the judges put him first, that's the judges saying, yeah, this, this stuff is important. It's symmetry, small waste. That's part of bodybuilding, open bodybuilding too, you know, and that's why I thought it was so great that he won. I thought it was such a great statement from the judge. 100% man. He's going to take, pick up where Bum said, left, you know, and it's posing. I know they don't judge the posing, but I mean, him coming out and doing that routine, that's set the standard that, Hey guys, this is how you pose, you know, exactly. All these years, all these open bodybuilders, no one can pick up on that, you know, except for maybe Samson, but other than that, none of these guys. How many, how many times did we talk about posing in the way you presented and show it? I keep telling people, you have an airplane. You don't know how to fly it. Right. It's not going to do you no good. Just amazing that these bodybuilders don't control. That's what just blows me away. Yeah, it's a little interesting. This is, you know, I, you think Samson won the Olympia basically because that massive body in really good shape. And he posed, he showed his body properly. I really believe that Samson. He's also, we know he's the favorite because he's the defending champion, but I really believe he should also come in additional, even 5% better quality. It's going to be hard, hard to deal with. You know, I don't care who's competing because I tell you what, the guest posing of Samson that I saw recently, beautiful. He showed that classical look to his body and I commented, you know, you, you know, you appreciate when someone present bodybuilding show the art and elegance of bodybuilding. Yeah. So I mean, my God, this Olympia is going to be exciting, man. You guys going to enjoy it this time. Yeah. Yeah. Hopefully more of these guys than they're doing this. Like they, hopefully more of the guys like the Keon people in 212 people in the classic they continue to do this and kind of, you know, we've seen a lot of the two guys. Have you seen a new photo of Heidi Chopin right now? Yeah. He's so much thicker. He's bigger than usual. His striation, I saw striation everywhere. Yeah. I did see that picture. He's working hard, man. I mean, Heidi, Heidi is not going to say, oh yeah, well, these guys are bigger, but you know what? He's a fighter, man. He's a fighter. I saw him squatting. Oh my God. He's squatting. Insane weight. And he really killed himself when he trained. So I think he's going to be a great fighter. Oh my God. He's squatting. Insane weight. And he really killed himself when he trained. So it's incredible. Look at the fullness. Look at, look at, even now, look at, he's already in shape. Yeah. And, and look, you're going to deal with Heidi. You're going to, he's not an easy guy because his legs and his abs and chest are always ripped. Yeah. So that's why he'd rather ice him right away. Legs and abs. I mean, come on. It's proven right now. So you think it was a good idea him taking a whole year off just for the Olympia? I think it's very smart. Yeah. What happened? First of all, let me explain why it's very smart. First of all, you get off the gear for a while. Okay. You get off the gear and you can do some major cleansing. And when you go back on your receptors already ready for it. Okay. But if you continue to compete, your receptor is saturated and the effect, the anabolic effect you usually get, it does not work if you do it again and again and again. So that's why instead of taking three Tylenol, you have to take five Tylenol to work. No, no, it's better to stay off and come back and take two Tylenols. They work, but you keep in that habit of competing and say on the gear, it's not smart. And I know that's why you were saying that earlier about some of the guy burnout. That's how they burn out. Yeah. Yeah. But how the, how the smart whatever he's doing, staying off, not getting on stage. He's cleansing and staying healthy. And that's the smartest thing you can do. That's what Dorian is. Did the last year he did the last year he did the Arnold and then when he went to the Olympia, I mean, everybody was kind of thinking, yeah, he looks good, but not as good as the Arnold. And I think that hurt him. And that's why he dropped down a second. I think we're seeing that a lot more well than he should have shown prior. Look at the mass effect there. Look at the mass. Look at the density of the upper chest, John. Yeah. The density, the shoulders. I mean, look at the vascularity. I really believe that Hadi, he's going to come back. He's going to come in at his best ever again. Yeah. Well, you know, he's got the mindset for it. The way he's training, I saw him doing one set of squat. He put like seven plate on each side and he railroaded. I mean, you would be paralyzed. He did like 25 reps. The guy is insane. The way he's doing his thing, man. I mean, I don't know. I think most of the first call out all have that crazy. I had the tiger mentality when it comes to the training. I mean, they all have that. He trains. He trains super hard, man. And I tell you what, he's for real Mr. Olympia. And I hope, you know, my favorite also, Derek Lanceford. I think Derek is amazing. Again, I would love to see Derek. I talk on the table. I want to see hard muscle. And you know how you get the hard muscle is when you train the way hard is drained. The intensity, the really killing weight. Look at that. Look at how many plates you have. How many plates is that, John? Holy. Look at that. Look at that. At least, this at least 600 pounds. At least. Yeah, at least five or six plates. Yeah. Looks like six. That's 600 pounds. And look at how he's playing with that weight. Yeah. Amazing. I don't know how many reps he did with six. And now look at that. God bless, man. He is like, he is hungry, I'll tell you. Now it's four plates or three. Yeah, I think so. I mean, look at who's going to do six plates and continue to go all the way with high rep. I mean, your legs will be paralyzed after you're doing 10 reps. Your legs will be like dancing, like funky chicken. I mean, I'm telling you, I've done squats with heavy weight. I've put the hard eyes on the dough. And I railroad, and my legs, my legs get wobbly at the end. People don't think, you know, he's in severe. He's tortured right now. He is tortured right now. I can tell you like this pose a lot of way. I see your comment with the hard eyes. It's like amazing. And he doesn't want to show the pain, but he's like really in pain. I think Hadi right here is like paralyzed at the end of this set. He's paralyzed. His legs are like really wobbly. But that's what champion made of is like super intensity. It's like going there really balls to the walls. It's like, I'm going to go get it. I'm not going to sit in my ass and play in the gym with the cable and think that I'm training. I'm training like a champion. This is how Franco was training. Franco was training hard. You know, Franco have that muscle density. Franco always had the muscle density. I tell you what, do you always have a hard-looking muscle? Why? You train with heavy weight under control. You know, when do you did Ben over rows, I go 400, four plate and a half, five plate. Now this is why look at his back is unbelievable. Ron Coleman, he trained with heavy weight. Look at the muscle hard like a rock. I like to see Derek Lunsford training with that kind of intensity and he's going to get that harder. Look, trust me, I'm not, look, I'm not biased. I tell you what, Derek have beautiful, beautiful, unbelievable body missing nothing. But the harder he's going to come to the show, the better he's going to look. Is high intensity short duration with heavy weight matter? Yes, it is matter. You've got to train hard. I see like John, for example, when John knew when you trained back, I see you right now at over 60, you grab a nose, a huge dumbbell and you're not messing around and look at your back, hang like that. It just doesn't come to you. You go get it. You go and get it. And you got to train like a, you got to have that heart of a lion when you're trained. You know, I know Samson is doing that too. I've watched Samson and I've always looked at his video. He's really tortured himself. So my God, this Olympia is going to be very interesting, man. I can't wait to see it. May the best man win. You know, we are pulling for everyone. Yeah. Honestly. So he guys pick. Nick Walker to everyone. What do you think the top three is going to be in Germany this weekend? My top three. Or okay, Quinton and the gentleman who came in third again, probably be that's, that's the top three again. I think Sergio should have stayed in the race. He shouldn't have like got disappointed. I mean, come on. I think Sergio missed his peak a little bit. Honestly, Sergio could have been better. He worked so hard. He worked his ass off and I really, really liked everything I saw with Sergio. Unfortunately, I don't know why he decided not to compete. What do you think? I would like to see, I'd like to see Roman in there somewhere, maybe, you know, because he didn't compete at the Italy. So see him for the first time in a long time in Germany. But I would have to say my guy, Lewis Breed. I like that. I look man. I'd like to see Lewis Breed. Who? Roman. Who are you talking about? Roman Fritz. Roman Fritz is somebody who we haven't seen compete in a while. So I'd like to see him kind of, you know, may, hey, go and get that. He competed in Italy. He wasn't in Italy. He wasn't in Italy now. No, he was in Germany. He'll be in Germany, but he wasn't in Italy. Yeah. Yeah. But the guy, the gentleman who came in fifth, I really liked his physique. So I'd like to see him as well. Oh yeah. But yeah, this guy, this guy. That's a gentleman. That's this is Roman. Yeah. Look at the. Yeah. I mean, I like it. It looks like pretty complete to me. He usually comes in really good conditioning. I think he's on the taller side for bodybuilding. I think he's a good like five 10. Yeah. I think not bad. It's a provider. Not bad. I don't know. I think the body looks thin. Then yeah, I like his midsection is very good. His upper thigh separation is good. I think he could use a little bit more arm. I guess this two monster. I mean, you know, when you have Quinton was big arm. And you know, he's gonna, he's gonna have a tough competition. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's not gonna be, it's not gonna be like easy walk in the park, you know, not even for us. I mean, or is gonna be prepared. I think always want to come in and look even better. Yeah. Well, the show is in Germany. The show is in Germany. He's not gonna want his country. Yeah. Yeah. He has, I know he's about, I bet your words will look better. He will come in even more prepared. Yeah. You know, sometimes when you're on the winning roll, yeah, the mentality, you are more positive. You do things better the next, you know, the next time. How about you, John? There's one thing that you know what I was gonna say. I'm wondering how is Martin looking nowadays? I want to know how Martin, I know Martin was in four place and I love Martin. I think Martin is one of my favorite bodybuilder out there. I don't know what kind of Martin we're gonna see this year, but it's gonna be more difficult this year too. It's not gonna be easier. So I hope Martin is gonna pack on more muscle with superior quality. You know, the body is put together really nicely. So I don't know. I haven't seen anything new about Martin. How much time do we have now? Five weeks? Or six weeks? Or. Oh my God. Oh, calm down, calm down. Wow. Look at that. That's recent. Yeah, it says about a week ago. You know what I would like? I like to see the guy layout in the sun like we used to in the old day. Because for some reason, I give you that look. I mean, yeah, I mean, Martin's got that classical look too, but I would love to see him tan all year round like we did with Plats and myself and Zabel. We always got tan. It was like natural. We don't just tan for the show. We were always laying out in the sun. I remember when I lived down in Santa Monica, we'd go train and then eat something, go lay out in the sun. It was like Mr. Olympia on the beach. Yeah, I would like to see Martin be better than ever. So yeah. Yeah. God, man, I'll tell you this Olympia is going to be crazy. It's going to be crazy for the judges too. Yeah, that's for sure. It's going to be crazy for the judges. I mean, how many people fighting for this? I mean, check this out. I mean, Samson is working his butt off to defend his title. Okay. What did he have? He had two Mr. Olympia on his heels. You got Hadi Chopin. We saw how he's training. We saw Derek is going to come in with vengeance again. Derek is going to come in really prepared. You know, so I mean, everybody's going to Olympia. Martin, Nick Walker, Nick Walker wants to prove something to the world and you want to shut down some mouth is out there. He's going to come in better than ever. I really believe the more I look at like, for example, a Nick Walker, he's adjusting his positioning. He's legs. He put his legs closer together, which shows a more symmetrical, more beautiful. So if Nick Walker show up with a tiny or midsection, with this huge overwhelming muscle size, this muscularity that we saw last time, you know what? Wait till we see. I think we may see Nick Walker by far at his best ever. So everybody went to 600,000 markers. There's a lot of Mulla involved too. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I think the beautiful thing is bigger than that for them and nothing else was going to be driving them. Even me here, Marcus, I say like, sometimes I dream I said, shit, can we rewind, replay? Can we put Samir back to 30? Come on, dude, 700,000, $600,000. I would live in the gym. I would live in the gym. I believe I would eat and sleep. Well, I used to do that. It's very believable. You know how it is. You got to be super passionate. And I tell you one thing, the one that I see is going crazy is Samson and Hadi Chopin. These guys are like, wow, they're fanatical now. It's like, when I look at them, see the intensity on their faces, my God, I'm sure everybody else is working hard. But who's working the hardest? Who's working the hardest? And who's working the smartest? This is what it's going to boil down to. Yeah, so I'm going to boil down to who's in shape. We'll be there. We'll be there. Just watch the whole thing. Yeah. All right, we'll cut it off today for the show. And next week, hopefully we'll have Erz on the show with us. He could talk about his victory in Italy and maybe in Germany. Yes, yes. I would really look forward to have Erz with us. Yeah, I think everybody would be interested to hear what Erz does.  what's his future goal? I'm one of them. So anyway, guys, good talking to you again, as always. It is a pleasure. All right, guys. See you next week. Wish you a great weekend.