 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx actor for I don't know for years. Yeah. And so I thought I was my bad my lower back my and the spine but it turned out to be my pelvis was slightly you know needed adjustment so it's so annoying. I felt like what the hell my back was off you know I stayed I stayed in a hotel for like 12 days and fortunately the mattress wasn't you know and you know I stayed in that hotel several times been always good but that one mattress is although it's comfortable it messed me up big time. So other than that all good training saying in decent shape thank God. How about yourself how's Marcus. I'm pretty good man I'm actually in Florida now visiting family doing things like that so it's been fun trying to go to different gyms I think they got like a couple of decent gyms around here so I've been to like any time fitness I want to go to the consime muscle but right now it's a good neighborhood gym here so I've been trying to get that in makeshift things because they only got like two Smith machines and things like that so you're trying to get any creativity going you know it's all good all of what part of Florida. So like Davenport Orlando area. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. There's a couple like there's a there's a like I think I saw like two or three that look like legit. Yeah. How you doing John how you been. Pretty good. Ain't a little weight so I'm trying to get some of it off. I don't want to get too fat. The mind of a body. Now you're attacking the normal training and took a take a break from dieting. Yeah I took a break from like a month from dieting so kind of took it easy with my training for the last month but I'm starting to starting a little heavier starting next week so good. Yeah that's smart. I feel like a lot of people would do the opposite. They'll think all the meeting more so let me go crazy balls to the wall which probably wouldn't be the best case. Yeah. That's how you get hurt. Yeah man man those kind of contest prep they really take the hell out of you believe it or not some people though they think oh it's like no big deal but you know what it's tough you know it'll take a couple weeks to really recover completely. Oh yeah after the show was over my back has been like so tight I've been stretching yoga but my back is still super tight. What has helped you the most do you feel like since then as far as like kind of getting a body back to feeling like not like you know dog shit. What do you mean. As far as like with your lower back and things like that like what has been some of the most helpful things I know you mentioned yoga but like has been there anything else that has like helped like I know Sameer mentioned you got went to a chiropractor got like you know some adjustments. Yeah I just been stretching and doing yoga and you know I mean I gained 15 pounds so I'm sure that had something to do with. You're filled up. Yeah. I'm trying to keep my weight down a little bit you know I don't want to I'm trying to keep just my waist like an inch and a half above what it was for the show. I can just maintain that all year and then just increase the training intensity. Have you continued cardio or no are you kind of are you taking a break or doing something different with that. I really haven't been doing it but I started this week. I have done it already like four times this week so I started how much how much how much cardio are you doing John. Just like 30 minutes you know I'm a treadmill or walking outside. Nice. Yeah I'm gonna walk back I saw a video like I think it was James Hollings said it's something that helped out a lot as far as just somebody like me can get fat easily I guess you could say is like the don't ever sleep on like a 15 minute walk right after you eat helps digest doing things like that and yeah things like that really helps especially if you're eating four or five six times a day. Yeah I think it's a good idea. Taking a 10 minute walk after a meal is a great idea. Yeah yeah yeah yeah I'm you know John I'm not a big believer in long term you know long period of cardio you know for me if you do it for 20 minutes I have a fast metabolism overall yeah and you know it is really proven that after 30 minutes it's like it's really not smart as far as I'm concerned especially if your body fat is already low so you know I've been I was lucky enough I mean for 82 83 I didn't even sit on the treadmill I didn't do any of that yeah none it's not like I'm not against it but when someone is like overweight and they need to drop what yeah that will help but but 30 minutes should be in my opinion should be the max yeah yeah I'm doing it more now than I got an older but when I was younger I hardly did it all either. Well you got lean more than lean enough John you did good yeah you're lean really good what was your competition weight? Uh 193 in the morning. That's awesome yeah that's nice yeah that's to feel pretty damn good honestly like you know what I mean like there's young spring chickens that are fucking 170 and looking great on stage but that's their 170 you know what I mean like yeah sit there step on stage. I forgot to ask you I have some people were asking me and said wow like John looks really good and he's natural I'm like yeah here's and what they do in that natural company they test you John. You get tested in that competition for the natural championship? In the natural contest yeah but not this one this was the MPC Masters National so obviously they didn't do any testing now. Oh so that wasn't that probably good. People are using anabolic in compete in that show right? Yeah any any national level show where there's not testing I'm sure there's a lot of people using yeah but let me let me just ask you really quick let's say what's the basic of the test like let's say you have natural high testosterone production I mean they should be able to differentiate between using anabolic and your endogen level right? What's the limit of your own production in the testing? There's a limit? That's a good question I mean if they do they usually do urine analysis testing so I'm not sure if they can let's say you're natural and you're testosterone level like a thousand would they be suspicious that you take an endogen on also? Yeah they probably would be I mean I would think anything over like six seven hundred eight hundred would they probably be suspicious yeah you know in the natural shows they don't allow even like TRT you know like for the older guys they don't allow them to use TRT. Really? Not even if you are under doctor supervision right? Right yeah because I mean I agree with that because that's that's really not natural I mean natural it's just not taking anything. Not there. Creasing. It's almost good now when you get older that's just the way it goes. You know John I forgot to say it some people can really compete and use some endogen and it wouldn't be getting caught there's some medication which is elevate your endogen which is like let's say proviron. Proviron no I'm not teaching people how to do bad things but proviron is master loan master loan is not actually the testosterone it actually elevate it's an endogen that actually work like the testosterone so you can get you can get a kick out of it I don't know if they have a specific test that also have master loan on the list to be tested for or you don't know. Yeah yeah I mean whenever you do they never do blood testing at the natural shows I've never seen them. So they'll just need to do a polygraph test or they'll do urinalysis test and they usually only urinalysis test like the winners you know the people who are you know at the top because they can't do they can't do tests for everybody otherwise it would cost a fortune and I think they only test for the drugs that they request. Tyrone is not allowed either huh. Tyrone isn't allowed I never really read all these things but so these are all prohibited. Hey John over the over the years has it changed a lot like drastically as far as you know like I know like since like 80s things like that did you notice a change or did it kind of stay the same as far as like how they tested and things like that? Well I don't think the natural shows are really going on in the 80s I mean I didn't really hear about them till the late 80s really 90s. Yeah. But yeah I mean like I said I've never seen a blood test done at a natural show I've only seen I mean I used to promote natural shows I've done like I did like 15 shows that promoted and we either did polygraph tests where you can test everybody or we did urinalysis test but the urinalysis test is tricky because you do the test at the show you got to send away from it you don't get the results for a week later so if somebody wins the show and they fail you know if they don't return the trophy they ended up getting the trophy and then the guy who should have won who didn't fail the test isn't going to get rewarded on stage you know. Yeah which sucks yeah it takes away a moment I mean you would think a natural show most of the people going in are natural otherwise why go on a natural show you just go in but here's John you know some people some people some people do cheat John some people do cheat I think some people believe it too like some people think that just because it's been x many years or whatever that oh I'm natural now you know what I mean like I'm a born again virgin like they really think that or I'm only doing this I'm only doing TRC or whatever and kind of how a John elucidates like that's still something. John remember I don't know if you heard of this Egyptian bodybuilder who did a natural show and he put his mother urine in a balloon yeah and he was squeezing it and the balloon ruptured. His water broke his name was his name was El Shahat Mabruk right yeah yeah his balloon El Shemaka broke. You know El Shahat Mabruk actually you guys don't know him I never met him personally but I know a lot about him that he was actually an actor in Egypt. Oh really actor yeah yeah yeah he was he's a very always getting ripped. Was he a middleweight Samir? He was a middleweight right? I don't think he's like over 190 at most he. Or like that maybe yeah. He used to compete against Ahmad Haidar remember Haidar? Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah Ahmad used to beat him because Ahmad has a prettier body but El Shahat Mabruk was very muscular is that like that Harold pool kind of you know how Harold pool looked muscular. Yeah yeah I think he I think he competed against Lee Labrada at the 85 universe. Yes yes yes yes I agree with you yeah yeah so now the balloon that ruptured brought all that. Oh my god and we've seen it all John we've seen it all over the years you know the good and the bad and the ugly. Right and the slippery. So anyway yes so what's new in the world of bodybuilding big John? Well the big story this week that just came out yesterday was Urs Kalisinski from Germany the top uh excuse me bless you bless you bless you god bless you. Top classic physique champion he said he's going to open he's switching from a classic physique going to open because he can't make the weight anymore. I mean we saw him in New York right Samir at the New York row he's like 75 and he's got to get down. I pulled him I said he pulled up. I remember he's got to lose like 40 pounds or something to make the weight. That's not good yeah but I think it's a smart move John in my opinion you know I always compare these guys I don't I think I think Chris Bumstad mentioned something about some of the the lighter from the classic guy can compete in the open and really make the top 10. In my opinion I agree with Bumstad here you know because I I compare them with myself John you know I was under 200 when I won the Olympia and I was competing against Bertha Foxx was almost 220. I competed against Joseph Wilkos you know Joseph was a huge recipe and uh Les Drayer Lee Haney was close to 250 and I still came managed to win that show so you know I don't I honestly don't come I'm not always on board with the weight classes John. I think so many classical guys can really destroy bigger guys you know but I mean we need to put that in some of the judges head and I think this system have changed. I'm pretty sure if Jim Mangan listened to me he would agree with me I know you'd agree with me but then again the classes was done actually to make it easier on some people but then when you have guys like Ores you have to drop all these poundages at least lose tons of lean mass. Yeah I don't think it's healthy same thing with Breon. Breon had to drop a huge amount of weight the last minute like something like at least 16-17 pound of muscle John it's really crazy so yeah I think Ores will do great I think he'll do great especially like I said I told him I said you know Ores all you need to do improve your arms a little bit I think you're gonna do great I think his arm can improve a little bit I bet you he will gain because as he as he gained that muscle mass I'm pretty sure his arm probably come up pretty much so good. Is he pretty young? I think John. His arm is pretty young. I don't think Ores is I think he's under 30. I think he's going to 20s yeah. Yeah it makes sense then to compete at a heavier weight I mean if his body's growing you know I mean why you know losing 40 pounds for a contest is crazy so. It's crazy yeah I totally agree John. I think he even mentioned in the message that he was like near like he's near stage right like he's close to stage ready right now like so of the weight that he drops predominantly most of it might be all you know. Lean mass. Yeah lean mass. Unhealthy yeah no yeah yeah so I think it's a smart decision if you want to be healthy why you want to lose all this lean muscle mass and then I oh right away I compare him like I said earlier with myself I was 196 I competed with guy 240 to 250 and I won so why not why not I mean. So he's going to do the Italy pro in two weeks so how do you guys think he'll do he's going to go up against who's on the list. He was like Mark Hector you had Sergio Liva Quintin. Quintin. So he's competing against Quintin in those guys yeah well John you know I don't think he's going to be walking the park although I like Urs I think he's getting shredded he's a very good poser good personality on stage but you know man I mean look I have to be honest with you you know I'm friend with Urs I talked to him we talked on the phone we we talked in person you know I mean look you cannot look Quintin is a very dangerous bodybuilder I still haven't seen Quintin come in etched in the last last show Quintin lost because he missed his peak and I sincerely mean it I mean we talked go back and forth me and Quintin we exchanged messages I also believe if he was was a masterful very very intelligent or someone who understand bodybuilder from A to XYZ and he would peak properly oh my god Lord have mercy he would have won I you know I still like his body more than the winner at the time and the second place finisher you know I can't I can't go by name what's one of them name John it said Marcus second place was who second place Joe Palacios and third third Quintin got third and then Joe Palacios second at the recent show then Jordan Hutchison got first yeah okay like Jordan he was more polished he really deserved to win that last show without a doubt yeah I mean but I would still go was if you tell me what body would you take of course Quintin so when Quintin ready 100 percent ready I I think Jordan will have a hull of a time he'll have a problem with him yes everybody will not just Jordan did you guys see Quintin is training with Samson he's he's staying at Samson's house and training yeah I thought that was really cool Samson yeah I thought so too yeah I I commented on one of that post that they that Samson put out I said I love that guy's body and I think it's very good that like they have a good team now working it's actually gonna help Samson in a big way too because really Samson too he need to have that superior quality to really feel more at ease at the Olympia because he's still also it's not going to be a walk in the park for Samson either although he has the body just like Quintin and if they are not right on the money forget about it yeah you just gotta be shredded onions you know that John from your own competition yeah when you peak properly it was like easily visible wow look at John as a different person I mean you kept getting better and better in the last contest you did you peak even lot better than you did in the first two right right so you know I mean when when I look at Quintin John and I see that beautiful line I see diamond calves small ankle the flow of the thigh tiny waist he's got nothing missing in my opinion but he peaked the wrong he did not peak 100 percent so and the fact that Jordan came in etched to the bone it was like yes it was a win for Jordan was out of doubt but the show before I felt it could have gone either way and the first time when Quintin came in second I thought he probably could have won you were there at that show and you said that he smoothed that at the show went on yeah but then again man just tell me Samir what body you want I'll take Quintin yeah you know again from what we're saying here Quintin going to Samson to work out there it's gonna help both of them yeah in a big way and let's hope he will peak properly in Italy and I think he's dangerous I you know I know Ores is very good I know who else is competing in Italy besides Mark Hector and Sergio Jr. yeah oh my god yeah and Sergio Sergio looks a lot lot better in the past photo I've seen of him you know it seems like he's working finally with someone that really understand a little bit more of Sergio's body I didn't say that the other guy I mean I know work with Dorian Yates I know he worked with Chris Acido I know he worked with several people but whoever he's with right now plus what he have done in the past through three competition Sergio seemed to be more in control of his quality I like his quality a lot more and so I don't know like I want to see the finished product but I mean look at that him full and popping and really good look at that double bicep I mean all you need is to peak from there he's like yeah I don't see anything wrong look at the arms the back you know I could like to see a little bit more tighter in the middle but you know I'm really curious to how how different Ores is going to look on the Italy stage in a sense of with that amount of weight difference because like for me I know that with the Prague Pro Show when it came to Martin and Chris so you have a top contender in classic versus Martin so two top contenders now this is a still a top contender in classic and Ores who's now going to go against people who aren't necessarily you know first called out in men's open Olympia the way Martin was so I'm very curious to how that's going to like shape up on stage against like a Sergio Quentin a Martin a Mark Hector that's a that's that's that's a good way to put it you know honestly I guess sometime you know some team can match up differently I guess isn't basketball yeah some team can match up with other team and and beat them and then go to a weaker team and lose to the weaker team but again yeah I would like to see them all on stage you know and like I said it's not going to be walking the park for Ores in yeah again if Ores gets his arm look because listen Quentin got a huge arm got a beautiful arm so do legs legs are good so if if Ores have a bigger arm with the quality that he brings to the stage you know all bad is out I don't know we'll have to see who is going to be better that day right John what do you think yeah I would say you know if I had to make a prediction I would I would give it to Quentin because I think he just needs to peak right and I think he's definitely got the potential to win and he wants to go to the Olympia this year so I would bet on him Sergio um he's looking really good too but we have to see if he can peak for the stage and you know Ores I think is going to do well but um I mean I'll I think he'll stack up well with those guys but I don't think he's going to beat guys like Quentin and Sergio on his first try out yeah you know what John I'm kind of I agree with you regarding Quentin but let me ask you is Ores being coached by Hadi right now by Honey or you don't know I don't know yeah yeah I think really coaching does matter you know you got an intelligent coach that really bring you in tip top condition you know I mean we have some coaches up to now it's a fine line John it's a fine line sometimes some of the coaches interpret fat as flat you know what I mean when some some coaches look at you and they say you're fat but you're not fat you're flat so the judges don't know that the judge is going to see you what they see that day if you're flat you're going to lose and you know if you're fat you're going to lose but you got to pop you got to dry up yeah if you look at Quentin he was not fat we know he was more ripped but the fact that he was somewhat flat it tends to make you look somewhat fatter or smoother yeah and so this is what separates the man from the boys when they come to coaching so if you have a coach that understand how to make you pop when we could say that again John it's like the water war how much fluid in the cell you sometimes they don't know they think oh well you know I will lose a little water but you already need water some of the great coaches sometimes they look at you and they're like oh yeah you hold on water no but you're not holding water you need water so only capable coaches can really hit the bomb hit you know right on the nose guys like like honey would do would know that why why do I say honey because honey he competed himself and he delivers so many champions like how many times did he help fill his peak and make him like come out alive yeah he helped Derek he helped many many champions so he's been there done that so it's a different when you are with an okay coach or 100 capable coaches and that all coaches created equal John to be honest with you the Quinn coach himself I don't know I haven't really asked him I don't know but whoever's coaching him he's really still not 100 percent aware of the peaking process you know peaking is everything and now that I keep talking to people sometimes when you think you're smooth you got to take the drop some water it's could be the opposite so that comes from excessive from loss of experience okay I mean I know a kid like I looked at him let's say I'll give you an example one kid I was helping and you know what he did John he ever died right with him he said something I think I'm holding water you know what I told him I said no you're not if you touch that die right I'm gonna break your hand you know what he did and you know he ate a little bit more he went on stage and guess what he was the most ripped guy in the contest mm-hmm and you know so you cannot make a stupid this move right away you cannot judge the guy from here to here you got to take put him like ten yard away and look at you know speaking of like it's a very complicated my bad go my bad smear go ahead no I'm just saying you know sometimes what you see from here to here Marcus what you see someone who's ripped from one yard away when you put him 12 yard away he looks flat and he will look smooth and when you see someone who was really not 100% shredded from here from ten yard away that guy looked much more better yeah so it's a complicated issue here and only few that understand that fine line and I'm sure John aware of it you know that's what I'm saying and so it's coaching does matter you know I wanted to ask a question because there was AI think I saw an interview with Breon and I actually wanted to ask you guys because he was talking about you know peaking and getting ready for like the Olympia this year and he was saying that he's gonna diet down even lower because he's always came in the show trying to like force things right up until show date to where now he's trying to say like maybe a couple weeks out he's gonna be below the actual weight cap and how do you feel that's gonna help as far as or will it will it help things like that because he feels like you're gonna see a totally different physique now because I'm not gonna sit there and be so depleted because I'm gonna have time to kind of get some weight into the show grow into the show not grow but you know I'm saying be lesser come in at least like five pounds lower a couple weeks out and then kind of build back up replenish the body and all that so like I just want y'all's take on that I had a conversation you know Breon and I talked on the phone about three weeks ago he asked me my opinion about some things as far as you know whether competing at heavier weight etc I think the idea of going down early and come back up you're not gonna get fat you're gonna get full if you understand how to keep the fluid in the right place and not to go overboard it's better to go up instead of going down imagine you are in a bag that is empty when it's empty look at it it just doesn't look right when you put air in it like with tighter so it's actually better to be you know to drop weight early and go back up so you get fill up into get more fuller into your skin get tighter harder looking that's what I've done over the years myself I go down and go back up because you can't get fat Marcus nobody can get fat in two or three days of eating the only issue is you can get watery if you do it wrong but fat you cannot even if you ate the Haagen-Dazs factory for a day or two before the show you can get fat even if you try and most people are not aware of it not aware of it it's a water war your body will start once you are completely full then your body starts storing fat okay but it's not that simple to get fat it's only it's like you know we always said it like the fat and flat is that flat is the problem water retention is a problem stress in you know excitement sometimes makes you hold water all of those things come to play and you have to have capable in control coach to really take you and I think you know he's working with Chris Cormier and Chris Cormier has been there done that he understand because he did it many many time himself so hopefully the idea of filled up the final couple weeks go back up I think it's a smart thing yeah okay yeah what do you think John thank you John opinion on that well I heard Brian say that  and then I'm going to go back to the first question. I'm not sure how he's going to get to that weight and then go up. You know what I mean? I mean, I think he'd still have to lose muscle because he's just got too much muscle on his frame. I mean, I almost think he was talking about going to the 212 and then he changed his mind and decided to go back to classic. So I don't know. I mean, the problem with the guys in the classic physique is the shorter guys have to weigh a really light weight. I need to fix that. You know, like my coach was telling me I should do classic at this last show too, but I would have had to lose like 13 pounds of weight from where I was and I definitely would have lost muscle and I wouldn't have looked at it. You've got to lose a lot of weight to get to classic. In my opinion, Jean, this is something the MPC Pro League should really do something about it. You need to test the athlete 7 to 2 hours by the competition. You've got to allow the athlete at least 7 to 2 hours for recovery. So you know, they can have a 2 less official go to your house, knock on your door, get you on the scale, make sure you make the scale, you make the weight. I think that's a good point. No more time. Yeah. 7 to 2 hours is necessary. And they can keep the weight classes intact this way, but really not giving them time to recuperate and like checking them only like 24 hours before. They said, no, no, I completely disagree with it. So checking the athlete 7 to 2 hours and making sure you have eye witness, have two or three official, getting that scale, get you on the scale, take photo and say, you know what, Mr. Menden or whoever in charge. So yeah, he's so so he made scale. He made weight. If you don't make that weight 7 to 2 hours before, then you're not going to compete. But 72 hours, you could change the whole thing. I mean, you could actually back and load up for whatever you could gain. I can go up 15 pounds and 72 hours. Who do you think would fare better in the open division between Roman, Ramon Dino and Earth's like, who do you think has the higher ceiling and open out of those two? If you had to pick one. Well, I tell you, honestly, you know, I'm friend with, you know, Logan, second Logan, Ramon, right? Is that what you said? Oh, Ramon. Yeah, yeah. Because I know Ramon is one of the one of the ones who has in the past struggled with making that weight cap. So I love Ramon's body to be honest with you. I think Ramon has beautiful, beautiful body. In fact, not to be rude or anything. I thought even when Bumstad was competing against him, sometime I felt Ramon could have probably taken it sometime. I felt that way. Yeah. I mean, I, you know, the thing is Bumstad is a really, really intelligent bodybuilder. He knows how to peak and he knows how to show his strength and hide his weaknesses. Ramon doesn't know how to do that, but just standing like that, Ramon is like unbelievable. Yeah, yeah. Now let's say, let's say another thing like Mike badass. He's a badass. He's a badass and he's good. You know, I mean, he put on a lot of muscle. I said, I think I said, you know, I said to Mike, I said, hey, you should be in the open now. You have plenty of muscle. He said, no, well, now I'm, he answered me and said, Samir, I'm gonna stick with classic for now. And then I answer, I said, you know what? I kind of agree that even bigger guys can still have that classical look. But again, following the rule and regulation of the MPC pro league. I mean, he's got to do what he's got to do. So between Ramon and Logan. Okay. Ramon, Logan and who else again? Like ours. Or I mean, I mean, it's not going to be walking the park for either one of them. I know Logan is going to come in shredded. Logan know his body very well. Logan know how, I mean, he was the most ripped last competition. Come on, we all saw that. And actually that really bring put Logan back on the map because for a while he went down considerably. But then he hit a Hiroshima bomb last competition. He was like, came in like perfect. He'd be perfect. So some people put him ahead of my badass, but it was very close. But I think Logan was a little bit sharper than Mike at the time. Now, if both at the same level, I'm not, I'm staying out of it. I'm not going to say anything until I see these guys face next to each other on stage. They are both good poser, Jean. They both have a nice body. They're all both can bring quality. I tell you one thing I saw. I mean, I'm in touch with Logan quite a bit and he's like hard as a nail already. He is shredded and he's so passionate. He posed all the time and, you know, he's trying his best. You know, when you are masterful, we know who is masterful. Frank Zane was so masterful on stage. He beat all the bigger guys. Why? Because he's a master. He knows how to stand from A to XYZ. So Logan can do that. Be with that kind of quality, performs similar to Zane, let's say, with someone who has really been there. But again, I guess Mike badass, I could say I'm going to stay out of it because Mike's got a beautiful body, complete body too. But I think Mike looks more like bodybuilding right now, according to what's going on. He looks more like going in the open instead of going to classic. You know, I don't know if you agree with me, John, but, you know, all bad. From my side, I'm staying out of it. Sergio Oliva is going against them. Is that what you said? Sergio or it'll be Sergio, ours, Mark Hector and Quintana Ramon. No, Ramon, no, I was asking as far as who would fare the best out of like those people who are having issues with the weight cap. And this might be like a minority thought, but I always preferred Ramon's body over a cycle, like a bump. I know some of you mentioned both of those names earlier. I tend to like Ramon's better. I love I think Ramon would do better if he gained weight. Yeah, he looks at John. He always looks heavier. And then when he has to come down for the classic, he loses it. You know, he just flattens out. You know what? I'm 100 percent agree with you, John. I just saw the videos and I just put a thumb up. I liked it. Ramon has a beautiful flow to his body, his his forearms, his arm, his waist. He flows so nice in his legs, the sweep, the calves. I mean, Ramon, I don't like this pose. I don't like this. Well, I don't want to look at it. Ramon, you don't want to look at it. Ramon, I'm against this kind of posing. OK, I'm against that. You hear me? All of you bodybuilder. Don't pose like that. All right. Anyway, I love Ramon's body, man. Ramon got beautiful body, really beautiful body. And he need to bring like John says, he need to be full, popping and shredded. If he does that again, I'm telling you, he was he was the closest one to be bumpstead and that time he'd be bumpstead in some poses. But then again, bumpstead were able to control him in the positioning and showing the best of C-bomb. And that's why C-bomb, like I said, C-bomb is a smart bodybuilder. You can't take that away from him. That's why he won that jump. I don't know how many times he won six or seven. I don't know. I love how Ramon should do what Ursa is doing and go to open. 100 percent. You know, yeah, yeah, I love to do that because why not, John? You know, I mean, if I say, if I say no, I don't, then it's like me. Why should I compete against those bigger guy? Yeah. I mean, if I was able to beat some big guys, I beat him easily, it convincingly. So if Ramon comes in full shredded, hard as a nail, come on, you know what? He'll be my favorite. Honestly, for open or for classic? Well, I don't know. I mean, I haven't seen him as the biggest guy yet, but I think he's still fair very well due to his beautiful balance and due to, I mean, look, when you have a pretty body in condition, you will stand out no matter if you have 500 pound guys up there, you would still come out alive. You need to be shredded and masterful, full, popping. Again, I was thinking when they had that guest posing in Pittsburgh, I think it was on Sunday after the after the Saturday show. And Ramon was up there and he was heavier and he looked way, way better. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you, John. That says that is right. I mean, I saw a video of him just a couple of days ago and I was very impressed. He looked so much bouncy muscle, full popping. Yeah. And this is the one I think Ramon should come in full and dry. I don't know. What do you guys think the favorite is for the classic physique Olympia this year now with bumps? It's out. You think it's going to be Mike badass? You think he's going to win? Yeah. I think he's the front runner. I would love to see Ramon on the shoot. Somebody that is speaking of New York and things like that, the Josima, Josima, Munoz, that guy, he shocked me. Like, even though he's Terrence beat him, I thought Josima deserved to win personally like, and I think that he's going to be somebody who kind of shows out at the Olympia. Hopefully, hopefully, I'm hoping he does. No, not yet, sadly. So well, let me let me just say that we're going to have Ramon, Logan and Mike badass next to each other, correct? Assuming so if everything goes right for them, yeah. Oh, I thought he'd done that. These are my top three. These are Terrence. Now, my top three honestly, and that show would be considering all in top condition, it'd be Ramon and Mike badass and Logan. And I think these are my top three without a doubt. I mean, look at Terrence is very good and he gets ripped, but then there's certain area that still, I mean, I commented on Terrence. His arm has came up quite a bit because he had a weak arms a couple years back, but he's improved them quite a bit. And his calves needed to come up a little bit. So when I look at the Ramon and I looked at arms and the forearms and the calves, the diamond calves, the size and the flow. Ramon's weakness, he cannot, he's not a masterful poser. He can pose, but not too masterful. He needs to be more masterful. I'm sorry. That's why Logan is more masterful. That's why Logan already won two, at least two championships in posing. I think he won the Olympia and Arnold Classic in posing. He was the best poser. Why? Because he's in total control on stage. That alone is going to give him some actually not to really be right there. I don't know if Sergio can pose as good or whatever. I mean, you know, I mean, Mike badass is a good poser, but I still think Logan definitely going to be the best poser. Definitely. What about like, what about like in classic? What about like those like Matt Grego or even like Brian, Brian's always in that mix at top four, top five area. I mean, they definitely throw some, you know, they throw a little wrenching at for those people, like a Logan, like, badass. Remember, remember, Brian was, he won that title before. Okay. And you could argue next show he should have won that one. I like to see Brian be comfortable as a weight note without weight limitation. And he comes in as shredded as possible. Then we can see the real brain on. Yeah. I don't like it when you end up losing 15, 20 pound of muscle. The final, you know, couple three, four weeks is bullshit. I, I'm against that. How can we correct that? Talk to Jim Menon, talk to, uh, they, Tyler, talk to Steve Weinberger. They need to do something about it, man. I mean, this is unhealthy when these guys have to lose 25 pound or 20 pound of muscle or even 10 pound of muscle. Yeah. I look, luckily, I didn't have to do that, Marcus. I didn't have to do that. Well, that's what I'm saying is you, you were in a time where you were going against them, like you were going against the biggest guys of your time. And so hopefully like with what Ursa is doing, this will maybe hopefully promote that and maybe get some other people on board and influence and inspire them to do the same thing. I'm not afraid I would compete. I wouldn't want to compete in the classic. I want to compete with a big guy. Yeah. You know, I, I know, I mean, I posted a photo of my story one time I was two 16 shredded. I'm capable of being around two 16 or two 70 or two 18 shredded to the bone with that size on my body, the balance. I think I could do good against anyone. I mean, in 1988, I was 223 in top, top condition, but it was the very first time. Let me be honest. The very first time I use GH. The very first time because 83, 84. I mean, I'm going to be honest here. You know, old school, but I'm an honest school, no bullshit school here. I use GH, but responsibly, I didn't take four are you and then I use some of these stupid, stupid things. I don't do that. But I was at the body weight 223. God has strike me dead. I swear on the soul of my mother and father that when I walk into world gym in that condition, a Giuliani is able because I was to everybody said like, you know what? Nobody's going to beat this. Nobody's going to beat that. And then I was ended up training with doc Italian doctor, doctor, Masimo Spatini. And Masimo is pretty smart guy. He knows his chemistry, you know that. But even Dr. Masimo wasn't accustomed to know much about growth hormone at the time. So Dr. Masimo will see me. I mean, I was 223 really, really in good shape. So when you see me at 223, I got fat, but I'm not fat. I'm flat. So we kept going down. Guess what, John? I went down to two or two. And guess what? I didn't look good at all. And I tried to get back up three days of eating. I ended up going up back to 206 or seven. And guess what? I didn't look the ration. I didn't look bad at all. It took me. You know that summer took me one. 1988. It took me. Oh, you did. It took me one week of constant eating and went back to two 16. I was scary. I was scary. If I had been on the stage at two 16, again, you know, you, you learn, we learn as we go, but I'm telling people the truth. I'm not crying over spelt milk. I'm not a cat, but the thing is, you know what, John, it's, it's what happened. You know, life is a school. So I tell people about that. Nobody wants to understand the fat and flat and water and all these things. But after 50 years of experience, you know, you can count on me on that, in that area. So anyway, I listened to Dr. Massima quite a bit. Every time he see me flat, you think I need to die harder every time you see me flat, but that was wrong. I needed to eat. I needed to rest. I need to fill up and get back. It's anyway, uh, and all backfired that year, even though with GH, guess what? You do GH the wrong way. You lose. It's speed up my metabolism too much, John. So it doesn't mean, oh, you got GH. Oh, it's like walking the park. You're going to get better. It was a work against me, not for me, but again, taking advice from someone also doesn't have the experience in this particular area. It did backfire. It did backfire. Anyway, look at, look at the story on Instagram and I'm doing arms and check my weight. I was about 260, 270 and doing bicep and I was shredded at that weight. And I looked like that at two 23 John. But I lost my muscle. I overdid it. I took not that. That's not that I was, I was barely, uh, actually that photo. If you go to my, my main post, yeah, that one right there. Look at that. No, no, that one. Somebody Photoshop that stupid picture. Like that was Sean Ray. That's how you did Photoshop. Yeah. I did hate that picture. Anyway, I hate it when they play with pictures. Go, go back to the first picture. That one when I'm doing curl. Yeah, that one I was 216 here. And you can see the quality. Yeah. If I looked like that on stage, it would have been like done deal 88 Olympia. Live and learn. That's okay. Now my, my student won't make those mistakes. Right. You know, life is a school man, you know, but sometimes I like to elaborate and talk about things because this, you know, experience. Sometimes I tell you, oh, I didn't take G.H. I didn't touch G.H. until 1988. And that was the different and it messed me up. Yeah. And, and John, I swear to God was taken to IU, two and a half IU. That's it. I didn't, I didn't take a lot, but still my metabolism was so good and live and learn. Yeah. So what's next, John? Well, I want to talk about Jordan Hutchinson because he won two shows in a row, the Tampa show and the Tampa in the Texas show. So how do you guys think he's going to do in the Olympia? I think it'll make top 10 or top six. What do you think is going to place? Uh, I looked at his photo. I mean, this guy is, seem to be very smart about peaking and he seemed to have plenty of muscle and we won't know. I mean, we need, we need to see him compare with a bigger boy. I want to see him next to a hot. Lee Chopin, I want to see him next to Derek. Then I can put it, make some judgment here. I think, uh, you know, put next to Martin, you know, I think he's pretty muscular. He looks incredibly muscular. He's looked really good when he won, especially the final show. I think that was his best. And, uh, you know, the first time I thought it was between him and, and, uh, again, a Quinton, but look at that. I mean, he knows his body and look at that abs, missection, shoulders. I mean, he's fantastic. Let's see, uh, what, you know how much he weighs on? It's like 260. Huh? 260? Wow. Oh, he looks shorter for me. Looking at that. Yeah, he's so compact. Dang. Yeah. Look at that. I mean, I see the bodies peaked perfectly. Look at that glutes. I think it was like at least 12 pounds heavier this year than last year. I like, I'd like to see more. I like to see his delts to be more shredded. The legs, nothing to say. He's close to 300 in the offseason. Yeah. His hamstring looks great. His, uh, glutes, shoulders. Yeah. His, uh, and a cost. He was even, I think it was a couple pounds tighter in Texas than he was in, uh, Tampa. Yeah. And you know, John, for some reason, I'm not on board with the delts and most bodybuilder nowadays. I don't see fibrous shoulders. I don't know the reason why what's behind it. Uh, I'd like to see more striated. I'd like to see a lot of separation between shoulders and arm, but everything else I see, uh, Jordan, he's good. He looks very good. Otherwise he wouldn't want this to competition. Um, so I don't know whether he would make the top 10 John yet. I don't know. Um, you know, he's worthy. I mean, probably he's capable. Mm hmm. But okay, let's put him next to Nick Walker. What, what do you think, John? I think Nick will be bigger. Nick would be bigger. Yeah. Well, Nick would not be competing at that weight. Nick would be what? Two, four, two, uh, 60 on stage. And a couple, a couple. Sure. You know what I like about Jordan? I like his midsection here. Look, his waist looks small. So he did a good job and now I like, I like a good cheap. He need to put his feet together though. I don't like the way he sped his legs. That's not good. That's wrong. Double bicep featured be closer together. I'm being this truthful. I hope he take that as a constructive criticism. Okay. It's never destructive here. Nothing, nothing negative. Yeah. I think if he, if he peaks and he comes in and really hard condition and like you did here, I think, you know, I think it'll make the top 10. Okay. Well, I mean, that's no, that's no small feat either. No, that's a lot of heavy energy he's beaten. Make it a top 10. It all depends on, you know, who hits it, who hits their peak. Usually if the Olympia, it's like three or four guys that really beat conditions. Okay. John question. Let's put him next to Martin. We know Martin was fourth at the Olympia and that's like a huge respect to be fourth in the first Olympia. What do you say if Martin is in condition and Jordan and top condition? How do you, what do you, what, what you say about that, John? If Martin shows up like he did last year, I think he'd beat him. Yeah, I agree. Martin will. But Martin, Martin wasn't, was off and. Pittsburgh. Okay. Yeah. Martin flows very, very well. You know, the thing about Martin is that that not awkward looking muscles get like his chest is round his shoulders. They, they flow properly. They, his body flows very, very well. We had, we had some talk, Martin and I at, at, at the, at the expo a couple weeks ago and I told them, I said, you know what? The more we focus on quality, the better the chances, you know, and he's smart. He's not one of those guys that whine like, oh, you know, he take things in a positive way and he's positive person. So, you know, I hope he will improve over that last year Olympia and get ultra, ultra shredded. Look at you. See his fullness, his chest, his shoulders, the way they hang like the arm, the vein on his arm, the pretty, his waist is small here. He, of course, is not contest ready right here, but when you have that kind of fullness and be etched to the bone, it's going to be very, very more respectable than ever. And I'm sure he's going to be improved at, at the Olympia for sure. I like his body. I like his body. And this is why the judges noticed that this guy is in the winner's circle because his guy, he flows very well and he posed very good too. So, he did not do anything foolish in this position. He's got a hit of things. Yeah. What do you think? You think, what do you think about his chances of making the top three John? No, I don't think he's going to make top three. You don't think? All right, Marcus, what do you think? Martin, no, it'll be very tough. I think definitely, I say I'll put my money on first call out, you know, maybe six. Definitely, you know, he can be in that top six mix, but top three is going to be there. I mean, just because of Samson, Hoddy and Derek alone and Nick, though, those, it's just really hard to make that top three. Anything can happen. Don't get me wrong, anything can happen, but my money on there. Andrew, thank you. You know what? I kind of don't want to make judgment anymore. I don't want to make judgment anymore because, you know, when these guys come to the show, 100% etch and ready, we will have a different perspective. I mean, I'll tell you what, look, you know what? Listen, I mean, Nick Walker's muscular, freaky, big, but again, I don't think Martin is, I mean, I look at his body, the similar to a body like mine. He's got just about everything, nothing missing, but it's all about who comes in hard and shredded, hard and shredded. This is the word at the Olympia. I don't care how big you are. If you're not going to act and perform your body in a professional way, it's going to hurt you. So the Olympia is getting more difficult nowadays, John. It's not the same like in the past few years, even Derek is not going to have it walk in the park, you know? No. Yeah. So, I mean, I've always helped. Because you've seen Derek off recently. I mean, in the past couple of years, we've seen him off Derek. And I feel like with, you know, as far as betting odds and things like that, going to the show, that's why I do put so much play into like a Nick Walker, because we've, it's very rare that we've ever seen him truly off. You know what I'm saying? Like truly off. Yeah, it was the one time in New York where you, you know, against Martin, but we, you know, one show out of these shows as of late, and he's been on, on, on. So it's hard to even go against someone like Nick. Look, I think here's what I have to say. You know, all along, John, we always felt Derek, the front runner, Derek, the front runner. Right now, I'm going to change my tone a little bit. And I'm going to say Derek needs to be a little more professional. Although he is Mr. Olympia already, he needs to be a little bit more professional. He needs to be more in control of his presence and, and, and not to do things that is not belong to him. Okay. And I say that with confidence after all these years in the game, I study everyone. And I really want the best for him. I think he's a great bodybuilder. He's got everything Derek, he's got the body. I disagree with some of his positioning. I'm sorry, but I have to tell Chris Oceto, I disagree with some of the positioning. 100% disagree. Okay, Chris, you need to trust me with that. Okay, we are doing a great job on getting him ready. We need to get him even more ready this time. He needs to be etched to the bone. He needs to have surround, wrap skin. He needs to present himself like Frank Zayne, like Lila Brada. He needs to show mastery, mastery on stage. In this nonsense presentation, to me, it hurts you. It doesn't help you. Okay. So some of those things that he does, and we talked about it a few weeks back, about spreading the wing like that and head double bicep with legs open. All of those things are important. You need to take those into consideration. We need to, I hope they take this into constructive criticism. I love Derek's body. He's got a beautiful arm, great lat. And by the way, he doesn't need to have bigger lat anymore. I know so many athletes, they try to get bigger lat by doing things. It's not approved, in my opinion. Some of the stuff that's being done to make the muscle bigger, it's not approved. You're already big. You're already balanced. You already have tons of muscle mass, and that flows very good. All you got to do is just make some adjustment. Make some adjustment. Look at the art, not about that's the muscle mass. You know, I guarantee you, if Frank Zane listening to this podcast, he will agree with me 1000%. You need to think quality, Mr. Asido. You need to work with Derek on presentation a little bit better. We need to adjust every pose and make him flow very well. We don't say that about bump stat because we know bump stat is masterful. If bump stat have that mass in the balance of Derek, bump stat would destroy everybody. And he would destroy everyone in the big Olympia. I'm not joking. But bump stat is an intelligent bodybuilder that actually have that Frank Zane mentality of shoot to kill.  competition time, bumpsteads can be shredded, okay? So if Derek takes the presentation from bumpstead and acts like Chris bumpstead on stage, and guess what? It's going to be hard to beat. He also had Hanne, which was probably such a big help for Chris. You know what? You've got to go to a professional. When it comes to presentation, we need to listen. Nobody is good enough imposing, not even me, not even. You know what? Frank Zane once told me this, and up to now it's the ringing in my ear. He asked Dexter Jackson one time to come and practice with him. And you know what? If you don't listen to Frank Zane, if you have an offer for Frank Zane to help you, it will affect your positioning. If you don't think that will help you, honestly, you are a fool. You are a big fool, not just a fool, because everybody can get better. Everybody can get better. You know, there's no boundary, there's no limitation. The art always is there. So Derek, Lack, in that department, I'm sorry, maybe some other people disagree with me. But those who disagree with me, they haven't been around as long as me. They haven't been around as long as Jamma. We have been in this game forever. Five decade, you know, Marcus, when we say thing, we don't see it in the derogatory way. Yeah, if people want to get bent out of shape because Samir said that, no, no, no, don't take me wrong. I really want to see any of them win. I mean, I say the same thing about what's his name. Always talk about Samson. Samson have a beautiful body. He's massive. He's got everything. We need Samson to come in with like paper and skin. If he does that, Lord have mercy. We said it a million times. I talked to Nick Walker. I talked to Nick Walker, although I'm like become again, a friend with Nick Walker. Nick Walker have done a huge improvement. He's starting to look more prettier. He's focusing on the middle. Nick Walker needs to improve in opposing too. He needs to also keep the feet together a little bit closer. The legs need to be a little closer. Every one of them. You know what? You know who's a good poser? Samson. Samson doesn't make weaknesses with his posing. But we need Samson to be more polished. He's got a lot better at it too. From my perspective, I'm not trying to be Mrs. Marta, but I'm telling you what I've learned in 50 damn years in the game. I like them all. I don't know, John. You agree with some of the things I said? Yeah, I just think when it comes to the Olympia, I think momentum plays a big part in it. We were talking about Martin. I mean, Martin had the momentum going in last year. I mean, you still got to come in on shape. But if you have the momentum going into the show, like Martin took a real close second place to Nick at the New York Pro, and then he goes in the Olympia in top shape and he takes top four. I'd say the guy that's got the momentum this year is Nick, because he got a real close second to Derek, and then he won the New York Show. And now he's just looking. He's not even going for that aesthetic look. He's just getting freaky and freaky. But John, momentum, I agree with it. He's got the momentum going in. Now, I'm not saying he's going to place high. Yeah, but John, we can't always base it on momentum. No, I'm saying momentum is not everything. You still got to show up in good shape, because Andrew Jack had momentum going last year because the way he looked at Texas was crazy, and everybody was hoping that he was going to shock everybody at the Olympia and he didn't. Do you feel like it sometimes gives them the nod kind of thing? Like, gives them that nod? If you go to the Olympia every year, everybody's like, okay, here's going to be the top five. Everybody kind of knows who the top five is going to be. It's like that every single year. Now, that doesn't mean it's going to be like that, but it helps to have that momentum going in and to have most people thinking. You know, nobody knows who's going to be in the top five, but like, I think everybody this year is going to say, okay, it's going to be St. St. It's going to be Derek. It's going to be Hoddy, and then it's going to be Nick, and it's going to be Andrew. I think everybody's kind of agreeing that's going to be your top five. Now, somebody else can come in and make that top five, and one of those guys can drop out of the top five, but you know, it helps to have that momentum and that, you know, going in. I tell you about momentum from my perspective, you know, I came in fourth just like, you know, exactly like Martin who came in fourth. You know, I went home and you know what, honestly, I can see it in my eyes that, wow, I'm fourth. Oh, look out now. I'll show you what I'm going to do next year because I came in fourth with authority. I could have been much better, but it doesn't matter. I left the stage and believe me, I shouted on the audience and I said, thank you, I'll be back next year. I think Martin right now is always going to envision, oh yeah, I'm in fourth. Now, if I improve a little bit more, I'm going to climb that ladder a little bit more. So I don't see why not Marcus come in with another Marcus, you know, let's say if he's... He doesn't have the momentum this year. He took what do you take third or fourth at the Pittsburgh show? At the Pittsburgh show. That's kind of what I was thinking about was do you think that could hinder him going into Olympia as far as his last showing game? Yeah, he's got to prove it. He's got to come in looking really good. I disagree about it. Well, I disagree that he's not going to be capable, but I think... He knows what went wrong in that last show and he needs to improve it. We talked about it. Just picture Martin coming in, 10% sharper than last year. 10%. You know what? I mean, deep persuasion. He's got to do it. Oh yeah, of course. If he's not going to do it, he's not going to be... He was off against Bumstead. He was off at that show. Then he was off in Pittsburgh. He's off twice. Okay, look, I got to tell you something. Miss Twice. I don't want to blame that on his coach. I think his coach is pretty good, but then again, I might not agree 100%, but we need to improve on that quality for Martin to be Martin. Martin needs to come in hard as a nail. Okay, there is some calculation that could be adjusted in some area. I don't talk to him about it, but he needs to come in etched to the bone. He needs to come in harder than he ever had to be in the winter circle. It's going to be more difficult this year, I'll tell you. But the body that he has is capable. Yeah, his body is capable. Let me see if you have a crosscut, let's say striation in his quad. Let's see if you have etched to the bone. Let's say, like, you know how hard he gets the chest and abs and the thighs hard like a rock. Let's see Martin get those really etched to the bone and he got up there instead with symmetrical body. Guess what? It's doable. Let's see if he's going to do it. It's up to him and his coach. Yeah. I don't want to say more about coaching, but it is really important how to peak. I think the way I look at it is more of like the mentality. So the mindset of it going in, because obviously that can make a break. You court us all things like that, heighten your anxiety, angst, all that can make a hell of a difference. No, I'm not saying just that. I'm saying the fact that his last showing was not the best at all. So even though he was riding high at the Olympia, the fact that at Pittsburgh, it was tough for him. So I wonder if that could hinder him as far as just mentally going into Olympia. That would hinder anybody, Martin, anybody, Marcus, but you know what? I'm looking at Martin personally. I know he's a strong person, mentality. He's a calm person. I don't think he's one of the guys that panic, but the number and the calculation in the Peegan has to be done the right way. I know what's the right way. I don't know exactly what his coach is doing, but I know his quality could be another 10% sharper. Yes. I think you could say all of them guys are going to be mentally strong as hell, like at the forefront of mental toughness. Anybody who's placing at the Olympia just to be able to get that far personally, you know what I mean? You're right, Marcus. I mean, you could look at it like two ways. Like if you're expected to do well, you could let the pressure of that get to you and then you can fold and fuck off. Or if you do bad, then you could come back with the attitude like, I'm going to show everybody. I'm going to show them. When you're hungry and then you're going to come in with a great attitude. With an underdog mentality. Let's get back to Nick Walker. See, the Nick Walker came back and he showed up in New York like really hard. Okay. And it was clearly visible that he made improvement in his quality. He came in ready. And unless Martin doesn't do that additional improvement quality wise, then, you know, I'm not going to say more. He need to if you want to be in the winner circle. I tell you what, Hardy Chopin is going to be ready. I tell you again, you know, Samson, he's got army right now in his gym and he's making it like a training camp. He's focused. Hopefully he's going to have the right adjustment made to have his paper since skin. So anyway, I wish him all the best. I'm just passionate about it. And I talk about it because I want the really the best man win. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's the the bump. I mean, even though he deserves 15 hot take it my heart take it. I think I think to go off with John saying that momentum that nod, I think we might see top two Nick man. I don't know. Maybe top three, but I'm realistically top three 1000, you know, but I feel like the nod helps me. I really do even though I know it's what happens that day that week on stage what you see in front of you. But I feel like we hardly see someone fall off heavily. Go ahead. When you don't do things right, you always go back to the drawing board and you do what you look at why you did not come out 100%. You analyze everything that you did. Yeah, what you have done when you looked at your best and repeat that and improve on that. Right. So, yeah. Anyway, that's another topic. I guess we'll be talking about the Olympia in the next few episodes. Oh, yeah, we got seven weeks left to the Olympia. So we'll be talking a lot more about that. It'll be exciting. It's going to be passionate. I feel like I feel like I feel like competing John, but I guess it's a little bit too late. I did it. It's never too late. Look at John, man. Yeah, well, you know, 60s is the new 40s. There we go. We have to go where we can go now. There's certain things you have to be. John was one of those things. You know, it's all about 30 years. I got better hair than most 30 year olds. I mean, come on. Look, you know how you know my mentality. Like if I'm 40 years old right now and I know what's been going on in the game, I would wear a shirt. 1925 Miss Olympia. I'll wear it ahead of time. And I believe in my heart that I could win. But again, I'm not 40 anymore. I'm glad to put that on a shirt. I'm going to tell my guys again, John. It's an important warning for me. Don't stand like that. Be professional. You got it. Be metaphor. And I'm going to put Chris Acido's name on that guy because Chris, he thinks this is okay. Chris, this is not okay. We can do the, you know how they got like the Peebles chant. We can do the Penguin Trophy for Olympia. Whoever gets the Penguin Trophy is the worst. This is not okay. If you want Samir to like you, don't stand like that. All right, guys. The truth must be told. Yeah. I have to let it up my chest, John. It's annoying. It's bothering me now. All right, guys. We will talk to you guys. And see what else is new in the world of bodybuilding until then. Keep it old school.