 U22222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222222 I want to keep all that in. Do you want to start us off? You just started it off. Go ahead. I'll let you kick this one off. Hey, guys. Welcome back to the Muscle and Maturity Show. Here with myself, Project Bodybuilding, a.k.a. Dylan Hudson. Here with also my partner in crime, Marcus Guerrero, actually united in the flesh. There we go. The twin bed bandits here in the flesh. Yeah. You stay on your side. I stay on my side. That's right. I'll stay on this bed. You stay over there and we're good. Agreed. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we're coming to you live here from Columbus. Columbus, Ohio. And we are here on Saturday night and finals got wrapped up and it was, what's the word for it? Tawalshuis? Good word. Let's hear another one. Controversial. That's kind of a little samey. It was a great night for bodybuilding in the sense of the fight was there. I wouldn't go that far. It was, well, I mean, hey. I agree. It was a good show. Yeah. The people's champ. I mean, this is the thing. Walking away from this. Walking away from this? Walking away from this. I mean, the people out there know, you know. What's up? Yeah. They know what's up. And it's only a matter of time, man. It's only a matter of time. I'm keeping my hope alive. It was a great night. I mean, realistically, to me, it was a two-man show. I've been saying that since last night. It was a two-man show. Well, it was the Nick and Andrew show. Going into pre-judging, going into finals after pre-judging, who did you have winning? I had Nick winning. I did as well. I had Nick winning. I will say that Andrew was up there. I think Andrew brought good size. Of course, the aesthetic helps. He was there. He was there with him neck and neck. But I do think that Nick was looking overall. Had that polish to him. Had something that, to me, was a really good package. Pause. It was a great package from Nick Walker, man. And, you know, I also had Nick winning. And I said something. And I'm glad I stuck to my guns on this. I said, if anyone is going to beat Nick Walker, it won't be high. And I said, Andrew's the only one that has the size that doesn't look out of place. And he does have that defining characteristic in his shape. So that's why I said, I said, I think Nick deserves this win. Muscularity, completeness, condition. Does he fall short in shape? Yes. But compared to everyone else, who's falling short in condition and muscularity gets Nick Walker. Literally everyone is falling short in that department. But Andrew has the overall size and structure to hang in there. And the judges, they're favoring that. You know, maybe they come from that cloth to where that's just their cup of tea. Is there bias maybe? I don't know. I think that Nick's package that he brought was incredible. I hope that, I mean, the whole Walker Nation doesn't walk away from this with their head down. Because it was truly a great look for Nick. Well, let's fast forward. Well, let's say, you know, it's out there. Nick Walker took second at this year's Honorable Classic. And Hottie took third. Third. Leaving Andrew Jack to be first and take home the biggest amount of prize money ever given in a bodybuilding show. $750,000. Crazy. And pretty soon, it will be a million. It'll be a million. Yeah. For sure. I honestly feel like if Olympia doesn't do it this year, I think Arnold's actually going to do it next year. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. And good on them. Good on them. Give back to the bodybuilders. Because you've got people like Nick. You've got people like Andrew who are bringing the best physiques that we've seen in a very long time to that stage. And they're still going to get crapped on here and there by the audience. Everybody has their bias, their beliefs, and their talk and talk. But guess what? I mean, these guys brought it. They brought it to one of the biggest stages in the IFBB League. I mean, this is bodybuilding, man. They came correct. So, prejudging the finals, what changes did you notice just within the lineup? I think the first one is they did narrow it down to a top three. They made it very clear, and I think all of us knew that. All of us knew coming into it was a four-man show. That's how we felt. Four-man show. Brandon being the caveat. We had the odd – Four up. That's what we kept asking. Yes. Yeah. Everybody had that. But then that fourth one, the odd man out was Martin. It was Martin. And he was on the outside the entire time prejudging. And they said, why not move – I said, they should move Curry up or put Brandon down. Well, they gave Curry a shot. They gave Curry a shot. And he looked good night two. He deserves it. Ironically, he wasn't beating him in the scorecards on night two, was he? It was straight scores from the judges that were counting. It was shocking to me a little bit, but it is what it is. I think that's probably what happens when you take away the top two and the bottom. Honestly, hot take. I think Brandon could have beaten Martin on both nights. I think Martin did enough on night one. Okay. Yeah, yeah. Brandon brought a great package. A great package. But Brandon didn't get that comparison, though. Exactly. He got it today, though. He got it today. And the scorecards didn't represent what I thought it was going to be. Yeah, I think, you know, I feel bad. They gave him a chance and still overlooked him. Yeah. I mean, but when it gets down to what I do believe it was a three-man show. So I think that was the rightful call out to give us the top three and then the next three. And, you know, looking at prejudging, I think a lot of people, especially those who are watching the stream, right? They're in person. Same story. I will say, same story. There was this mass and just crazy conditioning. It's the free factor. He's the utinine. It's the free factor. And it's men's open. It is tough. I like the muscle. I'm for that. I'm for that. It's tough to captivate an audience when Andrew Jack is awesome in the lineup. 100%. 100%. And if you do that, I think that does speak something, say something. You know, though, you know, not to be superstitious or anything, Arnold's pick was Andrew Jack. But, you know, I think it just goes to show that the path for Nick is going to be a tough one. It's straight and narrow. Honestly, I've got to be honest. It's going to be a tough one. I know. I know. But I... Part of Nick Walker's camp watches the show. Maybe even intimate parts of the show. Shout out to Mama Walker. Shout out to Mama Walker. It was a pleasure seeing you this weekend. It was great to talk to your son. You guys did your thing. Well, I'm going to keep it real, Marcus. I love Nick. He should have won tonight. Point, period, and a story. Does Andrew have shape? Yeah. But Nick has more attributes. Better set of A poses. At this show, 100%, I couldn't agree more with you. Nick brought a very complete package. And it's something that... I don't know what else truly he can do. And it's not... When I say this... I'm with you. I'm not trying to take... I'm not trying to take anything away from Andrew, right? I think everybody here can be, you know, grown up about to understand, hey, man, these guys are... They're doing their thing. They're working. All of them are working just as hard. We are talking about them for a reason. Sure. You know? They were the clear top two. It's just... I get it. Some people are going to favor the aesthetic, the shape, and Andrew's a big, you know, pillaring gentleman. However, I mean, dude, Nick from the side, Nick from just the overall mass with class that he brought on stage. The back's not even... We can't... We don't even have to talk about the back at this point. It's become Nick... Top... I'm ready to say it's a top three-year double of all time. Dude, it's crazy when we have such good backs in the division right now. When you really think about it with the top men and I have BB Men's Open, a lot of good backs. Nick's bringing the best. Why? That work he's been putting in... You can see it. The training is different now. I think it's the style. It's the style. He's doing something different in his training and being a student of the game. And you can see it. The mass. The quads from the... You see... The width from the thighs is unbelievable. Yes, the hamstrings in general is what... Don't matter if somebody has a little bit more width on top, man. It's that fine-tuning. It's top... Yeah, you know... It's that fine-tuning that he's done. Nick Walker doesn't have good shape. I'll say it. But, like, from the back, because his quad width is so insane, and the... Upper back is so wide. He unironically has one of the best X-frames from the rear ever, which is insane. That's why he's winning both back poses. And, you know, with all that said, you kind of hinted on it. Let's make that... I got this clear. I had Nick Walker winning. I think he's been robbed more than once. I wouldn't necessarily call this a robbery, but I do think he should have won. I think it was clear to me. I think a lot of people feel the same way as you. I think... I mean, we were doing a live, and it was put ones in the chat for Nick, and, you know, twos in the chat for Andrew. In person, people thought the same thing. In a sense, you think one. Yeah, I mean, there are some still shots out there from the stream that I'm just blown away. Not trying to... You know, I'm getting away from, you know, the up and down of all this, and, you know, the back and forth, which is going to be around. It's going to be videos. There's going to be a lot of talk. But, man, the shots that came out of these guys on stage just looking like modern-day just giants. Modern-day just something from an other realm, man. Like, I'm still blown away at how different... The other realm being Baltimore. No, another realm being Dylan's brain, all right? That's the other realm. The outer realm I don't want to visit no more. It's been enough. I want to say, we're talking about Nick Walker's future. I have to be honest. And I hate this take. It's such a stupid take. Pardon me. It's not stupid at all. It's a dumb take. It's not stupid at all. It's dumb. Say it, and then they'll judge it. Look, we've made this clear. I had Nick Walker winning. I've had him winning 2023 Arnold Classic. Could have won the 2022 Olympia. Should have been second. I'll go through the list. 2025, Pittsburgh, all that. Pittsburgh as well. Yep. Was there in person. But I don't know where I said this. I don't know if he can win another big show. And I think that is extremely disheartening. I don't like it. But you know, you see, again, to go through the list, he is more, more massive, more complete, a better bodybuilder than all these people that beat him. But all these people have one thing in common. And unfortunately, I can't just throw my hands up and say politics for all of them. Although I think some of them may be just like straight up political. I think, I think the common factor, and it's always going to be used to, as at least an excuse, the shape. Samson in 2023, not a fully matured bodybuilder. Beat Nick because of shape at the Arnold Classic. Derek won off of shape at the 2025 Pittsburgh. Waist control, that's part of it. Yeah, when you're taking six rounds of posing to a guy who has, you know, that much more muscle. I don't know if he's ever going six rounds. I mean, it's going to make a difference overall, obviously. So I think that, you know, you have a pillow to the right. Let me say that pillow really clear. I got to put my back up at this point. Paul's in the pillow fight. Stop that shit. All that negativity, man. All that negativity, all that, how are you going to say it's your favorite? You think he deserves to win? You think he deserves to win? I'm being objective. Yeah, but come on, man. Put it like this. He could have, in the eyes of many, he could have won this show. The same way I'll use Derek as an example in a negative way, I'll use Nick as an example in a positive way. I think, hey, there is plenty to go around here. Like, Nick deserved to win this show. Yeah, so what? He doesn't have a small waist. That doesn't mean he's not allowed to win shows. I think that's dumb. You know, one thing I will say to piggyback off of what you just, you know, spoke about. And matter of fact, no, I'm going to digress a little bit. People always talk about the shape, this and that. And I think that one thing that I love that Nick has done throughout all of this, Andrew as well, is do what works for you. We've seen Samson come in and make these mistakes. Do it. You know why we sit there and work? It almost always works. A hundred percent. It does work. Guess what? When he sat there and put size on his hamstring, sat there and created that new fine-tuned, just overall mass hamstring. Yeah. It makes it so that it's not even, it's like, yo. It's literally the same from James Hollingshead up to Samson Dauda. Do what works for you. Yes. Like, never, I think. And they are. Don't get me wrong. That's what I'm saying. They are. Like, to me, Nick did exactly what he did. He didn't, he went, no, put on that mask. Like, people always say. You're too massive. Obviously, keep it in control. But put on the mask on your leg. Oh, I'm going to be a little bit of this, a little bit of that, a little bit of that. It's just like, play your game. Yes. Play your game because eventually, but this is where I'm going to go against what you're saying. Play your game exactly because eventually they will come around. That's what I believe. Eventually they will come around. Eventually it won't be able to be denied. And we can say everything we want to say about it. I get it. But guess what? In the end, if Nick brings a package like this and continues to come and break down the door like this, they're going to have to give him his justice. Well, look. Unfortunately, in the past, anytime Nick has asked for feedback, I think it's very telling. They said at the 2022 Olympia, oh, you're too big. You're too freaky. That's why you put Derek Lunsford. He was like 220 pounds ahead of you. Okay. Okay. Well, he comes down. He comes in downsized at the Arnold in 2023. A few months later. Oh, you're too small. We want you freakier. And then, you know, he brings freaky versions like in Pittsburgh. He's like, oh, now you've lost control of the waist or something like that. It's a win. It's a no-win situation for Nick. Okay. And let me ask you this. It's like they don't know what to do with him. You're a judge. What's the feedback you give to Nick tonight? I mean, I just couldn't. That's what I said. I'm not going to tell him he's not going to be able to win a main show. No, you are right there. Keep going. Like he came to you for judges' feedback. If I'm being a judge, I'm going to have him winning this one. And it's going to be a close margin. Let me tell you, my one and two were Andrew and Nick the whole time. Interchangeable. Them two. Clearly, that was my one and two. If I had to side away, it would have been Nick. I think Nick brought this freak factor. He brought something that is, even though, and this might sound weird, but even though Andrew has so much size over him, right? Tall fella. A lot of shape. A lot of aesthetic. It didn't appear that way. Realistically, it didn't appear like he was being towered over. No. There's just so much muscle per square inch on him. Exactly. Exactly. So it's like, you know, I wouldn't sit there and tell him. You can feel the girth and tonnage. He's not going to be able to win the up. I'm going to say, man, keep doing what you're doing because eventually, on my scorecard, you won. You should. If I'm a judge, that's what I'm going to say. You should. I'm going to be honest. You know what I'm saying? If you ask me my opinion, I'm just being realistic. I get it. Your opinion, while it is realistic, it's some crap, all right? Because to me, like I said, it's a situation to where, you know, I just wouldn't go that route with my mentor. I wouldn't want to. You have to stay strong. You have to stay strong. Because to me, that's a weakness. To me, to sit there and just let the world take you and throw you down, it's a weakness. I really believe that. I believe it's a weakness. And to me, most of the people out there probably think Nick. He has a great fan base. Don't get me wrong. A lot of people are going to fend for him because they like Nick. They like who he is. Even my cousin earlier on Alive. Oh, I like his personality. Yeah, he's a dope dude. You know what I mean? But take all that aside, I would never sit there and be like, y'all, there's no chance. The dude had a chance. This was his time. So when I look at that, I'm thinking, okay, if I'm him, well, I got to strap the hell up. This is my life. This is my, I obsess over this, right? So I need to continue to break this fucking door down. Well, bodybuilding, especially at the highest level, is the definition of insanity. Especially when you try so hard, but you don't succeed. Well, what did Leah say? You got to dust yourself off and try again. You do. And hopefully it breaks. And hopefully the bowel breaks. Sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes it does. And don't get me, finish your point. I don't mean to cut you apart. No, no, no. That's it. That's it. I agree with you. I agree with you. Maybe you, if I were Nick, I wouldn't be putting that out into the ether. But I'm not Nick. I'm telling you what I see. Yeah, I get it. And you're, you have a leg to stand on. You know? Might be a little third leg. Third leg. You have a little third. But it might be a little leg to stand on. I get it. I understand. Like a third pinky toe. But, you know, realistically, yeah, you can't let the world chew you up like that. You know, you have to keep hope alive. You have to continue. He has to see that he does have a team around him that believes in him. A lot of fans believe in him. So, you know, if he ain't showing up for himself, show up for that. You know what I'm saying? But he is. He showed up. He showed up and showed out. I think that. That's what I'm saying. It's almost like, to me, I'd rather be the one they're talking about. Personally, that's a win in itself to me. I'd rather be the one where everybody is like, yeah. And I say all that, and I don't mean to take anything away from Andrew. You know what I mean? It's just clearly, I think, our fan, whatever, is getting into it. But I'm a big fan of Andrew, too. Another great gentleman. Someone who is awesome for this sport, right? I don't want to take anything away from Andrew because I think he came. The judges like what they saw at the Olympia. And I think if he replicated it, he was going to get that nod. I think Hadi not showing up at his, not even near his best. It's starting to slip. Yes. Yeah. It is what it is. It is. Truly, it is what it is. I think he'll be able to hold on a lot longer than people think. If he wants to. If he wants to. There's some fake news going around in bodybuilding. I mean, don't quote me. It might be real. Yeah, it might be real. Hadi, I don't know. I don't know. That's what I would do. It's like Jay-Z with the album. Well, I'm retiring or not. I'm going to come out and get y'all another album out here. Well, I mean, really, like I said, if he wants to retire, there's literally nothing else to prove. I mean, yeah, I mean, to switch it up a little bit. He can retire guilt-free. Yeah. I mean, we're going to end up going back to Andrew and Nick again, obviously, at this point. They were the talk of the town. But, yeah, I don't believe Hadi needs to, he doesn't need to stay longer. He stays as long as he wants. He has that longevity factor in him. He shows up. He's already a Dexter, but he pretty much has settled into the role completely. Yes. Okay, let's say he wasn't around for another five more years. I don't see him getting that much worse. No. Maybe a bit smaller. Maybe a little more off here and there. And everything he's been going through right now, I mean, come on. Like, you know, when you really look at it like that, for him to come in place. I should say it's not just that. Yeah. I mean, to be real, yeah. Even though I've always, hey, as I had a Tiger, hell, nothing can throw him off his game. Well, maybe when, you know, your whole country's trying to turn against you a little bit. Right. And that might be a vessel for you. Of course. It could make a difference. It could be a game changer for you, for your mentality, whether you know it or not. And that's why I say I think what we put out there into the universe really does matter. Or, I'm not trying to sound like one of those spiritual, you know, whatever. But, yeah, call me what you want, man. But I do think that, you know, I'm not trying to take anything away from Andrew, but I do hope that Nick Kiesa said hi, man. Because this is a, it's the true epitome of the people's champ at this point. Who lost more momentum today? Hottie or Nick? Hottie. That's an easy answer. That is an easy answer. You think, you think, you think a second place is more, you think Nick is more popular when he does get second? It is, it is kind of becoming a Kevin Lerone situation. Not that that's bad, you know, not that you have to be known as like the dude that wins runner-up every year. For me, it'd be a shame if he never gets his just due. Let's say that, right? And I'm not trying to paint a narrative, you know what I mean? That's not my whatever, but I'm just saying he is somebody who will eventually be that, that if, you know, and I'm not trying to speak this in the universe, but if he does not win an Olympiad title, he'll be that uncrowned mister, you know what I mean? He'll be one of those people who should. One of the best to not. Exactly. He'll be in the likes of the Kies, the Victor Martinez. However, you know, I do feel like that time will come. I do. Because he's bringing something that others are not able to replicate. And when I think that's your thing, I mean, there's this woman, there's a woman in wellness, same situation, a lot of size. They always tell her, take, no, take, you got too big, too big, too big. Well, she's like, you know what? I'm going to stay coming in big until the fucking wheel goes back around. And I'm now standard. I'm the standard. Thank you, brother. I'm the standard. So I do think that what Nick is doing, I think that what Nick is doing can eventually be the standard. I mean, he has, like I said, when you, why try to fit him when you stand out, man? I'm not going to say it should be, but it should be more focused on the things he has rather than just shape above most things. Well, I mean, yeah, I get that. I mean, well, I mean, you've got to put him all into consideration. He's bringing them all. He's bringing them all. You know, you do have to put them all into consideration. You know why I think who dropped the ball the most? Not Nick. Not Hottie. I think this was Martin's show to lose. I think had he brought 2025 Prague in here, they'd take a look at, you know, Hottie was supposed to be that middle ground, but he's not big enough and on enough anymore. So you have Andrew on one side, less muscular, more shape. Nick on one side, just mass monster. Martin is that middle ground that Hottie used to occupy. There's some rivalries, whatever. But to me, a rivalry that is harder to me personally. Martin has beef with everybody. It seems. But no, I mean, like to me, it's... He's staring Nick down like a piece of meat. It's going to keep him relevant. I just think that, you know, you've got to stay on your game, man. You've got to stay on your game. And that's why I'm preaching to just continue to do what you do. Amen. You've got to have that tunnel vision, man. You've got to have the tunnel vision. I told you Martin would crack. You predicted fourth. And he ended up getting fourth. And even now, really, I should have been wrong. You know, shout out to Brandon Curry. Shout out to Brandon. Yes, Brandon Curry came today looking better. One of the, to me, I want to say... One of the only ones I know is the big change in. Exactly. Him and Hottie. Night one to night two. I think Hottie got better. Hottie did get better. Hottie came in so just different from what we're used to night one. That it kind of shook us a little bit. I think it shook everybody a little bit. It was his most off version ever. Yeah. And with that... From the back. From the back. Front still okay. Front will always be good. Yeah. I mean, the conditioning was there. I mean, he was still doing numbers with the most muscular abs and thighs, his shot. But, the back was kind of a... It was some more to be desired there. By far. Not trying to take nothing from the guy. All that going on. But, like, you know, the weak points become weaker. The strong points become less grand. It's just what it is. But that's how I feel about what Nick is continuing to make your strong points stronger. Because that's going to be the difference maker. I mean, that's what he's doing. For his front last spread, it was a lot better. We were contemplating, you know, like... It was a... Especially night one, I was actually very impressed with the front last spread. I was. I was very impressed with the front last spread. I mean, and that's next to fucking hottie and... Andrew. And Andrew. Literally. Literally. Literally the best front last spreads in the game right now. So, and obviously, y'all might have something to say about that. Whatever. Oh, stop the ride and whatever. Yeah, you forgot about Derek Lunsford. I mean, but the point is, these guys all went pose for pose. Really? I mean, we even tried to do it. We tried to sit there and... Well, I did it. You were like eating the crown or something. I was doing the Zodiac. You were like... I was... I was... I was like some deciphering that a serial killer would do. Yeah, you had the... I'm left-handed, so yeah. Yeah, you were like... Yeah, man. I still ride like a toddler. I'm not gonna lie. You know who I was really disappointed in? Who? And I think it's gonna continue to just... Brandeo? The guy you called by the wrong name twice today. True story. True story. Putting the real immaturity and muscle. Yeah. Stupid. I said rap. Hey, Rafa! Hey, Rafa! Hey, buddy, Rafa! And he said... He said, who the hell are you? I think that was one of my highlights for the weekend. Was seeing Dylan light up with glee. When he'd see some of these guys. And then when he finally sucks, he said his name wrong. A lot of the people I saw I didn't even talk to. Like, weren't you just talking crap about him a week and a half ago? What's wrong with you? Yo, to be fair, that two weeks out update was a train wreck. And man... Yeah, I mean, he still got six. I thought Mo was... Gift. You know, I do think Mo looked good. And I'm only being harsh because I love Brando's physique so much. Remember, 2020 Europa or the Prague. Or 2021, whatever it is. Samson and him are facing off on stage. Yeah. One has won the Mr. Olympia by now. Raphael may not even get there by the end of the year if he keeps this kind of crap up. I do think he'll get there. I think he'll get there. You're being harsh. I think he'll get there. You're getting special invites to the Arnold. You're top six to the Arnold. You're going to win a pro show. You'll get to the Olympia. I personally do that. For sure. Well, I mean, he does have, like, weeks of dieting. Well, he's doing New York. That's actually perfect for him. That's a good show. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Is there anybody else in that car? Criso. Shoot. He might have to do it next show. I don't know. He'll win a show. Let's do that one. He might go to Detroit. He might go to the Motor City at this point. I don't know. I don't know. This was a weekend in general. And the cherry on top was the finals. Why? Because we have a lot to talk about. There's going to be a lot of dissecting. A lot of fans are going to come out, and their voices will be heard. We know that. Nick Walker got a fan base like no other at this point. I think he is the men's open Chris Bumstead, truly. I think he's the one person who has- It's really shocking how popular the ugliest physique is. Yeah. I mean, yeah. And I don't mean that in a bad way. No, no, no. I think like- And I think it really just is a testament of people like seeing people work hard and improve and actually make something for themselves the good old fashioned way. And he is just- He's humble. He's just a dude. Yeah, yeah. I mean, he's been up front about things, and people can relate to that. That as well. Relatability, people- That's why Bumstead is, you know, people- For a while, I never understood it. Some people say it's ugly. I think that's- It's beauty in a way that's just totally different from just having a small waist. Nick Walker's love. Not to be a hippie. I voted for Nixon. Nick Walker's love is written all over his physique. Is it the most pretty? Absolutely not. But it's the most muscular. We saw that. And that takes a certain amount of love and dedication, does it not? And you're winning most muscle over the likes of an Andrew. Who, granted, he may not be a Samson of the muscularity, personally. Has a big frame, but he's a big guy. You know what I'm saying? He's a big guy. So, I mean, it's- To me, I don't know, man. I don't- Like, I keep talking. What's in the back of my mind the whole time. And all I'm thinking is, I don't want to take anything away from Andrew. You know what I mean? No, it's all his, bro. Relax. He won. I get it. No, I'm giving my point. I'm giving my point. What I'm trying to say is, like, I do think that Andrew still came, put up a really great fight. You know what I'm saying? Do you disagree? I had him third. You had him- No, you're- No, you didn't. When I went post by post, I had him third. You had him third. I just like bodybuilding, bro. Yeah. No, but I said IRL. It probably should have been. The difference of IRL. What are you talking about? IRL. We're talking about a bodybuilder in IRL. Well, I scored the finals based on the stream. You were there in person, right? Not one. Finals. You gave it to Hottie still over Andrew? No. All right. You lost me. Explain the science behind your math at this point. No, I'm just saying, like, I think Hottie thrives on 2D comparisons because at this point he's a smaller 2D bodybuilder. And Andrew is- You're saying picture for picture style, right? Right. Okay, okay. But Nick is something that transcends time and space. Yes. Same thing with an Andrew, I feel. Like my ass. Personally, yeah. You know, I was going to say the cherry on top this weekend was the kiss we shared in front of the Arnold statue. Get out of here, dude. Dylan wouldn't smile for a picture in front of the Arnold. Actually, we got a smile. We got a smile out of Dylan. I told you I wanted to go home because I was facing an allergic reaction. Dylan was in the bathroom with all fours. With the whitest tennis shoe I've ever seen. Just sticking out the stall. You act like I was sitting like a damsel in distress. You look like a damsel in distress. Who goes to the fucking Arnold and throws it? Or you're the young L.A. booth. Stupid. Well, I was pre-gaming with the boys. Punch a little 12. Yeah, and I said, Marcus, I need to go home. And you said, hey, I decided to sit there. And, you know, I ran to the bathroom and checked on you. I checked on you. I was a good friend. But you made fun of me. You're making fun of me on the show. New nickname, Cashew Nut over here, man. This guy is a nut. Anyway, Marcus, we're still going to be doing some more content. The Arnold is not quite done yet. I think we'll be at the Expo tomorrow or not. We got a lot more stuff planned. But, man, what a show. Lots to dissect. We're going to be doing more. I'm going to be doing more on my channel project, Bodybuilding. Lots to unpack this weekend. But, man, good show. Very good show. Very good show. That's what I'm saying. I think that. Small but mighty. Like something else in this room. Yeah, Dylan's shoe size. Yo, I think. You're close to the camera, too. It's your little size 9. Size 9, 10s. You know what you say about me. But, man, it was a great weekend. Not what we thought was going to happen. I actually really thought Nick was going to win this. I really did. Night 1 more so. And then night 2, I was like, okay, I think. You know, I think you might have it. And then, you know, they called Andrew. Well, we appreciate you tuning in to the Muscle Immaturity Show, as you see. You got to call it up, man. You got to get the little. Pull your pants up. Got the little. Got my little, my animal. You know what I mean? You got to keep the Muscle Immaturity going. Appreciate you guys for tuning in. Thank you for kicking it with us. If you were here this weekend, I hope you enjoyed yourself. Shout out to everybody who's in the Walker Nation. Shout out to everybody who was with Andrew Jack. Two great guys. Everybody out there, keep it old school. Continue to be just a great, you know, follower of the sport. We need you guys. The sport needs you. The Expo don't need you no more. Stop going, y'all. That was so annoying. That was like shoulder to shoulder, man. That was crazy. Yeah, that was crazy. How long did you do that for? Pause. 33 minutes. Hey! Hey! you