! I'm going to show you all the things I use. You can use all of them, some of them, none of them. You can do whatever you want. Take it with a grain of salt or you can try some of these things and see if they work for you. And I'll put links underneath in the comments section to all these items if you want to pick them up to try them. Go for it. If not, no worries. It's all good. Alright, the first thing I do when I wake up in the morning, you gotta kill the dragon, right? This is it. TheraBreath. Dentist formulated fresh breath oral rinse. Fights bad breath for 12 hours. This comes in a few different flavors. This is invigorating icy mint, the blue bottle. That's my fave. In the perfect world, it says do not eat or drink anything for 30 minutes after using this. In the real world, ain't nobody got time for that. I take a swig, swish it around 25-30 seconds, spit it out. Do not swallow it. After that, I head into the kitchen, make myself a cup of coffee. Drink my coffee, one cup, maybe two cups. News flash, according to my doctor and many other doctors, and Arnold's Pump Club, if you're a fan, subscriber, like I am, coffee is good for you. So have one or two cups in the morning and enjoy it. After I finish my coffee, I head back into the bathroom. That's when I brush my teeth. My favorite toothpaste, Marvis. Whiteening mint. Keeps them nice and fresh, clean, white. I also like Marvis' Amarelli licorice. I love black licorice, and that's what this tastes like. Both of these are imported from Italy. We sell these at ShaveNation.com. There's about six or seven different flavors, so you may find a better one that you like. The toothbrush I use right here. Aquasonic, it's rechargeable. This bad boy holds a charge for about a month, which is amazing. It has four different settings. Clean, soft, whiten, and massage. I generally use clean, as you can see right there. It runs for two minutes. Every 30 seconds, it'll pause or hesitate to signal that you should move on to the next quadrant when you're brushing your teeth. It's a nice little feature to have. It notifies you. Finish that area, move on. The heads are easy to replace. All you do is pull it off, insert a new one, replace the head once a month. My hygienist recommends a motorized toothbrush. If you don't like the motorized toothbrush, go with the old standby manual toothbrush. I know somebody. She gets a platinum star from the hygienist, and she uses a manual toothbrush, so do whatever works for you, personal preference, just like shaving. After I brush my teeth, I use a tongue scraper. Scrape down the tongue, remove the coffee and stains from your tongue. Keep it nice and clean. This will also allow you to have some nice fresh breath. After that, go about your day. When it's bedtime, no matter what time it is, midnight, one o'clock doesn't matter. I head into the bathroom. I do my nighttime routine. The first thing I do, floss. I use one of these placers. These purple ones. I've used many different brands. These purple ones are the best ones I have found. They slide in between the teeth very easily, and they don't break. I've had some of these where it takes four to do my entire mouth because they keep breaking. These do not break. Again, I'll put a link in the comments. You could pick these up if you want to. It's also got a little pointy tip that you can clean in between your teeth as well. According to the hygienist and common sense dictates, the first thing you want to do is floss, not brush. Floss your teeth, clean out all the nooks and crannies, loosen everything up, then brush your teeth. Brush everything away. Again, motorized toothbrush or manual toothbrush. Your preference. After that, I rinse with this Crest ProHealth Advanced Extra Whitening. Take a swig of this. Rinse it around for 25-30 seconds. Spit it out. Do not swallow it. This is alcohol free, but it does contain hydrogen peroxide, so when you're done using it, you'll see white bubbles on your tongue. It's cleaning everything, which is a good thing. When I'm done with this, my nighttime ritual is complete. Time to hit the rack. Good till morning. And in the morning, I don't floss because I haven't eaten anything. I just brush my teeth. I floss before I go to bed. And you can floss after every meal if you want, but again, ain't nobody got time for that. So, I know some people that do it, but I can't do it. Alright, that's it. Comment down below. I want to hear how you do it. If you use any of these products or what you use or how you think your ritual may be better than mine, let me know. I greatly appreciate it. I'm sure we'd all like to hear about it. Try some or all of these items and let me know after your next visit to the dentist if you earned a gold star as well. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Uh oh. Looks like I have a four o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day.