 Greetings, friends. I'm Geofatboy for Shagnation.com. I had a little accident right here. My Shagnation White Stick alum block, I dropped it, and look what happened. The stone fell out from the lifter. There it is. You can see that some of the alum broke off on both sides, and it will fit back together pretty decently, one way, but not the other way. So I'm going to attempt to glue this back in, just for the fun of it. See if it works. You can see it's a straight line at the bottom right here. So that's the way it came out. I'm going to glue it back in the same way. Here's my hot glue gun. These things are invaluable. Very handy for many different little chores and jobs and fix ups around the house, and the shop too. So what I'm going to do, I don't want to squirt it into the center, because that's where the rod protrudes and raises up and down to raise and lower the stone. So I'm going to do the outsides. Just going to pump some glue into that area. On both sides. Got to give this a push. Here we go. I think the glue is good, because it will conform to the little nooks and crannies. So the wider side is on this side. Push it back in together. Going to lower it down a little bit. Just to make sure that it doesn't glue itself together. It still raises up and down. All the while keeping pressure on this top, just to keep the two parts connected. So it sets. And I actually would probably let this sit for maybe 5 or 10 minutes. But just for the sake of the video, I'm going to hold it just for a few more seconds and see what it feels like. I'll give it a little bit of a wiggle and see if it's loose or... It's normal for it to wobble, but it seems like it's connected up pretty good. Let's see. There you go. Now I can raise it all the way up. Bring it all the way back down. It's in there. The glue is kind of waterproof as it is. So I think that this may last quite a while. All the way up. There you go. There's plenty of stone left on there. Six months worth of stone left on there right now. You can see that... Here, I'll raise it all the way up. Topped out right there. Oh, here it came out from the rod at the bottom. That wasn't... Well, at least I can show you. It looks like a popsicle. And it is... It's very tight. I'm pulling on it. It's secured. So I think this is going to last a long time. If this happens to you, I would recommend giving this a try. The hot glue gun. I'm going to drop this back down in. This is a female. This is a male. It's got the rod inside there that fits right into it. Let's see if we can wind it back down. It's caught. So good. Beautiful. It's not going anywhere. So if you have this unfortunate occurrence where you drop your allen block or it happens to fall out, get yourself the hot glue gun. Borrow one. You don't have to go buy one. If you want to buy one because they're very handy to have around the house, that's great. Or borrow one from somebody. I used, like, not even a twentieth of a stick of glue on this thing. And it's good as new. Awesome. If you want to get yourself one of these Shade Nation Wide Stick Allen Blocks for after your shave, just click down below the video. Kind of happy this worked out the way it did. Successful mission completed. Repair mission. Please like, comment, subscribe, share my videos with your friends. Over 900 videos, shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShadeNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day.