 naringin, We've had a few questions recently about the difference between the Dovo SHINY SHAVET and the Dovo MATT SATIN SHAVET. So let's take a look at them. We can compare them side by side and you can see the difference for yourself. Let's unbox this one. This is the SHINY. It comes in this nice cardboard carton. Recyclable carton. It also comes with an extra plastic insert and a double-edged blade. Now let's open the matte satin version. Same contents, an extra plastic blade holder and a blade, double-edged blade. So here you can see the difference. This is the matte satin and then this is the polished or shiny finish. Both handles are the same with the Dovo logo, Dovo SHINY SHAVET, SOLING IN GERMANY INOX. Dovo SHINY SHAVET, SOLING IN GERMANY INOX. INOX signifies that they're stainless steel. Each one of these razors comes with an extra blade holder already pre-installed in the razor. So you just pull that out, remove it, and then you place your thumb in the slot at the end of the thick side and you can open it up this way. Both of these blade holders are exactly the same. They are made to hold half of a double-edged razor blade or we also sell pre-split blades at ShaveNation.com. You can buy a box of a hundred. Take one directly out of the box, insert it into the holder and then into the razor and get your shave on. And we'll show you how to load one of these blades. These two blades happen to be made in Germany. It says on there made in Germany. Sometimes they switch it up and it may come with a blade that is made in the Czech Republic. I'll show you how to load a blade into one of these razors. For the example we use the satin finish. So all you need to do is grab the edge here. You can put your thumb directly under, pull straight out. And again, place your thumb in that slot. Pull it apart. Turn the blade holder so that the curves are facing you. These two curves. One, two. Let's take a look at the blade. We'll open this up and I'll show you what that looks like. So this is the standard double-edged razor blade. In order to use this blade in the Shavette razor, you need to snap it in half. I'll show you how to do that. Just place the blade back in the original paper. And then in the outer paper. This is so you protect your fingers while you're snapping it. Fold it shut. Once it's completely concealed in the paper. Fold it over from the outside edges. You'll hear two snaps. One, two. Now it's split and you can use it in the Shavette razor. Just pull out one half and save the other half for later on. So what you do here. Turn the sharp portion facing outward. There are two tabs on this black blade holder right here. One and two. This indentation on the blade on both sides will fit directly next to those tabs. There you go. So the tab is on the outside. And the hooks on the blade sit right up against it. Once the blade is in place. Carefully fold it over. Snap it shut. And then insert it directly into the razor. It will only go one way. You can't insert the thick portion. But you can insert the thin portion. You want to make sure that the blade is facing outward. Away from the blade holder. And then just slide it in. Being careful not to touch the sharp edge of the blade. Just push it all the way in. Now you're ready to get your shave on. You can see that the reveal on the blade is perfect going across. When it's time to remove the blade. Swing open the handle. Grasp the edge of the black plastic blade holder. And pull it straight out. Insert your thumbnail into the slot. Open it up. And remove the blade. Again both of these blade holders are exactly the same. So you can get several shaves out of each half of the blade. Extending blade life. So if you want to pick up one of these razors. You have the option between the matte satin finish. And the shiny polished finish. Personal preference. Click down below the video where it says more or show more. And you can grab them right there. Or go to ShaveNation.com. Enter Dovo Shave at in the search box. And they'll pop right up. Get yours at ShaveNation.com. Uh oh. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shake. Have a great day.