 ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech ech a YouTube review on it. Thank you Heath C. I thought for sure I had already done a review on the Chatsworth razor. Much to my surprise I have not. So it's time to cover that right now. There are five different Chatsworth razors. Basically the same razor with different finishes. There's barley, ebony, smooth chrome, ivory, and horn. This is ebony right here. So it's imitation ebony and it's chrome. All the razors look pretty much exactly like this. They're all going to have the chrome up here and the only difference will be the handle. So it can be smooth chrome, barley, ivory, ebony, horn. Any one of those. As I said this happens to be horn. We'll start right at the top. Gleaming chrome as you've come to know from Edwin Jagger. Very nice fit and finish to this razor. And then it's got a tapered starting at the top. It tapers thin and then gets thicker. And there are two rings here with a gap in between. And then your handle comes into play. No markings on the bottom. So the way the shape of the handle is. It's very ergonomic. You can grip it just like this very easily. If you prefer a closer grip on your razor you can go right here. Thumb and forefinger kind of fits in there very comfortably. And if you like to shave with your fingers right near the head you can go right up underneath it. And it also tapers down to meet your fingers that way. So just about any way you want to grip it you're going to get a comfortable shave with this razor. The specs on this razor it weighs in at 2.5 ounces or 65 grams. And the overall length from top to bottom is 4.5 inches or 114 millimeters. So it's a good size razor. You can drop it right in the palm no problem. If you want to grip it up towards the top. Nice and easy. Let's disassemble. 11 turns. 11 twists to remove the handle. Separate the top cap. There's the underside of the top cap. And here's the safety bar. There's the other side of it. You see how it's grooved that the handle will fit right inside there. It's really not a perfect match though. You can see that the top of the handle is thinner. It will fit in there but there will be room left over. When you buy it from Shave Nation it comes with one feather blade included in the box. So you can get started shaving right away. Let's see what one looks like right here. This is it in the paper. I'll remove it and there's going to be some glue in there. You'll have to remove the paper carefully and the glue will stick to the paper slightly. You can even see that there's a couple of glue dabs right here and here. So no problem. It doesn't affect the shave. But that's the blade we're going to use. So we will drop that right over the threaded post and the two pins like so. Reassemble the safety bar and as I said you can see the ring right there. I'm going to reinstall the handle. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 turns to get it back together. And if you can make this out you can see that there is some room left over where the ring meets the handle. There's a little space outside of it. But it does lock down tight so it's not going to come loose while you're shaving. Alright the other items I'm going to use will go with some Edwin Jagger Sandalwood Premium Shaving Cream. I'll go with this Edwin Jagger synthetic black handled shaving brush as well. I'll take my hat off for this. I'm gonna fill up the Scully Cup with some hot water. Just drop the brush right in there. Let it sit for a second. Then I've got this new Shave Nation All Hallows Eve Shaving Bowl. Just in time for Halloween you can see the webbing on the inside. Hopefully that's going to help us those raised lines when the brush swirls across help us generate some really nice shaving lather. So under the hot water just warm it up a little. It is metal so it will retain heat and it is unbreakable. Check it. It is metal. Take my word for it. Also I'll unscrew the cap on the Edwin Jagger Sandalwood Shaving Cream. I think this video is going to take a while so you may want to get a little cup of coffee and put your feet up on the desk. Alright also something new with a Shave Nation scrape spoon. We have some curved spoons but I found that it's much easier to push the shaving cream off or scrape it right into your mug or bowl with a flat surface. So here it is. It's got a hole on the top. You can hang it on the wall. It's got the Shave Nation logo on one side right there. So what we do just scoop a little bit out about that much. Drop it right into the bowl like so. Hopefully that'll be enough for us to perform two or three passes. Remove the brush from the scully cup. Give it a couple shakes. Synthetic brush you got to remove a lot of the water. Pour that out. It's always easier to add water back in with the synthetic brush. We'll go in here. We'll start swirling. See what happens. There we go. It's already building a nice lather. Those that giant spiderweb with all those lines really creates some friction. You can go back and forth. You can go in a circle. And as I mentioned before some shaving brushes the manufacturers say you know don't go in a circular fashion but I have no trouble. You know I always seem to be able to mix a lather without a problem. And having no mishaps with the brush whatsoever either. With hairs falling out or anything like that. So you can go circular. You can go back and forth. You can reverse it. Whatever. You just want that friction. And look at. I mean that's been like 30 seconds. Look at all that lather. No problem. So the bowl's a winner. First time I've ever used it right here. Generated plenty of lather. I'll warm up my face. We'll get right to the shave. Alright my face is good and warm. You can see. Put a little more light on the subject. Right there. Okay let's grab our brush in our bowl. Copious amounts of lather. As you can see the bowl is filled. Here we go. Nice little ice cream cone. Let's lather up. Very nice sandalwood scent on this lather. You can paint it. Dab it. Swirl it. Whatever you prefer. Just so you cover all the areas you intend to shave. I like to finish up with the figure eight or the infinity maneuver. Set the brush down. Swipe the lips. Swipe the neck. Clear the runways so we can see our sideburns. Got the razor loaded with the feather blade. The Edwin Jagger Chatsworth ebony razor. Let's do it. Starting on the right side here. Just work your way down. Very comfortable. Easily removing. A couple days beard growth. Got some good feedback there as well. One side is filled. Just flip it over. Go to the other side. Very nice. Very comfortable. Both sides filled. Rinse that. Now the left side. Just cut that sideburn. Work your way down. Pretty aggressive shaver. One side filled. Flip it over. Excellent shave. Rinse it. Now let's scoop right under the nose. Very nice. Rinse that. Now just do a quick rinse to the face. Feel around. I'm very close. Even after that one pass. Feels very nice. But I'm going to do one more pass. Get a little bit closer. Grab our brush and our bowl. And our lovely lather. Right there. Just re-lather for a second pass. Smooth everything out. You don't need as much lather on the second pass. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runways again. Here we go. Second pass. First pass was with the grain. North to south. Now we'll go across the grain. Backhand. Rinse. Against the grain on the neck. Backhand. Rinse. Across the mustache area. Backhand. Very good. Rinse that. A final rinse to the razor. And then a cold water rinse to the face. Let's take our Shave Nation Wide Stick Allen Block. Remove the cap. Under the cold water. Soak it. Then just glide that. All around the areas you've shaved. Excellent finish to the shave. Feels like an ice cube. It will seal off any small nicks or weepers if you got any. I think I did get a little something right here but. It's a goner. Disappeared quickly. Recap it. Set that down. Let that soak in for about 30 seconds. And then rinse it off. Cut the face dry. For aftershave let's go with this Taylor of Old Bond Street Sandalwood Luxury Aftershave Gel. I'm going to squirt a little bit in the fingertips. It's a clear gel. Just massage that in. Ooh. Great sandalwood scent. Excellent shave. Cheeks. Upper lip. Chin. Neck. Baby smooth everywhere. Let's take a final look at the razor. The Edwin Jagger Chatsworth. This is the Ebony model. Imitation Ebony. Real Ebony would probably cost Buku bucks. So this is Imitation Ebony. It's black. That's it. Plain and simple. Excellent shave provided. Very comfortable to shave with. As far as aggression. On a scale of 1 to 10. I'm going to give this razor a 6. I feel like it's a little more aggressive than say your DE89. Or your Mercur 34C. Or Mula R89. Any of those. Could just be with a brand new feather blade. Just gave me an excellent shave. No worries whatsoever. If you want to pick up any of these items. The Chatsworth razor. The Scully Brush Soaking Cup. Or the Halloween Lather Bowl. Also doubles as a candy bowl. On Halloween Day. You could use it for that. Why not? Just click down below the video where it says more or show more. And you can grab it right there. Thank you very much for watching. Please like. Comment. Subscribe. Share my videos with your friends. Over 800 videos now. Shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. It's pretty amazing that when you tighten it down all the way. It just lands perfectly. With the Edwin Jagger. Straight up. Perpendicular to the head. That's some planning right there. I think when the blade's not in. It doesn't match up. But when the blade is in. It matches up. The logo right here. Perfectly. We'll see you next time. Uh oh. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com Have a great shave. Have a great day.