 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 03 0 it's right there a little dot that tells you it's the thorn not the twig. I'm going to use a feather blade which I have right here. Here it is in the paper, here it is out of the paper. We want to put it back in the paper so we can snap it in half. So wrap it back up, fold the paper over just like it came out of the package, fold it over, you'll get two snaps. One, two. Now open it up so you get twice the use out of one double-edged blade. Or you can buy the hundred packs of pre-split blades at ShadeNation.com as well. Here's one half, we're going to drop that right over with the sharp part facing out. I'm going to drop that right over the base plate like that. And then spin it closed counterclockwise. A little counter intuitive, it's counterclockwise to close it, clockwise to open it. Check your reveal, you can see it's perfect even on both sides there. I'll warm up my face, we'll get right to the shave. You can see my face is good and red. Let's pick up our brush and bowl, copious amounts of lather. Look at all that lather. It does have a little, oh there you go, see that little bristle. It's totally normal for a brush to lose a bristle now and then, especially when it's new. Plenty of lather. You can see it's got a little pink tinge to it from the the fig. The fig colored puck. That tinge, that pinkness just carries over and stays in the crane. Start lathering right side, work your way across. This is a nice thick lather. You can see it's not flying off the brush or anything. It has a wonderful Mediterranean fig scent. Takes me back to my trips to Greece. Swirl it, paint it, dab it, however you prefer. As long as you cover all the areas you intend to shave. And then, figure eight, just smooth everything out. Set the brush down. Swipe, swipe. Clear the runways so we can see our sideburns. We've got the leaf thorn razor loaded with a feather blade. Let's take a look. Under the hot water, temper the razor. This razor is very intuitive. Just that angle, you want that on your skin so it's flat. Cut the sideburn. Work your way down. I have a heavy beard growth. Two or three days worth of beard growth. So that's why I'm going with the thorn instead of the twig. The twig would be less aggressive. You can see how nicely the thorn is removing the beard quickly and easily. You will have to rinse a bit more often because you're only dealing with one blade, not with two sides of a razor like your regular safety razor. So you can see all that stubble on there. Let's rinse. Well lots of stubble going down the drain as well. Left side, cut that sideburn. Work your way down. Rinse again. Work your way down the chin. Clean the cleft. Rinse. Straight down the neckline. Rinse again. Lots of stubble. Nice sharp feather blade. Also helps in mowing through the beardage quickly. It rinses out very easily as well. It's got some drainage flow that allows it to rinse quickly. It also feels like it's very difficult to cut yourself with this razor. A quick face rinse. Just leave that residual soap on there. Still nice and slick. I can feel it. It's very slippery. Grab your brush and bowl. And we'll re-lather for a second pass. You can see still plenty of lather on the brush. Smells great. Figure eight. Set it down. Sweat. Clear the runways again. Okay the first pass was with the grain north to south. Now we'll go across. And my fingers are wet. Very easy to hold this razor. It's got these vertical lines top and bottom. Easy to hold on to even with wet fingers. Just go across the grain now. Rinse. Rinse. Rinse. Then here you can backhand it like this. Or you can just use your other hand. Do it that way. Either way. Whatever is more comfortable for you. That's what you want to do. So you're going to use the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the over the backhand or switch hands. And the flatter you can make your skin, the better coverage you'll get with the blade, the better shave you'll get against the grain on the neck. Again wherever you shave, just putting that angle on your skin so it matches up. After a while you don't even have to think about it. Second nature. Rinse. Now just scoop right across under the nose. First start with the tip on an angle and then lay it flat. Same thing on the other side. It's low profile, fits in there easily. Then a little clean up. Feel around. If you missed any spots you can just wet your fingers. Go back in and hit them again. A little buffing of the lip and chin area. Excellent. Rinse. Now a cold water rinse to the face. Cold water feels fantastic against that freshly shaved skin. Now you take your Shave Nation Wide Stick Allen Block. Remove the cover. Soak it under the cold water. Just glide that all around the areas you shaved. It's an astringent. It will seal off any small nicks or weepers. Tighten the skin. Excellent finish to the shave. Recap that. Let it soak in for about 30 seconds. And then rinse it off. Pat the face dry. Now get your favorite after shave. Got some ProResso Sandalwood right here. Goes well with the fig. A little bit in the fingertips. Massage that together directly into the skin. You can do your forehead as well. As long as you don't break out. If you break out, refrain from doing the forehead. There you go. Here's a final look at the razor. A fantastic shave provided. Check it out. Cheeks. Mustache area. Chin. Neck. Everything baby smooth. Excellent shave. Really nice. Again this is the Thorn razor. If you have milder beard growth, you'd want to go with the twig. But this one's more aggressive. The Thorn. Works well for me with heavier beard growth. So it's the Thorn. Feather blade. Very sharp. And here's the leaf brush and bowl. If you have trouble mixing lather, this turns it into a no brainer. Leave the brush dry. Two scoops of water on top of the puck. You don't have to bloom it or anything. No blooming which is soaking the puck before you get started shaving. Don't even do that. Just two scoops of water from the brush into the bowl. Swirl for about, they say 90 seconds, but it was quicker. You could do it in about 30 to 60 seconds depending on water hardness, etc. and how fast and how often you swirl. When you're all done with your shave, rinse all the soap out of the bowl so the puck and bowl are nice and clean. The brush. Rinse it thoroughly till the water runs clear. There's no soap visible. Just give it a couple shakes. A little gentle squeeze like that to get the droplets out. And then what I like to do is just take a cloth like this, a washcloth, and just draw the brush across it several times. Swipe it. That removes the bulk of the water from the tips. And then hang it upside down to dry in a stand like that. And it'll give you many years of service. Here's a good look at the aeration fins I was speaking about earlier. You can see when the brush goes across them. That's what creates the friction. And that's why I said don't go swirling right to the middle. Go around the puck. Because you want that friction from the bristles contacting the aeration fins. And that's what gives you lather quick and thick. That's about it for now. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoyed this video. Please like, comment, subscribe, share my videos with your friends. Over 800 videos, shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Have a great day. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day. So, you gotta go to ShaveNation.com. You gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day. ShaveNation. you