 Let's open it up have a look. This is a recyclable chip paper type cardboard type packaging. It's got a little sleeve inside with a packing peanut. Whoops let me get that. With a packing peanut protecting the head from the cardboard during shipping which is nice. Here are some instructions for use right there. It comes with a blade. This is the Mercure blade. These are now made in the Czech Republic. They used to be made in Germany but now CZ. It just comes in this little sleeve that has a hole at the top and bottom. All you do pull it right up and out like so. There's a look inside the sleeve right there. Karen instructions. Clean the razor parts with every in capital letters. Every blade exchange under warm water with a soft nail brush. Slightly lubricate the mechanical parts of adjustable razors regularly. Don't over wind any screws. A good policy. You take care of your shaving equipment. It's going to take care of you. Here's my nail brush. We sell these at Shave Nation. I've had this one for a long time. It happens to be green but I know we have black ones now which are probably a little more preferred. But whatever. I have it so I still use it. So here's a look at the razor. Mercure Futur. In my opinion I've said it before. One of the most futuristic looking razors out there. I love the look of it. It comes in this matte satin finish. Also comes in a polished chrome finish. And a very beautiful highly polished gleaming gold finish as well. As I said it's an adjustable razor. There's a line right up here at the top. That's your adjustment guide. You start at 1 being your mildest setting. And then you work your way up. 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6. All the way up. 6 being the most aggressive. And the way it works is if you're not familiar as you turn the dial the blade gap right here will increase and make it a more aggressive shave. The way you load the blade very simplistic and very futuristic as well. It's not a butterfly. It's not a two-piece. It's not a three-piece. Well I guess it is a two-piece but very unique. You just do this. Boom. Pulls right off. There's a look at the inside. Inside of the top cap. Outside of the top cap. Right here it says Merkur Germany. On the top cap right there. And on the inside of the blade holder. Which is right there. Also very unique. You don't see that on any other razors. As I said I'll use a Merkur blade. Here's one right here. Happens to be made in the CZ. Like I said. Two layers of paper. Outer wrapper. Inner wrapper. A little bit of glue holding it in there. Two ways you can do it. You can drop the blade directly over these pins like so. Or you can drop it directly over the blade holder. Which in my opinion it's a little bit more tedious. But can be done that way. And then snap it back together. Two clicks usually. One pin going in. The other pin going in. You're good to go. To adjust you just spin the handle. If you feel that it may spin around and you may slice your finger. Just use a cloth. A towel. And then set your adjustment. I'm turning it all the way up to six for my first pass. See the six. Because I have heavy beard growth today. I'll post the weight and the length of the razor as well. When we get to the end I won't have to post the aggression rating. Because this will take you from mild all the way up to maximum aggression at the setting of six. One is the mildest. Six is the most aggressive. Which is the beauty of an adjustable razor. You can dial it up or down to match up with your beard growth on any given day. Also in the middle of your shave you can dial it up or down. Like I'm going to go six and then three most likely. Maybe I'll go six and one. We'll see how it goes. I'll see what it feels like. Okay let's see. I'm going to use. This will be a full-on Parasso shave. We'll start off with the Parasso sandalwood pre-shave. And then we'll go to the Parasso sandalwood shaving cream from the tube. And afterwards we'll finish up with the Parasso sandalwood with the red letters right there. Aftershave balm for some protection. Since everything here is red we're going to use the red Shave Nation Bowl right here. Warm up the bowl under the hot water. I'm just going to let the bowl sit with the hot water and that will increase the temperature of the bowl. That way it'll help keep the shaving cream a bit warmer as well. I'm going to warm up my face and then we'll apply the pre-shave. You can hold a hot towel up to your beard or use hot water. Also best if you shave after a shower your beard will be nice and hydrated. Let's crack the cap on this Parasso pre-shave. Get some in the fingertips like so. Massage that together and then directly into the beard. And this will help soften, hydrate, raise the beard to prepare for a shave. Just massage that vigorously. Leave it on the skin. Let that soak in while you pour the water out of your bowl. Bowl is empty. Let's take the shaving cream remove the cap. Squirt a little bit into that lather spot down there at the bottom. Just like that. Since it's all Parasso products we're going to use this Parasso by Omega brush as well. It's a boar brush. Nice and stiff. Works good on hard shaving soap or softer shaving creams. Anything. I soaked it under the hot water. Let's go in here see if we can mix a lather. Just start swirling. Press those tips down into the lather spot at the bottom of the bowl. Keep swirling. And that friction from the brush tips against the lather spot will create some nice lather for you. As you can see. It doesn't take very long. And the more you swirl the thicker it's going to be. And if you like your lather thin put in a little bit of water. Just a small amount at a time so that you don't drown out your lather. Once you drown out your lather and it's super watery it's hard to come back from that. You probably have to add some more cream to make up for it. But here we go. We've got a bowl filled with shaving cream and shaving lather I should say. Look at how beautiful that. Love it. Beautiful peaks on that. Like a giant ice cream cone. Let's take that directly to the beard and lather up. You can swirl it. You can dab it. You can paint it. Whatever you prefer. As long as you cover all the areas you intend to shave. Drive it into the beard. Figure 8. Smooth everything out. Set the brush down. Swipe. Swipe. Let's clear the runways so we can see our sideburns. So we get a nice even line. Alright wet fingers. This satin one you can still grip it even with wet fingers. No problem holding on to it. As I said we're set at a 6. Right there. Let's take our cover photo right here. Here we go. Under the hot water. On 6. Cut that sideburn. We should get some good audible feedback here as well. Yep. Excellent. See how it removed that heavy beard growth? No problem whatsoever. Set on 6. one side filled. Flip to the other side. Double edge blade. Two sides to shave with. Excellent. Both sides are filled. You can see all that stubble. Rinse. Lots of stubble going down the drain. Rinse out very easily. Let's cut the left sideburn. Work your way down. Left. Left. Left. Left. Flip. Flip. Very good. Both sides are filled. Rinse off. Under the mustache, upper lip, scoop under the nose. You can push your nose up out of the way or just push your lower your upper lip downward so you can get underneath there. Beautiful. Rinse that. Now do a quick rinse. Feel around with your fingers. I am very close right there. That was really nice. Heavier beard growth came off really good at the setting of 6. But we're gonna go a little bit more. Let's re-lather. We'll do another pass. Still tons of lather here as you can see. Lather up for the second pass. Figure 8. Smooth everything out. Set the brush down. Very thick cream. Wants to go right into my mouth. Clear the runways one more time. This is one of those get your coffee videos. Alright here we go. I'm going to lower it to a 3 for the next pass. There you go. Got it set on 3. Should be sufficient. The first pass was with the grain north to south. Now we're going to go across. And you can set it to 1 if you want. For an even milder second pass. Or try it at 3. See what it feels like. If you want to switch it up then switch it up. Increase or decrease. Again that's the beauty of an adjustable razor. Nice. Rinse. Against the grain on the neck. Feels very nice in the hand. Just long enough where you can drop it in your palm and spin while you're shaving. Across the upper lip. A little clean up around the lips. There is no overhang of the blade. You can see these top caps. They fold over. And they cover the outside edges of the blade. So there is no overhang on the outside edges of the razor. So you don't have to worry about possibly slicing underneath when you shave your upper lip the lower portion of your nose. You can push it out of the way and get close. Like so. There you go. A final rinse to the razor. And then a cold water rinse to the face. Nice cold water rinse to the face. Feels fantastic. Grab your Shave Nation Wide Stick. Take the Allen Block. Remove the cap. Soak it under the cold water. Just glide that all around the areas you shaved. Tighten the skin. An excellent finish to your shave. It will give you some feedback on your shave as well. If you went too many times over the same spot or got any nicks or cuts you'll get a little bit of stinging from the Allen Block. Recap that. Set it down. Let that soak in for about 30 seconds. And then rinse it off. Pat the face dry. Now grab your Parasso Sandalwood After Shave Balm. Remove the cap. A little bit in the fingertips. Just about that much. Doesn't take too much. A little goes a long way. Massage that. Directly into the skin. Cooling. Calming. Protecting. You can do the forehead as well. If you break out then don't do the forehead. You can do behind your ears. You can do the back of your neck. Feels really good on the back of the neck. Nice and cool. Let's take a final look. The cheeks. Don't do that much. Doesn't take too much. Doesn't take too much. A little goes a long way. Massage that. Don't take too much. A little goes a long way. Massage that. Directly into the skin. Cooling. Calming. Protecting. You can do the forehead as well. If you break out then don't do the forehead. Feels really good on the back of the neck. Nice and cool. Let's take a final look. The cheeks. Upper lip. Chin. Neck. Everything baby smooth. What a fantastic shave. This is a great razor. I love the Marcour Viteur Adjustable. The adjustment feature is great. The blade loading is very easy and cool as well. You don't see that on any other razors. Some good German engineering right there. Feels nice and hefty in the hand. All in all a fantastic shaving razor. And the results speak for themselves. If you want to pick up one of these razors or any of these other items. Just click down below the video where it says more or show more. Or go to ShaveNation.com. Enter what you need in the search box. It'll pop right up. Please like, comment, subscribe, share my videos with your friends. Over 850. I can't do 8-5. I guess I could do 8-5-0. Over 850 videos. Shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Uh oh. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Good day.