 gendon, gents, gents, gents, gents, gents, gents, I'm GEOFATBOY for ShaveNation.com. Today I'm going to remake a video that I made a long time ago. I was scrolling through the website and I saw this one old video from back in 2014 and it was BAD. Sometimes I look at them and I'm like, whoa, did I really put that one out there? I guess for it's a long time ago? I guess for it's a long time ago? I guess for it's time 2014, that's a long time ago? Four years after I started. So I'm going to remake that one. And it's a Razor, which here's a look at it. The Parker 26C. If you go to the history books on YouTube and search GEOFATBOY 26C, you're gonna see that come up and be like, whoa, it is a little rough. So let's unbox this one. Hopefully we can do a better job today. 10, 11, 15 years later, whatever it is. Let's unbox it. So if you buy this Razor from ShaveNation.com, it comes with, hidden in there, a five pack of Parker Blades. So you can get started shaving right away. This is a very nice recyclable carton. The Razor is stowed safely in there. It doesn't bounce around. I get kind of upset when I see Razors just, you know, disassembled halfway. Rattling around in the box like that. This actually holds it. Their method holds it pretty well in place like that. So it doesn't bounce around while it's in transit. Which is a good thing. So here's a good look at the Razor. It's got a really nice, like a graphite, a black graphite finish. As you can see, this is an open comb style Razor. Meaning it's got teeth. It's going to be a little bit more aggressive than your flat bar. See how this is just a little bit more aggressive than your flat bar. This is just a flat bar. This is my 34C. Shows a little bit of dirt on there because I've been using it. So that's a flat bar. That's an open comb. It has grooves. Allows the shaving cream and the beard to flow through. As you can see, it's a nice chrome head with the open tooth comb design. And then it's got chrome banding right here that tapers inward. And then you've got this really nice graphite knurling on the handle which makes it really easy to grip. Feels really good in the hand. The bottom has a few bands of chrome as well, as you can see. No logo on the bottom. As far as the specs on this Razor, it weighs in at 3.25 ounces. So 3.25 ounces or 92 grams. The overall length from top to bottom is 4.1 inches or 105 millimeters. So it's pretty hefty. Drops right in the palm. Very easy to spin. Easy to shave with. Let's disassemble. As I said, it's a 3-piece Razor. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. About 12 turns to open it fully. Here's a look at the inside of the top cap. These parts are zamak, which I believe is a metal alloy. Here's the top of the bar. Here's the underside of the bar. But as you can see, it is recessed where the handle fits in there and locks the blade down tightly. You can see that little recess area. As I said, it comes with the 5-pack of Parker blades. So let's use one of those. Here's what it looks like in the paper. Here's what it looks like out of the paper. It's a Parker blade. It's got a little bit of glue, not enough to stick it really tight to the paper. It comes off very easily. The blade is not attached super tight. It just comes out. The paper unwraps very easily. Unlike the feather blades, which are a little bit difficult to get out. There you can see it pre-assembly. You can see the threaded post. Now we'll reassemble it. Lock it down tight. Check that blade reveal. It looks perfect on both sides. As far as blade overhang, very slight. Like a sixteenth of an inch on the outside edge right there. You can barely see about a sixteenth of an inch. Not that much. Very minimal blade overhang. The next holiday coming up is St. Patrick's Day. So this will be a green shave. I'm going to use the Shave Nation Artisan, the Green Bowl. And I'm going to use the Provasso, menthol and eucalyptus. You know, the one that gives you the tingles. Shaving cream. And I'm going to use a pre-shave. I've got a pretty heavy beard girl today. So let's go with the pre-shave Provasso, menthol and eucalyptus. These two go together. There's also an aftershave. There's a balm. And there's also the Splash. This is the giant bottle, but it comes in a smaller bottle as well. We carry these 400ml bottles, which are great for barbershops. Or if you just want to stock up and have enough for a long time, you can do that as well. So that's the shave. Let's run that warm water. Put the bowl under the hot water. It's made out of metal, so it will retain some heat. I like to warm up the bowl. And that'll help keep the shaving cream warm as well. Got the Scully brush soaking cup right here. I filled that up with some hot water as well. This brush is the Provasso by Omega shaving brush. It's a boar brush. Very reasonably priced. It's about $19. $20. Somewhere in there. And you can see really thick bristles on the boar and very stiff. If you like a stiff brush, you'll love this brush. Just going to soak it. Just let it absorb some moisture for a while. You can see now it's fully saturated. Kind of splays out like that. Separates out. It's got caverns when it is saturated. Pour that out. Give it a couple shakes. Pour the water out. Pour the water out of the Shave Nation bowl. Open up our Provasso. Menthol and Eucalyptus. We'll squirt a little bit down in there. Just fill up that lather spot like that. Nice and easy. Take your brush. Commence to swirling. Just push the bristles down into that lather spot at the bottom. And that friction will create lather pretty quickly and easily. You can see it's coming up around the edges. Just scoop that right back down and keep swirling. Until you get your desired amount of lather and your desired thickness. The more you swirl, the thicker it's going to be. You can see after just 20-30 seconds, plenty of lather for several passes. I'll warm up my face. We'll get right to the shave. There you go. My face is good and red. You can see. I know I didn't say it before, but maybe you should have gotten yourself a cup of coffee because this one's going to be a little while. Here's the Provasso Pre-Shave. Spin off the cap. There's what it looks like. Smells really good. It's just that menthol, eucalyptus. Take about that much out of it. Rub that together in the fingertips. Like so. Apply that directly to the beard. This is a pre-shave. Many gents say they have sensitive skin. I don't believe it. I feel like if you think you have sensitive skin, your prep isn't correct. Your angle isn't right. Something isn't right with your shave. Maybe your razor is too aggressive for you. Could be a number of things. Process of elimination comes into play to figure it out. But a pre-shave, whether it be a gel, oil, cream like this, will really help in giving you a close, irritation-free shave. You just leave that on your skin. And you pick up your brush and your bowl. And lather up. Just apply it directly over the pre-shave. Beautiful cream. Look at how thick. Nice. Goes on easy. Easy. Easy. You can swirl it like this. You can paint it. You can dab it. Figure 8. Smooth everything out. Get rid of the bumps and the clumps. Set the brush down. Swipe the lips. Swipe the neck. What now? Clear the runaways. So we can see the sideburns. Let's pick up that razor. The Parker 26C. I think I didn't mention it before. But it is a brass frame. And a zamak head. Under the hot water. Let's do it. Cut that sideburn. Work your way down. A little bit shorter strokes with the heavier beard growth. But it is taking it off very nicely. Easily. There you go. Look at all that stubble on both sides. It's filled on both sides. So we'll rinse it. Rinses out very easily. Just a couple seconds. Sometimes the pre-shave will just force you to rinse a little bit more. Three or four seconds. But this rinsed out very easily. See the comb mark? You can see where the teeth allow the beard and the shaving cream to flow through. That's the trademark of an open comb razor. Open tooth razor. Rinse. Rinse. Rinse. Rinse. Rinse. Rinse. Left side. Cut that sideburn. Rinse. Rinse. Work your way down. Yeah, I know. People ask. If I have hair or whiskers or beard up there, should I shave it? Of course. If it's up there, you've got to go up there and get it. I have to be careful because I have a scar right here. And sometimes I go over it. But if you just tread lightly, very gently over it, let the blade just glide over it easily, it's no problem. The same thing with bowls, pimples, bumps, all that. You'll get a feel where you're cutting the beard or you're just gliding over a bump. Cleft. Rinse. Lots of stubble right there. Carry on down the neckline. Traversing the jawline, you can go like this. Just pick it up, shave down, and then do the other side. Or you can just glide right over all the way down. Your preference. I usually do a little bit of both. rinse. Now the upper lip, just scoop right under the nose. Excellent. Rinse. You can feel the menthol and eucalyptus kicking in. It's very cool. Feels really good. Now a warm water rinse to the face. Just a slight rinse. Leave that residual cream on. Still very slippery. You can feel it. It's still slippery. If you feel you need more protection, you can apply the Parasso pre-shave or whatever pre-shave you're using before the second pass as well. But I don't feel the need for it. Not today. Grab our brush and bowl and re-lather. Feels nice and cool. Set the brush down. Swipe. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runaways again. the first pass was north to south with the grain now we'll go across the grain just let the weight of the razor do the work nice sharp single blade slices through the beard easily excellent rinse against the grain on the neck very good once again now under the nose the upper lip just start with the corner and clean out the hairs directly under the nose and then lay it flat to cover the lip same thing the other direction corner flat little cleanup excellent rinse now a cold water rinse to the face now let's apply our shave nationwide stick allen block remove the cap under the cold water just glide that all around the areas you shaved it's an astringent it will seal off any small nicks or reapers if you got any but we did not just a nice cool comfortable finish to the shave we cap it set it off to the side and let that soak in for about 30 seconds and then rinse it off pat the face dry it really feels cold now we go with our giant bottle of purasso menthol eucalyptus as well it's got a little diverter cap so it won't all come flying out just get a little bit in the palm work that in activate the ingredients flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip flip Shave provided by this Parker 26C open comb razor. If you want to pick up one of these razors or any of these other items just click down below the video where it says more or show more. You can grab them right there or go to ShaveNation.com enter what you need in the search box it'll pop right up. Please like, comment, subscribe, share my videos with your friends over 800 videos shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy, have a great shave, have a great day. And I'm hoping this updated version is a little bit better than the previous one from 2014. Let me know down below. Alright I'm out, see you next time. Happy St. Patrick's Day. Aaron Gobra or you know what we used to say in eighth grade, Aaron Gobra-less. Have a good one. Uh oh, looks like I have a four o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave, have a great day.