 gikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikalikal medium or aggressive and with this beard growth I'm definitely going with the aggressive which is right here. It only comes in this one color. The other razors come in different colors, but the aggressive only comes in this it's kind of a gunmetal blue-gray. I really like the color of it and as I said also includes a five pack of the Arcade blades and a nice little case that comes in as well. Recyclable. Let's disassemble this razor. It's a three-piece razor. What I want to show you is this is how you can tell if you have a mild, medium or aggressive. Of course this color is always going to be aggressive, for now anyway unless they change it. But if you look on the inside of the bar you can see there are three pluses right there. Three pluses, that means it's aggressive. If you see two pluses on your razor, that's medium. If you see one plus, that's mild. Let's pop in an RK blade. They come wrapped in one layer of paper with a little bit of glue. Just on the paper itself. Let's see. Now it doesn't seem like there's any on the blade so it comes out very easily. Here it is, RK, what do we got? RK stainless, specifically designed for the Henson AL-13 which is what we're using. And these are numbered. One, two on one side and three, four on the other side. So it's one, two and three, four on this side. If you're a blade flipper you can keep track of it that way. Let's pop it in. Right over the post and those two small rails. That will help lock it in place. This can only go one way. You don't want the silver ring on the inside. You want it on the outside. Because that ring is made of a different material which is stronger and scratch proof. So when you insert the handle and tighten it all the way down, you're not going to scratch the finish of your razor. So good thinking on Henson's part. Check the reveal. It's perfect on both sides. And you can also see there is no blade overhang on this razor. Nothing whatsoever. The blade is completely tucked away on the outside edges. Again, let's see if this triple plus aggressive Henson AL-13 is up for this one of my heavier beard growth days. I've let this go for a few days. So let's see what we can do here. By the way, I'll read this to you what the Henson Shaving Cream says. It says, Apply a small amount of cream to your wet skin. Use a brush or fingers to lather the cream evenly over the area to be shaved. Shave and rinse thoroughly with water. What that means is you can use this without a brush. Just massage it into your wet face. And then go ahead and get your shave on. Or you can squirt it into a bowl or other vessel. And then mix it up with a brush. I think we'll try that. I've got my Shave Nation bowl right here. This is the Proline White Bowl. It's got the lather spot at the bottom. And let's see. For brushes I'm going to go with the T3 today. Simpsons T3 Trafalgar Shaving Brush. Nice synthetic brush. Really soft knot. Feels really good on the skin. Not too floppy. Got a good backbone. So we're just going to take some of the shaving cream. We're going to fill up that lather spot down at the bottom. Just like that. I'm going to dump the brush into our Scully Cup like that. And just let that soak for just a couple seconds. Doesn't take long with the synthetic brush. It does absorb. It is holding. You can feel it gets much heavier when you drop it in the water. We're going to shake out a good majority of that water. And go right into the bowl. See if we can mix the lather. Let's see how this Henson shaving cream does with a brush. Got the lather coming up around the edges. Just scoop that back in. And push it down to the bottom. The friction of the bristles across the lather spot. Will create lather very quickly. You can see. Look at. Very quickly. Nice amount of lather right here. Excellent. Look at that. 15-20 seconds. More than enough lather for some of the other. More than enough lather for several passes. So. A Henson shaving cream and a brush. That's a win for sure. Look at all those. Mounds of lather right there. Alright. I'm going to set the brush down. Warm up my face. We'll get right to the shave. The beard is nice and warm. We'll grab our brush and our bowl. And our copious amounts of lather. Right there. And lather up. Starting on the right. Not much of a scent. Really no scent at all on the shaving cream. But it did lather up. Very quickly and easily. So just dab it on. Swirl it. Paint it. Paint it. Set the brush down. Swipe the lips. Swipe the neck. Clear the runway so we can see our sideburns. And then we're going to get the sideburns. And then we're going to get the sideburns. And then we're going to get the sideburns. Figure 8. Smooth everything out. Set the brush down. Swipe the lips. Swipe the neck. Clear the runway so we can see our sideburns. Here we go. Henson Ale 13. Aggressive. With the matching color shaving cream. Under the hot water let's temper the razor. And then we're going to get the sideburns. And then we're going to get the sideburns. And then we're going to get the sideburns. Clear the runway so we can see our sideburns. Clear the runway so we can see our sideburns. Here we go. Henson Ale 13. Aggressive. With the matching color shaving cream. Shaving cream tube matches the aggressive razor pretty well. Under the hot water let's temper the razor. Now we'll start on the right side. Cut that sideburn. See how it works in this heavier beard growth. Taking it off nicely. This razor is pretty light so I'm just applying a little bit of pressure on the skin. One side is filled. Flip it over. Work your way down. This is extra heavy beard growth today so it is taking a little bit longer. A couple more strokes. Both sides are filled. Rinse that. Now let's cut the left side. Cut that sideburn. Work your way down. Shorter strokes on heavy beard growth. Now let's cut that sideburn. Now let's cut that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. Kick that sideburn. On mild beard growth you can take longer strokes. Rinse. Lots of stubble going down the drain. Okay continue on down the neckline. Other side. Very good. Rinse. Underneath the nose, the upper lip. Scoops very easily under because of the profile of this head. Very easy to get in there. Excellent. First pass complete. Rinse. Just a slight face rinse. You can leave that residual cream on. Keep it nice and slick. Grab your bowl and brush. Re-lather for a second pass. Set the brush down. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runways again. Set the brush down. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runways again. Okay the first pass was with the grain north to south. Now we'll go across. Again just a little bit of pressure to keep the blade on the skin. Backhand. I'm getting a little bit of audible feedback too. I could hear that stubble being removed. Against the grain on the neck. Rinse. Now right across under the nose. Start with the corner under the nose. And then lay it flat. Clean out that upper lip. Same thing on the other side. Clean up around the lips. Feel around. All nice and smooth. Okay rinse. Another slight face rinse. Now what we'll do. Take our brush bowl one more time. And just we're gonna hit the side of the cheeks. We're gonna make those baby smooth. Just take your razor. What you want to do is just skim the skin. You can see it's very intuitive. This angle. The way that comes down. That's the angle you want to have it on your skin. So just apply that angle directly on your skin. That way. Like here you're scraping. Here it's not doing anything. But when you lay it perfectly on the skin you can see that angle right there. Lining up with the skin. Right there. That's where you want to be. This gets you baby smooth. Right here. Other side. Stretch the skin with your opposite thumb. Very good. That's nice. Okay rinse. The razor rinses out very easily. The way it's designed. The lather comes right out. A couple seconds. It's clean. Now a cold water rinse to the face. Alright. The cold water feels really good against the freshly shaved skin. Very nice. We'll pat the face dry. We'll go with some Parasso. This is the sandalwood version. It's got the red writing on the bottle. A little bit in the fingertips. About that much. Massage that directly into the skin. You can hit the forehead too. If you break out a little bit. You can go with some Parasso. This is the sandalwood version. It's got the red writing on the bottle. A little bit in the fingertips. About that much. Massage that directly into the skin. You can hit the forehead too. If you break out on your forehead. Then refrain from applying it to the forehead. Check it out. Excellent shave provided. Cheeks, upper lip, chin, neck. Everything is baby smooth. A great shave provided by the Henson AL13 aggressive. With the Henson Protect Shave Cream. A match made in heaven. I see a number 2 on here. Which leads me to believe that possibly they'll be coming out with a number 1. Which I guess would be a pre-shave. And then maybe a number 3 after that. Which would be some sort of an aftershave. Just my inkling. My thought. So I could be right. I could be wrong. Maybe Henson wants to jump in and comment on forthcoming items. But anyway. Excellent shave provided by this AL13 aggressive. This will be my take on it. As far as the aggression rating goes. This razor I would give it a 6 to 7. On a scale of 1 to 10. I would say the Henson Mild I'd give it a rating of 2 to 3. And then the medium would be 4 to 5. And then this is 6 to 7. So I did have extra heavy beard growth today. With lighter beard growth it would have mowed through much quicker. And I will say. If you want to kick this razor up a notch and make it more aggressive. Then you'd want to switch to a feather blade. Right here. That would kick it up a notch. Make it a little bit more aggressive. That's it for today. Please like. Comment. Subscribe. Share my videos with your friends. Over 800 videos. Shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Uh oh. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Have a great day.