 greg moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment moment this. Let's open it and have a look. This is one of those paper chippy cardboard type recyclable containers. It's got a little sleeve on the inside that can pull out. The razor sits inside like that in transit and then you just pull it out like so. It does come with one Merkur blade which I will not be using. No offense but I just don't have great luck with the Merkur blades. I'm gonna be going with a feather blade today. You know how they say blades are subjective. They can work well for one person and then not so well for another. That's me with the Merkur blades. Hit or miss. Like it's just not consistent. So for this razor I'm gonna go with a feather blade. Let's take a look at the razor. It's a beautiful looking razor. Here's a spin. You can see the handle. It's natural material. African cow horn. So every one of these razors will be unique. No two will be alike because of the nature of the natural material. We'll start at the top. Here's the chrome head. It's chrome plated brass. There's a look at it. And it's a flat bar safety razor. You have your chrome banding at the top with African horn in the middle and then chrome banding at the bottom. No logo on the bottom. Here's the underside. Let's disassemble. It's a three-piece razor. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven turns to remove the handle. And then we've got top cap. Here's the inside of the top cap. Here's the safety bar. Both sides. It does say Merkur made in Germany. Up there on the inside of the top cap. Here's my feather blade. Removing it from the paper. That's what it looks like. Just place that directly over the threaded post. And the two pins like so. Reinstall the bar. And then the handle. Let's check the reveal. Looks perfect to me on both sides. You can see that. It's perfectly even on both sides. Even distribution on both sides. As far as overhang, there's about 1 16th of an inch. Very minimal on both sides of the blade. Not much at all. Let's open another one so I can show you how the handle material may differ. So here's the first one I showed you. And here's the second one. You can see quite a difference between the two. One is darker. One is lighter. Here's a spin on this one just so you can see the handle. And here's this one. As you can see they can and will differ in the handle material. I'll be shaving with this one today. And I've got a shaving cream sample in this little jar. As I showed in a previous video, we sell these little jars with shaving cream and soap samples. So you can test out various scents and see how they please your olfactory system and how they perform while shaving. I will use one of these. I'm going to take my Shave Nation ceramic bowl under the hot water. Just warm it up. Fill up my brush soaking cup. Drop the brush in there. This is the Paraso Omega Boar Brush. Dropping that right in there. And then I'll pour out the water from the bowl. Remove the brush from the water. The Boar Brush doesn't need to soak that long. Give it a couple shakes. Get rid of that water. And just scoop a little bit. Shave Nation Scraper Spoon. Just scoop a little bit. That much. Out of the sample jar. And I'll just scrape it on the side of the bowl like so. And then I'll just push it down with my brush and lather up. So just push it down to the bottom. And then start lathering. Commence to lathering. Press the bristles into the lather spot down at the bottom of the bowl. And then as the cream comes up around the sides. Just scoop that right back in. And push it down toward the bottom again. Keep swirling. And you'll see the lather builds up. Just keep up that process. As it comes to the top. Just When the cream comes to the top. Just push it back to the bottom. Add a little bit of water. Keep swirling. Until you reach your desired consistency. I've got plenty of lather for several passes right there. You can see I've got a couple days beard growth. I'll warm up my face. We'll get right to the shave. Alright my face is nice and warm. Dry off the fingers real quick. Let's lather up. Grab our brush in our bowl. And start at the right side. Work your way over. You can dab it. You can paint it. You can swirl it. Just cover all the areas you intend to shave. And then figure eight. Smooth everything out. Set the brush down. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runways. So you can see the sideburns. I'm going to leave my hands wet. This African horn. You think it would be super slippery. But just with wet fingers. It's still easy to hold. And it's long enough to drop in the palm. Let me give you the specs on the razor. The razor weighs in at 2.25 ounces. Or 64 grams. Overall length from top to bottom. Is 4.1 inches. Or 105 millimeters. Quick specs. The handle is African cowhorn. The head. Chrome plated brass. It's a flat bar razor. Made in Solunium, Germany. Shave Nation. Shave Nation item number. SN327. Enter that in the search box. If you want to pick it up. SN327. Warm it under the hot water. Let's do it. Let's get our shave on. Start on the right side. Cut that sideburn. Work your way down. Just the weight of the razor. I'm applying a little bit of pressure. Just to keep it in contact. Flip it. One side filled. Both sides are filled. Rinse that. Rinse it out very easily. A couple seconds. Start on the left side. Cut that sideburn. Work your way down. moment. Now upper lip. Very nice. Rinse that. Now just a slight face rinse. Leave that residual cream on there. Grab your brush and bowl. Still plenty of lather for another pass or more. A lighter coating this time. Because the bulk of the beard has already been removed. Set the brush down. Swipe. Swipe the neck. Clear the runways again. First pass was with the grain north to south. Now we'll go across the grain. Backhand. Cleft. The flatter you can make the surface, the better your shave will be. You have a flat blade on flat skin, it's going to work much better. It will give you a much better result. Now against the grain on the neck. Rinse. Under the nose, just start with the corner. Directly under. And clean out those hairs that are close to the philtrum or the lower side of the nose. Then go flat. Same thing on the other side. Side direction. Corner. Flat. Little clean up. Now a cold water rinse to the face. Feels really nice. The shaving cream, the sample is Paraso menthol and eucalyptus. It's very tingly and once you apply the cold water after the shave, it's very refreshing. A great wake up call in the morning. Now you'll take your Shave Nation Wide Stick Allen Block. Remove the cap. Under the cold water. Just glide that all around the areas you shaved. Tighten the skin. Seal off any nicks or weepers. But you don't see any nicks or weepers do you? We didn't get any. Get a nice close comfortable shave. Recap that. Set it off to the side. Let that soak in for about 30 seconds. And then rinse it off. Pat the face dry. Let's apply some aftershave. Paraso menthol and eucalyptus balm. Matching up with the shaving cream. Just about that much in the palm. Massage that together. Right to the skin. Let's have a look. Cheeks. Chin. Upper lip. Neck. Everything baby smooth. Excellent shave provided by this Mercure 27C 3-piece flat bar safety razor. Very comfortable. Long enough to drop in the palm. Very nice looking. Unique. I will say it's a bit pricey. I think African cow horn must be pretty expensive. Because this razor is over 100 US. It's about 109 I believe on the website right now. So if you want to pick one of these up. Or any of these other items. Just click down below the video. Where it says more. Or show more. You can grab them right there. Or go to ShaveNation.com. Enter what you need in the search box. It'll pop right up. So you enter 27C. It'll pop right up. Please like. Comment. Subscribe. Share my videos with your friends. Over 800 videos. Shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Uh oh. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day.