 Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef Ef razor on the website we'll have a review after this video. I think this might be a new razor I'm not 100% sure I've never seen it before and we just got these so the name of the razor is the Merkur 49C. Here's the box that it comes in. Let's open it up and have a look. This is the paper chipboard type recyclable carton you pull out the sleeve inside is one Merkur blade hiding inside there you can see it. Just remove this from the sleeve. It's a great looking razor I like the handle this handle is actually ebony wood it's natural material meaning that no two razors will be alike. This wood will differ and vary because of the nature of the material that it's made from. Natural material no two will be the same. Let's start at the top it's chrome plated brass a flat bar head there's the underside and you have chrome banding right here and then you have this beautiful ebony wood handle no logo on the bottom. Ebony wood all the way down to the bottom. I thought it might have another band at the bottom but does not. Just all the way through ebony wood handle. Let's disassemble one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve turns to disassemble. Here's a look at the underside of the top cap. Here's a look at the safety bar both sides of it. I'm going to perform a shave with this razor and the blade I'll use today persona platinum persona red they're called. And these I believe used to be made in Israel. These blades are now made in Mexico. Interestingly enough that little symbol right there ASR is American safety razor but these blades are made in Mexico. Here's what the blade looks like in the paper and here's what it looks like out of the paper. It says on here persona platinum chrome exactly the same on both sides with a little number on the side here looks like CD one one right there in the corner but it is persona platinum chrome. That's the blade we'll use. Let's pop that right over the threaded post and the two pins like so. Reinstall the safety bar. Reinstall the handle. This razor is long enough to drop in the palm. Just fits in the palm so you could spin while shaving making it easier to shave with. Let's see what they have to say about it. I'll read this to you. The Merkur 49C three-piece safety razor features an ebony wood handle and gleaming chrome plated accents. The handle is made of black ebony wood with an oil finish providing a sophisticated look and a comfortable grip. Excellent for novice and veteran shavers alike. Each handle is unique so color and grain may vary. Includes one Merkur DE blade in the box. The Merkur 49C is the first safety razor in the series to feature an ebony wood handle. This premium material known for its robustness and natural beauty not only gives the razor a luxurious appearance but also offers a secure and comfortable grip during shaving. The oil finish of the wood protects the material and enhances its grain making it a distinctive accessory for the bathroom. The quick specs handle ebony wood head chrome plated brass flat bar double-edged shaving head made in Solingen, Germany. The weight 2.15 ounces or 59 grams overall length from top to bottom 4.1 inches or 105 millimeters. If you want to pick the razor up just go to ShaveNation.com enter 49C in the search box it'll pop right up. Here it is with the blade installed you can see the reveal looks great on both sides nice and even. As far as overhang this razor has no overhang no overhang on the outside edges. A lot of their other razors do but this one does not. Maybe a new feature they just decided to go with. I'm going to take my Shave Nation bowl under the hot water just warm it up a little bit. It is metal so it will retain some heat to help keep your shaving cream warm during your shave. I'm going to use Tob's Sandalwood one of my all-time favorite shaving creams right here. Remove the cap. Scoop a little bit out with the Shave Nation spoon right there. About that much. Drop it right into the bowl. Like so. The brush Simpsons Trafalgar T3 shaving brush right here. Sovereign synthetic fiber handmade. Just going to soak it under the hot water real quick. Synthetic you don't need to soak it very long. Give it a few shakes. And just go right in the bowl. Push that shaving cream down to the bottom. Begin lathering. Doesn't take very long at all. If you're looking for a good brush. A good, especially a good synthetic brush. Do not sleep on these synthetic Trafalgar T1 T2 T3. T1 is the smallest. T2 is medium. T3 is the largest. But they will mix up lather quickly. They're very soft and comfortable. They have a strong backbone. They don't flop over. Excellent shaving brushes for the reasonable price. Look at all that lathering. Like 15-20 seconds. I'll warm up my face. We'll get right to the shave. Alright my face is good and warm as you can see. Okay here we go. We got our copious amounts of lather. Look at that. Nice little ice cream cone right there. I think that'll be a good picture right? Alright. Alright here we go. Lather up. Starting on the right. Work your way over. I love the scent of this sandalwood. Tob's Sandalwood. Been using it for many years. By many I mean more than 15 years. On the figure eight. Smooth everything out. This is the zen moment of the shave right here. Love it. Set the brush down. Swipe. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runways. Gonna leave the fingers wet. And I even soak this under the hot water. Totally soaked under the hot water. So interestingly enough. I saw a little bit of brown come off. Down the drain. So maybe the initial coating. Comes off and then it stopped. No more brown coming off. Or maybe I imagine that. I don't see any brown on my fingers. So okay. Tempered the razor under the hot water. You can see. You can really grip. This is. I guess this wood when it gets wet. It makes it even easier to grip. Alright let's do it. Right side. Work your way down. One side filled. Flip it over. One side filled. Flip it over. Very nice. Both sides filled. Rinse. Left side. Left side. Cut the sideburn. If you can imagine the angle. It's where the top cap. The safety bar. And the blade. All come together. That's how you want to drop it on your skin. Place it on your skin. And use that angle. You can also. Get feedback by the audible. The noise created. And the feeling. You'll know when it's cutting. And when it's not. Angle round. Angle right. You can hear the difference. Rinse. Under the nose. Just scoop right under. Rinse. Just a quick face rinse. You still have residual. Shaving cream. On the skin. And leave it on there. Now let's re-lather for a second pass. Look at that. Beautiful lather. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runways again. First pass was with the grain. North to south. Now we're going to go across the grain. And you just. Apply just enough pressure. To keep that blade in contact with the skin. Again. Listen to your audible feedback. You can hear. The beard being removed. Cleft. Rinse. Now against the grain and the neck. Very good. Rinse. Upper lip. Start with the corner. Clean out the hairs directly under the nose. And then lay it flat. Same thing the other side. Little clean up. Rinse. Feel around. Oh. Very smooth. Very nice. A cold water rinse to the face. Close off the pores. Seal everything off. Also the cold water. Very refreshing. Part of your shave. Now take your Shave Nationwide Stick Alum Block. Remove the cap. Under the cold water. Just glide that all around the areas you shaved. Recap it. Set that down. Let that soak in for about 30 seconds. And then rinse it off. Another cold water rinse. Feels great. Pat the face dry. I'm going to go with the Tobbs Taylor of Old Bond Street Sandalwood Moisturizing Cream. Remove the cap. A little bit in the fingertips. About that much. Massage that together. Directly into the skin. Same scent. As the Sandalwood. To me actually has a bit of a barbershop scent. If you like the barbershop scented creams. This is. In my mind. One of those. This actually feels like it seals the skin. And provides you with a. Good layer of protection. Taylor of Old Bond Street Sandalwood Moisturizing Cream. Let's take a look. Cheeks. Upper lip. Chin. Neck. Everything baby smooth. Take a final look at the razor. The Mercur 49C Ebony Handle. Three-piece Flat Bar Safety Razor. That's a mouthful. I was super pleasantly surprised by the grip. It seemed like the wetter it got. The more I was able to grip it. So that was pretty amazing. You may not think so with a wooden handle. But whatever this ebony wood is made of. And whatever sealant they put on it. It does grip very very well. The grip is amazingly good. In my opinion. And you can see. Maybe it looks a little different now. It looks a little faded to me. It brings out. I think the water brought out some of the natural grain in the wood. Seems like you can see it a little bit better now. Interesting. What do you think? Comment below. Does it look better before or after the shave? Maybe it will get better and improve even more with every shave. Who knows? Alright. I hope you enjoyed the video. If you want to pick up this razor or any of these other items. Just click below the video where it says more or show more. You can grab it right there. Or go to ShaveNation.com. Enter 49C in the search box. And this baby will pop right up. Please like. Comment. Subscribe. Share my videos with your friends. Over 800 videos. Shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm GeoFatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Uh oh. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day.