! Greetings, friends! I'm Geofatboy for ShaveNation.com. Let's do a quick comparison between the old Mercuror 34C and the new Inox stainless steel 34 version. It's the one that comes in the kit with the leather case. Here's the old one. Here's the new one. You can see they are the same size, no size difference, but there are other differences. This one is made of full-on stainless steel. This one is not. The old one has the logo inscribed around the bottom, which is a little bit difficult to see. The new one has the logo in black, which is very easy to see. Leather inscribed in there. Both have holes in the bottom. Both have similar knurling on the handle. This original 34C I've had for about 20 years. I can honestly say that the knurling on this handle is grippier, more pronounced than the stainless steel. This is a little bit slipperier. This one is full-on stainless steel, so this will probably last a lifetime. Let's unscrew it. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. It comes apart. Let's unscrew the new one. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, which is funny because, as you'll soon see, look at the difference in the top gaps. Long threaded post, short threaded post, but two round dots to secure the blade, two horizontal bars to secure the blade on the new one. It also has marquere engraved into the outside of the top cap. Let me show you the base plate or safety bar. Now you can see a big difference here. Different leather channels, more slots. This one's open all the way across. Here's the underside. Let's drop a blade in over that long threaded post and these two short posts or pins. Drop it down into the handle. Very simple. It drops right down. Tighten it up. Easy. Let's install a blade on the Inox version over the short post over the two horizontal bars down into the razor. Now this is a little bit tedious. You need to hold this and push down at the same time and turn the dial. It's a little tricky until it catches and then you may have to give it a little wiggle so it lands properly on those horizontal bars. But once it's there it locks down completely and securely. The other difference on the original you've got about 1 1 1⁄16 of an inch of blade overhang. You can see it right there and right there. On this new version no blade overhang whatsoever. So no worries about clipping the underside of your nose or your earlobe anything like that while you're shaving. I have shaved with this razor many times probably hundreds of times and this razor a few times and I will say this razor is more aggressive shaving. This standard version it's a mild shaving razor 3 4 on a 1 to 10 aggression scale. This one I give it about a 6 on the aggression scale. I put this in the category of a Mula Roca or an Edwin Jagger 316 making it more aggressive than this original razor for sure. And comes with a really cool leather case and the gift box with a 10 pack of Merecore blades. If you want to pick up this original or the new Inox stainless steel version just click under the video where it says more or show more you can grab it right there or go to ShaveNation.com enter 34C or 34 Inox in the search box INOX it'll pop right up. Please like comment subscribe share my videos with your friends over 900 videos shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy have a great shave have a great day. Uh oh looks like I have a four o'clock shadow gotta go to ShaveNation.com have a great shave have a great day.