 Greetings, friends. I'm Geofatboy from Shadenation.com. I'm wearing this shirt because it's a patriotic USA American shirt. Goes along with this razor, which is made in the USA. Proof, single blade. This is the Proof Select Aluminum Single Edge Safety Razor. Comes with this beautiful leather case and a stand to support it. Let's unbox it, or I should say unwrap it, unfold it, untie it. Undo that little bow. Here's what it looks like, stowed away, and it's genuine leather case. You've got the razor, you've got the stand, which is attached to this Proof card, a Proof logo card. In this slot, there are five double-edged razor blades folded in half. Since you're only using half, that gives you 10 blades that will go into this razor. Here's the stand. All you do is remove this stand. It's got a little sticky back, and you can stick it to anything smooth, your mirror, medicine cabinet, ceramic tile, whatever. And then the razor just fits perfectly in there and locks in place. It actually wraps around these open slots on the razor and holds it very well. Very sturdy. You can see this razor has a pivoting head, and it's got a magnetic top cap. Just pull this off, like so. You can see those two neodymium magnets right there. Drop a half blade in and get your shave on. The razor is made of anodized aluminum, and it has made in Montana, USA, on one side. On the other side, Proof. This razor was formerly called the Whiskey razor, but it is now known as the Select razor. You can see that pivoting head. Very comfortable to shave with as it glides down the skin and the head pivots, and you're only using a single-edge blade, so there's no pulling or tugging. It slices the beard or the whisker off smooth at the surface of the skin. Excellent shave provided by this razor. I would use it right now, but I've already gotten my shave on today. So this will be another point in time I'll shave with this razor for you. But I just wanted to show you how great it looks with this leather case. On the case, Proof, single blade, right there. This is really a nice case, too soft. Got that nice leather smell to it, and it's a great place to store your razor and keep it safe. The razor is CNC machined aluminum. It's got a compact size, a pivoting head, fast-change blade system, irritation-free shaving, genuine leather case, USA made, and built to last. When you buy it at Shave Nation, it includes the razor, the leather case, the stand, and 10 single-edge blades. Pivoting head, magnet secured cap, flow-through design, single-blade design, a ridged cap right there that eliminates friction against the skin. Glides smooth. If you want to pick up one of these razors, just click down below the video where it says more, or show more, you can grab it right there, or go to ShaveNation.com, enter Proof, Select in the search box, it'll pop right up. Please like, comment, subscribe, share my videos with your friends over 900 videos, shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day.