 one. Merkur 34C HD. Made in Solingen, Germany. The specs on this razor it weighs in at 2.7 ounces or 78 grams and the overall length from top to bottom is 3.25 inches or 82 millimeters. I'll tell you right now I've shaved with this razor a million times. The aggressiveness rating is fantastic for everyday shaving. I'm gonna give it like a four to five on aggressiveness making it very reliable and durable and excellent for everyday shaving. Whether you have lighter beard growth, heavier beard growth like I do, this will take it off no problem. The only beef I have with this razor I love everything about it. The feel, the fit, the finish, the solidness of it. The only thing the handle is a little bit too small. I'd like to see a little bit longer but if you want something longer then you would go with the 38C which has a barber pole handle and it is a bit longer more substantial feeling in the hand. But this is a fantastic razor and this is where a lot of gents looking to get started with safety razor shaving this is how they go about it. This razor first and then you can get a few others after that if you wish. So today's shave I'm gonna use the new Shave Nation ProLine bowl. This is made out of metal. It's an indestructible. You can drop it. It's not going to break. So you buy one bowl have it for a lifetime. Oh it has the lather spot down at the bottom right there. Since I'm using the white bowl I'll use a colored shaving cream which would be the Tobbs Lavender shaving cream. As you can see it will show up inside the bowl. If I use the white shaving cream you'd be looking at it and saying where's the shaving cream? It's hard to see it. I didn't even notice the fact that my shirt matches the shaving cream so that's a win right there. Alright let's see we're gonna warm up this bowl under the hot water. It's metal so it will retain some heat. By the way this razor FYI I'll disassemble one two three four five six. It takes about five or six spins to disassemble it. I've already got a blade in here. I've shaved with this blade two times already. So this is a feather blade and you can get a lot of shaves out of a feather blade which I'll show you right now. Long lasting, durable, sharp. That's what the package looks like. The 10 pack right there. Feather blade. And I'll use this Parasso Omega shaving brush today. Right here. This is a boar brush. Very stiff. Great for solid soaps, thicker soaps and shaving creams. Here we go. Pour out the water. Soak this brush under the hot water. Just saturate it. Remove the cap from the Tob's lavender. I'm gonna use my Shave Nation scoop spoon right here and just take out about that much. Drop it down right on the side and just push it down to the bottom like so. Just like that. Now the brush under the hot water. This brush will retain some moisture because it's natural hair. It's boar hair. We'll go right in here. I can tell right now I think I need a little more water on the brush. So added that. Just go right into here into the bottom of the bowl and just start swirling. And it starts turning white but it does still have a purple tinge to it. So you can kind of make out the contrast of the shaving cream against the backdrop of the bowl. Look at 10-15 seconds. You just push that brush into the lather spot and that friction creates lather super fast. Look at that. Amazing. That's why these bowls are so great. Easy to mix lather. Whether you're using shaving soap, cream, solid, soft, whatever. It gets the job done. Plenty of lather for several passes. I'll warm up my face. We'll get right to the shave. When you have heavier beard growth like I do today, you want to get all the help you can, right? We're going to use this Edwin Jagger Hydrating Pre-Shave Lotion. Good stuff. Pop the cap. A little bit in the fingertips. Right there. Massage that together and then directly into the skin. This is a pre-shave. By applying this to the beard prior to your shaving cream, this will soften the beard, help elevate it, moisturize it, hydrate it. Prepare for the shave ahead. Just massage that into all the areas you intend to shave. All right. Here we go. Brush, bowl, copious amounts of lather right there. Apply the lather directly over the shaving cream. You can paint it like that. Dab it. Swirl it. Figure eight. Smooth everything out. Set the brush down. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runways so we can see our sideburns. Temper the razor under the hot water. Wet fingers and all, no problem. Just start on the right, cut that sideburn. Oh yeah. The blade still has good life left in it. Just let the weight of the razor do the work. Flip it when one side becomes filled. I can just drop it in my palm slightly. Rinse. Tons of stubble going down the drain. It rinses out very easily. Now cut the sideburn on the other side. Work your way down. The pre-shave does help a lot. The pre-shave does help a lot. With heavier hair growth. with heavier beard growth. Cleft. Rinse. Look at all that stubble. This pre-shave actually has a cooling effect on the skin. It feels good. Alright, continue on down the neckline. Rinse. Upper lip, scoop directly under the nose. Alright, very nice. First pass complete. Rinse. Just a quick face rinse. Now you could apply another coat of hydrating pre-shave before the second pass, but it's not necessary. I can tell that I'm pretty smooth right now. So I'm just going to go with another coating of shaving cream. As you can see, plenty of shaving cream left for several passes. This goes on very cool now because of the hydrating pre-shave lotion. Figure 8. Smooth everything out. Set the brush down. Swipe. Swipe. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runways again. Clear the runways again. Now we'll go across the grain. The first pass was north to south with the grain. We'll go across now. back end. rinse. against the grain on the neck. Stretching the skin just by tilting your head upward. You want to create a flat surface for the razor to glide across. to glide across. across. directly under the nose. Start with the tip, the corner, on an angle. clear out the area under the nose. Then lay it flat. Same thing in the opposite direction. The corner. Then flat. Little clean up. Rinse. Now a cold water rinse. Feels great. Feels nice and cool with that cold water. Now take your Shave Nation Wide Stick Allen Block. Remove the cap. Under the cold water. Just glide that all around all the areas you just shaved. This is an astringent. This is an astringent. It will seal off any small nicks or reapers if you got any. Cap it off. Set it down. Let that soak in for about 30 seconds. And then rinse it off. Pat the face dry. We got Parasso Sandalwood. The one with the red writing on it. Sandalwood. Lavender. Not a bad follow up. Little bit in the fingertips like so. Massage that together. Directly into the skin. Also cooling and refreshing. Very calming to the skin. It's winter time here. It's about 13 degrees today. So it's good to apply a balm to your skin. The skin will give you some protection throughout the day. I do the forehead too. If your forehead breaks out from that then refrain from doing that. Just stay with the cheeks. All the other areas. Ears too. Why not? Keep them moisturized. Alright, there you go. We went from pretty heavy 2 or 3 day beard growth. To baby smooth. Cheeks. Mustache area. Chin. Neck. Excellent shave. Provided by. The most popular safety razor. According to. Geofatboy and ChatGPD. If you want to pick one of these up. Just click down below the video where it says more. Or show more. You can grab them right there. Or go to ShaveNation.com. Enter whatever you need. Like 34C in the search box. And it'll pop right up. Please like. Comment. Subscribe. Share my videos with your friends. Over 800 videos. Shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Have a great day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.