 greeree, as a result of the cold weather. I used to have to run around look for a giant air compressor, try to find a gas station that had air, try to get the machine to work. Good times. Until I found this. This is the EAFC car air pump. Let's check what's in the box. Here's the unit. Nice and compact. About as big as my hand. Comes with a carrying bag. It comes with a 12 volt adapter. Plug it into your cigarette lighter or your car's power supply. This cord is over nine feet long so it will reach all of your tires. No problem. Also includes a USB-C charging cable right here and various attachments for air mattresses, pool toys, and a spare fuse. It even comes with that little needle for your basketballs and other sports balls. It's a real no-brainer. Just take the attachment hose with the orange. Match it up to the orange on the unit. Screw that in. Give it a couple turns till it's tight. Now you're good to go. The center button. Hold that down. That turns it on. You can see on. Choose your settings whether it be basketball, bicycle, motorcycle, automobile. Choose your desired setting. As far as the pounds per square inch. It's at 36. My vehicle takes 42. I'm going to run it up to 42 right there and then press the button. It'll increase the pressure up to 42 pounds and shut off automatically. You also have a USB-A port right here where you can plug in a cable to charge your cell phone or other electronic device. It's also got an onboard flashlight so if you're stranded in the darkness you can turn the light on and this will light up the area so you can inflate your tires safely and easily. Just press the button once. Solid light. Press it again. Flashing light in case of emergency. To increase the pressure just press the plus button up or down. To decrease pressure press the minus button. Just like that. Very simple. This will inflate car tires, motorcycle tires, inflatable toys, sports balls, etc. It includes an adapter for all of those items. Set it to your desired pressure. It shuts off automatically when it reaches that setting. This will charge four tires from zero to 36 pounds on one charge. You can charge this with the included USB cable or run it directly from your vehicle's 12 volt power supply or cigarette lighter outlet. The 12 volt cord is over nine feet long so it will reach all four of your tires no problem. You can switch between PSI, KPA, bar and KG, CM. It also has the onboard light with different modes assisting you in dark conditions. The USB-A outlet can charge your phone or other electronic devices. It's very compact. It stores easily in your vehicle whether it be ATV, golf cart, automobile, whatever. I use this to inflate all four of my tires. My pressure was all over the place. I had 36, 37, 38, 40. I got them all exactly 42 pounds and it took less than 10 minutes. Quick, easy, compact. You can't beat it. Click in the comments for a link to the product and my personal code which will give you a substantial discount.