 g Greetings friends, I'm Geofatboy for ShaveNation.com. I'm going to do an unboxing of a product, by the way, pardon my scruff, I want to use this product when I shave, but I don't want to get it all dirty before I show it to you. So here we go. We just received this product, it looks very cool, it's the Leaf, Metal and Silicone Shave Bowl and Brush. Let's unbox it. Nice cardboard packaging, it certainly is recyclable. Here's what it looks like, stowed in the box. Let's pull out the bowl, let's pull out the brush as well. I'll show you the brush real quick. Synthetic fibers, it's got a little bit of flex to it, not super stiff, just nice and soft. It will flop over just a little bit when you use it. It's got chrome up on top, and then a very thick silicone handle, with the leaf logo emblazoned right there. And that's engraved into the silicone. Very easy to grip this brush. The very unique feature about this, it's hollow inside. That is a water reservoir that you fill with water, not once but twice, pour it into the bowl, and that gives you the exact amount of water for your shave. Pretty amazing, right? Someone put some thought into it. Now let's check the bowl. The bowl is silicone on the outside for super grip. Even with soapy or shaving cream laden fingers, you can grip this no problem. It has the Leaf logo engraved as well. Look at the inside. Stainless steel. These are aeration fins, so that when you swirl your brush in there, that will create friction and build lather quicker. So you can pop your leaf shave puck right into there. You press fit it, and then two servings of water from the brush reservoir. Dump it into the bowl. Swirl. Lather up. Get your shave on. If you decide you want to remove the puck, this is silicone on the bottom. All you do is push it up. You can see that. You can see my thumb pushing through there. You can pop the puck out very easily. So it's a multi-use bowl. Hard soaps, creams, whatever you want to do. We have the soaps as well. This is fragrance free. Ivory colored. Two pucks in the box. And fig. Which, if I don't say so myself, smells fantastic. Two pucks in the box there as well. Let me show you how to do it. All you do is take the puck, insert it, press fit it into that little spot down at the bottom. Gets locked in place. Doesn't go anywhere. The more you use it, the more it will get locked in place. Use it till it runs out. Or if you want to remove your soap and use your favorite shaving cream, no problem. Pop it off from the bottom. Comes right out. Just press the flexible silicone at the bottom. It pops right out. The aeration grooves are visible. So you just swirl it like that. The soap puck is pressed fit into the bowl. You can see the aeration fins around it. That will help you generate vast amounts of lather. If you want to pick up one of these sets in black or green, go to ShaveNation.com. Enter leaf bowl in the search box. It'll pop right up. Uh oh. Looks like I have a four o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shape. Have a great day.