 with to curate the reviews meaning you can look at it and approve it if you want it to be published or not. I never edit reviews like if you put a review on the website I'll never change anything. I don't even think we have the ability to do that. I would not do that. I want your opinion on this one and I want you to tell me whether you think we should publish it or not. Because the reason we curate the reviews is that there could be some competitor or some crazy person out there who just has a chip on his shoulder against Shave Nation and he just you know can go and post anything about anything and it goes out there and you see it and you think oh this is true. Well in fact maybe this never even happened. Kind of like AI now. You read something or you see a video where you see pictures and you're like wow is that even real or is that fake? Because you can't tell if it's fictitious or if it's real anymore. AI is so good. Sidebar. I mean let's get back to the topic at hand. I'm gonna read this to you. Tell me if you think that we should be publishing something like this. The person's name is Nick. So Nick left a one-star review. That's one out of five. Five being the best. One being the worst. The lowest you can go is one. You can't go below that. So the title of this review is The Horror The Horror. And he goes on to say I've used it several times and it chews my neck and chin up even with Parasso pre-shave and plenty of water. One side feels like it shaves closer to the skin while the other side rides higher and cuts into the skin. Never should have bought from eBay. About the Rockwell R1 Butterfly Safety Razor Gunmetal or White Chrome. I don't know which one he got because he didn't buy it from us. Otherwise I could look it up and tell you. So do you think that we should be publishing something like this? And it does really to be honest that irritates me that somebody would go and buy something somewhere else. And it's happened before many times. Amazon, eBay, another competitor. And then come to our website and leave a review. A negative review. So normally I curate that and I look and I see he didn't even buy it from us. So I'm not gonna publish that. It just doesn't seem right to me. I really want to know what's your opinion. Should we be publishing every single review that comes through? Even if someone bought something somewhere else and wants to come here to Shave Nation and leave a review? My thoughts? You know my thoughts. I don't even have to say anything. But I just thought I'd run it by all of you because it's always nice to get a second, third, fourth, fifth opinion. So thank you very much for bearing with me and listening to this review. Please like, comment, subscribe, share my videos with your friends. Over 900 videos, shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day.