 gendon, gents, gents, gents, gents, i'm Gio fat boy for shave nation.com one question i get asked quite often is Gio i currently shave with a mercur 34c or a edwin jagger de 89 or a mula r 89 i want to step it up a notch in aggression but i don't want to be as drastic as the mula r 41. right in between that little sweet spot is the mula roca right here beautiful looking razor stainless steel three-piece razor very elegantly superbly designed feels great in the hand great knurling on the handle let's disassemble it's a three-piece razor i'm going to pop a feather blade in there right there here's the blade drop that right in and that's the as you can see i've got a pretty heavy beard growth today so we're going to see how this mows through it there's the blade reveal perfect on both sides all right i've already mixed up a lather in my shave nation artisan bowl i'm going to warm up my face we'll get right to the shave all right my face is nice and warm let's grab that lather excellent lather right here lather up starting on the right going across drive it into the beard soften it hydrate it prepared for the shave ahead figure eight smooth everything out set the brush now swipe swipe swipe clear the runways so we can see the sideburns temper the razor under the hot water wet fingers let's do it find that angle no problem removing that heavier beard growth one side is filled flip it over excellent both sides filled rinse lots of stubble going down the drain other side cut that sideburn more more I think it even has a slightly lower profile on the head so it's easier to get under the nose. Very good. Rinse. Let's re-lather for a second pass. Actually you could feel around right now. If you're smooth enough you could stop. But I'm gonna go a little bit more. One more pass. Get the baby smooth accomplished feeling. Swipe. Swipe. Clear the runways again. Now we'll go across the grain. You could use another blade and tone it down a notch. But in my opinion the feather blade is for me the way to go. In this razor for sure. Cleft. Rinse. Against the grain on the neck. Beautiful. Rinse. Across. Under the nose. Little cleanup. Excellent. Rinse. Cold water. Rinse to the face. Oh it feels nice. Very nice. Take your Shave Nationwide Stick Alum Block. Remove the cap. Under the cold water. Just glide that all around the areas you shaved. Sealing off any small nicks or weepers. Which we have nothing of the sort. We just got baby smooth. Beautiful shave. Recap that. Let it soak in for about 30 seconds. And then rinse it off. A nice cold water rinse. Grab your after shave. A little bit in the fingertips. Directly into the skin. This will give you protection throughout the day. Cooling. Calming. Soothing. What a fantastic shave. Check it out. Cheeks. Chin. Upper lip. Neck. Everything is baby smooth. Beautiful. The Mule Roca. Comes in several different flavors. This is the black. It also comes in a birch bark. Which is like a wood type. Handle. And a couple others. I'll post a picture. You can have a look. Excellent shave. Provided. Feels great in the hand. Long enough to drop in the palm. Just a perfect razor for heavier beard growth. More aggressive shaving. As far as aggression goes. The 34C. Maybe 3-4. Mild. Medium. This one. The Roca. About 6-7. Gives you more aggression. Removes the beard quicker. Easier. Faster. Very comfortable shaving. All in all. A great razor. If you want to pick one of these up. Or any of these other items. Just click down below the video. Where it says more. Or show more. You can grab it right there. Or go to ShaveNation.com. Enter what you need in the search box. It will pop right up. Please like. Comment. Subscribe. Share my videos with your friends. Over 800 videos. Shaving and more. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Uh oh. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Got to go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day.