 gierroelectro, Greetings Gents! I'm Geofatboy for ShaveNation.com. I'm going to read you a comment. It's from James. James says, Hey Geo, love your products and channel. I bought a silver tip chubby Simpsons brush from you recently. I read the instructions on the brush and it says not to go in circular motion but use like paint strokes. Will building up lather in a bowl be using circular motion? This seems to go against the manufacturer's wishes. What do you do? Do I need another brush, less expensive, to work the lather up? I don't want to destroy this very expensive brush. Thanks, James. First off, these are my two chubby brushes that I've been using for many years. Here's a chubby one, super, a chubby two, super as well. The super are the best, doesn't matter. They are fantastic brushes. Do they look skint at all to you? They are not missing any hairs. They're in great shape, right? I think these will go another 20 years or so. And I've had them, I don't know, at least five, maybe ten. I don't even know how many years I've had these. Look at that beautiful thick knot. These are awesome brushes. Anyway, swirling in a bowl. Where are we at? So swirling in a bowl, like so, mixing your lather. I don't think you're going to have any problem whatsoever. I swirl it on my face. I paint it. I dab it. I do everything you can do with it. And I've never had any issues with it. I do the figure eight. Any which way you want to go, I don't think you're going to have any problems with the brush whatsoever. I do know that you should not boil the brush. That's one thing. Simpsons or any other brushes, do not boil them. Not good for the brush. Not good for the glue. So, in my opinion, go ahead, lather up. Enjoy the brush. You paid a lot of money for it. You might as well enjoy it. It would be ridiculous to go and buy a cheaper brush that you could swirl in the bowl and then lather wherever. I don't even know what you would do with it. But just go ahead and lather up with this and enjoy. If you want to pick up any of these Simpsons, the world's finest shaving brushes, just click down below the video where it says More or Show More. You can grab them right there. Or go to ShaveNation.com, enter what you need in the search box. It'll pop right up. Please like, comment, subscribe, share my videos with your friends. Over 700 videos, shaving and more. I think we're coming up on 800. Pretty close. Thank you very much for watching. Visit ShaveNation.com for all your shaving supplies. I'm Geofatboy. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Do real men wear pink? Damn right they do. You want this hoodie? I'll put a link up there. You can check it out. Uh-oh. Looks like I have a 4 o'clock shadow. Gotta go to ShaveNation.com. Have a great shave. Have a great day. Have a great day. Have a great day.