 smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells Or is this like her driving calm? She's super calm because the car can't get any faster than that. She's like, we're on the highway and she's like on someone. As soon as there's a little bit of room, she's like up to like max speed limit and then slams on the brakes with someone in front of her. Chaos. But we're going to get there fast, so that's good. Always on the left lane. Always in the left lane. I can't complain though because she also made me lunch for the ride. She made two meals to go, so very grateful and actually tastes great. Chicken, maybe she's a good chef and maybe the food's just better here in Germany. Probably both. But hers has turned me back into a bodybuilder. Chicken, rice, broccoli. Close leg day. Headed to FIBO. So apparently it's going to be a shit show, but it's going to be a good time. Everyone keeps saying like, get ready, bro. Get ready. It's going to be a lot. It's going to be a lot. So we'll see. Three hour drive. Get there. Check in the hotel and chill. Get ready for the weekend. So we'll see you guys there. There we go. You, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you This smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells I think someone just crashed. Someone crashed? Oh my god! Wow. It's a lot colder than I thought it would be. That was rough. I haven't sat in the back of a car in a long time, let alone for three hours, so I'm cucked right now. We're probably going to sit in the tiniest car in here too, but it'll be worth it. I'm going to drive. Oh, me or Dom? He's going to show you and then you can drive. Where are we going? Alright, sure. Good luck, I guess. Good luck. I think it's f***** fast. That's terrifying. I'm literally in the seat like this, flying around corners, I look down, it's going like... I don't even know. What was the fastest corner you took there? We're going like 130 in the corner? KPH or miles per hour? Kilometers. Kilometers? 200. 200 in the corner. I'm thinking MPH, yeah. To a corner. Literally just flying in the corner. Just flooring it straight at the wall, hits the brakes and go, I'm like damn, I've never been on track like that. The brakes, the brakes are the most impressive, right? The brakes. Yeah, and it just sticks to the corner too. Slam on the brake car just stops. Wild. Very cool. I would love to do it. It's the other cars that scare me. And paddle shifting. I would never know, I would never remember a downshift. You wouldn't, once you got used to it, it would be the noise of the car versus you looking at anything. Yeah, but I'm not used to it. Yeah, but that's what it is. Like I can drive, I can drive sick on the road without looking. I can just, but like when I'm stressing but breaking into a corner and I'm remembering it all, like no. Just put it in automatic. Drive the same for the round, then you're going to go to the GT3. You wanna? You gotta drive through the GT3. You wanna? I want to, but I'm kinda scared. No, it's so much fun. I don't know how to drive on a track, I got no skill. I will teach you. You don't have to push it. Like no, it's just... Be gentle. Alright, you go, are you going with him? I would, I was a chicken as well. I go with him and then I... Oh, you drove it? Yeah, I drove it. Oh, you did? Yeah, yeah. But I, I dropped. He did good. Alright. So. I'm a little nervous. Yeah. It's intimidating up there. I'm gonna take it slow for sure. That guy was ripping. But like, huge Porsche guy. Jesus Therera. Go to a track car so like, I can't turn up the Overtune, you know? I gotta try it. My favorite car. Gotta, gotta give it a go. We'll see how it goes. I just like thinking of like braking turning. Alright, rock and roll. Let's do this. Let's go. Yep. Oh. smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells Brake, brake, brake, brake, brake, brake. Brake harder, harder, harder. Right. Now in the left corner. Now in the right. Right. It's crazy. Try to remember all the little things. I'm terrified to take your car into the corner too. Just end up in the dish. I would never forgive myself. The learning curve was good. Yeah. You see the first corner is always a little bit difficult. For sure. Yeah. I don't know where to brake, where to steer and everything. But you did good. You think you're steering and getting to the right side to handle the corner on the right line and everything. Yeah. But good. Beautiful. Thank you. You might want to. Maybe. I might have to now. I'm going to start with an M2. Okay. Yeah, maybe. Be gentle. Yeah. I was definitely way too late. I was going faster in the corner. And I had to brake and turn a bit. And I heard him go like, oh, oh, oh, oh. And I was like, oh, no. Am I about to start drifting? Yeah, I drifted once with the GT3 RS. That was also fun. So he was saying you brake before the corner? Just lay him on the brakes while you're going straight. Yeah. And then you got to be at the right speed when you hit the corner and then you turn with your foot off the brake. Yeah. Because you're braking while you turn, you'll drift. That's like what I like right there. Yeah. That's perfect. So don't take it from along the stone. Oh my God. So good. Thank you. Enjoy your meal. Thank you. Wow. I'd have a hell of a knife too. Little tree branch stuck in there. That's pretty good. How's the price? Good. That mayo dip is fire. I'm a sweet potato fry guy. Okay. My favorite. Have sweet potato. Yeah. I can't let him sit and not be eaten. I'm like looking for food at the table. All right. So I didn't really give a full explanation of where we were going, but we're actually in the middle of the street. I'm a sweet potato. Yeah. I'm a sweet potato. Yeah. I can't let him sit and not be eaten. I'm like looking for food at the table. All right. So I didn't really give a full explanation of where we were going, but we're actually in the Netherlands right now, which as an American, absolutely absurd to just like drive to the Netherlands in a casual day and then drive back afterwards. It feels like everything's so far apart in America. But we went to go race some cars. I got to drive the GT3 RS around the track. Not very fast at all. It's a lot scarier than it looks. It's a lot harder than it looks. You think you just hit the gas pedal and go, but it's not how it works. And at the very end of every track, there's usually like a straight. And then the straight, I was going like 240 kilometers per hour or something. And it feels like you're not even going fast because then around corners, you're going like 180 around the corner. I was going probably slower, but the guy was going 200 around corners. So it was pretty crazy, but it was a lot of fun. I would definitely love to have an opportunity to like sit in the car with like an instructor on a private track where no one else is like riding my ass going faster than me. Because it's also terrifying being in someone's like $350,000 car driving around the track. It's like, he's in the passenger seat. If I crash your car, like my bad, bro. But it was good. So we're Netherlands right now, two days away from FIBO still. We're going to drive back to Cologne and I don't know what we're going to do. Probably go to the gym maybe, get some food, just chill. It's a slow day. We've got a crazy weekend. So we'll see you guys there. Hey, he's got a don't be a skinny bitch shirt on. Oh wow. Yeah, he's a man of a little shit. Where's your security, Cristofalo? Boki? That's my boy Boki right there. Yeah, the guy looks more intimidating, bro. Yeah, I gotta see him fucking kill you. Look at his eyes. Hey. It's like a slaughterhouse back here. Just herding cattle into rooms. Cut our heads off and strip our meat. Actually insane. I've never been to an expo there. They have a whole... This is ESN and more alone back here. They have their own private like meeting rooms, bathrooms, cafeteria just to chill outside of the expo. So pretty nice. What's up loser? You're late. You didn't get me a shirt. Europe likes to go on saunas naked. I went in there and I looked and there's two dudes in there wearing shorts. They look like they were dying from heat. I'm like, they'll be out soon. So I get and I sit in the sauna. I'm sitting there. They leave. I'm like sick. I'm by myself. I start watching a movie. And then all of a sudden I see a head poking. They see me and I'm like, fuck. And then two more guys come and they look and they're like acting all weird. And then they just walk away for a second. And then they just come back butt ass naked. No. Just walk in completely. Three dudes just get in. I'm like in the corner of the sauna. It's a huge sauna. And then they just get in there butt naked beside me and they're like peeking over at me and shit. I'm just like trying to watch my movie. And I'm like, am I about to get like attacked in the sauna? You know? So I like grab my phone and just laugh. What? It's not usually to wear clothing in the sauna. You're not allowed to watch movies or talk. Really? Ask Taiki on this one. I was on silent. I wasn't playing it out loud. I said I read the UTSA and he was like, no, you're not allowed to speak or to read or to do anything in the sauna. Really? Yeah. And in Germany it's like typically like they don't wear clothes in the sauna. They were just staring at you because you were like this weirdo wearing clothes in the sauna. They were like smiling though. They were like giving me smirks and like, what? And I was like, what? I was like, what? I was like, what? I was like, what? I was like, what? I was like, what? I was like, what? I'll just look at you. They were giving me smirks and then I laughed and they were like, bye, Chris. I was like, oh, fuck. It was weird. Are you good? Get out of this fucking doucement. I love it. This thing's gonna do a wheelie. I'll hit some. I'm gonna hit some more. Christy lady. Know when you haven't driven in a long time, you're not really paying attention? That's me right now. You have to go right? I think this thing's gonna tip. Right? Left and then right. Here, through, and then right. Right, right, right, right! Oh! Shit! I thought you went around there. Right, right, right! Where are we going? Wrong side, man. When we're on the street! Where are we going? What does right mean? Have you ever seen Austin Powers when he gets stuck? Gosh! Those are horrible directions. I like to dip it out there for the other. You can sit right. Okay, stay right. Stay right and wait where the guy stays. We need to park there. Go faster, dude. I'm flooring it. Stop. We made it. I think you could've walked through there. We made it through the X-Men. Woo! That was a good driver. Yeah. Your amenace man. I thought she said go around that line of people. So now it's my fault. Yeah. Of course it is. Back to the driver. Make no smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells smells All right, so wrapped up Feebo. Honestly, people told me it was going to be chaos, but it really wasn't all that crazy. Met a bunch of people today. I also say it wasn't that crazy because it was so organized by ESN and more in the hall that we were in. They just were really structured and kept it flowing. It was super easy for me to come in and get out super quick. But I was thinking, I always have conversations with people and they ask me questions. I never really have time to get in depth with the questions they ask. And there's these big questions people ask about what's our purpose here? What happens when we die? All these things like that. And then there's also big questions that everyone gets asked at the ESN at an expo. What advice would you give your younger self? Or how do I start? What's the best piece of advice for X? I never really get a good chance to answer it. Someone asked me that question. How do I start when I don't believe in myself? And I'm not going to believe in myself until I have the proof. What becomes first? And it got me thinking myself and I had kind of a weird answer to it. And then I wanted to write it down because it sounded cool and reflect on it. And I do this a lot but I never actually share it. So my goal is to maybe share these random thoughts I have on my phone. Because I have thousands of notes of just random shit. So the question was just that. They were like, how do I start when I don't have the confidence to start? And what I said to them, which I didn't mean to sound cool but I ended up sounding cool. I said, doing the thing before you believe you can do the thing is harder than doing the next thing after you've already done the thing. Sounds confusing. But if you think about it, it actually makes sense. And pretty much what I'm saying is I believe that action precedes confidence. So at some point, you're going to have to take action without the confidence. You can't wait for the confidence to start. Especially most people are always stuck in the spot where they don't know how to start. They need the perfect situation to start. The perfect motivation. The perfect feeling. And you are absolutely never going to find that. So most people wait for that, don't get it, and then live their life never starting on doing the thing that they want to do. Sometimes you just have to take the jump. And within that, there are some things that come with it. And I think I understand that confidence is built. But courage is kind of innate. And courage comes from doing something that you're afraid of. Confidence starts to diminish that fear over time. But we all have courage within us. And being able to find that and letting go of the things that are holding us back is hard. But very possible to do it before you've proven yourself that it's possible. And it just continues to get easier. Life gets harder. Or stays just as hard. But you become more confident and stronger and capable. So, with that being said, having the right goal in mind is also super important. Like, I think of when I started bodybuilding and I wanted to get on stage. I really wanted to step on stage. And I was terrified to do so. I hated public speaking. I hated standing in front of crowds. I felt super awkward. I didn't want to practice my posing. I felt weird. But I wanted to get on stage and do it. I didn't want to win. I didn't want to, like, blow the world away and be Mr. Olympia and turn pro and get sponsors and become an influencer. All this shit. I didn't even have Instagram at the time. I had posted a picture of my Thanksgiving dinner with my family once. Because Instagram wasn't big back then. But I wanted to compete for myself. And I just wanted to get on stage. So, that was my goal. And my goal being that small and not big wasn't extremely overwhelming. So, to have the confidence to win or to be Mr. Olympia, it takes a lot. It takes proof and building over time. But to have the confidence just to try something, to step on stage, anyone, I believe, can do that. So, once you narrow down your goals to be more efficient, you're setting yourself up for a lot less failure. I could have come dead last on that stage and completely bombed the show. But the fact that I actually did it and I competed, I actually successfully completed my goal. I was successful. I did something I said I was going to do. And I built a little bit of confidence. And I can come back a little bit next time. So, I think it's just so important to understand that you're never going to find that perfect ability of confidence and belief in yourself until you earn it. And you have to kind of get over that fear and have courage in the beginning. So, I think it's something that's super important. And I didn't have the time to share that whole entire answer with the person. But it was huge. And beyond that, I think the biggest driver for, like, long-term huge crazy success is momentum. Momentum only comes from starting, you know, like doing that first step, getting a little bit of courage because you stepped on stage and maybe you sucked. But you're like, hey, that wasn't my goal. I did something I was afraid of and it made me better. For me, with public speaking, it was something huge. I did a bunch of speaking engagements where I bombed it, stuttered, was anxious, was, like, out of breath because I was so nervous my heart was pounding. But I did it. And I built more confidence from that. And I built momentum to do it again and again. I was like, all right, it's not so bad. Maybe I don't need to stress so much about it next time. And that momentum got better and better and better. And I became a better and better communicator. And even myself now, I haven't done a talk in a year now almost. And thinking about it makes me more anxious than it did last year when I was doing it consistently. So, you can lose that momentum. But the momentum builds. But you just have to fucking start. But momentum is the secret to being successful. And the secret before that is you're starting, even though when you're afraid. So, I think that's absolutely huge. And then the last thing I wrote down that I wanted to share is that we all have, like, these voices in our heads. And obviously, there's the tradition, like, you're going to fail. You're not good enough to do this. Like, why would you even do this? You're going to lose. Blah, blah, blah. All that stuff. I think you're not good enough is a huge one. But I think the more manipulative one, more manipulative, difficult one that at least hit me was my voice in my head telling me that I didn't even want to do something. I was like, I don't even like public speaking. I don't want to do that. It doesn't sound fun. Why would I even ever want to do that? And it was like a preemptive fear before telling myself I'm not good enough to public speak. It's a lot easier just to say I don't want to. When in reality, I want to be a better communicator. Maybe my goal isn't to stand in front of 10,000 people and talk. But I do want to be able to be better at communicating my thoughts and sharing what I think and how I feel. Whether my relationships with my daughter, my friends, family. When I do have presentations, whatever it may be, that is important to me. So being able to understand that your mind plays tricks on you like that and being able to, like, weave through that. It's challenging, but it takes time. It takes being off your phone, not scrolling Instagram. Paying attention to your thoughts and your fears. Really figuring out what your wants and needs are in life and then taking action on them. So something I think is super important. And I had about 10 seconds to answer that question at the expo. So I decided I would take, like, 10 minutes and answer it properly. I need two, four, more people to watch. But, yeah, that's all I got for now. Random thoughts from Seabum. And that's how we're going to wrap out this Germany trip. I had a good time. Training, hanging out with Urs. It was really good to see him. Wish I had a few more days with him, but I think he'd be coming down in Florida. Super grateful for all the support I've had here in Germany. You guys were very respectful, very calm and polite and respectful. And I really appreciate showing up and people asking for a picture but not doubting too long or being weird or creepy or, like, pushing and pulling. None of that crazy stuff. So grateful for you guys, all your support. We're working on bringing Bum Energy heavily over to Germany right now. So your guys' support will help bring that over even faster. Yeah, that's about it. This is the start of our partnership with ESN and more as well. So very excited about that. We got to spend time with the German crew down here and have a good old time. But I'm absolutely ready to get home and see Bradley and Courtney. I'm going out for a week now, and it feels like too long. So playing right tomorrow. Get to be home. Be with my family. Settle back in. Hopefully be training soon. Stop being a skinny little bitch. And that's life. So thank you guys for watching. I'll see you next time. You.