! I have breakfast pre-made in a very convenient way. It's not a massive breakfast, but I have 30 grams of protein, 50-60 grams of oats in here, some blueberries, some chia seeds. I make overnight oats, so you just pour the shake into the oats, put it in the fridge, and I have three or four of these sitting in here at a time. So it's super convenient. I normally chop up half a banana, some almond butter, some FCT oil in there, depending on how I'm feeling. I'm trying to be quiet every morning, it's like everything is all loud. Like you never hear a jaw creak until 5 in the morning. She's alive. See, every morning it's like, do I want to do the thing that's better for my energy and my health, and have some FCT oil in my oats, or do I want to have some almond butter, almond butter is fine. I'm on YouTube, so I gotta do the right thing, you know, that's how it works. It's fine. I've always saw these memes about like, dad's waking up really early and shit, and I was like, I'm not a morning person, like hell no. And then you have kids and you're like, oh wait, you can have an hour alone in the day, and I'll wake up at 5 am. What's the difference between FCT oil and almond oil for energy? I don't know, I've always just heard that FCT oil is great for energy, sustaining, especially if you're fasting. I'm not fasting, but I'm breaking it fast with a small meal, so I'm like, fuck it. And I load up in salt because I'm going to train and appeal out of the night, so I'm trying to rehydrate. I normally do it. There's the last video I saw I've gotten new creatine. I showed this in our last video. Yeah. That is just the last video. You gotta do creatine? No, I haven't. Oh, look. I know, I'm fucking, I'm shriveling away. I woke up this morning, I grabbed it, I grabbed it, I grabbed it four days in the room, it's empty. I don't want to sell it in my company or something. But I'm going to eat this, fill my water, go to the gym. All right, early morning arm workout. Looks like gibberish on the board here, but that's okay because it makes sense to me. The first series, A series, is six exercises, three supersets of bicep, rest, three supersets of tricep, and then repeat. They're all 10 to 12 reps, except this one is 15 to 20 reps. The dip machine has a mid-concentric pause, so when I'm coming up mid-range, I hold that for like three seconds at the mid-range, and then everything else is self-explanatory, so you'll see when I do it. This, I'm still not great at doing chin-up, so I'm just doing amrap here. If I get five or six for me right now, that's pretty good, but I'm doing like a full extension overhead, a pause, and then all the way up as high as I can get. It's actually a really good bicep movement, doing a supinated chin-up. This Olivia curl, I don't know if that's technically what it's called, Sergio Olivia made this curl up, maybe he didn't, he's getting the credit for it today anyways. Put it on your knees, curl, and then that little extra bit of bicep flexion up into your head, because the tightest part of your bicep contraction is behind the head, so the more you lift that up, yes, it's a little bit of shoulder, but you're also smoking your biceps, and then the reverse of that big bicep stretch, curling behind the back, a little higher volume, and then I move on to the tricep. First set, got a nice bump, not going to lie. If you guys do this triple set, and you don't get a pump in your arms, you're a skinny bitch, just saying. Nothing like a nice little arm pump, first thing in the morning to wake your ass up. You don't even need caffeine, can save it for later in the day, you need a sick arm pump and then you're ready to rock. Then I'll go home and eat 500 to 5000 calories and I'll just want to take a nap, optimizing. Courtney the other day was talking to me, she's like, you know you're not going to be able to do whatever you want this time around, I was like, what do you mean? She's like, well A, you're not an Olympia prep anymore, and B, we're going to have two babies now, so you're going to be fucked. And I was like, sick. She was obviously light-heartedly joking, but also warning me that she's not joking, that life's going to be a lot different when this new baby comes. I used to be able to prioritize like, I'm trying to be the best in the world, that is like very high priority. Beneath family is still about very high, whereas now training is like still very high, but not as high as it was when I was training in the Olympia. And family's even higher, having two kids and everything, so that gap now is changing. I'm not one of the people who can be like, I'm going to go train whatever time of day I want and be there for three hours and yada yada. I still can right now and I'm very blessed, but come baby number two, going to be interesting. Going to be a muggle like to everyone else. I'm like, oh, I didn't sleep eight hours last night. I'm not hitting PRs every week. Life's hard. So you guys who are young, enjoy these games. They become a lot harder when you get older. They're similar, similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar haven't similar I My program says to do three to five sets which I'm kind of like what the fuck what am I supposed to do one of just in theories as always when your first set drops below 20% Capacity of what you did that muscles or that movement smoke to move on so like I was doing chin ups I got eight my first set. I don't know what 20% of that is but it's More than one in lesson two. I got seven reps that time so technically still under 20% drop Coor capacity from my first set so I'm gonna do one more set and Then I'll be done because every other movement. I just differ by stuff with 20% less The easiest way to think about it if you can do 10 reps of something and then by your third set you get seven You're done. That's a 30% drop math early in the morning in the gym doesn't fit no caffeine Hmm Oh I Feel like I always really liked doing chin ups, but I couldn't do a lot of them so I rarely did them But I feel like they're really good for like shoulder mobility and shoulder health and I wish I had done more of those in my career But I feel like instead of more than an exercise more of like a principle I wish I'd done like more extreme ranges of motion while I was competing because I realized now that it's so good for like joint health and Injury prevention and as you start training you just start to get soared into the bodybuilder You move on to a machine and if you're just like if you stretch a muscle cool You stretched it, but if you then go and train in this range of motion But you can stretch to here you're eventually gonna be stuck here because that's where your muscles getting strong So I wish I had like put a pad behind my back on machines and got that crazy deep stretch drop the weight and really focus on Lengthening my muscles as much as I could getting a and I still had great range of motion a lot of stuff I did but now it's much better than it was already So I feel like more of a principle I wish I'd done that and for young people starting out sticking to that you will injure yourself way less and You might be weaker for a short period of time But then you'll build more strength when you don't get injured over time and your muscles will feel better look better And it's a better way to do it. So Do what they say not as I did not as I do Do as I say and as I do not as I did What's the B set just a tricep on the lat machines? Yeah, so it's like AI don't know. I don't have a name for it. I'll explain what I'm doing mid-range ISO So lift it up to like a mid-range rep somewhere hold that for like hopefully 15 to 20 seconds Put it down drop the load do it for 10 to 12 reps up the load and then do partials for like 8 to 10 reps So it's kind of like a functional drop set super set blend of things and I do shoulder isolated workouts exercises two days a week and Then I still have like the compound movements of everything I'm doing and then same with arms So I don't have a crazy amount of volume in a day. I mean the arm volume is actually pretty good It was three sets of four times two for each thing. So it was pretty good But for shoulders I'm doing it twice a week So I don't have a crazy volume in one workout and my shoulders also grow pretty easily So I'm like not stressing about spending too much time on them right now I'm blasting this shit out of the Muslim volume twice a week and then that's about it The Partials probably don't look like much but it actually feels so good doing Partial raises for lateral raises even if you do like a really heavy dumbbell And you're just like moving what you can cheating a little bit by the end at the end of your shoulder workout It's a great way to squeeze in a lot extra volume I What's your breakfast the Courtney King in Bradley King special or Bradley I would say Bradley King I think we're gonna change your name Me I'm all this is the Courtney's famous breakfast that she started to feed the Bradley that I said certain that I then started to copy to usually It's turkey bacon, but there's only one slice left and I might have to save that for Bradley because Sacrifices We got some chicken sausage left eggs this sourdough Gluten-tree bread, which I don't know how that's possible like water eggs cashews butter sour crout arrow root flour Saw me a silly and high school. I'm in juice sea salt bacon soda honey all natural well stuff eggs bread toast turkey bacon sausage Essentially good old classic breakfast and some avocado No over easy kind of guy, but I'm not not very good at cooking period 99% of time. I like break the yogurt Fuck it up. Or anyone even eat my food. No Like you'll think you want some I'll make like ground turkey. I'll like you want some chicken I'm okay, and then 20 minutes later. She makes a different pack of ground turkey We don't give out participation trophies in the top remember that Bradley I Can't wear a new shirt around you she'll be like this lean her hands The Chris's Oh Oh Busted the old Camaro out of the gym finally I'd never get to drive it enough and I I want to sell it I might be selling it, but every time I get in it. I'm like, ah this car is just so cool It's so like driving an old car makes you feel like you're in a different time like the lack of technology the smell in it Smell like the 50s 60s It's just a little bit more fun very sketchy to drive sometimes you always feel like you're gonna run out of gas Because the gas field doesn't work the engine's not gonna turn on the wheels are gonna fall off You're like bouncing around but it's part of the fun in the joy of you know You don't think when you drive a modern-day car just does everything for you This like makes you experience driving especially in an old manual car like shifting the manual gears here compared to my Porsche It's like practically a computer system with the Porsche And this is like so raw you never get a perfect shift a little little joggy kind of cool, but Also mini update I've spoken about this before but for the last three years I've been building my like dream car Which is the 1969 Mustang I had paid for this company to build it. I'd sent the money they're working on They were sending me update pictures and everything And then I got a letter in the mail that they filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy And I was like you've got to be kidding me and it turns out that the car that I thought was being ready to come to me wasn't really ready to come to me at all and If you don't know when you file for bankruptcy You abolish all assets that you may have and any debt that you owe gets pretty much just wiped so I lost my car But the good news is that there's a company up in north florida That builds like broncos and stuff and they're trying to acquire it and I know the guys who worked in they built Fucking sick cars. So I'm really hoping that they get to buy the car at the company I don't want to talk shit about anyone business card. They built amazing cars That's why I wanted to build my Mustang with them shit happens It is what it is But if this company up north can buy it and then they can take over the build and then they can finish my car for me it'll postpone it like Probably another year and a half even though I've already been waiting three years But the good news is I will still get my car. So I love old cars and that's going to be like a new modern build on an old car So I'm pumped for that But I'll bring you guys along that story and I'll keep you updated that I figure out what's going on Because that was really sad when they filed bankruptcy. It's literally like if there's nothing you can do Some of our bankruptcy and your car is gone essentially all your money's just gone. So Hopefully I can get it through the new guys that I know And it'll still be a sick car that I trust to be built But for now I got this old thing and I got a debate if I want to sell it or not because I never really get to drive it So we'll see how it goes. And hopefully it doesn't break out break down on the highway and I make it to work today We'll see how it goes The third part of where my brain goes though before even all this is like little things like how much volume people want to do in a set how Frequently they want to repeat the same work out and I also like I like the idea of like the tempo thing but I also feel like it's not hard to put tempo in everywhere and People use it or don't you know unless we just press like hey tempo is there. It's kind of a suggestion But on a series it's like a must Yes, sir I'm going later We're in a phase right now where we like had a lot of stuff coming lots of programs coming up lots of updates Lots of stuff moving and we were just like running so fast now We're like slowing down and trying to collect a lot of like data the developers have put in like Trackers in the app so you can see what people are tapping and touching and what they're using and then we can like optimize The app based off that that's a very software based thing. I'm not fucking a software developer in any way But we're actually like talking to like people who have left the app But understanding why what were they missing with the program with the layout of the user experience and then we're adjusting that We're adding more programs consistently right now We have like enough programs for you to do a couple of years of training on there But if you want to follow bro split for a couple of years, we don't have enough phases in it for that So we're working on adding more phases to every program and we're also like consistently fine-tuning like the complexity of the program so that it doesn't like make people feel overwhelmed But also continue to drive progress because the goal of the app is to actually drive Change in people's lives and transformation and growth not just like something to do just since programming is like Very intentional almost has to be simplified to fit into the app of personability I've worked out with a lot of people in bodybuilders and the programs on this app are better than most professional bodybuilders programs that they follow So like the the product is great. It works Just got to make sure we get people on it and when they are on it. It's simple to use easy to follow and Doing what people need I had to come get my crete team finally because I've been out of stock for a while Wanted to tell you guys about black friday that's coming up some of the bts that we're doing black friday goes absolutely crazy at rock It's like Thanksgiving is our moment We like to say a giving thanks to our customers at the end of the year Just appreciation for all the support everyone gives us so we have this crazy blowout sale at the end of the year We're going to be giving away $5,000 every single day for a week in good shit like air pods macbook pros bji Osmos meta glasses bunch of cool shit and then throughout the whole week everyone who purchases over x amount You're gonna have the chance to win a sick truck. It's like this ram tx Lifted on 40 inch tires with like a grill on the front bunch of cool shit done to it So it's pretty freaking ganky. So black friday this year is going to be crazy If you guys need your supplements stock up during that time got a lot of stuff coming I'll keep you guys updated on the specifics of it, but just be ready because it's gonna be sick But until then I just need to grab some shit because I was at a creature I also need to stick packs of cretin because when I travel bringing this suck, but bringing a little stick packs Is incredible. You can just throw it into water anywhere and go this too mint chip Ice cream my eyes being prepped and I'd have a shake I would make mint chip ice cream shakes and it would be like my version of ice cream and it takes an incredible stuff You're dieting and you can't have real ice cream That's for you So Drops of the plainish Cretein on the road mixes with water when you wake up Put this in your coffee when you have your morning coffee fire hotel breakfast Fasting salt cretin combo keep you job. It's overwhelming that way. There's so many flavors I come in here and it's like a kidney candy. So I don't know what flavor it was Chavie mentality flavors we came it was was just like a citrus type thing that one was really good But I have that at home right now. So you need a pump go back to the og I have the watermelon grape. I had like two tubs. Okay. It was so good. But I'm going back to some stem free raspberry limited We also came out with flavored cretin I like to mix it in my protein shakes So I'm not really going to drink that but I had this when we were in olympia. Could we just dropped it? Tastes incredible to cretin and no bitter aftertaste to that's why you can make it with water So that tastes like juice. So if you guys want to just like not drink normal water and you want to get jack Mix that shit up. Yeah, I think that's really all I need. For you sometimes like don't bring so many supplements You have a full supplement cabinet. I'm like All right, so the day is winding down I'm still a hardcore bodybuilder eating beans sweet potato and chicken because I will do that forever That's saying you can take You can take bodybuilding out of the man. No, you can take the man out of bodybuilding. We can't make bodybuilding out of the man There you go. I'll be weighing my chicken and rice until I'm 80 years old So we're locked in but finish the day today. We have like it's cool. We have a Three day work schedule at the office. So mondays and fridays Usually no one's there. It's optional if they want to work from home So I like to go in there and just like be able to focus and be absent solitude The warehouse right now is being ramped the f up for black friday because we have like 10 x amount of orders in a week Then we normally do an entire month. So those dudes are absolute gangsters getting through that I don't know if they're out on the day. I don't know. What else is there? Yeah, I don't know I got nothing to say Bradley's bath time is coming up very exciting Then we try to read her books and she tries not to pay attention and tries not to let us put her down to sleep and then we put her down to sleep and we go to bed at like 8 30 p.m. And do it all over again Hell yeah, thank you guys for watching. See you guys later