 li бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел бел The bigger or stronger twin? I feel like, I don't care about me. I like being stronger, but I'm probably bigger. At this point in my career. You've got to be bigger than strong. You won't vote. Yeah, I like having both. It's not going to be fun. I'm still definitely stronger than you. Nobody doesn't know what he's talking about. Do you ever get, like, when you're lifting, you, like, get motivation. Like, you've got a thing through you and you're just, like, so used to it that you just, like, it doesn't even, you're just, like, I'm doing this shit. Define get motivation. What do you mean? Like, for me, I don't know. Do you want to watch YouTube videos and fire me up or? Like, anything. Like, for me, it's really weird, bro. I'll think about some weird-ass shit. Like, really weird shit. What the fuck? Like, what? Like, I don't know. Something he doesn't even know? Like, I don't know. Just shit that pisses me off. Like, I've seen that video of that girl getting stabbed. And I, like, imagine that's my daughter and, like, what I would do to have a girlfriend. I know, but, like, I'm saying that's the type, it, like, pisses me off so much. Like, you think about stuff that triggers you and then you chain up. Yeah, yeah. No, I don't do that. You don't do that? No. If it works, though, I don't judge. There's no way to do anything. There's no right way to do anything. Just a machine. I mean, I have days that I don't want to come in here, but definitely over the period of 10 years, just doing the same thing every day. On those days, just show up. You know, I probably have too much anxiety thinking about my daughter getting attacked, so I don't let my mic go there. That's true. I don't have a daughter, so I don't know. It's all about ego for me. I'm not losing to a retired bodybuilder. No way. Yeah, you guys better go heavier than me or I'll judge a lot. I don't know. I honestly don't know. The back is weak. I don't know. I don't know. It's much more. I feel like I had no right to motivate, bro. You know what I mean? I still take the motivation. I still need it. What am I supposed to say? Keep it tight. Nice. You know, it's a little limp. I'm doing it. I'm fucking... There you go. Stretch it less than you can. Yeah. Nice. What are you doing? What are you doing? What are you doing again? You got a better range of motion. Ain't no way. Yeah, Hanne said the same thing, bro. You're stiff as fuck. Yeah. Come on. I'm like the opposite. My pulling is just... It's because we use our bicep. It's kind of close. Like my arms are a fire in my wrists. If you put your arms out wider, it'll be better. Because I'm closer pulling in your bicep more. Where's here? You can pull from your elbows. Just doing crissons and one mic in the pump. My cock and balls. Let's go with this. Oh. Oh. It's fine. I feel like the range of motion, that's how you get really good. That full stretch like that. Once you can like rebuild, get that full stretch, and train as hard, it's definitely cheap, man. Like you'll get really strong with like a small range of motion, and if you go to a full range of motion, it'll feel way weak. Yeah. And you have to rebuild your strength with that new motor pattern. We were like power with this drill. Like 100%. We pretty much just went crazy on compound with big arms. And on our first trip, like our team stopped power. Shut the hell up. I'm just talking to the guy. What the fuck? You're trying to fucking focus on my set. I'm not talking to you, bro. Okay, but I hear you yapping. I'm not yapping, bro. I'm asking a fucking six-time Mr. Olympia some advice, dude. Fuck me, man. Now I can't even finish my sentence. I look like a dumbass. Let me go. It's my super set. Get out of here. You're just embarrassing me in front of Steve. Come on. Ice. Yeah. Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Come on. One more. Come on. One more. Come on. One more. Come on. Fuck. Oh my goodness. What do you guys normally do for bath? Bent over rows? Bent over rows. Pop that and shit? Pop that and shit? You guys train in your garage or gym? Garage, yeah. And that's why we don't have shit. No equipment, yeah. No, we got like a fucking little square of nothing. Yeah. It's just a square of darkness. You go in there, you hate your life. Get serious. That doesn't sound bad. It makes you do fun movements. Yeah. That's why I just deadlift and like dumbbell row. Yeah. Bent over row. I never get this, but I gotta start. Like machine anything? Yeah. It's not needed, but as a bodybuilder, it's definitely helpful to take your core out and isolate shit. Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot besides your daughter and like, is that a hobby or a job? That's your fucking thing. A hobby or a job? You've never become a fucking father. I'm just so... No, I don't have any hobbies anymore. Or I never really did, honestly. Did you collect anything? No. We were going to give our Blast toys. I wanted to. I wish I had my Pokemon cards. I haven't collected them now, but when I was young, they were just popping off, so I had all the OG ones. I like the first editions of the Charizards and the shit. That's crazy. My mom sold them for like $2 or was that a garage sale? No fucking good. Really? My obsession became a little bit too much. I got Pokemon tattoos. I got Charizard, Pikachu. I got some anime shit. What anime did you guys watch? Or is that just you? Everything. You watch it on the series. Right now, I'm trying to finish one piece. I love a show to start. Yeah. I haven't even dove into that. That was one of my hobbies in prep. I watched anime. That got me through shit for sure. It's definitely like... If you never watched anime, you wouldn't understand. There's a bunch of moral and cool themes in anime. Deeper than people realize. Yeah. It's deeper than a normal show can get. Yeah, I love Tekken. Shit was insane. Naruto's my favorite. Naruto's my favorite. Yeah, Naruto's go. It's go. It's so sick. Who's your favorite character? Probably... Hitachi. Hitachi, yeah. Hitachi, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's so light, bro. You threw two bites on there? Yeah. I'm still... I just did three reps. And then I'll work out that weight next time. All right. Come on, Mark. Show him how it's not. Can we get a lift off, man? What? My arm's too too short. Just do like three reps. Iron. Or being like set. Yeah. Jay, that three of my... We all... I can get it. It looked fine, bro. Yeah, it looked easy now. I feel like you guys really want your mid back too, like... Why did... At the bottom of the rep, instead of like going like this, that like scapula protraction, retraction, like that deep stretch at the bottom. Okay. Pulling from your scapula first. Like that. That shit don't pull on your chest, bro. Like, I feel like... Just maybe if he's on my wrist, it's going to be going to tear on it. Like your chest? Yeah, your chest. My chest. Like... I like this too. Fuck. I might be higher up. Why did Mikey make that look lighter than me? Mike made that look like it was light, bro. I should have... Are you really stronger than me, bro? We'll be the test right here. This is crazy, bro. We'll see you again tomorrow, bro. All right. All right. All right. Yeah. That's fucking light. Damn, bro. Let's go. How much reps were you at? Like 12 weeks you trained? I think it was like eight or nine in the rounds. All my counting's really bad. Close enough. I'll take 12. That's it. If I could get 12 reps like that, that means I could potentially have an Olympia bat. That means you could win seven Olympians. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. That's four more than eight. If I could get 12 solid reps, I could be better than C-Bone. That's something. You'd have to combine, bro. Why did God nerf her? You nerfed me. You were taking up all the nutrients in the fucking wound, bro. Imagine if you didn't exist. I would have defibrillators. They had to bring me back to life. My zygote split in half. My zygote split in half. My DNA. One DNA had to split in half. Now, if you think about it, the older twin is the one that didn't come out first. Huh? Yeah. Because you're like smooshing me. You form. Or I form first, right? I'm probably towards the back a little more. We start growing. And you're like, you're closer. It would make more sense if you're closer to the whole of the whatever. Fallopian loops. Whatever the fuck they come out of. I don't fucking know. You start from the fallopian loops. The egg starts. And then you come away from that. C-Bone remembers his time in the womb. That's how he knows that. It's not like you probably learned that in science class. It's just personal experience. I think I just learned it when my wife got pregnant. Oh, yeah. You need to know. Bro, you can lift it up. Come on. Bro, but it's falling on my back of the road in the cheese. Come on. All right, this is a challenge, so. Let's see how many you can get. If you beat Steve Bums, we get that Camaro open. Yeah. It's dirty. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, Mike. Come on. Come on, baby. Come on. Four more. Three more. Two more. One more. I don't... That last one, it was like... That was like 12, 13. That was 13? I counted nine good ones, I think. I think it was either 11 or 12 and a half. Yeah. I'm big dog. Hey, give me a spot, eh? C-Bone got me saying A and shit. Where do you put your feet, right? Where do you have your feet? Yeah. Just so I know. Why are you acting like you haven't been lifting for over eight years? Like this, right? On this one or like this? I've seen C-Bone doing this. Maybe that's... Because my leg is too low. Oh, okay. I put him on the platform. You look dumb as shit. All right. Come on. Let's go, boy. Shit! Come on. You got some chopper in here? Come the fuck on. We didn't use chopper. You're such a... You're being a fat fucking vagina. All right, all right. Let's go. All right, all right. Three more. Lock it in. Two. Let's go. One. Get that stretch. Better get that fucking stretch. Come on. Come on. Don't let it retire. Don't do it. Fuck. How many was that? It was like nine. Nine? Yeah. It was one or two less than him. But you beat me, though. You still beat me. You didn't even try, bro. You ain't even trying. I was trying. No, I was not. I think you guys both beat me. All right. I'll tell you. I don't think he did. I think I don't think he did. We'll call it a tie. We might be close. We might be tied. I can't remember what I did. I mean, your form is actually better than mine, bro. And he is one of your arms. That felt good, though. Oh, you're doing another one? Yeah. Oh, that wasn't the last one? That was the only one. Was it? Yeah. The 225 didn't count. Or the 2 plays. That's how fucked up my brain is. 225? I'm thinking on bench press. I'm thinking on bench press, bro. That's how I base all my lifts. I love when you talk first, because I can just make fun of what you say. Yeah? Yeah. It's dumb. Nice. Oh, yeah. You're on. That's fucking perfection. That's real class. Look at the elbows. Fire it straight back. You're right now. Let's go. Do you want to do a drop set on this one? Yeah. What do you want? Go to two. Yeah. I'm racked his weight. I'm racked his weight. Dude, that's what a good lifting partner does, you stupid fuck. Yeah. Let's go. Do it outside. Ready? Yep. Three. Dude, you're like watching it. Jeff, it's not creepy to watch this. They're like... No, they're like... I mean, they're one of the episodes. Yeah, they're like... Fuck, I was breathing that second. He shot pretty well, too. Yeah. I have a friend, too. Like, that's like your thing that's not right. You're shooting. Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Don't fucking drop it. Don't fucking drop it. Don't fucking drop it. Come on, guys. Come on. Don't put it down. Come on. Come on. Five, four, three, all the way up. Good. Fuck, bro. Whoo. Can you tell me this doesn't turn on, Chris? No, the battery's dead right now. You mother fucker. I tried to jump it, but the battery's like, I need to jump it. If I don't put a new battery, it's probably the starting room. How much you want for it? See, who says that? Who says that started? Because I know he won't do it. I will, bro. No, no, bro. I'll learn how to put a new battery in, buddy. Oh, yeah, this light is good as shit. Okay, stop being a narcissist. I'm not, bro. We're in the gym. You gotta check the glasses. I'm in the gym, bro. I'm sweaty. Do it, bro. You gotta... It's already assumed that, Chris. Dog's at the back. You're bodybuilding, right? That's fine. You're bodybuilding, right? You're in the ball, I'm standing with you. You can do fun for him to my time. You're not here. So, I put the signal to it. Two up. Two. Two. Two. It's my turn. I got you. I'm closer to that. Alright. I'll just go. Show your mind. This hot is fucking here. That makes for a great pump. It's like a cheap coat's always be full and that's cool. Yeah. I ain't glad I'm not good at chest support. You have no machines or anything, but being able to do this shit perfectly and get heavy with it is so good for a bodybuilding girl from the back of the cut. That's what I realized. I nerfed myself by not getting any of those machines. I don't even have a good lap build on machines. I still think it's good to start like that. You get strong as fuck, you have the power lift, you have that built strength and then when you rebuild the other shit over time, it's easier to learn nuance of mind-muscle connection than it is to learn how to train hard and heavy. To know if you're going hard enough. A lot of times when you're training by yourself and you don't, you don't really know. When you get that experience, it's invaluable. Can I feel your scapula? What? Yeah. That's thick. I need this. See what I need. You're not thick? Not like that. Come feel this, bro. Your lat right here is popping. See, his is flat, bro. Feel the lat though. Feel the lat though. You got it all a lot. You look good from the front. That's lat's red front double. I look wide, but just not the thickness. When you're leaning, you hit a back double. Do you feel like very like too deep? Like flat? Yeah. Yeah. Oh fuck. Look, I just wanna, I wanna like, cause a lot of people like doubt us for good reason. You know, I was cheating like four weeks out. I just didn't know a lot about what you did. Yeah. For improvement. Yeah. I think, I just wanna. I feel like too, you guys don't have a plan right now. Yeah. Like the tension behind like custom programs is like, oh, my triceps suck. My chest is really good. I'm gonna hit chest once every 10 days, which feels scary. My triceps I'll hit three times in that period, you know? Yeah. And then they're able to catch up and your chest is not gonna shrink cause it's already your stronger form. So having a proper program is like the best way to bring up. You think that's like the biggest, the best thing you can do is have a program that's like that? It's not the best thing, but it's helpful. It's a tool. Oh yeah. Gonna do like a cable rod and then do some license? Yeah. Some drug, yeah. I'll put a locker up here. A little bit. I'll give you the honor of going after Shibong and touching with the bar that he used. I just forgot to wear my jeans today to the gym. My bad. Yeah, bro. What are you doing? You're like this enough. I need my jorts. Yeah. You need your jorts, your jeans. Don't forget about like Mikey. I got the beater on. Imagine you like dressed as us. Like you show up dressed exactly how we are. Suck it in man. Come on. Where are you? You ever take intro? You're asking him this shit for. Of course he's taking fucking intros. I do, yeah. Fucking hell. Dude, shut the hell up. I'm just wondering man. I'm picking the guy's brain. Wow. That's piss boring. That's piss fucking boring. That's piss boring. I'm not doing it right. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? Bro. I'm not getting back to you. Something feels wrong. My phone not even hit your back. Wait, something feels wrong. Dude, touch your fucking chair. I'm just kidding. Why is that so hard bro? You need more Chick-fil-A. You want to go to Hell's Kitchen or Los Angeles, Vegas? Hell's Kitchen? That's the place where they have the famous hamburger. Oh, that's uh... Famous... That's what you know about Hell's Kitchen. I don't know. That's... What's all you? The most famous motherfucker. Gordon Ramsay? Yeah, Gordon Ramsay. The Ram... Gordon Ramsay Burger. That's a different one. Okay. See that something... Take it easy. As long as you... See, watch. I'm watching the motherfucker. Study, take notes. Dude, every set, every fucking rep, It's just fucking perfect. It's almost like you want to miss it or nothing. I know, but it's just crazy to see in person. Like, there's no... That is one of the key things. Even in retirement, bro? Even in retirement, like you... You know, it's just crazy. Once you learn that form though, it's just like... Hard not to do it. Like, if I try and cheat a rep, my body just like stops. Weird. My body feels weird not cheating a rep. When I'm not using the biceps and every fucking... Hey, but my biceps were my weak point, so... That's my strong point. Your strong point is that fucking mouth. You can cheat that a little bit, Mark. Yeah. You didn't even go past 90s. You're something that little. Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot She left me out. Wait, what? It just don't feel right, though. Let me go lighter, man. Let me not feed the ego. Let me get this down. Oh, yeah. Focus on the mailbox. Where they're coming back at. You're doing, like, smoking that shit. So you guys got big dope ass. You're, like, stuck there. So your ability to, like, move your, like, scapula back and forth like that, which is so important for, like, getting a four-inch motion back like you can. It's real gaming, bro. They think you're retired. They don't know. They think you got weaker. Smaller. I don't know. They don't know that you're coming back and open. You're the same animal but a different fucking beast. Same animal but a different beast. I like that one. I know you didn't come back. The Kobe Bryant line. Yeah, you know what? That's what it is. This way. The George service for him is, um, with the Air Force. This is, like, wearing jeans and a cut-off wonder jack street. This is some shit Lee Priest showing up in. He's not wearing these drawers. Baggy jeans. Oversized hat. And then the tightest shirt you can find. That's why we won. Hey. Try and knock us out. You're not. Just go. What is. Come on. Minds that. You can't fucking work out while I'm talking to Mr. Bonk. Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot Hot you guys get through workouts when you're alone yeah that's why we don't train together oh you don't train together we do sometimes yeah need a cookie and some honey i accidentally threw this in the trash trying to go get it 30 grams of carbs from this full two tablespoons or this cookie into your workout 20. if you have to ask that question we need to go back to school still got another set where should i start this before you put that cookie in your pocket yeah but it's a little thing over there where the bottle's there we're good we're good dude we're done you know what we've been waiting for you we're done here we're ready to move on i think that's funny while you're cooking well i'm ready to go another hour nine eight we had a come on all the way back please please one more one more oh hey bucko you should try out for like a row and a team but my eye of high lat insertions so like that helps you think so yeah for open i feel like at the shortcut was low lat so it just looks like you just look you look too blobby yeah i don't know i just feel like they're too much hard you just gotta hit him bro i feel like it gives you more of a long waist yeah my lats are high too so i'm biased i like it where i'm curious if you guys can put your arms behind you like this i don't know i don't know this is like a nasty bicep movement if you can get this stretch holy fuck how big are your arms i have no idea probably smaller than yours no hell no no no no no no no no no no no no no no I'm like nothing to do and I'm warming up and cooling down. I'll be here for like, at the beginning of your shit, like I went through a phase this year, like injury retirement where I was on my phone in the gym and it was like, just said I wasn't, I was so not focused. You know, my workouts were shit. I wasn't there. You're like, honestly, you're scrolling, you're doing like shit effort. You're like, I'm just going to go home. I'd rather go home. I bought a new phone and I only have, Courtney's the only one with my number. Yeah. So I have Spotify, my training program and Courtney's phone number on it. And that's all that's on the phone. And that's what I bring in here normally. I'll be able to do that. You can't let it hang a little more. A lot of times. Oh shit. It's literally just like bicep flexion. Like you have no chance to use your shoulders or anything. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Come on. Come on. Oh, fuck. Oh, fuck. Oh, fuck. Oh, fuck. I think we got like 10 more exercises or something like that. Yeah, we're about halfway through. More exercise? No, we're like halfway through the workout. What? They even re-wrapped their weights. They try to figure out how to use them. I can't see. It stays right there. You actually embarrassed me in front of Bum. I actually got Bum. Damn, shit. You're a fucking bitch. Bro, you just suck the shit out of me. Good. Good. Crumble cook. All right, we're going to go show Mr. Bum here how to get down on some fucking crumble. Perfect post-workout meal for an Olympian. Yeah. Yeah, from the gym, yeah.