 This is the world's weirdest warmup I do. Essentially, one of my eyes focuses better than the other, which just throws off your posture and your body's ability to calibrate what's even and what's not. I literally warm up my eyeballs. If there's anything I'm going to be judged for on the unit, it's going to be the... Locked there. If you choose at home, there's a few different ways to do it. I'm also supposed to put my hands in front of me and, like, figure out my head and figure out my hand, figure out my arms, and then you can go side to side and, like, just track. And if you do, like, a bunch of exercises like that with your eye, look in the mirror before and after. When you look into the mirror after, your eyes look straighter and your posture looks straighter, and you feel, like, just a little bit more focused. It's pretty weird. I don't even think that's the intention, but I feel, like, focused. As the distraction comes in. I was on DND, too. Hello? Drum. Drum. All right, time to lock in. What is up? What is up, YouTube? Finally getting back into some training. It's going to be training legs today. Getting back to it. Still kind of struggling to get in the gym and find my motivation because I've still just been rehabbing my shoulder. But I've been trying to be a lot more intentional when I'm in here, and it's been a challenge because work, business, raw stuff has been just chaos. I've been following a rehab program. I've got legs twice a week and then shoulder rehab. So today we're going to hit some legs. It's an eccentric workout. So actually loading the muscle and moving it. And then the other day is isometric. So just like isometric holds. So just kind of rebuilding my body, not taking things too far over the edge. So pretty much just going to jump into it. That is what it is. This will be my first full workout vlog in a minute. So we're getting back to it. We're getting jacked. The Jack Lee programs will be coming soon where I'll be 240 shredded dunking basketballs and squats. 500 pounds, the goal. So getting after it. Legs actually like the one thing on me that haven't really disappeared too much. So it is what it is. I'll do a physique update at the end of my injury. When I start actually training upper body again, I'll do a physique update and then I'll do like an eight week transformation of locking and trying to get jacked as fast as possible. So leg day. Let's do it. All right. There you go. Workout is super simple. Leg curl, lying, up with two legs, down with one, six one, X one tempo. Main compound movement, pendulum, narrow up on the balls on my feet. Our toes get to using the balls on my feet. Similar tempo. And then I'm super setting. This is the super set. Super setting calf raises with hip flexion. I've never actually done that hip flexion thing. I have to like attach my, the cable on, attach to my foot and then pull up like that. Training kind of like my hip flexors. Because I have weak and tight hip flexors. So this is the goal today. Rock and roll. It takes me a while to warm up my hamstrings. I've torn both of them multiple times, but we're ready. That was kind of an example of the two to one thing. As you saw, up with two legs, slowly down with one, doing different kinds of tempo stimulus on the muscle. No plateaus. So my body's not really used to training like that. So you can actually put on muscle with much less intensity than compared to training just like a one, one, one, one tempo. So I'm going to get in this working set. This is why I wrote it on the board. Five reps. Six seconds down. Ready for it. Up to the table. Jeez, that was heavy. A little sketchy on that first rep. My hamstring was like, was... I don't know if it's because I've been training so long, but I can flex my hamstring and feel the rope of muscle. I can just feel that motion. Because I have such crazy connection to it. So when I'm training and it's like, instead of it being an even pull, it's like one section of it just like, kind of like shaking it, but like, oh, that part of my rope, you know? It's weird. Up to the right angle. Up to the right angle. Up to the right angle. Up to the right angle. Up to the right angle. Up to the right angle. Up to the right angle. Up to the right angle. Up to the right angle. Up to the right angle. six seconds negative because if you're going one two three four five six then you have to remember what rep you're on i always forget so if it's six i like break it into a pattern i understand and if i'm on my first rep i go one one one one one one that's why i count one six times and they go two two two two two two and that way i know how many seconds i'm going down and how many reps i'm at so a little pro tip if your brain doesn't work super quick like mine you gotta gotta hack the system a little bit just catching a breather i don't know if i'm the only one that remembers it but there's a meme when i was in like high school of this like little white kid standing there like this and his legs were just like bigger than mine but his upper body was just skinny as fuck and it's like don't let and it said something like don't let your bro skip upper body day or something back when like do you even lift memes we're still a meme because it wasn't overdone i'm aging myself here i'm a little old but that's what i picture myself becoming literally that meme because all i can train is legs right now my legs are almost growing again but my upper body's just like coming down so my physique update when i do it might just be like little t-rex arms and quads not a bad physique feel so much more official having a whiteboard it's like i'm a crossfitter now that's a wad so so so so so so so so so i think you're gonna get more tattoos i keep kinda coming back and forth debating that part of me is like yeah when i retired bodybuilding i covered them now i'm like i don't want to sit there for eight hours for eight hours and get like ink poisoning put into my body and shit you know so we'll see i'd probably get something for like bradley sure and if you have future kids and like corny something like represent my family i was trying to think of something cool and meaningful to like represent my bodybuilding career like implying like i don't know maybe i could like share like something about each year with like an artist and they would put it together into like a whole encompassing thing i got a friend who had done that he explained like relationship with his mom was really important and like all these things and they created like a woman with like something coming out of her eye because she saw him in some certain way and it took you know like it was i didn't remember what it was deep meaning in his artistic way so maybe that would be cool but we'll see it's so funny the old school like 10 20 years ago when you got surgery they're like don't put any weight on it don't exercise for like six months and nowadays like post knee replacement surgery they're like it's healed you got a new knee the second you can work it work it like just get after it get it moving because the longer a joint stays still all the muscle around it starts to get stuck the joint can like calcify everything gets stuck and sticky and tight and it's much worse so even if it hurts just like you try to slowly move my arm as much as possible in a range sorry not hurting that much but like a little aches and pains are fine but like me standing like this in a sling for six weeks i'd be fucked but i'd be able to actually move way better for your arm i think don't listen to me i'm not a doctor don't take my advice some guy's gonna come with a broken arm trying to move it but chris told me to do it i don't have a leg i'm supposed to do like press calf raise but all my leg presses are like weirdly built on different angles that you can't do proper calf raise so i'm gonna do standing i'm gonna do it i need a break between legs but same thing as the hamstring curl pretty obviously goal is because you're stronger with two legs but you're also stronger in the eccentric so you load it up with two legs and you're able to get more weight on your body for the eccentric without having to have a spot or anything like that so super beneficial the goal with these two if you can remember and if you even know is to start with your non-dominant side because obviously both calves are getting worked a little bit on the way up so if you're one side it's stronger than the other start on the weak side so it's getting a little bit more work a little bit more help in the beginning a bad little calf bone how are you how are you how are you how are you Nice little hip flexor pump. Love that. Up! Up! Up! That is new for me. Not many things where I can train where I'm like, I've never really trained these muscles specifically before, but hip flexors are one of them. So, word of advice to anyone who's fucking just starting out, like me, don't kill yourself on it. I was going to up the weight and I was like, you know what? My hips have hip flexors, they're probably going to be sore in hell tomorrow just because I've never really activated them like this. So if you've taken months off the gym or it's your first time training, you don't need to go balls to the wall and kill yourself and up the weight every time. Just try and hit the reps, hit the form, and learn how to activate the muscle. You will be sore tomorrow. I will be sore tomorrow. Problem's dead. I asked Justin, I'm like, filming a YouTube video, what are the benefits of these hip flexor movements? I get a minute and a half voice note. Should I play for the YouTube or just concise it? There you go. Pretty much what I'm taking is because I've never trained my hip flexors and I want to get to the point of being able to run. When you run, people don't realize, but you're actually supposed to activate your hips a lot. You're supposed to push through your hip and then drive it back up to the top. Then you're almost following as you run. So if I have really strong explosiveness, but then my hip flexor is super weak and never easily activated and coming back, A, it's going to slow me down, and B, it's going to lead more likely to injury. A lot of people who pick up running and their hip flexors are just fucking destroyed. Mobility, probably weakness. And that's why the whole point, you're stressing me to really at the bottom, lower back on the ground, fully stretch out at the bottom as if you're at that fully lengthened part of a run, and then all the way up and control everything so it's not getting momentum, strengthening the whole length of the movement. Pretty much I'm going to be a fucking Olympic sprinter in a week. That's it. That's the wrap on today's legwork. Still not the most exhilarating and exciting thing, but we'll come back from an injury, so I'm still feeling pretty good about it. Training efficiently. You know, the theme of the last few years, training properly with Justin, is the beginning of these phases, and actually doing phases of training. Beginning is always a little less fun, a little more eccentric, slow, isometric holds. A lot of, like, mental capacity to think of everything you're doing. You're not just, like, banging out weights. You're actually consciously doing everything with intention to set yourself up in the future when you are exploding, doing heavy weights, all the stuff that you don't get hurt. Especially since I'm 30 now. I'm an old man, so time to start doing everything right. But that's going to be it. That's a wrap on today's leg day. What's going on in life right now? Bradley has been taking her first few steps. She said mama and took her first few steps within this 36-hour period. So it's a big milestone week for Bradley. She's going to be stronger than me soon. So it's kind of dope. It's also cool about having a child. The amount of time I'm on the floor with her. My mobility now to do this for an extended period of time, like, all day at home, I'm just barefoot like this. And, like, following her around like that. And now my hips are, like, I feel like I could, like, front bar squat almost. I still don't have the shoulder mobility. Well, my hips are in a much better position. So if you want to get better hips, just have a baby. Place it on the floor. That's really all you need. But, yeah, that's a wrap on today's workout. Going to slowly, slowly get back into the training vlogs again. But we're also going to be able to do another cool shit. So comment below what you guys want to see from me. Yeah, I got nothing else. So see you later.