 f lot. What is up YouTube? It's been another interesting turn of events recently, I guess. Long story short, I was having this crazy joint pain for a couple of months, honestly, and I was honestly just accepting it as like something's going on with my body and I have some shit I need to fix. Then randomly, I started taking an antibiotic, and like in 24 hours, like almost all my joint pain was gone. So I don't know if I had like a systemic infection because I had like a tooth that hurt, that stopped hurting too, and all of a sudden, I just felt better. I'm back in the right direction. We're heading right in the progress, which feels good, but it was really interesting to be like not out of work, not traveling, not bodybuilding, at home all day with the family, which is great, but also like I need another outlet. I need somewhere to go when like I'm tired or overwhelmed or something to like push into things. And when I came to the gym and I was just in pain, I was like, fuck, and I was leaving more frustrated than when I even got in. And I realized like how important the gym is for me to like feel good in the gym, to feel good in life, essentially, how this is like my foundation of so much of that. So two realizations. One is I need to take care of my fucking body because I really love the gym and I want to be able to enjoy being in here. Two is like I should probably rely on something a little bit more in my control because God forbid something does happen to my body at some point. I don't want to be too reliant on just having the gym. It's leg day. I'm still doing a lot of, not like a very exciting leg day. I'll run you through everything. A lot of it is still helping my body prepare to feel good, fixing some injuries and strengthening something that I didn't always have. So I'm going to run through it today. Hope you guys enjoy. Heavily back on the EA game. EA's, pre-workout? EA's. I didn't take pre-workout today. Just creatine and EA's. This is the goaded flavor. So we just launched actually two new flavors of EA's. So I'm going to go try and get some from the warehouse after this. First superset-ish thing. I'm doing like a hip thrust and like a knee extension, a polyquin step up, whatever, with a elevated heel. Just really strengthen the knee going over my toes into my VMO, just to build like knee stability and strength. And also the hip thrust. I'm really trying to like squeeze D to B pelvis tilt at the top, just to like give my body that pelvis tilt in my hips rather than sticking my butt out like horrible posture. So that's a combo on the beginning. I'm going to grab a light dumbbell for the step up and start warming up. lot of This is like a semi-isometric workout. So I'm doing a 20 second isometric hold for the first rep in the shortened position. So I lift up. When I'm doing a hip thrust, I'm trying to keep my ribs like flush. So I'm not arching like this and opening my ribs up. I'm trying to keep my ribs here and just pushing through my glutes up. I'm trying to hold that for 20 seconds and then drop down and do like 8 to 10 reps or something. And then I'm doing the same thing over here on the step up where I'm lowering with a little bit of weight and I'm holding it in the lower position for 20 seconds. And then I'll do like 12 to 15 reps. So I'm going to go. So I'm going to go. So I'm going to go. So I'm going to go. So I'm going to go. So I'm going to go. So. So. So. So. So. Kind of humbling holding a 15 pound dumbbell, but this shit hits different parts of your quads that you're normally not used to feeling and it's very like stable, like knee health shit. So what I'm really trying to think of is tracking my knee, trying to keep a bit of an arch in my foot and tracking my knee over my second two toes. So it's not coming in. I mean, I can't go that far out, but preventing your knee from collapsing in. There's like a huge thing for knee health. A lot of it starts in your feet, but it's also strengthening the right parts of your quads and tendons and everything. So that's how you get the short quads, the shorts quads, shorts, when you were shorts like this and you just want the pump right there. Yeah. It's all that matters. It's all that matters. What's an underrated accessory muscle? Your gracilis. What the hell is that? Like an adductor groin. I feel like it's very weak in me and I avoided activating it in any way. And it's a very important like stabilizer and internal rotator and everything. You need to keep your feet where you want them. I was talking more from a physique standpoint. Nothing's underrated from a physique standpoint, though, because it's all obvious to see. Yeah, but like people like when you think about like a physique, you think about like a sick chest or like six back abs. Yeah, true. Just in trying to think of underrated would be rhomboids. Rhomboids? Because if you have the postural muscles in your rhomboids to hold yourself up straighter, A from the back, if your back looks huge, you look sick. Like when you're just walking, you see some dude and you're like, look at that back. Posture, but even better back posture, lift your chest up, which makes your chest look bigger. Compared to if I stand like this, first like this, my chest isn't getting bigger or smaller. It just looks like it. Sure, yeah. So I feel like it makes your back and chest look bigger by having better rhomboid posture. lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot of lot I'm going to hit the floor after one of these. I don't know if it's a sign of low blood pressure because I'm so damn healthy now that I'm retired or what. I probably get lightheaded as shit when I stand up now. I don't even know what to call this. Three five second pause RDL. So snatch grip, lowering it a third of the way, hold for five seconds, lower it, another third hold for five seconds, lower it, another hold for five seconds, and go. It's only like, you've got to check three or five reps for that. And then a long lever hip flexor plank. I'll explain that one when I do it because I'm going to butcher it. Plank holds are the fucking worst. Purely just a mental exercise of choosing to stay in there. But this is specifically a long lever hip flexor plank. So the goal, similar to what I do in the hip thrust, is keeping my hips. Oh, my abs are cramping. Ah, ah. Damn. That's fine. I'll do this bullshit. Keeping my hips tucked forward. Because sometimes people do the hip flexor plank with a knee bent on a box. And you'll see, like, picture them to the ground. They'll be holding themselves like this. So you're not even stretching the full hip flexor to activate it in the lengthened position. So I'm trying to, like, straighten my leg, put my hip forward a little bit, and tuck my ribs so this is staying, like, in a straight line. And hold that, strengthen my hip flexors in that, like, lengthened position as you would get into when you run. Because I'm more of a sit all day and squat and bodybuilding shit. So my hip flexors and groin stabilizers are pretty weak. Apparently Mavs, too, considering they're cramping after that. Fuck. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh Oh Oh That one made me lightheaded Woo Have you ever passed out and now you like feel the room go like this and then you hit the ground? Yeah I just felt like half of that Damn I think I'm supposed to rest between legs My core isn't what's giving out but I get a little bit harder for myself Is this a core or a leg exercise? A little bit of both I think it's trying to train my core And a little bit my glutes Pelvis But mainly my core and Hip flexors To like lock in straight And fire together Instead of that like Constant arch in the back So that high symmetric hold Was hip flexor Trying to be in that length position This one is still Creating that position but now There's gravity pulling me down Your psoas actually kind of like ties into your groin in here Looks like gracilis adductor Even better your psoas is in there Again I'm trying to like tuck And I'm just putting the weight of my body up into my groin in there Same thing This knee up To kind of be like mock running form Isometric holds a strength in that position So I'm holding that for like 30 seconds And then in between Just to like keep my Get myself ready I guess My feet, ankles, everything Just a little like Bounding, hopping, jumping Whatever you want to call it Just little skips It burns the shit out of your ankles And for me it kind of comes up in my calf here and here I feel like if someone who like runs consistently saw me doing this and they're like what the fuck That's an exercise Not even a warm up Is it 12.04? Whoops Yeah I'm listening Hey Chris, you're kind Yeah I'm running a little bit late But I'm here paying attention What's going on guys? Hey man Sorry my life I'm in the middle of a workout Really cool to see for me I guess the thing Like making a bird for sweating And then as it goes up How long shots would be We can also cut in those And then obviously those blocks can be moved First like oh this feels different what's going on And then like you said maybe that b-roll scene Pretty precise but I think like this is a good overall Just keep like evolving the whole concept But I feel like right now I'm in a really like nice place Looks fucking sick I'm excited for this Which is also like impactful in some other ways But yeah just an idea I had One of my main questions Alexi actually was going to be How many look changes do we want? I'm sure that we bring one of those graphic tops in to the gym I think that's going to help me really Yeah Like it kind of have a better sense of how it's going to look And also I can do some tests in black and white things as well Size wise what are you feeling for all of these pieces? I'm all over the place right now My weight fluctuates depending on how many hamburgers I have the night before Like the greyed purple did you want it really tonal? I was more so how do we get more contrast in Alright so the wrap on that workout A little bit interrupted in the end there with a phone call But here's what it is Planning a very very cool campaign shoot It's going to be a couple months until it comes out But we're going to shoot it next month Very excited for it You guys will see it coming Very different from a lot of things I've done before But like putting together a lot of things I've wanted to do And then all into one place so it'll be a really cool campaign But eating my meal which I live off freaking meatballs right now I literally have turkey meatballs, bison meatballs, and beef meatballs And every day I have probably three meals a day of one of those options Just so easy to eat and microwave and make and consistently eat all the time So this post-workout and then we're going to go over to Raw Because we have a big new product dropping Doing a little video for it with our Jack, our creative director So I'll show you guys what that is over there It's a Shopify theme Yeah It's right how it's poured like a staple Yeah But Welcome to the show Chris Welcome back to the show A lot of marketing So the hardest thing was just masking that taste of protein really Just like that chalky taste Yeah we all, I don't even know how to explain it It's like chewing unflavored whey And I think that just stands for Raw You know we want to do things our way We want to do it the right way Not because it's easy and fast Just like the gym You don't take the easy way out You're there to work hard and the work is part of the process So we find fun of the fun and the creative process in which we do everything So that went into the packaging, it went into the bar, it goes into the brand And really proud of the way it looks and the way the product came out Alright so we have a very exciting launch coming up next week apparently I didn't know what date it was On February 27th our protein bars are finally dropping after God knows how long and how many manufacturers, how many samples that we went through to make these things taste absolutely incredible With 20 grams of protein finally coming We literally were about to launch these The big thing that we were trying to solve for was how to get enough protein in them While making them actually taste good without that like chalky protein taste that all protein bars have And we almost launched them with 16 grams of protein And then we were like No we can't, it was like 14 to 16 was like what the flavors were coming out with And it was like we need at least close to if not 20 So, in my opinion the goaded flavor here, peanut butter fudge, 21 grams of protein, 2 grams of sugar You see inside, I already took a bite out of this It's got this like crunchy nougat chocolate cookie blend of everything So you bite into the chocolate, then there's like the soft peanut butter And then you get a bit of like a crunch from the cookie and it's all coated in chocolate It tastes absolutely incredible So, it's coming out next week, a lot of effort went into this The RTD, RTE category is hot right now, so we're pumped about these And also this is the second product launching into retail with the new packaging and everything on it The creatine has already come out in some retailers with our new branding I guess you will This is the stuff that I worked really hard on last year with an agency to kind of help make our brand a lot more cohesive And just look a little bit more aesthetic on shelf So everything's gonna have the orange raw logo on it And orange being like our big brand color so that you guys can catch us from a distance And everything looks good on a big brand block when it's in retail And then the call outs are all super simple, fonts are now all organized The placement of everything is like consistent with how we want it to be Rather than everything being kind of all over the place which I don't even know if I have all this shit to show but like everything was just so random before Not that there was no reason behind anything, but like That doesn't look like the same brand, you know? You wouldn't know So we're maturing as a brand and doing some more cool shit And then the really fun part was these pictures These boxes were a sample box were gonna come out better ones and they look the best on the labels But these pictures we did for the flavors, a bit of a better example But these are real pictures I feel like I need to say that a million times because everyone's gonna look at this and think it's AI But we literally hired a food stylist, did a full photo shoot over multiple days And took hundreds of photos of real pictures with real food to put on the bars To make them unique and owned by RAW And so that if anyone ever tries to copy this style of flavor call outs Well, it's gonna be fucking hard and it costs a lot of money So we wanted to make something, just like put effort into it, you know? It's like people who love, Jack was just saying people who love to shoot on film It's because there's intentionality behind the effort rather than just saying Hey Chad, make me a picture of chocolate covered pretzels, you know? It's just not the same So, just wanted to let you guys know that all the pictures you'll see on our product are real pictures And no bullshit And they taste amazing So, these will be coming out February 27th Been a big project for RAW It's gonna be a big year