 Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success The guys from Gymshark are like, good luck, we will not be there. Good luck, try and survive. So I don't know what I'm getting myself into, but it should be good. And honestly, life's changing now, and I'm kind of looking forward to the flight a little bit because I don't have time to watch shows. We try not to have the TV on with Bradley when she's awake. When she goes to bed, we're tired and go to sleep. So I have seasons and movies and podcasts downloaded on my phone, and I'm fired up and ready to go. I got some anime, I got solo leveling. Solo level, and what show do I have? Daredevil. Daredevil Season 2 came out, fired up. So it's going to be a good flight. And I got some podcasts. Chris Williams had Naval Ravikant on his podcast, downloaded that. I'm fired up. So it's going to be a good flight, going to be a great trip. We'll bring you guys along to Germany. Stay tuned. Success. You have no age damage. All right, so got here in Germany. I have no idea what town we're in. We came to see Urs and this is what the town looks like. We walked out of our hotel, super cute little Quentin hotel, looking for some food. And there's no restaurant. So we found a kebab place. Love kebab. Sit down. Everyone's super nice. They're like, what do you want? They said it in German. I imagine what they said. They don't speak English. And we're like, English? They're like, no. So we're just like, chicken. And then they bring us a platter. We're eating. We sat and talked for like, I don't know, 30, 40 minutes. I look up and there's a sign on the wall that says cash only. And I'm like, fuck, I have no euros or cash on me. So they let us go to a gas station to find, to get cash back. And I'm asking for cash back and our cards aren't working. Here. Two machines with a markup. Five. Success. Success. If you buy something for a while, you can get up to 200. I don't even know what she said. No, it doesn't work. With cashback, not only water. It doesn't work. Day one in Germany. Luckily, they were super nice. They brought us to the bank. Cars worked at the bank, got cash, and we're ready to go. Whoa. I have a photo. Come. Grab your clothes. Grab your clothes. Grab your clothes. Grab your clothes. Photo, are you here? There. Follow you. Your phone. Your phone. Your phone. Ah, your phone. But note to self, when in Germany, have cash on hand. You should probably have that when you're traveling, but we're bummed. So we're figuring out as we go. But I thought we were going to get kidnapped by some Germans there for a second. I'm going to have to call Urs to come protect me, but we made it. So now we're walking to Urs's house, because I guess you live super close by. And I'm going to go kick his ass in a workout, maybe. Or just do nothing, because I'm really tired and jet lagged. So we'll see. But we survived our first adventure. We're going to hit by a car now. Welcome to Germany, baby. Did you put these out here? It is nice and like quiet. Yeah. That's all you need. Calm and quiet. Do people drink tap water in Germany? They only drink still water. I drink sparkling now. Really? Yeah. You're a real German. I'm trying to be European. You're trying Apfucholbe? No. Whoa. You need to get some Apfucholbe. Choco Chico is my drink. Let's see. Do you have that here? It's a Mexican. It's sparkling water. The white with some white juice. Yellow. Yellow or no? It's just sparkling water with a yellow label. Okay. Gracias. I keep speaking Spanish to Germans. I'm going to show you the wrong. I know. I don't know why. When I listen to this, instead of saying yes, I say si. Or thank you. Oh my gracias. Yeah, I should offer skin. Also, thank you for my drink, darling. You don't get one. How much do I think you waste? Are you at your highest weight right now? 276 pounds. I need to calculate that because we're in Germany. 128? I don't know. 128? 128. 128. Oh yeah, mate. It's close, I think. Yeah, 127. 127? Yeah. Oh, okay. I just... Coach. Coach. See, I'm retired now. I've got a brain. I just want to like... I like screaming. And feeling like I actually work out. Not taking four months off. No, my body is looking like a high rocks athlete and lower body like fucking body though. I'm trying to bring my legs down. Yeah. My legs are too big to run right now, so... Shrinking them. Feels weird, huh? Yeah. But how is it with pull-ups now and this kind of stuff? I can't breathe. I can't... Also no pulling? I can't straight my arm all the way. Sure. Or pull it all. Yeah, my arm... I haven't worked out of her body at all in months. Nothing. I lie on the ground with a fat grip and do this for 30 reps. That's all I do. We have spoken a lot about the upcoming Olympia. And like, I always ask what I can do better. He said, first thing, stop partying. And I stopped partying. No rave at all. That's sad. You actually told me no when I said you need to start partying. You're like, but I like partying. You never said yes or I'll start partying. I stopped it. I hear you now, but you didn't tell me that you... Yeah. I mean, when coach tells, I'm gonna do it. Like a soldier. No, but... Besides that, also, Chris's mindset is one of the best ones I ever, like, met my whole life. I mean, of course, I didn't met other great champions. I think Michael Jordan or like a Michael Jackson could tell me a bit more. Michael Jackson is the GOAT. Yeah. He's the best artist in the world, in my opinion. But yeah, I'm interested what else I can do better. Because we all know how to train and how to eat. But I think to be a real champ, it's more than that. And here we are. I'm just gonna move in upstairs and just observe your life. Yeah. Yeah. I'll just be watching. I'll give you the app, so... There you go. No, today we're gonna train. I mean, the first athlete at my new gym. And we're gonna train some arms. Or at least I'm gonna train it. And Chris tells me what to do. And from there on, we will see what a beautiful sunny day brings here in Heilbronn, Germany. It's also very sunny. It's not brand new. Yeah, it is. Welcome to the gym. It's good, brand new. Yes. How'd you do it? No, I mean, it's old school, but it's renewed. Well, you have no stigma, you know? Yeah. Cost me half of it. Half of it. An arm and a leg? Yeah. Not too shabby. Not too shabby. But, uh... You have better equipment than me or no? I don't think so. Different equipment, huh? Yeah, I need to add the wall of fame. Are you just a fan of the wall? Wall of friends and family. And take over the whole thing? Mm-hmm. Just... Yeah. Where do you want to do it? Wherever I want to. I don't want to. I don't want to do it. I don't want to do it. I don't want to do it. I don't want to do it. Six times. That's a must, huh? Of course. Thank you, Ro. Now it's opened up. It's good. What? This thing is good. Is it? Is it not? Is it dealing with it? Or just help you? No, it helps a lot. What is it? The splits? Yeah. The cheat code? Finally again. Hopefully. Can you do splits right now in your offseason? Hmm. No? Working on it. The only white room here. Oh, wow. See my small bag every day. Don't cry. First time doing that a lot. Is this open? You can open it myself. Yeah, I should have done like, set up at least a part of my introposings. I had nothing. I had horrible lighting. But the lighting in front of the dumbbells is sick. Yeah, with the lights on, the natural light it was good. The mileage that I had? Not good. You always look like a week out. Eight weeks out. In that one spot. Fat ass. In that one spot. You did the last spread. Yeah. Lights out, baby. Is this enough water for you? Why do you want a fresh water? Yeah. You know, Jim, you can't get me a fresh bottle of water? Ah, it's... It's a good eye. We gotta share a bottle of water. And, uh, I bring you a contract, so... You wanna pay monthly or yearly? Charge me a yearly for this? I'm expecting a free day pass. Yeah. Yeah. Chris knows how to bring some skinny arms up. I mean, your last Olympia, you had a good pair of arms, bro. They weren't bad, they were alright. Yeah. At least they match the physique. Yeah. Not overpowered, but... That's what we need to do now. Bring up a little twig arms. Yeah. It's hard out there having small arms. Yeah. I mean... I'm after you now. When you are like the idea of like an Olympia champ. Yeah. I'm the next one with skinny arms. Skinny arms. Skinny arms. Skinny arms. Yeah. Very true. Then we have Ramon with the forearms bigger than our vices. Yeah. Crazy. You tell what's... What's the plan? I'm leading the work in? Yeah. You lead and I follow. Oh boy. As always, bro. Come on. Wake up, motherfucker. It's time for work. I feel like Hani. You know when he's just like standing there and he's just like... And I'm like... Waiting for something to do? This is why. Because he has no idea what the fuck he's doing. And he's trying to think of what to do. That's heavy. I'm jealous of the metal plates. Iron plates. Pissed. When I redo... Peace of the mind, that'll be a change I do. How was the three-day fast? I always wanted to do it. It sucked, but it actually like felt good. Yeah. And the inflammation in my face came down a lot. Like, my digestion feels a bit better now, but I'm still working on it. I should do it before the FIBO. Just don't eat from now until FIBO. I did some stairmaster this morning. My little FIBO prep. FIBO prep? Preparation. Like a high rock set feet running over there. Like a lot of cardio. Yeah, that's the shit you like. Exactly. I mean, you can warm up fully here and then warm up fully there. If you have too much cardio for your fat ass. At least this is a lot hard though. That's what she said. Not to you. Not to you. Yeah. Four, three, two, one. Up. Four, three, two, one. Up. Four, three, two, one. Up. Up. Come on. Keep going. Come on. Four, three, two, one. Up. Another one. Come on. Keep going. Come on. Four, three, two, pause for one second. Up. Another one. Come on. Okay. Ah. I felt my biceps like... Yeah. My life is really a pump now. We bring you back to life. We bring you back to life. Quick map. That was a 17 point, no that was a 7 point 2 percent drop. Yeah? Yeah. Fuck that map. I had no idea. Fuck that math. Come on. Don't stop at this bottom here. Three feet down. Like cheated up hammer curl. And then control down. Cheated up. You go like that. Cheated more. Cheated like rock. There you go. You quit. I didn't say stop. Bro I didn't want to end up like this gym failed. You're not gonna fail. You're gonna hurt yourself like that. You have 15 pounds in your hand. You're in Europe my friend. 15 pounds. LBS. Why don't you try it? I think you're a devil's advocate. You're a devil. Me neither. You gave me a lot of bad ideas. Trying to get injured. I already am. I mean you've been trying this way. You don't have to hurt me anymore. I'm tired. Well you don't have nothing to lose. I have the joy of being in the gym to lose. For longer. I already miss it. I don't want to miss it for longer. Now it's time to stop the personal training business. So if you guys want to have a PT session with SIBO. Did you drop the address of this gym? Yeah. I'll share the address of the gym on my Instagram. Just come over to the gym? Any day. Any time. Any day. Come meet me here. Imagine that. Mm-hmm. Do this. You have to do inner. Inner. But don't stroke the gels. We're seeing them. I'm a little jealous. Yeah. That's not too shabby. Come on. Almost. I like to do higher reps. What? I like to do higher reps on fries. Come on. Move your forearm. I'll move it. One more. Come on. Come on. Whoo. This waste act's a bitch to use. Yeah. One plate is like fucking 100 pounds. It's so much more. Come on. All the way up. Hold it back down. Hold the stretch for a bit. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Nice. Hold it. And up. Oh fuck off. Whoo! It's a gym, not a church. It's quieter than a church. Why does it twist your mouth? Wow, oh my god. Say I'm the best. Tell me I'm strong. Tell me I'm big. Like when you get to the bottom, do like a little... Come on, squeeze all the way back. That's good. That's not like 10 seconds. By the time you get down there. You should see how mobile I am now with Bradley. I have to get on the floor with my feet. I bet you are. I have to crawl around the floor like this. It's good for the hips. You never had hip problems, huh? No. That's a failure. Is it? Yeah. Just pump it out, it's a failure. Can you go closer than that? Whatever you can get, even if they're just lower reps. Pump it out the bottom. I'm going to get 10 rounds of that. And you've got big arms. The hardest part is to get yourself get down. Getting off the ground. It's just stick. Phew. Success Success Success Come on, keep going. Just finish here, come on. Good fit. Good fit. That sufficient amount of volume for your arm day? Yep. It's compared to bloody. Oh, brother, it's chaos, eh? It's compared to you all. Yeah. I have no idea what Erz ordered me for breakfast. It was like four scrambled eggs in Turkey and then they talked for like ten minutes. So I'm like, I don't know what's happening, but... Heal bones. Thank you. Thank you. Let's see who it is. Grapes. What's that? Is it unique? Normally they put berries. What's this? Maracuja. Maracuja. Oh, Maracuja? Yeah, you scoop it up. Never heard of that. How do you pronounce it? Maracuja? Maracuja. Maracuja. It's like corn. You can eat it with a spoon like this. Mm-hmm. Good. Super sour. Like seeds. Yeah. My coach messaged me, he's like, heavy and wrong. My coach messaged me, he's like, how are your legs feeling? If you want to bring them up, do a crazy push, get your legs big in. I'm like, I don't want big legs in me. I'm really tired. I want to wear nice pants and go for a run. Skinny legs. Skinny legs. That's what's up. Yeah. SpongeBob body. We're getting some SpongeBob legs today. Get that heat wet out of there. That's the way. That old man in the joint seats. Never used this before. He's like, oh, I was here this morning doing an hour of stairs. I do my cardio every day. It seems not even plugged in. It doesn't even work. My claws are cramping right now. Literally cramping. Damn. Success Success Success I'm gonna get it. Your legs are still the same size. No, no. Just the upper body is... But it's not gone, it's just a bit flat. I had to buy new pants, because they were baggy and squat. My legs are shrug a lot. Maybe because they are shredded now. They look really hard, you know. Fucking ass juice, we can say. Men's wellness, baby. Men's wellness. Yeah, we'll both be like the two retired guys who just like, want small legs and a bigger body. And we don't get it. Never. Success Success Success Success Success Success Oh I just The side chest fucking the best pose in modern days bodybuilding. I mean that was my pose, but yeah But this is your pose. I mean, I don't know if I have any secrets on how to hit it 100% yeah Just so rich of details. I Just one year all of a sudden now like instead of trying to make my hamstring bigger I just sacrifice like a millimeter of hamstring to like push on my quad And then like went how to flex it without like fully and it just like brought detail Yeah, I work on this. That's why I go hard with legs again. Yeah, because I wanted side details Yeah, bring up a lot of probably have it. I have it right. I have it, but I don't pose it right there I don't lean on it. Yeah, because I want also big hamstring drop Yeah, so you get a bigger hamstring, and then you can sacrifice more of it. Yeah, now we talk about Chris's side chest and I said like it's it's like the best in modern days bodybuilding not only in classic and Always when I put next to him and they said like okay, from half the front double I was like fuck I can do whatever I want now doesn't matter Her double wasn't my shot though, so yeah, and you you can you can feel it like when I was standing next to you it was like Your false field front double it was like and then such as boom Also like chest up high and I'm like fuck yeah I think the more work you're doing in your mobility will help that like your spine and everything Twisted Do you want to beat up and twist? The weird thing is my arm It's like I want to close the gap here But my I can't grab it here. I need to grab it there to really pull it back and You know huge too so now yeah Yeah for me. It's funny. I couldn't do that on this side as well anymore I couldn't do that either because the shoulder is so injured fuck that I couldn't like tuck it down and back all the way Mm-hmm so last year I was I was Yeah last year I could do the same But your shoulders aren't even fucked up so yeah But the whole posing is switching when you are on on prep like yeah and weeks in or something Even for me to have every year because right now in offseason I just look at me like you can even what a fresh fuck am I? I'm not even supposed to be on this day. I never pose when I'm miles For that exact reason Yeah Success Success You can hear yourself breathing. I bet it sounds funny when I'm in here with my headphones on, noise cancelling. It's like... Yeah, come on! One more! Why are you leaning forward? Why? Yeah. I don't know, it feels tighter. It stretches it a bit more. I don't know. Did it activate something? I don't know. I just feel like it stretches it more in my mind. I don't think. I don't have any signs behind this. Okay. But it's not going to stretch it a bit more. I don't know. I just feel like it stretches it more in my mind. I don't think. I don't have any signs behind this. Okay. No, bro, science sometimes is the best science. Sometimes, yeah. That's a nice little squeeze right at the top. Oh, yeah, I'll help squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, all the way, hold it. Woo! Yes Good Oh well Yes Yep One more Finish come on squeeze hard down slow Kids still got it Mm-hmm I'll come back What are the plans for your hairs? I'm gonna grow until the wedding It's summer and then I'm gonna see what it looks like I want to bring back my prom haircut Oh no Yeah Yeah Just a little longer than this Little side part Yeah Yeah Yeah If it looks like shit Come back to the mullet Yeah I've never let my side of my hair grow this long since high school So I'm gonna try But if I don't like it I'm gonna rock the mullet at the wedding Mm-hmm I told her I was gonna wear a baby blue suit And the mullet And she's like Whatever if you want Yeah I was like sick That's one of the beauties of getting married at 30 You're before all that bullshit Where like you're stressed about the wedding It needs to be perfect All that stuff You're just like We're already married Who cares You know Do whatever you want Do you guys feel like you train better with a training partner or on your own? Depends Sometimes I Or in general I love to train by myself But when I visit Hani or Stefan or Chris It's good to have like one or two good workouts But I think after a week or two Training with him gets a little sloppier Oh that's what I know from back in the days Me? No no Oh In general with training partners Well It depends on the person We gotta find it out Yeah When I'm on friends If I'm like properly in it Like I feel like it would be good But like I would feel bad training with you in prep If I'm like this broken Yeah Yeah Like my energy isn't like up on yours So like It needs to be an uplifting energy Yeah Like when we've trained in the past when we're both in it It's been great That was great My one friend like the only person in my life I've ever been in a long term Long term with my buddy Axel Yeah Trained with him for all of COVID Yeah It was like incredible But it's like a fucking Sounds so stereotypical bodybuilding thing to say But it's like a relationship Yeah It's like It needs to be spot on Yeah Yeah And also I'm training midday Yeah All of my friends 12 Yeah They are like working or have families and kids and The only thing I need to do is to train And it's not easy to find The right person I don't need those on my passive Okay Three two one Ah it hurts Feels good You feel like you get stronger sometimes when you lose some weight Yeah Yeah Always Isn't that weird? I think it's also because of inflammation Yeah I think now I'm getting really strong And then it stays Then I stop prep Losing Five six pounds And then I'm getting stronger again What do you think if you kept your offseason Five to six Eight pounds lighter That would make your body more tired Because you'd be having to starve yourself to do that I tried to do that But Your body just wants to be That's what you're doing I don't sleep well then Yeah All of Lose weight No when I When I hold my body When I said I need to weigh like 230 240 The whole of the rest of the year My body just says like Fuck you There's a big difference between 240 and 280 though Yeah It could be 255 Maybe 360 Maybe But I think I don't think so Be curious Because like you said When you lose five pounds Your strength is a little bit So what if you just right now You just did a little like Lost five pounds Yeah And you kind of like went like that I could do that I don't want to get in your head To agree I'm just curiously asking No no no Because everybody's so different Yeah How was it with you? I didn't like ever getting over 20 pounds Really Yeah I was like The huge weight I'd be at 264 max Last good weight In my last season You're looking strong? Yeah I felt way better like that If I pushed over that weight That's when I started to be like My sleep was sacrificed Because I was too big Mm-hmm I was too out of breath You know like Like me I'm more than you Really? Success Success Yes. Oh. Easy. Good. Yep. Go on. Up. Up. Good. Two more. Come on. Up, up, up, up. Yes. Two more at least. Up. Easy. One more plate we can do. Ah. I don't know what to do. Yeah, that's what's up. This is all I've done. When I say I train legs once a month, it's just pendulum squat. Yeah. What I'm holding on to. It's good. It's good. Got me to sweat a little bit. Good. Good. Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Come on, push. I don't feel better. Come on, alright? Yeah, but it's always with a new exercise. You need a week or two to really log in on it. So that's why you shouldn't change your workout plans like every week. Every week, yeah. You still have your training plans on your app. Do I have some, man? Like the original, isn't it? I have like my old style training. I have a little bit more like free motion. And then the last two years are all up there as like legacy programs. Check it out. Maybe I should also check it out, huh? Maybe you should. Who wants to see me with Chris doing a legacy workout? See what happens if Earth follows my exact training program and it'll be... I need to build my own legacy. There you go. Come on. Come on. Yep. Explode. Boom. Yep. Come on now. Good. Up. Yes. Come on. One more. Yep. One more. One more. Come on. Come on. Good. Up. Up. Yes. One more. One more. Come on. Good. Up. Up. Up. Up. Yes. One more. One more. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Oh my god. I don't need the size, but I have to go to this. Good zone, huh? Gotta get those plates for your gym. I know, right? That's the best. I want the... I'm so mad because the gym I trained at for a while. There was a guy close to me at the private gym in the backyard and let me train there before I had mine. And he had the old school at the Vanko plates. Oh, yeah. That were like a little rested, but still in great condition. And they're thicker than like a deep dish pizza. Yeah. Oh my god, the noise they made. And he sold them. And I was like, fuck, you should have told me I would have bought those. They were great. I want to find those exact ones. All the chipped paint and probably like a pound off or two, you know, but... Oh, they are great. Good. Go on. Up, up, up. Yeah. Last one we do a little bit lighter. Ten seconds negatives. I was going to say the same thing. Really. I was going to do a different thing, a similar. Do the bum set. Yeah? The descending negative. I like that. You do ten reps. First rep is ten seconds negative. Second rep is nine seconds negative. Third rep is eight seconds. You go all the way down. Wow. So you get to two and then you just go to failure. Cool. Let me try. Is this good with that weight or? I don't know. I wasn't even going to do it. You don't want to do it? I was going to watch you do it. It comes together. We're in this together, boy. Ten. Nine. Eight. Seven. Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success one five four three two one four three two one three two one oh that's good it's completely weird I'm not gonna make it until like five four you're like oh come on last step I already did it yeah you see when you were over there I did myself so I was gonna be counting backwards the good thing is I can count yeah over ten is hard but good thing is just do ten plus one for 11 and plus one ten nine eight seven six five four three two one nine eight seven six five four three two one seven six five four three two one seven six five four three just go up two one six five four three two one five four three three two one seven six five four three just go up two one six five four three two one five four three two one four three two one five four three two one four three two one four three two one three two one Success 3, 2, 1, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 4, 3, 2, 1, 3, 2, 1, 2, 1, last one. Good. I could have sworn you said 7 twice. No. Sweating. We have some champion sweat in the house. No, it's a holy place. Now we can do extensions with some high rock shit in between. Okay. Just got a lot of energy for a big bear. Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success There's a little string loaded back there. If I get that thing over me. This is literally what they're using. High rocks, isn't it? Yep. So you feel comfortable with. It doesn't feel good for my neck. It's good for your shoulder. Nice. With toes you got me. Those lunges? Yeah. 100%. This is the kind of shit too though where like when you're heavy and out of breath you just gas out. Yeah. I'm skinny right now. That's why you do two rounds. Just put it in there. Your endurance is great. Yeah. Yeah. You didn't even lose 20 pounds. It's so much better. Everything. But what you think. As a bodybuilder you need offseason. Right? Because since two or three years there is this ultra lean bulking hype. Yeah. You know. Just A-50 calorie surplus. Because in my opinion nothing happens when you're not like eat or not. If you do like a six month bulk of like maintaining being super lean. I agree. Yeah. If you're willing to take 10 years. Yeah. You can do it. But yes you can put on muscle. But I feel like it's dependent on the goal too. Like for us with weight limits. Yeah. I don't think you need to put on. Yeah. Much muscle. And at least. Everybody's body is so different. But my body looked better if I didn't get too high and then come too low. The closer I could stay in that my body just looked better. Yeah. But some people like you if you know if you get more tired from doing that. Yeah. Depends. Depends on what your body is like and you know. Yeah. But you're still lean right now. I've seen a lot of pro bodybuilders who like. Like you get a little bit stronger. Yeah. But I've seen so many pro bodybuilders who can literally do like one set of leg press in their leg working on their offseason. Because they're so out of breath and out of shape. That's sacrificing gains. No that's. That's not a big one. You can't train. No I don't get fat you know. He looks fat. He looks fat. He looks fat. He looks fat. Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success Success get some crank bro got a real pump last one bro this is it? yeah oh shit oh shit this is a little heavier than the enemy it's not an Ivanko sent back is it on the bank bro? no good get a little head flexor stretch in here yeah arch mobility good up a little bit hasta la vista what is it? good good good you notice how he doesn't have a calf machine in his gym? i don't need one i hate those calves i hate those calves i have like seven imagine i hate them you hate them? yeah i don't want raps calves nobody cares about them gross care yeah yeah but not the judges no it'll be nice when you are done and you stop training legs and you wear shorts and you just have nice calves not like giant ones then you'll be grateful for them yeah yeah yeah definitely for my dad's days for my dad's days your what? for my dad's days my dad's days yeah he probably won't shrink no when you become a dad you'll lose a hundred pounds and have the same calves yeah my dad's calves are about the same size as yours yeah i saw them yeah that's why he's also wearing shorts all the time exactly he knows the drill yeah it'll be middle of winter and he'll put on like a sweater and then shorts i saw them where was this competition? where ian competed i was Toronto? i don't think it was Toronto i was standing here with Melissa ian probably Toronto it was then when he had shorts on it wasn't too hot there wasn't even here then i saw his calves and i was like oh yeah oh yeah i know what's up i did not get my calves from my dad's legs but you have super good calves i didn't before i don't have his but they're staying they're holding on now yeah they're holding what's the verdict on the leg workout with jet lag and everything considered it was good yeah i was feeling a little like a negative little bitch at the beginning when i started doing hamstrings and my quads were cramping on the stair mill it takes a little bit of time yeah my body's not used to it so it's good to get back into it nice to train a little bit yeah i trained a little harder than normal he might have taken it off the gas a little bit i didn't bring it out bro it's already it was good though felt good to properly train with someone stronger and bigger than you it's time he's taking his pants off most crazy shape was yeah when i'm on it see it they're getting some details in you don't want to put too much on it you just like push forward it's funny your hamstrings are way stronger than mine but they're just a little smaller compared to your quads mm-hmm that's a sebum the signature yeah fucking decent still yeah this one is so big just like the volume a little bit from the top yeah it's not a bit less yeah the teardrop is still there the teardrop is still there Success Thank you.