 atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin, atorvastatin That's it. Yeah, come on. All right. What is up YouTube? We're at the strip At the strip barbell We're a little chest today Chris want to do a CrossFit workout strongman circuit That's what I call so I still feel like a man strong man circuit is just a CrossFit workout They're doing like strong man movements, but just like in quick succession. It's the same thing to me It's cuz it's anaerobic a laugh Whatever he said Thankfully for me that Jim was not available for the time frame that we needed it So we're actually doing bodybuilding training starting chest Just as a polar opposite as we get so we're gonna do crossfit over doing chest. Yeah, we're gonna do a hike But we also didn't do we didn't do I got it. Yeah, so the fitness aspect of this this day is definitely declined Doesn't the days gone on it was gonna be a hike in a circuit And it turned into chest just just a lot of things all things are right in the world You know, it's all right in the world. That's just the way it needs to be This has been like a retraining exercise of like Being a strong presser with no chest of like trying to actually keep the like tension on my chest I like to be your pet Yeah, cuz like if I let it come back too far which like I want to like my mind is like full range motion I get it deep, but then it just takes away There's like that point of engagement where it's like shoulder to chest to tricep I'm like just trying to keep it where it's just on my chest Just been like a very like cerebral exercise for me So weird because so many good pressers have bad chest. Yeah, but like you would think the biggest muscle would be the thing Taking over the loud you that these guys know Broken bench 500 pounds for reps and has a small chest, you know what looking back though I wouldn't have had it any other way You know like my chest it was a hindrance my career But like when I look back like the videos of like how what I was able to accomplish pressing wise I'm like it was worth it. It would have been that much different. Yeah, how much of it was your chinette? Yeah, but I mean I think if I'd like pressed using my chest like now my presses aren't nearly like obviously It's different now retired But my pressing feels way weaker when I'm like really isolating on my chest This is like when I'm like tricep shoulders fucking lats like everything on it. Obviously I can lift a lot more, you know Oh Come on You want to do a dumbbell Neutral press it all today if you want to I just did neutral there So I was gonna do a neutral press again, but you do normal just in if you do a dumbbell Yeah, you caught my pick down I So wrong to say to victim That's a range of motion not forage emotions So it's a lot of the losses always active active range motion active range of tension like the range of tension or muscle I'm maybe muscle wrongs the grow way of saying Let's range of motion that makes it harder. How about science-based? Oh Oh Oh You doing one more you get probably good I I I I Grip a quick mile, you know No, I can do one It's probably about that down the freeway Not the interstate how fast can you run a mile right now? Do you know I've done one in my life? Just one like It's only a mile it's not terrible, but it's not good Oh Oh We're gonna be standing like this by tomorrow arms I'll be six four at the booth imagine it if your posture could be like, you know, like hold the way there's nothing depressing Do you remember you me most have measured our heights once like not that long ago? year well a few years ago, but like 34 I can't yeah No, it was a my house in Ottawa Yeah, we measured me there. I thought my whole life. I was five nine we measured there I was five ten I'm like, no pleasantly surprised But as a bodybuilder I kept lying that I was five nine because it's like it's more impressive when you're like 300 of five nine, you know taller is worse in bodybuild, you know But then I was judging a show in Canada and you know, you have the thing to check your heights for classic physique I checked myself on that I was five eight and three quarters We might have I don't know but I was I was heavier than so if anything I would be taller now I'm having like less spinal compression if you appear posture all my posture is great though. It's pretty good Yeah, I'd say like a scale of one to ten posture. I'm like a good like 7.8, you know, but you still spent a lot of time here. No, you might still be a little like I'm pretty good Like this is my normal posture No Yeah, and like my hands aren't like I'm not I'm not like this like I'm like I sit pretty you know Like I don't have back issues or neck issues strong, huh? I don't know. I don't I don't really know what to make of that information to be honest like If that's the case and I'm actually 510 and we hide me at five eight and three quarters Mike and all these guys have a pretty strong case, you know, I might be six might actually be six foot Yeah, because I mean if these height checking things that these shows are using are an inch and a half an accurate because I am Shorter than they should be than the yeah Yeah, the things are measured in shorter. Yeah, so they're actually taller So, you know, maybe he is as tall as or he's really you know, maybe that little peacock hair That's actually human under that. You know, like that's skull under there, you know Jector head with the saline water. Yeah, you get an extra half inch. Yeah, I Feel like it wouldn't be hard either to like do some kind of like, you know implant or injections into like your heel Yeah, some kind of like, you know, yeah, fill it up Just like elastic bands are on your ankles to keep it like situated in your feet like squeeze it all into there Inject it in your heels. Just like put you up a little bit. Yeah Yeah All right fly It's a good question Yeah, well that goes that way Oh does both We had to get to the side with us I just Oh It's just like you pull that down on locks and you can just articulate how you want Just pull the red level and just move however you want Yeah Well now you're definitely in a crazy position, but Look where you are Oh Man's You guys need trainer Oh Stuff you need that you hate Oh Oh Oh It's build that inner chest, you know tight gap connection Tight gap connection. Yeah Made that one up. Yeah, tight gap. I got a gap. This is a tight gap connection exercise Get that last little squeeze you'll have a large gap Really like those tight gap connections guys But huh You gotta make the promise. Eventually, not the first one. My first one. But then I have to be ready by then. But then I won't be at my best, so that'll be good. But I won't even be able to run. But it has to be within a year. How far are you running? It's a high rock, it's a kilometer. But eight, a kilometer at a time. Eight kilometers. Okay, but when's the date? Including everything else. Chris is going to do his first high rock with me. Within 365 days. This time next year after the Olympia. Perfect. I can't make that promise. You can make a soft promise. I'll do one eventually. Pinkies swear me. I'll do one eventually. Okay, eventually. That's so vague. At least 70 years old. Like, all right, my turn's gone. Look, we said we'll do doubles and I'll do 80% of the work. I still have to run. That's okay. I can't run eight kilometers. It would take me seven hours to run eight kilometers. What you can do is, well, gee, you'll start the run while I do the station. Eight kilometers an hour. The whole course is supposed to take an hour. No, no, but I'm saying. Certainly. So what happens? You do the 20% and you sneak off on the kilometer. I do the 80% this year. We have to start on the same time. Damn it. Imagine I'm just walking. Yeah. You just do the running, like run, and then rest when you're done. You can do relay, actually. No, you both have to run. And you can't start the next cycle until the other person finishes the run. But isn't there high rocks relay? I think it's just double. No, I saw relay of one of the competitions. Really? Show us how much I know. I went to one high rocks and I'm like, I'm in. I know nothing about it. Let's do it. You can definitely do the farmers carry. That will be 100%. I could do everything for a short period of time. Yes. They're all long periods of time. Too bad they don't have bench pressing. I'd be like that. I'd suck with that, too. I'd be good at like pull downs. Pull downs, perp. How pull ups? Pull downs. Well, you can create your own then. Farmers carry. Start bum rocks. That just has a few. It's a lot of pull downs. It's jacklead, bro. Jacklead, yeah. True. It's a jacklead game. There you go. I gotta get on that standard app. Yeah, you gotta be shredded, too. The aesthetics is part of it. We're doing all the... We're doing high rocks. You guys hold them accountable. This is on the channel. Let them know. You have to do it within this... After Olympia 2026, we're doing it. I'm going to bat my shoulders. I felt doing dips in the arm. Fall good? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I'm going to bat my shoulders. Just bend my shoulders, I felt doing dips in the arm. Fuck it? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The coffee or citrus are definitely like a little easier. The intonation is still a little off. I thought you were trying to make one of those dumb jokes like why did six hate seven? You could say hate. You could say hate. You would still hate it if you ate your buddy. You know? Yeah, if six and eight were boys and seven ate them. You'd be pissed at them. I don't necessarily hate Hannibal Lecter. I'd be afraid of him. That's true.