 geralhyngortum, geralhyngortum, This is what our breakfast looks like. We're going to have everything all day. It's exactly the same thing. Turkey bacon, avocado, eggs. And this is what's breadcrumbs. Subculture. Base culture. Like Cito, sourdough, almond, butter, bread. It's taste incredible. So this is breakfast every single day. Oh God. We're going to do some deadlifts today. So I'm going to chain the workout. I was trying to vlog on this. It's not covered in eggs. At least it's a toy. So there's no using a camera when we're around here. But, coffee, breakfast, oranges. Trying to get Riley to eat food. The best way she eats food beside me or eating off my plate. I just have to sit on the floor right there. And then she just comes over and takes food out of my plate. And then eats it. Because she's a stubborn eater. Because she's a skinny little girl. But we're both going to get her up and get her jacked. On the same process as me. I'm going to get her the same food. Pretty much everything with that. Cordon makes me chicken and rice, meatballs, and meat, mashed potato, whatever it might be. And we just give her a little bit. She's eating good. What do you think, baby? She's probably going to rip to his entire memory. Cover in butter and eggs. Oh, and orange. Oh look. Good job, mama. Yeah, so that's it. Good little gym. Workout. That's it. She's up. You too. Turkey bacon. And she's probably going to rip to his entire memory. Yeah, so, I'll see you guys there. Locking back in post-Dubai trip. I had 48 hours of travel time there. And I was in Dubai for 48 hours. So it was pretty intense. It was an 8 hour time change back and forth. I went to bed at like 4 am every single day. Just trying to stay on American time zone. So when I got home, I was locked back in ready to get back on sleep. Because sleep is very important to me. So we're ready to rock and roll. Sleep is very important to me. So we're ready to rock right now. I had a lot of coffee this morning because I don't know why not. I was trying to beat my jet leg. I feel like I blast militone in the day after I travel. When I want to go to bed. And then when I wake up, I get a natural sunlight drink, a bunch of coffee to make myself realize this morning. But the beauty of that is we just came out with this new Dooper pump pre-workout. There's no caffeine in this. 8 grams of citrulline. 6.4 grams of beta-aline. 5 grams of creatine. 6.5 grams of GPC. Citrapeak Hooperzine. The right amount of Hooperzine. Not overdosing on that again. But this is an absolutely bonkers, focused and pump product. With no caffeine in it. You want to take it at night and you don't want to be jacked up and awake. Not able to sleep. Perfect for it. I'm taking it to deadlift today. Which might not be the best thing to do, but I don't really care. I'm trying to get some blood flow. And it tastes incredible and I'm trying out a new product. So here we are. But with all that being said, deadlifting today. I feel like deadlifting after that. So, push everything back up today. Yeah, that's it. I'm on a zoom call right now while I warm up. Hope they can't hear me doing this. Let's get after it. Alright, deadlifts. The phase of my training is focusing on strengthening the right ranges of motion and doing form really perfectly. Rather than being really strong. So that I can progress in the right way. You'll see that some of the movements I'm doing are like really deep ranges of motion. Like I have a split-squad as the second series of training that I do in this workout. And the goal is just really lengthening my hip flexors. Getting my knee over my toe angle flexion. Getting a huge stretch in my quad. Kind of a theme of this, but I'm starting off with deadlifts. Where I do a little bit of a quarter rep, an eighth rep. I don't know, I pull it up halfway up my shin. Put the bar back down and then all the way up. So one and a quarter reps every single time. It's fun because I'm only doing five reps. Everybody loves doing five reps. It's a lot more fun doing 20 reps. High volume just sucks sometimes, especially on deadlifts. So building strength and explosiveness so that I can jump and be strong and be powerful. And strong long ranges of motion is kind of what's going on right now. So after the deadlifts, I immediately go over and I do a snatch, rip, jump. It's a slight hip hinge. Bringing the bar about mid-thigh. Just the bar is like 45 pounds. And then jumping as fast as I can, exploding. So I'm getting this like heavy load with much more slower contractile tissue. Just dropping the weight, controlling and moving a heavy load. And then moving into much lighter load, just pure explosiveness. Showing my body to my muscles to move in different ways. Haseg, Jack Lee. So I need to get Justin down here and explain this. Because he understands it much better than me. But that's the training today. So right now I'm going to do first set of deadlifts. I'm not trying to go heavy right now. For me, I often will deadlift and my upper back will start to round. So I'm trying to keep my back really straight for my posture. My posture sucks from hunch over all the time. So I'm trying to really focus on that right now. My back can't hold my weight. I'm not going to go heavier. So I'm sending load. I'm starting with a weight that's not too hard. I'm going to keep going up in load. And then in between every set, going immediately over to the jump, back and forth, back and forth for five total sets. Goal is also doing a higher number of sets because I'm teaching my body new range of the motion and new motor patterns. So I need more volume to teach my body how to do them more efficiently. That's the goal. I'm going to get into it. I'm all warmed up. Time to work out. Also, I start without straps, but I need straps. The goal is not grip strength, but I still want to have a grip strength. So starting without them, but as the weight gets heavier, I got them over here. I will certainly need them. So that was a place to do the motion. I will do the motion. I will do the motion. All right. So, crazy, crazy, crazy range of motion split squats. I believe this is an O.G. Charles Pollack win type method where you're just getting crazy knee flexion, knees driving over your toes, getting a crazy stretch in the hip flexor. It's just much deeper range of motion than I really ever did in my bodybuilding career. So I'm not really stressing me with crazy weight. Trying to keep my body upright, keeping my back like straight and stiff. So I'm stretching out my hip flexor and then just crushing my hamstring into my calf, keeping my foot flat on the ground. This is one of the ones where when you're practicing, you can elevate your foot. And I used to do this elevated onto two plates, onto one plate, and now I've been doing them on, been flat on the floor. But luckily now I have pretty good mobility. Pretty good. Still working on it. So balance is also difficult for me on this one. It's hard to balance without your foot up. I personally find I just have still working on my balance. So if I fall over, don't judge me. But that's it. Cool. Crazy range of motion. Now crazy weight, a little bit of pause at the bottom of that stretch and then back up. Driving that knee forward and back up. So, yeah. Alright. So these are the two final movements of the bulk of this workout. I have a couple like stretch things after. But it's a mid pulley wood chop dehandle, if you will. Essentially I never train. I don't see fairly training my core at all. Did some light abs. Never wanted my waist to grow. Is it going to grow from being trained specifically, rotating marginally? Yes, probably. But it also makes you much more stable. And it's a lot healthier for your spine to be strengthened in all motions. So, it's pretty much like an ab core workout. Rotating the body where I'm strengthening my core. That's it. Twist. So when I'm running, playing basketball, trying to do more functional in the future, pick my daughter from the side. Rotating, moving, anything other than a straight unilateral movement, and a deadlift or a squat. I'm a little bit stronger and more functional in that. And then it's an abduction, glute kickback. So instead of kicking straight back where you're just trying to fire glute, I'm sideways to the cable and I'm abducting my leg. So I'm trying to keep my leg from coming in because the weight is pulling me backwards. Going through that range of motion, strength in my glutes. Pick up again. Everything I did was in a straight range of motion for a very little linear range of motion when I've grown up to offer a very long time. So, I'm going to do these two little stretches and then I'll get some food because you've always helped me. So, I just wrapped up that workout and just made the horrible mistake of putting some dark chocolate whey into a bottle that had EA's and pre-workout in it that it didn't rinse out. So I got a little bit of fruit, sweet flavor, dark chocolate protein, but honestly it doesn't taste that bad. I'll go fuck because gains are more important than the flavor. The other wrap on that workout, essentially what my split looks like right now is my lower body days are a lot more strength based slash functional. Trying to build motor patterns, explosiveness, range of the motion, stuff like that because I want to be able to run and move and a lot of that is lower body. And then, once a week right now, in this current phase I'm doing a hypertrophy workout so I'm able to still get the pump that I need and then I have like a hybrid cell workout for body as well where I'm doing like the band barbell, shaky barbell thing, speed presses, so some chest and some back and some heavy dumbbell roast. Overall, I'm still mixing in like a good amount of functionality and hypertrophy. And then because I have less hypertrophy, I just have to make sure I'm like killing my muscle in those workouts. So essentially, I've been trying to make my body more athletic for like the last year, but I had the shoulder injury which took me out for four to five months which sucked and then I was traveling all over the place and I lost a bunch of weight and I was like, I'm skinny, I just want to get big again. So I went back to hypertrophy and then I was training hypertrophy for a while, I got my muscle back pretty quick and then I was like, oh I still can't run and my functional I want to be. It's like no shit, like that age old quote, if you keep doing what you've always done, you'll always be where you will always been. I wasn't making a change, so finally I'm like, you know what, fuck it, I'm finally going to start stretching at night, I'm starting to open up my hips every night before I go to sleep. 15, 20 minutes before bed, I'm stretching. I'm going to commit to this training program, not being strictly hypertrophy training how I'm used to doing what I've always done because my body hurts, it doesn't move, it's not mobiles, not how I want to feel anymore. And if it means I'm sacrificing, making gains for a while, then it is what it is. And so far, given that I've been pretty strict on my nutrition, just eating clean and I'm still keeping like the intensity into my hypertrophy workouts, I haven't lost much muscle from where I was. I'm not skinny bitch quite yet. And my mobility is definitely getting better. I can feel my hips, like I could like sit and that is impressive for me. I know most people can like pull it and put it up to their face probably, but for me to be able to put that foot up there without having to pull it up myself and sit like that, before I couldn't even get my leg up, I'd be like, ah, struggling. So the hips are slowly opening up. Next thing you know, as soon as I can move, then I can even probably put more high-precipity back in because it's a lot easier to maintain than it is to build. Just like muscle, if I've had it before, it's easy to get it back, it's easier to hold. Then it is to make it. So, trying to balance right now what I want my body to do and how I want my body to look. But that's the season of life. So, I'm going to go home, get some food. That's really all I got to say. I don't have to fuck say on YouTube half the time, so welcome to the vlog.