 Rep Republ지를지를paPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPaPa Still kicking it in Arizona right now. What I love about Arizona is the food here is great. If you're a bodybuilder trying to eat healthy, West Coast is the place to be. East Coast doesn't get it. They have like protein towels, flower child, chop shop, and it's just like chicken and rice and clean and healthy. Cava, which Cava's everywhere. That was the worst one we've had. But fire food out here is super easy to stay healthy while you're traveling on the West Coast. Headed to the gym right now with Justin. I'm not sure if we're going to have time to train. Justin, he had a couple of his NFL athletes there today, and I was on a call later than I was supposed to be. So if we have don't have time to train, we might film some stuff or just talk and then train at like 1 p.m. In that case, we want to get pancakes because we can't have too many pancakes. And then this is our last day in Arizona, so we're debating do a hike tomorrow if I can handle it. Might get into some rucking because I read a book and they were talking that's really good for you and good for cardio without having to run or break your knees. So thinking about doing some stuff. But other than that, going to be hit legs I believe with Justin. I don't, he talked about doing some functional shit, but I kind of hurt my Achilles like two weeks ago. So might not be a good idea. Might just be trying to get Jackson huge because it's still the dream. But other than that, we'll be there soon. Justin's got a dope little private gym, so we'll kick it over there and figure out what's next. Dunking first. You got to get dunking first. Dunking first. So is dunk the first goal? It's by Jack Lee. That's like the first one. It's the easiest goal, I would say. Can you touch that, uh, the black piece that goes across? You know, do it with it warming up. That one? How high is that? Let's go away. Oh, he's going to win. Oh, he's going to win. Oh, he's trying to do it. Oh, he's trying to do it. Oh, he's got it. Oh, it's the peanut butter front. Now we'll forever know that you've done it. There he goes. Damn. I think that's a little over 10. I was just going to say it. I'm going to hurt my arm a little bit. Jeez. Why are you sweating? Yeah. Are you close? I've never watched me do it. I really watch. Can you do it? Huh? Can you do it? No, I can't. No warming. Totally useless. Oh, I can touch it. What? Dude. That was crazy. That was ridiculous. Look at one in here. Look at that. Wow. Wow. Good job. Kyle. Did you see that? I touched it. Dude, you're the tallest one. Dude, there's fruit. You're the tallest one. I can now jump higher than Budabaker. Oh, yeah. This is hilarious. Wait, hold on. Listen to the. You're jumping off the trampoline. No, I'm not. You can hear the springs here. They sent it to one of the athletes. He had a bet with him that he could touch it by a certain date. And so he sent it to Matt. And so he sent it to Matt. Just ding. I know. I should have done that. I got it. 100%. Oh, my God. That is so tall. Justin, how did you get that, bro? That's crazy. That's down here, bro. Boom. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. The goal is there for all the people. I was there for all the people. I know they put all the people. I was so confident I wasn't going to get it. And I was like, dude, the second dude in on the little mural. Oh, the high jump. He's a high jump. Dude. When he does it, so like everyone does their Achilles warm up and they're like jumping like this. He'll do just the ankle. He's like so high and barely touches the ground. He's a freak. I think if I hoop you two, you could get it. You know what I mean? I've tried. It's harder for me. You just have to tap it in. If you play it right at the rim. I don't know. It throws me off. Hey? Just tap it in. Easy, bro. Hey, this is really good, though. You and me are like neck and neck on that. I'm hella competitive. Like now you and me, like that's the new. That means your bird is like eight inches higher than mine. But we can still treat it as if it's the same thing, like a level playing field. Are you scared, dude? Do that? No. No? Let's see you do it. I haven't seen you try. Doing that standing? Yeah. Like that one? Is this so high? Yeah. Ten feet. So that's ten foot. No. So I can't down. Wait. I got a little bit to go. Let's say we're three inches off. You just broad or whatever. Just right under. That's crazy. Easy. Easy. Easy. Easy. Stay. Stay. Oh What I got higher that time yeah, I still hurt but Hips are gonna be like butter after this one Five of a butter Melted by this 10 9 8 7 5 4 3 2 Good, how's the Achilles feel? Good Good Sweet Trying to pretend like I'm not out of breath Alright I'm just jumping Whew And then do the velcro first And then you'll go This portion Okay Locked in First time doing flywheel You've used the V-mini So you know generally it's rhythmic It's not like fast up and then you drop back down It's you have to let it pull you back down But now we're doing the lower body version This one's much heavier The other one he would have been spinning for days You don't want to give me the easy one? What? You don't want to give me the easy one? Oh no You're a jack-leet now Okay So you're standing up straight Just squat down slightly Okay, you're doing like a one-third to one-half squat So just go Start going up and down And you'll get the feel for it How low do you want me to go? About one-third of the way Don't use this Just balance Just in case So you're going to be going for about 30 seconds while we're walking through it But here in a second I want you to give it a rep where you give it like 75% of the way up But be prepared because it's going to pull you back down the same So whoop Now? Yeah, go ahead Boom That's going to pull you down Don't use this Just balance Give it a little more oomph A little more oomph There you go Yep, yep, yep, yep So keep doing what you're doing You can start slowing down a little bit The rule is when we finish it's a couple of slower So one slow One more slow And then you can just stand normal Because if you just abruptly try to stop you're going to get yanked Like your back will be done How does that feel compared to anything else that you've done? You can't explain how weird it feels It's a yo-yo It feels like absolutely nothing I don't mean it feels like nothing It feels like a lot But it feels like nothing I've ever done before It's hard It's like a rhythm Like if you go down too fast Or you're guessing it They're like Get loose and it'll pull you back Like the weird feeling So this is working on your amortization So the exact thing that you're talking about towards like You can move a lot of weight But if you're sprinting And you have to absorb and go a different direction That switch from eccentric to concentric in a coordinated fashion That change is amortization Because this one's so fast You can get a super maximal eccentric And work the amortization It's like when we get heavy enough you'll feel it But what you're going to be doing today is you'll do an over It's like half yielding half overcoming ISO dynamic So you'll be holding this position I'm not letting it move You're pushing pushing pushing pushing for 10 seconds And then you'll have six reps fast after So we recruit the high threshold motor units And then you go speed and velocity with amortization And then we'll do a slightly less advanced version on the GHR It'll be a yielding isodynamic So just hold hold hold hold hold And then you'll do reps So again you'll I'll cinch you down I'm going to hold the wheel And then you're pushing pushing pushing pushing 10 seconds pushing with like 85% effort on the first set Then I'm letting it go And immediately boom Six, five, four, three, two, one Then two slow reps Don't use this for help just balance Okay I'm going to cinch you down Little lower, little lower, little lower By right there nice and upright On you 85% And let's go 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4 You're going to fly out of this Two, one, let's go Six, right back up Five, right back up Four, go Three, go Two, go One, two slow One more slower That's just my shoe it's not breaking Very good How'd you feel there? Well fine I was a little hesitant To go go I didn't know what was going on Yeah A little new still It is very new It is very new So set two will go again And you'll give it a little more oomph But the goal Again because it's training that amortization Is you ripping up fast And then as soon as you start the descent You're already thinking about getting out of the bottom As fast as you can So it just has to stay at chest height the whole time 10 second hold And we'll see how it looks But we're going anywhere between three and five reps following Fast or Fast It's like two, one, boom Two, one, boom Okay, glutes flexed Right there, hold Ten Nine Eight Seven Six Five Four Three Two One Down up Right back down Two, keep the hips through Hips through, hips through, then crease Then crease Two more Two more Two One more Very good Perfect All fine? Yeah Beautiful So I'm not good at like the Fast That's okay The body is like Uh, uh These things will train it These things will train it That's a part of it for sure About 20 seconds out So we'll start getting set On you 10 seconds 10 Nine Eight Seven Six Five Four Three Two And let's go Six Go Five Four Three Two Go There you go Two slow One Two Good Wee You can smell my shoe burning Your shoe? Oh Yeah, I'm slowing it down Uh, how did that set feel? I fucked up the The first one out of the asymmetric But then you were good? But then I got it So you're starting to feel it You've belt squatted Like this You're like looking at your legs While you do it So I feel like that's similar So you're trying to go like this As opposed to just Upright like you're gonna jump Yeah So think more like you're gonna jump Yeah Okay, same thing And try not to let your knees Push out Try to keep knees in line with the hips and the ankles On you You're good You don't have to hold the problem All right here Glutes, glutes, glutes, glutes, glutes You're good A little further 10 Nine Eight Seven Six Five Four Three Two Extend And let's go Boom There you go Two Three Four One more Come on Speed, speed There you go Much better Woohoo Good set We'll go at 25 for the last one How'd that one feel? Have you? Yeah Anything off though? Yeah Sweet Yeah Honestly your hamstrings look like Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Honestly your hamstrings look pretty darn good from like a Like how we're wanting them to progress standpoint So That's really good Is the knee warming up? Is it getting worse? Is it tame? I didn't feel it though You didn't feel it? Okay We put a little bit of anti-pain dust on your knee when you weren't looking Did you? Or you just warmed up Warmed up Depends on who wants to take credit Same thing So you try to be a little more upright like you're jumping on this set Okay I'll sit and sit down Let me pull you Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait Okay On you Ten seconds Let's go Ten Nine Eight Seven Six Five Four Two Two We're working Six Boom Five Boom Four Boom Three Get out And One Good Slow And slow Ooh Good set Pinching on my back fat The worst part Bro you barely carry low back fat It's like your fucking low back is like nothing Really? It's not that bad It's not that bad But it stays until like one week out Like the fully thinning out Yeah I was gonna say we I forgot I wanted to get your body comp So you could actually see how much muscle you've changed That a lot? Yeah, cause we did your 14 site We never did it at my peak size though No It was offseason When you had kind of decided like I think I might want to go again Like at that point That's when you kind of flipped the switch I think you were Might have been like 55 at that point 55 what? 255 Oh But like an offseason 255 Yeah You haven't been doing too much We should have done it when I was like 245 Like prep Yeah Yeah, it would have been gross I'll just have to get full of body fat again this year Yep Add that to the plate Do a mini prep Yeah Alright As long as I don't have to eat less than 3000 calories Last one here Last one here The knees start running from each other as you fatigue So just keep them tight And then D to B When you're in the yielding position Here we go A little more 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 Down and up 5 There you go Hips through fast 4 There you go 3 Last 2 Stay in there Stay in there Right back down Good set Good A series Good A series Good to see ya Feeling athletic I'm gonna touch the high of you 5 seconds 6 I haven't done a movement like this in a long time Yeah Long back Sternum up Lock the laths And then go Boom 1 So pause for full through 2 Boom 2 Boom More butt back There 1 Do one more 2 1 Good Perfect The only reason At this point in time 3 reasons why we would change Is if the shoulders bugging Due to the pull Like the load 3 3 3 3 5 5 Is if you can just roll So what do you feel right now Is it getting heavier There's no wrong answer There's a lot of good things We can do regardless My neck's a little iffy But it's not bad A little iffy in the sense You're gonna be kicking yourself tomorrow I don't know For going heavy I don't know Cause training your traps There's nothing wrong with that obviously But That's more of a personal preference thing On your end I think it'll be fun I think it'll be fun Sending it Sending it Let's go Shooter's chase Shooter's chase We'll go a set one here We're looking for six The goal is when it touches the pins It's quiet Bradley's sleeping Don't wake her up Guess Courtney off Otherwise Two second pause And then fast step Hit Bring it down slow Slow I mean it's two seconds I just don't I don't want Two One That It's control control As if those aren't even there And you're going to go to the ground Real men lift though Real men lift like that Oh Okay The strong guys in the gym do that Yeah that is true Yep Six reps That two seconds in the bottom Just nice and controlled You're still holding slight tension Like 10% Like 10% And then you're ripping up More than my grip with handles There you go Sternum high Rip up Two One Pause for two One Boom There you go Pause for two One Boom Good Two One Go Two more Hips all the way through Two Go We'll go straps next set Dunjo dunjo Don't worry about it We'll go straps I saw it on rep one I was like We're going straps We're going straps We're going straps This one's three minutes rest So we still got like two in change Until we go again So it's 160 kilo 352 Plus bands 352 plus bands So you're probably sitting like 420 at the top 430 at the top 420 at the top 430 at the top Again this If I was just trying to do heavy Bunch of weights on this It's not conducive to the goal Or these are better than the deadlucks It's conducive This is just very segmented Like that We take away full range That's okay Because we want The amortization to be better This we take away full range Because I specific I don't want you to be limited By the amount of load That you could use Going low And I'm just trying to teach Rate of force development How fast you can do it And so doing a partial range And doing bands Is best for that For like the phase That we're in It'd be really good So 800 pound backpulse Oh those are the best Those are the best You go down in the bar Just Those are the best So same thing Tension And boom Fast up You're trying to accelerate Sternum high Tension in the lats Here we go Good Two second pause Two One Very good Two One Go Two One More butt back on the way down Two One Last one Two One Go Good That's perfect Done It felt much better Here Do you have your athletes Try not use draft Or your Grip strength doesn't matter for this If their grip strength is a limiting factor Then we're training their grip separately It's like how in a structural balance phase We'll like specifically do a trap three race Because the lower fibers of their trap are weak If their grip is their limiting factor Then we'll train it separately But the whole point of this is not to develop your grip It's to develop your posterior chain But like If your grip is a limiting factor You're not getting the purpose of the exercise Yes But yeah Now obviously if you're a power lifter You're doing a movement that you need your grip for In order to do it So yeah then it's like Shit like we're not using straps Because that's going to limit you Unless if you're intentionally like supra loading something That you usually wouldn't be able to But most power lifters I feel like that's not the issue It's just their What strength do they have? 20 kilo bump Just doing these straps make me want to deadlift Which reminds me of the good old days Yeah Flashbacks Okay here we go Lock in Flashbacks Turn them up Ripping out of the bottom Oh my gosh Oh my gosh Oh my gosh Yep Pause for two One Little longer Two One There you go Two One Go There you go Two Go Last one Two One Go Very good Done You know what I love? Your upper back Like the times that you've sent me deadlifts There's a point in your Olympia prep where it's like I feel like I want to do deadlifts again Like I don't know like I want to do deadlifts And so we progressed to it And you sent me videos and your upper back was still weak to make it happen It's like you'd fatigue and your upper back would start to go Really? It's like locked right now Like the upper back is sick Really? Like it looks really good Really really good Um No I didn't explain this though The two second pause The elastic energy in your muscle You'll lose This is rough Like different studies are plus or minus 10 or 15% But usually four seconds is how long it takes for the elastic energy to dissipate Usually every second is incrementally less So like a two second you'll lose Call it 50% of the elastic energy in the muscle from the stretch shortening cycle So You pause on the bottom It's banded You have to accelerate it because the load's getting heavier Again this is just teaching You were saying like oh I feel reserved in terms of I don't want to go fast You have to go fast in order to do this Yeah We're training the speed in the rate of force development and we're de-training your Golgi tendon organ Which inhibits the fast movement because it's like oh like you're gonna hurt yourself Don't do it don't do it Lock the lats nice and upright speed Yep Two second pause Two One go Good Two One go Good Come on accelerate it Two One go go go There it is Two more Two One go Good Keep that sternum high Two One go Yeah That was good Very good Good B series Head back Oh yeah Oh yeah Oh yeah Anterior tib Stayском Stayском Stay Forward, back, forward, back, forward, back. Yep. Yeah, we'll go shoes. Oh yeah. Got a souvenir. Is that a good thing? That's a great thing. You fatigue and you start to use your quads a bit, which everyone does. Like when you go down, you go like this instead of this. That's expected. I used to literally, all my converse were just bloody. Then I'd deadlift up my shin, then I'd just drip blood on my shoes. The glory days. That is wild. It's more of a focus on, we did partial range, partial range. Now this is opportunity to get full range still, cause we're still trying to help your hips. So when you get to the bottom, it's like you're like stationary split squat to where you're going forward and you're trying to get knee past the toe, D to B, butt to heel, back up, and then alternate to the other side, back up, eight each side. Four, big stretch in that right hip. Forward, forward, forward, forward, forward, forward, forward. Two more each side. Two. One more each side. Last one here. Oh, good. Thirteen. Thirteen. Fourteen. Point the toes. Now go. Here we go. Paws at the top. Seventeen, then down. Eighteen, then down. Nineteen, then down. Nineteen, then down. Oh, that's nice. That's another one of Ben's sayings is chicks dig tibs. Yes, big, big, big tibs. Chicks dig tibs. We've just reached the end of the day's workout. So instead of L5S1, we'll go obturator internus. And then, yeah, there you're done. You're done. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. You could argue either side of it. I think in general, like if you're looking to make the fastest change humanly possible, you losing muscle would be like in a fast fashion would be worse for your health than focusing on changing the quality of the tissue in the systems. Because if you lose muscle, it changes things metabolically. You're likely going to lose some strength associated. Strength is going to help drive it. Like it's okay what you have. It's more about changing the quality and how you can contract it. So, yeah, I don't think that'd be a fast fix. You'd feel like pretty okay from like a smoothness standpoint, but it's not like risk of injury would drastically decrease. Yeah. If you believe you can, you can. If you believe you can't, you can't. No, what's the actual thought? Whether you believe you can or you believe you can't, you're right. Yes, absolutely. Should it be like something very specific, like actually get done? I liked your original one. What did you say? Not a skinny bitch or something like that? I thought that was funny. I can definitely read more. The aesthetics is hard. Well, but I mean, I think that's where some of it, you're going to have like the heavy, just the creative guys that help with that. Again, I think the goal is that you're, that the clock stops with you. Like, oh, this is what I'm going to do. Double goals. You have to talk to Chris about it, man. No, I know. What could it have to be? Not a skinny bitch and two-hand jack. Actually, no, it's a good point. It's a single thing. I already do that. All right, so it's a wrap on this Arizona trip. Today was a good day. Got to hit some things that will help us lettuces, but aren't directly athletic movements, technically speaking. Still a little bit of like strength training in with all that. So I had a good workout today. I definitely love the aspect of training, like functionality with strength and with hypertrophy so you look good, you're strong, and you can move. So that's all. That's everything we're working towards. That's the Jack Lee goal. That's everything. What's up? Very good. How's it going, man? How you doing, man? Good. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you, too. I'll follow you on the line. Appreciate it, man. I'm trying to hide over here in the corner. But yeah, it was good. It was a good workout. Certain things like my, he used to say my hamstrings where people were giving me shit for it, but it was the range of the motions and how they were weak. They were getting much stronger. He was like shocked by my able to do the GHR with the hip extension properly with a dumbbell. So things are definitely progressing and I'm feeling better. And I can touch the ceiling at his gym, so that's a 10-foot vertical touch. So I feel like I need like another like six inches on that and I'll be dunking soon. So it was good. Good training. Also it was great to see all the guys from my app team. Everyone's super remote, super tech-based and stuff, but the difference of like the community working with people online over Zoom versus in person is so different. I feel like there's so many conversations and stuff that we had that were so productive to progressing the company forward in like a visionary standpoint of like what we're all aligned on. And all the guys are so incredible at what they do, but we're also like aligned on the same mission. And everyone's super just passionate about the brand, the app and everything we're doing with it. So it was really cool to see everyone together. It makes me want to like do more of these opportunities with this, especially with like Raw. I've seen the benefits of having a lot of employees in one spot. And then over time they're kind of like, oh, I want to work from home a day or two. And like finding the balance of productivity, trusting people who are doing their job from home, which comes from being passionate and bought into the brand because then hours don't matter. If you're truly, if your employees are passionate about the brand, you could just be like, there are no hours and they're going to get the job done. Like the guys at Raw, like Jack, for example, our creative director, he'll be working 12 hour days and work on the weekends. And he just loves it. He's fired up by it because he's so passionate and loves his work in the brand and everything. And like those are the people you want behind your brand. So it was really cool to see we had a bunch of those guys like that for standard. And I think it's important for us to get together more often and have that kind of cultural aspect, build a little bit more of a culture and a community around the aspect. I think it's so big and something I've noticed in building a few brands right now is having a good culture and community aspect. It's good to build that with your consumers, but it starts with the employees. And the better your employees feel about enjoying being passionate about the business, the better the business is at the end of the day. Like they're the heart and soul of what the company becomes. So really good to see everyone. I'm excited for the future of standard and everything that's coming. We shot a bunch of cool content. Got some cool stuff coming. We're prepping for a really cool transformation challenge at the end of summer that I'll be joining in myself. Hopefully get myself started again. Lots of cool things to come. But anyways, appreciate you guys for watching. We'll wrap on Arizona trip. I'll see you guys next time.