 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 사람 What is up, YouTube? I've got to whisper right now because the baby is still sleeping. It's 7 a.m. It's leg day. Early morning workout. Full day of eating. It's been a while since I've done one of these, but I'm going to jump into it because we've got to get to the gym and get moving. My breakfast has been between a smoothie, or what I'm doing today, which is steak and nut butter. I did like a food allergy test and I was allergic to almonds, cashews, which are my favorite types of nut butters. Peanuts a little bit, they weren't bad. But macadamia is not at all. So I have this macadamia nut butter. Actually tastes fire. And I just cook this up on a pan and butter. More fat. Why not? I'm ready to roll. Since working with Justin, I never liked having carbs in the morning, but I didn't know why. But now understanding the whole, like, if you eat a bunch of carbs in the morning, you're spiking an insulin response, which sucks a bunch of amino acids. Really. All the amino acids in your muscle, except tryptophan. Tryptophan is a precursor for serotonin. Serotonin makes you, like, tired and chill and, like, lofty. Not really good right before a workout. So if you have, like, a high-fat, zero to low-carb breakfast, you're more likely to keep tires eating in your blood, which is a precursor for dopamine and you're ready to be motivated, drive, and kick ass in the gym. So, no carbs for breakfast, which is sad because I love pancakes and waffles. But it is what it is. We cook everything now in, like, butter or beef tallow. I'm not dieting, so I don't really care about calories anymore. So I literally just have steak prepped pretty much every day. Take it out in the morning, fry it up in some butter, add some almond butter or macadamia and then rock and roll. All right, so there's breakfast. This is my, like, horribly ugly meal. But honestly, it tastes fire. Actually, I didn't add salt to it. That's the other crucial thing in the morning. When I wake up, I have this Yeti sitting in my bathroom and I put salt in it the night before. So I drink, like, a liter before I train with a bunch of salt. Salt the shit in my meal. Some electrolytes in my thing, my pre-workout, and then I'm hydrated, ready to rock. So I like to at least get, like, an hour and a half, plus, like, over a liter of water in me, plus electrolytes before I train. You could be dieting it all into the wedding. I want to be. My nutrition was pretty bad for a while because I wasn't competing. Yeah. So I was eating, like, three times a day, maybe. I'm trying to eat more now to ramp up my metabolism. And my body's burning. So I want to do that for, like, a couple weeks just to make sure I'm actually in a good place to start a diet. And then I want to cut down before the wedding a little bit. Strictly just so my face looks good, though. Like, I don't really care. But then when I get back from that trip, game on. I'm trying to get jacked as well. All right. So final breakfast. Put it into the Chessie Standard app. Go to macro tracking. Sick update coming for it soon. That's going to make my life easier. But this meal comes out to 480 calories, 40 grams of protein, 32 grams of fat, 4 grams of carbs. So obviously very fat dominant. Not a lot of calories, but I had enough carbs the night before. Had some toast and butter before bed. So we're locked in. Client kitchen stores are full. Just getting a little bit of nutrient fat in me right now to get me through this workout. Tastes probably good putting, like, a nut butter on a steak, too. With butter. So go with some pre-workout after this. Then go trade legs. All right. So I did a clearing of the supplements here and here because I had way too many. And now I'm, like, wishing I had more flavors. So that's my fault. I go between essential and Thavage every day. My typical go-to recently is one scoop of Thavage because I'm being a little pussy, essentially. If I trade later in the day, I double scoop it. But since I cut caffeine out for a while, my, like, caffeine receptors were a lot more efficient, I guess. I don't know the proper terminology. But I just have to lock in with this. So technically it's built to be two scoops, but it's also packed enough that one scoop is good enough for what you need. So I take some of that. Some days I take an extra Cognizant just for fun. Then if I have a Pallmanage, I have a triple dose of Cognizant day to day. So one scoop Thavage, a little bit of Cognizant, and we're ready to rock for the workout. It's funny, if I don't take pre-workout in the morning, because if I eat carbs and then have, like, a coffee and then go to the gym, I'm pretty, like, mer. But if I don't eat carbs, have a pre-workout, even maybe a little bit of nootropic, which we're actually making a sick nootropic for us. But do that, I'm, like, locked in at the gym way more efficiently. So. That's all you gotta say. The proof is in the pudding. I'm gonna take this. Go to the gym. Keep waking up on the way there. And show you guys what my new leg workout is. Actually, it's a lie. I'm not doing that in this video. So pretend I didn't say that. All right, so we just wrapped up the workout. I'm not gonna include the workout in the full-day eating, because it's a full-day of eating. So, but we did film it. But post-workout nutrition, like, backtracking. Intro workout nutrition. I had, like, 40, 35, 40 grams of carbs. A bunch of electrolytes. A bunch of electrolytes. And some Ea. Which is, like, eight grams of amino acids in there. And then post-workout, typically my day looks like the breakfast I showed you. So I do this train. And then I do two scoops of goaded dark chocolate protein. The flavor I will never get sick of, because I've had this probably 5,000 bottles of this in my lifetime. You got your little extra for good luck, because you never know. I try and get at least 50 grams of protein in from that. And then I run out the door with a cadence bar. This is my current go-to. The carbs I have post-workout kind of vary depending on what I have access to. But we got a couple boxes each year. So this is 40 grams of carbs. And the first ingredient in here is rice crisps. So, pretty much like eating rice. Essentially rice and protein. And there's a bunch of sodium in there, too. So I gotta run, shower, then have a meeting, and then I'll have lunch typically, like, around noon. So, 50 grams of protein, 40 grams of carbs, post-workout. And I also, I think I talked about it in my last few, I've been just, like, adding amino acids. You know, pills, because why not? I feel like more aminos, more protein synthesis. That one study that came out that everyone was talking about, that they did a study on, like, 30 to 100 grams of protein ingested at one time. And even at 100 grams, it had a higher increase of protein synthesis in the body. I cannot say that word, lisp. Wow. Had a higher percentage of whatever, you know the word, compared to 30 grams. So there was no upper limit in the study. And my bodybuilder are 250 pounds. So, bring me all the aminos I can get. So that's that. I gotta jet. I'll see you guys at lunch. Alright, here's meal number two technically, but also protein shake. I got sweet potato here, chicken, and green beans. We're working on our gut diversity here. I'm trying not to eat just chicken and rice every day. I'm throwing some green beans and some sweet potato. I have 200 grams of chicken breast, 180 grams of sweet potato, and I don't know how many green beans. So it's like 550 calories, 60 grams of protein, 15 grams of fat, 36 grams of carbs. This is typically my lunch. There's a lot of stuff going on. A bunch of people in town who were having a meeting in my office. So last month, maybe like 10 times, I've actually gone up on the roof and like left my phone behind and just sat in the sunlight and got some fresh air. Cause I feel like I just like get cooped up in here out there. And it's kind of nice enjoying my food up there. And we were talking before this too, like your body digests food so much better when you're in like a relaxed, calm state. Whereas before, and I still do this a lot, but I would just like get a meal, go in there and have like a Zoom call or do something and just like be like back and forth eating instead of actually like sitting down and enjoying eating your food, letting your body rest and digest and all the good stuff. And you can actually make efficiently make more hydrochloric acids so your body can actually digest food specifically high amounts of protein. A lot of people have fucked their stomach up, bodybuilders, by eating a shit ton of protein in a stressful state and can't digest it. So do what they say, not do they do. But this is meal number two. Puzzle Shake 2.5. The door stop, right? The door stop, right? The door stop, right? The door stop, right? Alright, so this is meal number three. This is, I mean, first of all, we're on the roof, so I should probably, I guess I already talked about that, but this is where I come sometimes for a meal, because we're trapped inside an office and I want some fresh air and some sunlight. Normally the sun's right about there at noon. So I sit here because this is the one spot with no rest right there. And I just sit and chill. And I try not to look at my phone and get some energy from the sunlight. Get a nice little tan, fresh air, decompress from a day stuck in an old office. But there's a meal. I can't remember what the rice is in it, honestly. I think it's 160 grams of rice and 180 grams of chicken from Megafit with their buffalo sauce. Which is really good but also really spicy. I typically have like 10 to 15 frozen meals in my freezer at all times from Megafit that I try and like restock. And then I try and keep a couple in the fridge, thawed, ready to go at any time. So on days like today where I'm training legs and I'm trying to rebuild my metabolism again. I bring two meals to work. For a while I was only bringing one. So if I had like a shake in the morning and then after a workout maybe have another shake. And then I'd only bring one meal to work. I'd barely be eating by the time I got home if it was like 6 o'clock. So I'm trying to bring two meals now. Eat in the morning. And then by like 2, 3 p.m. I'm already three meals in a shake deep. So that's what I'm using Megafit for. Because cooking that many meals in a week is no bueno. And we have a child now. So Courtney's not just taking care of me as a baby anymore. She's got to take care of a real baby. So one meal a day cooked by me. One meal a day cooked by Megafit. And we're good to go. And I really do believe in rebuilding metabolism by eating more meals, more smaller meals more frequently throughout the day. Instead of going long periods of time without eating and eating like a huge meal at the end of the day. Being able to spread them out. Your body gets used to constantly getting food and nutrients so it doesn't need to hold on to it. So your metabolism speeds up. Thyroid gets flying. You get more energy. And you can eat more. So when I start dieting, I can eat higher calories and burn more fat without having to starve myself as much. So that's the goal. Meal number three. Not very exciting, but the bodybuilder will never die in me eating chicken and rice. I do that every time. Alright, so we just got home. I have another call at... It's like 6. So I'm making myself a little beverage. Courtney's like the queen of making these drinks. I dabble every now and then. I don't make them quite like her. But just like health and wellness. Kind of energy. Hydration. Type good stuff. So... Put some water in here. And then Courtney's famous for her matcha drinks. So she's got the bougie ceremonial grade Japanese matcha. There's a little bit of caffeine in this, but barely a little bit. I normally wouldn't have a lot of caffeine this late, but you can handle a little bit from a little green tea like matcha. It's also one of the most powerful antioxidants ever. There's 50 times more antioxidants in it than in blueberries. So... Super fire. Then mix it with a little bit of this saffron powder. Saffron is supposed to be this like all natural... Don't quote me on this. Because I'm feeling someone else is quoting smarter than me. But the dude called it like an all natural SSRI. Obviously it's not quite as powerful as an SSRI. But it's like a calming mood booster. Kind of like zen helps you kind of chill out. Then a little bit of collagen. Because I'm injured trying to rebuild my tendon strength and my gut health. So... Then... Going to the pantry. I'm going to the pantry. I'm going to the scoop of the Sun Fiber. This fiber is like the most easily digestible to soluble fiber. It's also great for trying to have lower cholesterol. And just super easy on your gut to digest. And some crepe. If I have a smoothie in the morning, I'll typically put that and this and that. Or I used to have some in my gym but the bottle right now. So... I'm adding my crepe at night right now. But... It's a lot better than this right now. So... I'm adding my crepe at night right now. So... I'm adding my crepe at night right now. But... It's a lot better than this right now. So... I'm adding my crepe at night right now. So... I'm adding my crepe at night right now. So... The ice comes to the last. If you mix it too early, it gets like clumpy and powdery around the ice and you're screwed. So... It's just like that. I've got a nice little antioxidant, macha, mood boosting, saffron, gut healing fiber, game building creatine drink. How's that for our marketing? The key is Japanese ceremonial grid matcha. You get that shit from America or other places where they make it. It tastes like grass. You gotta get this good stuff. On top of that, you need to eat this Rar bar. I was trying not to eat these everyday but we ordered like six boxes in them and they're so good. But it's a super clean bar. There are different types of nuts. This one's a peanut butter base. Some of them are sunflower, cashew butter, different things but I'm trying to avoid those so this is the peanut butter I get in for the day. 20 grams of protein, 290 calories. Good amount of fat but it tastes great. I'm gonna have my drink. I'm gonna have my bar. Got on this call and we'll have a real meal in like an hour and a half. Best clock in the world. This is the meal that varies every single day depending sometimes on what Courtney's wanting or what I'm wanting. So today I'm gonna be making a burger bowl with turkey instead of beef. If you want this to taste delicious, ground beef and then you put ketchup and mayo on top, fire. But it'll be a little healthier and you do turkey and ketchup. Maybe a little bit of mustard. We'll see. Some pickles and lettuce. Fire. We're talking about building a healthy gut. It's a diverse gut. It's a healthy gut. So eating different types of food, especially fruits and vegetables. Super helpful to more diverse gut microbiomes and a healthier gut. So I've been just buying random shit that I can put on chicken rice. So I got a bunch of pickled onions. I got pickles. I got like kimchi. Different fruits, different vegetables. Collections of stuff. Frozen smoothie boxes that have like five fruits in them making your smoothie. Super simple, easy things to add in a bunch of extra food that actually just make life more entertaining and actually healthy where you're getting a diverse gut and all the benefits from different types of food. And Courtney's go-to on this is mayonnaise and ketchup. Mix it together and then pour it on top. It's Big Mac sauce. Big, it's literally Big Mac sauce. We do it with ground beef instead of turkey and make everything the heck same. A bunch of salt in the Big Mac sauce. Look over Bradley's just so sad. We're gonna say bye-bye. You're there. Come to mommy. Come here. Oh yes. But yeah, Big Mac sauce is incredible. But I also just drizzled on some olive oil. The Greek Mediterranean heart health hack. And then this meal is 220 grams of ground turkey, 220 grams of rice, and it's like 15 grams, like a tablespoon of olive oil. So it comes up to 741 calories, 40 grams of protein, 32 grams of fat, 63 grams of carbs. I was literally just talking about this, like the concept of tracking your food and how important it is. And I wasn't competing so I just stopped doing it and wasn't thinking about it. And then after tracking for the last four or five days, then trying to get back on a proper meal plan now that my training is efficient, I was like so off on what I thought I was eating. And I realized when I was actually eating before and I was getting in like 4, 5, 6,000 calories, it was like 300 grams of rice instead of like 180 I could have been having. Every meal had like olive oil on it. It was like trying to get food in it. And now that I'm just eating like not very much, I was probably eating like 2,000 to 2,500 calories and like my weight just was stagnant. So our wedding is in 6 weeks. Right? Sorry about saying no to that. She was putting her head in the water. I saw that. I saw her. I didn't know if it was hot. Yeah, it's like 6 weeks. Our wedding is in 6 weeks so the last couple weeks I've been trying to eat a little bit more. My body is ready and I'm going to do like a 4 week cut before the wedding so that I can look good. So that's like my consistent theme that I keep telling myself. But tracking is so important. And we were talking about this on the call I was just on is like even if you don't change anything you just write down what you're eating every single day you will eat better. Just like conscious thought of knowing what you're putting in your body and even just the accountability of like if you eat something shitty if you're like someone eats a Snickers bar and you write down Snickers bar. Next day you're like Snickers bar. And every day you're writing it down you're like you don't feel good writing it down so you're probably not you're less likely to eat it you're at least holding yourself accountable. So just tracking things is super important. I was relating it to like mindset too and mental health and like being able to track what your thoughts are and what you're thinking and your habits and just like think about it journal like consistently for a sit down every hour. No one's going to do this realistically. And like track down what your thoughts are what you're doing throughout the day consistently and write it down. You're probably going to start being like wow I have a shit ton of bad habits and a bunch of bad thoughts and at least now it's in your conscious awareness and you can change it. So there's a quote from my boy Carl Young. Until you make the unconscious conscious it will control your life and you'll call it fate. And that's probably one of my favorite quotes ever. People think fate's controlling my life but it's just you're unconscious that you're not taking the time to put into your awareness. So with all that being said here's my burger bowl. Tastes like a Big Mac. Okay so turkey rice, shredded lettuce, pickles, pickled onions and then a little bit of honey mustard and then ketchup. So nice fresh burger bowl. Alright so last little thing of the day. Depending on the night it's always something different. Me and Courtney are big snackers. We got a bunch of cereal in here. We were having mug cakes that Courtney made with sweet potato and egg whey and protein powder. We're having buckwheat with protein powder. All these different things. Or toast. And we go through themes of just having a healthy treat at night of some sort. So toast has been the thing, the taste du jour of the day. I got nothing in my brain right now. Ezekiel bread, cinnamon raisin with some ghee butter. The goaded lactose free butter. So this is going to wrap up the day. It's night time. Baby's sleeping. Gonna fall asleep. So we're in the pantry making toast. I'm losing my mind I swear to god. But to go over today's calories. To update and finalize the full day of eating. We are at 3,305 calories. 289 grams of protein. 111 grams of fat. And 270 grams of carbs. So not too shabby. Right on my mind. Pretty freaking close to my macro goal. Honestly what this tells me to be at. Protein's a little high. But I'm trying to eat you again. So pretty much. Go a little more. Pretty much I've, like I was saying, I just wasn't eating enough for a while. So my metabolism was slowing down. I wasn't recovering. I wasn't getting enough protein or enough calories. And also my energy was lower. So I'm working on building that up. Still not a crazy amount of food for myself. But the fact that this feels like I'm eating more food recently. And I'm only at 3300 calories at 250 pounds. It's kind of crazy. I can 100% rebuild my metabolism back up by adding more frequent smaller meals throughout the day. To the point where I could probably be like 3-4% body fat wise leaner. Eating the same amount of food. Like it's 100% possible. If you do it right and you slowly build it up. Without adding too much food to fast. Without adding too much shitty food. Keeping your carbs at the right time of the day. Not too heavy in the morning. Eating your carbs around training. And having more protein in. And just those small frequent meals. So that's going to be what my goal is going to be. To rebuild it up a little bit. I don't have a lot of time. Given I want to be like slim faced. And kind of lean for my wedding. Which is in like a month and a half. So really not that far away. So I'm going to do the best I can until then. And then after the wedding. I'm going to eat as much as I possibly can in Europe. Because food there is incredible. And it's just way easier to eat than here in Europe. So I'm going to eat as much as I can. And I'm going to come back. And I'm going to try and get jacked and shredded as possible. So that will be its own series when I come back. Mini Olympia prep series type thing. But that's it. It's a full day of eating. Hope you guys like it. Maybe these will actually be a little bit different now that I'm not in prep. I can eat a little bit more off what I typically eat. Even though I'm still here eating fucking potato, turkey, and rice and chicken. Old habits die hard. But thank you guys for watching. See you next time.