! What is up, YouTube? Don't really know what's going on today, we're living life. I got a photo shoot later, going to the gym right now. I've already eaten breakfast, but I've become a coffee connoisseur because you become a dad and coffee just becomes a little bit more important to your life. What is this beautiful Maiden in Netherlands mocha master coffee? I said it was for Corten, I got it as a gift for her, but it was also selfishly for myself because I'm still recovering. I was in Atlanta this weekend for a carbon performance opening. One of the gyms that we have a part of, Brent, one of our partners, he's like the gym operator of all gym operators so we're trying to open a bunch of them around the country. So down there for an event, doing mean greet stuff, those things start to smoke me now. Like a short trip like that is easy compared to like a week in Vegas where like four days in Dubai and traveling that far. But I'm also just like tired of traveling and meeting thousands of people sometime that weekend so I come back the next day and I'm just like, smoked. But there's no rest for the week. So chest day, upper body day. I think I'm doing an isometric day, I have to check my program again. But I'm in another phase of like switching from the last videos that we filmed so the next couple of videos you see will be the new phase of training. There's a combination of a little bit more like strengthening conditioning, like power explosive stuff, a little bit of hypertrophy, some isometric holds which aren't as fun but still important to rebuild my body. I feel like strength and conditioning, like when you think of like a football coach, like a lineman, fucking linebacker, those guys who are just explosive and big and powerful, like those big backs and you just know they can deadlift 600 pounds, like that's cool training. Or even being able to power clean, like I feel like that's an elite level of training. So like, I feel like strength and conditioning kind of gets pushed into sports and never brought in. There's like powerlifting, aesthetics, bodybuilding, crossfit. But I'm trying to like incorporate a little bit of that too and it's part of just in specialty. So part of being functional, being able to do it all and just being strong as fuck, you know, I just want to be a refrigerator. So when Bradley says dating boys, I'm just like a fridge in the house. So yeah, gonna head to the gym, start of the day, got to shoot later, so I'll bring you as long. The monkey. There's something about doing a movement like that's like, you're like exploding and throwing or a sled sprint or something that just wakes your body up so much more than like a, but it's like a shock to the system. Like time to work. What do you even call this? A-Series, that's the word I'm looking for. A-Series is for our exercises, the first two, chest focus, isometric hold, mid-range, right where you're the strongest. Last week I was doing 20 seconds, this week the progression is a 15 seconds, and then next week the goal is 10 seconds, so I'm gonna be increasing weight because it's less time and attention. I got 45 pound doubles and it's just speed press, inertia speed press, so I stop any inertia, no just pause at the bottom and then explode up as fast as I can. And I'm like recruiting all motor units in my body by doing isometric holds. The longer you hold something, you're recruiting more and more and more motor units compared to just a press to be able to build a lot of strength in doing this and stability. And then I'm moving on to the speed press where I'm just firing fast, which is fast as possible. And then similar, I'm going over to an isometric neutral grip 45 degree ish chin up hang and then I'm going into a inertia, no inertia ball throw. So head over head with my toes extended as well on my toes and then slam the ball down. And then I'm going to kick it up and again, so I'm just kind of training different weight from my motor units to pattern the fire here. I cannot speak right now. God damn. This is just the next progression of Jack Lee, of me trying to retrain my body to do anything other than move slowly in a singular range of motion. It's so crazy how like bodybuilding makes you worse at everything except bodybuilding. Take any bodybuilder right now and ask them to run, you know, and this is what you see. It's literally like heel striking elbows out here because you're so tight that you had no movement anywhere in your body. There's no flow or rhythm. Isometric holds sometimes suck. If you're doing like the minute ones on legs or something, those are absolutely brutal, but 15 seconds is not so bad. So you can be doing this and they're actually a really cool way to build strength, which you might not imagine. People are like, oh, my dumbbell press is stuck. I can't get any stronger. So I do an isometric holds right in that mid range right where you're the strongest. Pick a weight you're doing or go even a little bit heavier and just hold it for as long as you can. Do that for a couple of weeks with your rest of your other shit. And I bet you'll come back in either week one or two of going back to pressing floor into the motion. You'll be stronger from it. Just give your body a different stimulus so it's continuing to progress. I only do like three, four reps of the speed thing because the goal is just pure speed. And after three or four reps, you'll start to slow down. And the goal isn't like muscle fatigue or failure for high pressure feet. It's speed. So minimal reps. The goal with Bosa isometric holds too is really tucking my scapula down and back. Like if you were to stay on a good posture, the goal is to hold them like that. So you're also strengthening posture muscles so you don't walk around like a fucking old bodybuilder like this who has to turn their body like that. That old Jordan Peterson quote, stand up, stay with your shoulders back, head up, shoulders back. Get a chapter in his first book, 12 Rules to Life, something about that. Pretty much he was saying, don't be a skinny bitch, get jacked. I knew that was coming too. Break my toe and my phone in one set. There was a lifetime across from my hotel in Atlanta and I kept waking up at like 5am because I couldn't sleep. So I went over there and I had leg day but I had to use a safety squat bar and I didn't think I had one. I found one in like the corner of the gym, there's no one there and I'm like, fuck, I'm going to do my workout. And my first time doing a public gym workout, then all these like yoke dudes and moms come in from like the 7am club and they had to do like static jumps and isometric holds with it. You realize no one trains like that. Everyone's doing the same thing in the gym all the time. Girls are doing glute bridges, guys are training like bros. And it was just so interesting, people were like giving me weird looks and shit. I thought I was getting judged heavily and then one of the trainers came up to me, she's like, are you that Chris guy? And I'm like, yeah, why? She's like, everyone in the gym is saying they think you're that Chris guy and I'm like, oh, that's why they're like, but here I am feeling all self conscious that I look stupid training like this. I'm not my fucking social anxiety. You haven't had to experience it because you've had your private gym, but like you're the dude that's known for doing like the random like weird exercise. Yeah. Now I'm like, what the fuck is this guy doing? That shit doesn't work. Now I'm doing it in my private little gym. Well, it's very specifically tailored to my goals right now. Like I'm pulling away from hypertrophy my legs because my legs can stay a decent size. And then once you have the muscle strength will really hold it. Strength also builds it. So I'm really trying to make my legs really strong, powerful, explosive. So like some things like running, jumping, you're not doing a full range of motion. It's more like half knee hip extension into that. So like a rack pull, things like that. So my legs are very unique like strengths and conditioning style training. Upper body is a bit of a mix. So like I have this day with isometric holds, a band bell press with like a mid isometric holds for a couple of seconds for stability and some strength. And then I have one day a week. That's like chest back arms just to get some volume in there. So it changes every three to four weeks really. It's really interesting when you start to like really learn the body. Like I trained the same way for so long and it was like, I need to hit arms every week or I'm going to lose them. Like you could blast arms and get them to a nice size and then maintain for a little bit by blasting them less hard and then bring something else up and like keep going through phases like that. And you know, actually arguably progress at more things faster because everything isn't like crippled falling apart. So if you're very intelligent with it, it's super helpful. But if you're a bodybuilder and everything is just trying to grow at the same time to be aesthetic, then you have course go training like a bro. But if you're trying to have multiple goals at a time like bringing up body parts, building muscle, building speed, building strength, all these things, you really need to have a proper program that has phases in it where you're focused, you're specializing on something at each time. Otherwise you're going to be the jack of all trades master of none and make no progress anywhere. Like people who are like, oh, I'm going to start running and they run for a month and they're like, oh, like I kind of miss training like this and then they do that for a week. And then next week they're like, oh, my arms are small. I'm going to train all my legs and then back and forth, back and forth. And then they look the same, perform the same, everything is the same a year later. It's like you have to be really intentional and smart with it. B series is starting with a dumbbell row, six reps with a three second pause in the contracted part. So row up, squeeze, hold for three seconds, lower back down and then bend, bell, shoulder press. You can honestly try this at your gym. If you don't have like the bamboo bar, you can put a band on a plate and put it on a barbell and then put a clip over top of it so that doesn't slide off like the steel barbell. It won't be as bendy, but I'll see it still be a lot more stabilizing than putting the weight on the actual bar. But over here I'm doing as low as I can, mid-range, hold it for one, two, three, and then all the way through again. So really again, once I'm here, it's locking in my scapula, retracting it in, holding good posture, stabilizing the shoulders of my muscle and then back up. And the bar is so like bouncy, it just like creates crazy stability in your shoulders and a different range of motion. So that's it. And then one little re-doubt thing and then we are going home. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Nice job. It's pretty good. Yeah. I like the isometrics they're more challenging on the body than they look. They look like, oh, you're just sitting there holding it. But you get pretty beat when I do the leg workout. Isometric hold, like 15 seconds, like, I think I had 315 in a split squat right here, holding it until failure and then like dropping and then going to like a step up jump. I was like, I had a breath heavily. And then at first we got to 3 sets at 20 seconds and this week it'S4 sets at 15 seconds. Not 4 sets, a lot of sets. I don't like doing 4 sets. I'm like a 2 sets kind of guy, you know. Get in and get out. 2 sets of 4. 2 sets of 4. And then just out of there. Ah. Alright, that's it for this workout. I don't know what else to say but that. Keep following along the jacquely journey because it is going to keep progressing into some cool shit. I think next workout I have introductory sprints and things. So stuff is moving and evolving, body changing. But I feel like I'm holding on to a good amount of muscle. I'm staying lean. I'm in a good rhythm now of like eating. Not to force food down but enough to keep muscle on and burn body fat. And then I have high days when I need them and I'm just like carb cycling and like that. So I'm flowing. Life is good right now. But I got to run. I got to get on a call in like 30 minutes. And then eat. We have a photo shoot later. So I'll bring you guys along for the BTS of our bum energy photo shoot because we got a new flavor dropping. What are you making? Cream of rice. Cream of rice is making a comeback. Into the world. I used to eat this way back in the day. Back before you could even find it. You had to hunt through grocery stores to see where you could find it. It's actually sometimes hard to find. I can't even guess what it was. It's also challenging to make. You got a whisk. It's just perfect. They have just the right amount of water. It's a hell of a way to get in 50 grams of carbs through rice. And some protein. A little cookies and cream. Cream of rice action. Alright, I already down half of this. But honestly the texture of cream of rice is just so good. So if you guys have had it, give it a shot. Put a little bit of cookies and cream in here. Absolutely delicious. I don't put a lot in otherwise it will get grating and won't mix properly. But get a little protein and a little flavor in there. Black Friday. Starting next Monday. Why do everyone do that? I don't know. Chaos of capitalism. But it exists. And if you take something, it's a fucking bite when it's on sale. So everything's gonna be 40% off. We're giving away a truck. We're giving away a bunch of crazy shit. Every day throughout the week. Airpods, Macbooks, DJI, Asmose. Crazy stuff. But regardless, it's gonna be 40% off. So if you take supplements anyways, that will be your time to buy it. So if you're thinking of buying supplements today, don't wait until next Monday. And you get on sale. And then get after it. And then you can put some in your cream of rice. You gotta find cleaning all that up too. I know. Would this be worse than the transplants clean up? Because that was rough. Yeah, it was like a big... You were gilling me in cans. You didn't know if any of them were gonna explode. That's fair. So... This is 400 pounds of sand. 400 pounds? Yes. That's gonna suck the cream. Where is it? Can I have your... Which one? Which one? Which one? Some little ad for bum energy. This is the BTS of our beautiful skits that you get to see riveting behind the scenes takes you. Danny on the ones and twos today. Yeah, shout out, Chad. Thank you, buddy. Yeah, we got no Chad joke here. He's in Spain, living his best life. Living the dream out there. Launching your new Pima Colada. Not a big fan of coconut, but honestly it tastes really good because it's heavy on the pineapple. Do I open it? Yeah. Yeah, you just sip it. Relax and relax and won't cool. This is the typical Dan life, which Chris Bonn said. Living the dream. This is the real day of my life. Standing kiddie pool in the middle of the warehouse. We're gonna keep this here. But you need to chair in the pool. And then you chill and just have your feet cooled off. You just take a couple meetings from in there. You got your doms on his bike taking meetings? You can take a kiddie pool. That's it for the work day. It's pretty crazy to call that a work day. Sometimes I sit there wearing a hat, blowing a whistle in a wife beater in a warehouse. And I'm like, imagine thinking with my 16 year old self, this is what I'd be doing when I grew up. Stupid sometimes, but also crazy. Pretty wild times for sure. I've been trying to be better at having moments of being grateful for my life. For all the moments of like, there's no monotony to what I do. Last week, the team from Germany was in town and I'm sitting in like, meetings going over crazy budgets and projections and talking about EBITDA and profit margins. And then I take a flight to Atlanta and meet a couple hundred people and then fly home and I'm filming a lifeguard session to sell energy drinks. And then we're prepping well week for Black Friday and all the crazy. Like it's so, there's nothing consistent about what I do with like all over the place, but like I'm so grateful because it keeps everything fresh. Sometimes it's hard to keep my brain calm because there's so many new things constantly changing and going on. But you're also never bored because I continue to do these things. So I'm just super grateful for all the stuff that we get to do and trying to stay on top of my toes and trying to learn how to manage time more efficiently. Because life realistically never slows down. You can't really wait until life slows down to start doing the things you want to do. You have to like intentionally carve out the time you want to do shit. So pretty much you got to eliminate something. And for that, me, it's social time, anything to do with partying, anything going out late like dinners and anytime alone, really. Because work is all over the place and then every free moment I have, I try and just spend with Courtney and Bradley. And then, you know, the season of life, there's nothing else other than that. It is what it is, but it's a season of life. And I feel like we can treat life in seasons and just understand where you're at. Have the perception to be grateful that you're there. You won't be there for long and probably at some point in your life, you'll look back and be like, fuck, that could have been sick if I chose to enjoy it. I mean, it's easy to enjoy this. I'm not saying that, but there's been seasons in my life felt tough, but it's just a season. So learning to enjoy the new side of this, not a bodybuilder anymore, stepping into everything and just being present and grateful everywhere I'm at. So it is what it is. I was always extremely grateful for it, but it was still like bodybuilding was the big thing in my life. So there's a different side to be appreciative now because I was able to step away from what was taking like the most mental emotional energy in my life, bodybuilding and competing, and not feel like something's missing because I am able to fill with other things like my family first and then all this stuff and work. So I'm definitely grateful because I truly believe that, I mean, not trying to stereotype here, say the wrong thing, but because I'm a man, I believe men need a mission to continuously be working towards some kind of like progress. I think all humans do realistically, but I really just speak to men because I talk to a lot of young men like at this event and everything. And I really feel like having a goal that you're working toward that you're able to see progress or at least believe there will be progress in the future. You know, I think that's one of the most important things to have a purpose outside of yourself in some capacity. And when you're young, usually something selfish like bodybuilding or building a business and then you also are able to build your family. But having that thing outside your family, I think it's super important to not like go mentally insane. You know, you got to be able to drive your energy somewhere you feel lost and like meaningless. You know, you got to have that purpose in life. And I think it's super important. So I'm grateful that I have that. And I think people need to be chasing towards that. And you don't always see immediate progress, you know, to a point of delayed gratification. If you really want to get into a reign here and cut this out if it's too long, but I was reading a book and he was talking about a therapist talking to their client and they were procrastinating and all this stuff and we're lacking meaning and ability to progress and anything. And he was like, do you eat cake? And they're like, yeah, I love cake. And they're like, what do you like best about the cake? The icing or the cake? The first was like the icing, of course. And they're like, what do you eat first when you eat your cake? And they're like, the icing, of course. And they were like, when you approach life like that, where you eat the icing first, which is your favorite part, then everything else sucks afterwards. Whereas if you do the hard thing first and you delay the gratification, and you're able to see in the future that okay, I'll eat my cake now, which I'll enjoy it. And then I'll enjoy the icing even more after. But if you have the sweet thing first, or you're like, oh, I'm at work and I have all these things I have to do, but I'm just going to do this part I want to do. You'll get that done and then you're probably going to procrastinate everything else or put really minimal effort into everything else you do. Because you've already had this dopamine rush of excitement from the thing you love and not the rest. So I think being able to truly see into the future, like I said in the last video, have faith that progress exists and delay your gratification by doing the hard stuff now and get the outcome you want in the future. You set yourself up for so much more success. And that's the definition of bodybuilding. And I learned so much of that through that. You're delaying immediate gratification of resting, relaxing, eating the food you want, all this stuff, in belief of a goal that your body will look better in the future. Being able to apply that to anything is so important to feel good and fulfilled in your life. And then eventually, if you're 40, you fucking hustled your whole life and your kids are still young and you're able to enjoy the fruits of your labor and sit back and enjoy it a little bit more. And who you become along the way is also usually a more wise human being. So it's kind of my goal. I want to set myself up for success in the future, but also being present enough to enjoy the current moment. We made a video a few months back where you talked about you kind of opened up about having less motivation after retiring and just kind of losing that driving force and that singular goal that you had. Do you feel like motivation is coming back or do you feel like you're finding kind of a path in life now and think of those things are coming back to you? I think the path is starting to form for sure. I think there's definitely opportunities opening up and I think I said it in the last one and it might be a little like you could look at it as spiritual or not, but I truly believe just being able to rest in a moment and not feel lost, and be able to open up your heart and your hands to the universe and be like, I'm open to what comes. I trust what will come. I don't need to force anything right now. I think it will work itself out. Obviously, you need to work yourself in the process. But I really feel like there's like an unraveling of a lot of opportunities coming right now, which really filled me with a lot of like excitement and passion. If they come out because they're more aligned with like my current self as I've grown a lot in the last couple years. They're not here yet, but I can feel my I mean my passion for training is coming back. I get into this jack-lead phase and I'm starting to see some progress and the business stuff is starting to have a different meaning to me. Whereas it did before and there's more opportunities coming. So I still feel like in a transition phase and I'm scared to commit to the transition because what I need to do to go into the next phase that I want is leaving everything I know behind. Like to a pretty large extent, it's like leaving my identity and a lot of my day-to-day life physically in the past so I could step into this new season that I believe and I have faith will be better for me. But it's still scary because what I'm in now is like the known. It's the comfortable and stepping to the unknown is the only way to grow and to continue to you know, progress and find yourself in life, but it's scary because we're human. If we know something, at least we're not dead here, you know, do something else and it could be worse, it could be better, but you don't know. So you gotta take that risk sometimes and really let go and shed that ego stepping into the new season of life. So I'm kind of still in that transition, but I can see like the light on the other tunnel I guess. The OG bulking meal. Olive oil, beef, noodles. I was literally going to go to a meal when I used to bulk heavy, but I would probably put double the beef, double the noodles in there. I didn't even weigh it at the time, honestly. Kind of all over the place right now. I'm intuitive eating. I'm at a point now where I can eat what my body needs and not, or an optimized restriction I want to go. I can make myself leaner and not, and I can go back and forth and just feel good. Not overeating. It's super nice. But yeah, that's life right now. 6.30 right now. Probably about to go down for a sleep at about 7. Then morning comes out at like 7.30. Sometimes we have a snack. And usually we're in the bedroom by 8.00. 8.15. Maybe stretch a little bit, brush our teeth. On bed, we're going to sleep at like 9.00 p.m. daily. We're officially old. Because if it's 9.30, we're not like sleeping. It's late. It's about to go to bed at 10. Right? 9.30. We thought 10 o'clock would be like, oh my God. Tomorrow's going to be such a hard day. Oh no. I made Chris give me a five minute bath massage last night. It was like the end of the world. He's like, I don't know how people do this. My hands hurt. Thanks babe. I've gotten to this whole pregnancy. It's so brutal. You didn't believe in a lot of pain. Your hands are very... Well I don't know how to do it so I'm pushing with my fingertips. And my fingers are like, I'm like, how do a massage therapist do this for an hour and a half all day? Back to back. Crazy. I did appreciate it. My back's been hurting because my center of gravity and this 30 pound stomach. That nightly stretching was helpful, eh? Yeah, it is. Like a little 10-15 minute right before bed. At the edge of the bed, just stretch. You lower back, your flexors hamstring. Building the mobility. Bradley does it too. Are you going to spit out your noodle on camera? Are you okay? Say hi to Daddy. Ooh, her favorite thing. Christopher's bowl. Noodle!  good job. Yeah, that's life. I don't know what I was saying. Stretching before bed, bed by 9 p.m., we're old and we love it. I don't identify as old, but I identify as a good thing to being old. I go in bed early. Yeah. That's awesome. All right, that's a wrap on the day. Thank you guys for watching. Peace out.